THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No.6. 
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance 
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars if payment is made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID ), to the General Agent. 
Advertisements of a  square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms. 
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible, for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENNELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L.GARRISON, JR.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. NO. 45. BOSTON, NOVEMBER 10, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1814.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE SPIRIT OF THE SOUTH.
Extract from the Inaugural Address of Gov. Humphreys of Mississippi:
It has been officially reported from some quarters that our people are insincere, and that the spirit of revolt is rampant among us. But if unflinching fidelity in war gives evidence of reliable fidelity in peace-if the unvarying professions that spring from private and public sources furnish any evidence of truth, it is sufficiently demonstrated that the people of the south, who, so long, and against such terrible olds, maintained the mightiest conflict of modern ages, may be safely trusted, when they profess more than willingness to return to their allegiance.
The South having ventured all on the arbitrament of the sword, has lost all save her honor;’ and now accepts the result in good faith. It is our duty to address ourselves to the promotion of peace and order to the restoration of law, the faith of the Constitution and the stability and prosperity of the Union: to cultivate amicable relations with our sister States, and establish our agricultural and commercial prosperity upon more durable foundations -trusting that the lessons taught by the rebellion will not be lost either to the North or the South- that freemen, once enlightened, will not submit to wrong or injustice- that sectional aggression will meet with sectional resistance, and that the price of political perfidy is blood and carnage. 
The State of Mississippi has already, under the pressure of the result of the war, by her own solemn act, abolished slavery. It would be hypocritical and unprofitable to attempt to persuade the would that she has done so willingly. It is due, however, to her honor, to show by her future course, that she has done so in good faith, and that slavery shall never again exist within her borders, under whatever name or guise it may be attempted. The sudden emancipation of her slaves has devolved upon her the highest responsibilities and duties. Several hundred thousand of the negro race, unfitted for political equality with the white race, have been turned loose upon society; and in the guardianship she may assume over this race, she must deal justly with them, and protect them in all their rights of person and property. The highest degree of elevation in the scale of civilization, of which they are capable, morally and intellectually, must be secured to them by their education and religious training;, but they cannot be admitted to political or social equality with the white race. It is due to ourselves, to the white emigration invited to our shores, and it should never be forgotten, to maintain the fact that ours is and shall ever be a government of white men. The purity and progress of both races require that caste must be maintained, and intermarriage between the races be forbidden. Miscegenation must be the work of other climes and other “people”
To work, is the law of God; and is the only certain protection against the pauperism and crimes of both races. The negro is peculiarly adapted to the cultivation of the great staples of the South. He should be encouraged to engage at once in their production by assurances of protection against the avarice, cupidity, and injustice of his employer. He is free to choose his labor, and to make his own bargain. But he should be required to choose some employment that will insure the maintenance of him self and family. On the other hand, the employer must be assured that the labor contracted for will be specifically performed. The cultivation of the great staples of the South requires continuous labor from January to January. The planter cannot venture upon their cultivation unless the laborer is compelled to comply with his contract; remaining and performing his proper amount of labor day after day and week after week, through the whole year; and if he attempts to escape, he should be returned to his employer, and forced to work until the time for which he has contracted has expired. By such a system of labor, the welfare and happiness of the African may be secured, the agricultural and commercial prosperity of the State sustained, and our homes again become the abodes of prosperity. 
PROPERTY IN SLAVES
That such a claim (for negro property) is eminently just, is clear to our mind, and we are inclined to believe, will sooner or later appear so to the conservative men of the North, when the sober second thought returns. It matters not that emancipation was a forced result of the war, effected as a war measure and as a means of suppression of the rebellion. The property value of the slaves was destroyed-"private property" was thus, in not a very strained sense “taken without just compensation," in violation of the Federal Constitution. The men now controlling the Administration and Congress are, we know, deadly opposed to granting any compensation; they are not yet prepared or willing to admit the idea, but time is a great corrector, and will bring justice and equity to the late slave owners-<illegible>(Ala) Ledger. 

A REALLY NATIONAL THANKSGIVING.
The President of the United States has designated Thursday, the 7th of December, as a day of national thanksgiving, when the people are to render thanks for many blessings, but particularly for this: that “it has pleased Almighty God, during the year which is now coming to an end, to relieve our beloved country from the fearful scourge of civil war, and to permit us to secure the blessings of peace, unity and harmony, with a great enlargement of civil liberty." The choice of the day and of the terms in which the proclamation is worded has its significance, and shows the original bent of President Johnson's mind. People may wonder why it is that the anniversary is changed from the last week in November to the first week in December. The reason is obvious to us, and will be recognized as cogent and proper by all. It is simply this: Congress meets on the first Monday in December, just three days before Thanksgiving. Our practical-minded President is determined that then, for the first time in four years, the representatives of every State in the Union shall have seats in the great council chamber of the nation; and he realizes that it is only when that is accomplished, when the States are rehabilitated, when North and South meet together again in amity, that a true national thanks giving can be observed. If there be any obstacle sought to be interposed to the organization of Congress by fanatics who are resolved to clothe the negro with all political rights, Mr. Johnson will be justified in having such obstacles brushed aside, in order that the people of the United States may enjoy their national thanksgiving. It is a capital idea, worthy of the head that gave birth to it.
In its terms, too, the proclamation is note-worthy. The President does not speak of the attainment of the most comprehensive civil liberties, but he does
<c02>
speak of the attainment of  “great enlargement of civil liberty." The former would have embraced the dogma of negro suffrage, and President Johnson has not yet given in his adhesion to it. But he recognizes that in the abolition of negro slavery, the country has largely advanced in the way of civil liberty. 
Taking these views of the selection of Thanksgiving Day, and of the terms used in the proclamation, we think that they will meet the hearty approval of all good citizen, and that the people, North and South, will hail it as the beginning of an era of good fellowship and unwavering loyalty-N.Y. Herald. 

Selections.
GOVERNOR HUMPHREY'S INAUGURAL 
We this morning reprint from the Jackson News the inaugural of Gov. Humphreys  of Mississippi. This document, evidently prepared with deliberation and care, is among the most significant of “the signs of the times," and should be read and pondered. If fair professions can secure confidence, those of Governor Humphreys should win it for him. Nor need his sincerity be questioned, however difficult to many minds it may be to credit him with sincerity, when for his people he avows good faith in the abolition of slavery and a consequent determination that it shall in no form or disguise be reestablished. We have less to do with his sincerity than with the programme under which he proposes to secure to the freed men all their rights, and the highest position they are capable of attaining. 
 When the Governor's abundant protestations of patriotism and good faith are penetrated, we find the whole “milk of the cocoanut” concentrated in a very small space. The cotton-planter-declares this Mississippi Governor-must be given the right to coerce his employees to their labor, and when they escape, they must be returned to him! This professed programme for raising the freedman to the highest point of civilization possible for him, thus proves to be solely a system for raising as much cotton as possible by his compelled toil. Though emancipation is accepted in good faith, though to doubt this is grossly to defame a brave and noble, people, and though Governor Humphreys is profoundly impressed with the responsibility of educating and elevating the colored men and women, it turns out that the underlying idea is, after all, not the culture of the freedmen, but the culture of cotton!  We give the Governor credit for good intentions, but he has not out grown the lessons of his school. He is of that immense class who, while assenting, as they perhaps verily believe, to the emancipation of the black man from slavery, have not yet emancipated themselves from the theories and prejudices imposed upon them by slavery. Innocently enough, it would seem- did not charity incontinently take flight at such seeming-does the Governor insist that under a contract system the freedmen may be worked virtually as slaves, as such restrained, tasked and punished, and as such, if they attempt to escape, be rendered up by the same clause of the Constitution on which was based the fugitive slave law, and yet may be freedmen, receiving the highest culture of which they are capable.
This inaugural is a fresh proof that the claim to reestablish a coercive system of labor is now substituted for the formal claim to hold slaves. In the presence of this substitution, suffrage need not be talked of. Another than the suffrage question is to be confronted and decided before that can be reached. The status of the emancipated as a free laborer, emancipated in fact as well as in name, has first of all to be settled. That humanity pleads for this is something ; that justice commands it is more but the necessity for avoiding in this settlement the rock of compromise, that has so nearly proved fatal in the past, cannot be disobeyed-Missouri Democrat.

MR. REAGAN ON THE SUFFRAGE.
Almost simultaneously with the departure of Mr. Reagan, late Postmaster-General of the Confederacy, from Fort Warren, the New Orleans papers bring an address which he sent, while a prisoner, to the people of Texas. The following is his advice to his fellow-citizens on the vexed question of the day:
“To the conferring of the elective franchise on your former slaves I anticipate a stubborn and sincere opposition, based on the ignorance of the great mass of them, and on their total want of information and experience in matters of legislation, administration, and everything which pertains to the science of government, and upon the pride of race,. And this objection may be sustained by pointing to the example of Mexico, and of the Central American and South American States, where, by the enfranchisement of the Indians and negroes, and all others, without reference to race, or mental or moral fitness for the exercise of these responsible rights, they have been deprived of the blessings of peace, order and good government, and involved in an almost uninterrupted series of wars and revolutions, often of the most cruel and barbarous character, 
for more than half a century, with no present prospect of an amelioration or improvement of their condition.
“But those difficulties are not insuperable, if you meet them with patience and reason. I have no doubt you can adopt a plan which will fully meet the demands of justice and fairness, and satisfy the Northern mind, and the requirements of the Government, without endangering good government and the repose of society. This can be done by- 
First: Extending the privileges and protection of the laws over the negroes as they are over the whites, and allowing them to testify in the courts on the same conditions; leaving their testimony subject to the rules relating to its credibility, but not objecting to its admissibility. And in this you will conform with the wise current of modern legislation, and the tendency of judicial decisions in all enlightened countries.
And, second: By fixing an intellectual and moral, and, if thought necessary, a property test for the admission of all persons to the exercise of the elective  franchise, without reference to race or color, which would secure its intelligent exercise
“My own view would be, 
“First: That no person now entitled to the privilege of voting should be deprived of it because of any new test.
“Second: That to authorize the admission of persons hereafter to the elective franchise, they should be, first, males; second, 21 years of age; third, citizens of the United States; fourth, should have resided in the State one year, and in the district, county, or precinct, six months next preceding any election at which they propose to vote; fifth, should be able to read in the English language understandingly; sixth, and must have paid taxes for the last year preceding for which taxes were due and payable, subject to any disqualification for crime of
<c03>
which the person may have been duly convicted, which may be prescribed by law."
Mr. Reagan, in this letter, shows a degree of practical wisdom and statesmanship not common either at the North or South. The plan of suffrage which he proposes is as near perfection as can be attained in the present generation, and if there is a better to come, it will arrive in its own good time. “Universal suffrage," taking the phrase in anything like its literal meaning, is out another term for the despotism of demagogues; but a wise system of suffrage universally free for all who are willing to fit themselves for the privilege, affords the basis of a government as perfect as the lot of humanity permits.
A LETTER FROM MRS. L. MARIA CHILD.
Friend Tilton:-You ask me to write more frequently; but I have always considered the sun-dial a good example, which tells only of hours on which the sunshine falls; and in the present state of public affairs, I find it impossible to utter cheering prophecies.I am a passenger in the Ship of State, and I take a lively interest in the safety of other passengers; and when I see the good ship drifting into a Niagara-current, that will inevitably convey it to destruction, I can give no other utterance than alarm.
If Andy Johnson does fail to be the Moses he promised to be to a long oppressed people: if by fatuity, or perversity, or mismanagement, he makes all the sacrifices and sufferings of this people a dead loss; if he goes on proceeding in a way that will deprive us of any security for the future, he will be more deeply cursed by history than is Benedict Arnold, and he will deserve it. The mischief Arnold could have done to the cause of freedom was slight in comparison with what Andy Johnson will do, if he proves false to the great trust which Providence has placed in his hands. Never, in the history of man, has any individual had such a magnificent opportunity to bless the world and immortalize himself by finishing a glorious work gloriously. And I he stands in this blaze of light before an observing and expectant world, apparently unconscious that he has anything to do but to gain the flattering encomiums of traitors! And they are so emboldened by his petting that they haughtily flout their treason in the face of an insulted and outraged nation. Yet this man, who so trusts the promises of slaveholders, has had ample opportunities to know their arrogance and their insidiousness. To trust men brought, up in habits of slaveholding with any powers to oppress the emancipated is as rash as it would be to leave the key of the wine-cellar with a drunkard who promises fairly. I have known drunkards whose word could be trusted about everything else but drinking; but on that subject their promises were ropes of sand. And long experience has shown us that slaveholders, as a general rule, will be false to any extent, where the maintenance of their system of unrequited labor is concerned. The system is itself a gigantic fraud, and all the fruit it bears partakes of that character.
An instance of it lately came to my knowledge, A black man from Virginia, about twenty-one years old, offered himself to work on the farm of one of our relatives. He was hired for a short time, and, being found faithful, capable, and honest, the contract was renewed. He gratefully accepted the offer of young members of the family to teach him to read and write. He would repeat his lessons to himself after he had gone to bed; and, if doubtful about the spelling of a word, would inquire of a lad who lodged near by. The lad would often reply: “I am too sleepy to be spelling at this time o' night." "O, just tell me this one word," pleaded Philip. “I want to learn it so that I shan't forget it again." With such earnestness to improve, he of course learned fast
He was interrupted by being drafted into the army. He was at Fort Wagner, and the battle of Olustee, and afterward on provost-guard duty in Charleston.  When the 54th regiment was discharged from service, he rode to the house of our relative in his uniform and equipments, evidently feeling every inch a soldier. During the three years of his freedom, he had supported himself well, and placed $430 in the hands of his employer.
He returned to Virginia to look out for a small farm for his father, whom he had seen whipped during the reign of slavery until his shoes were filled with blood. During his absence, our relative received the following letter from a member of the bar in Berryville, Virginia: "Sir,-Phillip Lee, a negro man, formerly the property of my father-in-law, has requested me to write to you. He wishes you to send him $130 by express to Winchester, Va., as soon as possible. Please direct the money to my care, and when you send it, write to apprise me, that I may tell Phillip when to go to Winchester for it."
Fortunately, our relative had not the President's reliance on the good faith of slaveholders and traitors. He replied as follows: " Sir,- Your note has been received. In answer, I have to say that Mr. Lee, having partially learned to read and write in my family, (a qualification which the inhuman laws of Virginia denied him,) I now consider him competent to transact his own business, and to send for his money when he wants it."
When Phillip Lee was informed of this, he declared that he had never asked any one to write for him, and that, if the money had been sent as directed, he should never have seen a dollar of it.
Of all the bad effects which slavery produces on, character, I think that of meanness is the most conspicuous; but its various demoralizing effects, all over the country, cannot be estimated. Nothing can be more disastrous than frequent collisions between the law of the land and the moral convictions of the people. In New England, reverence for law amounts almost to a religious feeling; and when “iniquity is framed into law," the sin is like that of poisoning the sacrament. Kind and conscientious men not infrequently get entangled in this conflict of duties; and lucky it is for them if they can preserve their integrity, after they have subordinated the higher to the lower law, though with the idea that they are thereby performing a civil duty.
I have met with one remarkable case of this kind, and for the sake of its moral influence I think it deserves to be recorded. Some months before the war broke out, a friend showed me letters from Thomas Sims, expressing an earnest desire to obtain his freedom. His master had promised to let him buy himself for $1,800. It was a large sum; but I tried to raise it by writing many letters, most of them to persons more or less implicated in the rendition of Sims. Many of the letters were never answered: others brought in contributions. The Hon. John P. Bigelow, who was mayor of Boston at the time the city was so deeply disgraced by that inhuman transaction, sent me $20, with expressions of regret that the execution of the law had compelled him to take such a course. A short time after I commenced these operations, I was astonished by the following note from Worcester, Mass:-
“MRS.CHILD:-I have heard that you are trying to raise money to redeem Thomas Sims from slavery.
<c04>
If you have received any contributions, please return them to the donors, as I wish to contribute the entire sum myself. Yours, respectfully, 
CHARLES DEVENS, JR."
In making my applications, I had chanced to over-look Mr. Devens, though I knew he acted as U. S. Marshal at the time of the rendition of Sims. According to his request, I returned the contributions I had received; and, in writing to thank him, I informed him of the high price demanded. He replied that the sum was subject to my order when-ever I chose to call for it. The feeling of indignation which I formerly had against him was changed to respect and admiration; but when I wrote to him, I could not refrain from giving him a little patte de velours-merely saying that he reminded me of the senator in “Uncle Tom." 
There were impediments in the way of communicating with Thomas Sims, and before the affair could be safely arranged, the outbreak of civil war rendered negotiations with Southerners impracticable. Mr. Devens, though well established as a lawyer, immediately volunteered his services for the defence of the country, and received a major's commission from Gov. Andrew. He is still in the army, having fought bravely through the war. He was severely wounded at Fair Oakes, and again at Chancellorville, and in numerous battles has fairly earned his present rank of brevet major-general.
In a recent letter to me, he writes: “It is a satisfaction to me that I have had a reasonably active part in the great struggle which has resulted in the emancipation of all the slaves. I agree with you that suffrage ought to be given to the negroes, though with certain restrictions as to education; the same restrictions being applied to all white men who shall vote hereafter. The liberty of no race can be safe if deprived of this right as a race. Injustice, followed by civil commotion, will be the inevitable result of such a deprivation."
Thomas Sims married after he was returned to slavery, and when the U. S. army arrived in his vicinity, he contrived to convey himself, wife and child into their camp. When he again arrived in: Massachusetts, Gen. Devens sent him, through me, a present of $l100 to assist him till he could get into business. I call that man a true hero, in the highest and best sense of the term; and I think all your readers will agree with me.
L. MARIA CHILD. 
-N. Y. Independent.

HENRY WARD BEECHER.
Henry Ward Beecher is one of those men who, in the language of Artemas Ward, are apt to "slop over." He is a shining light in the orthodox denomination of Christians, and holds closely to the fundamentals of that school of belief; but no man says so much against accepted Orthodoxy in religion as he,,-certainly none causes half the uneasiness- not to say mortification-to those with whom he is allied. He occasionally, though less often, plays the same game with his political friends. He said some pretty foolish things about the time the war broke, out, and was one of the first to intercede for Jeff, Davis, in mitigation of the righteous verdict of the nation. Last Sunday (for the Plymouth pulpit is Beecher's stump) he went still farther, and made a labored plea for Gen. Lee, the most obnoxious of all unfettered traitors. The remainder of his sermon is such a curious conglomeration that we hardly know whether we agree with it or not. We think we do, one minute, and the next come upon some passage from which we entirely dissent. For instance, we are told in one place that “it is not wise for the central general government to attempt to regulate Southern affairs," and in another, that slavery must be abolished, that colored testimony must be admitted in courts, and that the negro must be allowed to vote. Surely, Mr. Beecher knows that not one of these objects could have been or will be secured without Government interference. Talk of this kind comes consistently enough from the mouths of men opposed to these measures; but for one who believes them to be vitally essential to oppose the only means by which they can be carried, is going a little too far for any one but a Beecher. The most astonishing thing in the sermon is, however, when Mr. Beecher says, “The laws and interests of the Government will prove of no avail, if they are hostile and unpleasant to the white men of the South." According to this doctrine, the war should never have been commenced, nor slavery abolished; for as one was clearly " hostile " and the other decidedly “unpleasant " to “the white men of the South," it follows that in Mr. Beecher's judgment  they are “of no avail." 
Still, no one doubts that Mr. Beecher is an able, an eloquent, an electric man-always sincere, and as consistent as his Beecherism will admit of his being. He has done great good, and, with all his vagaries, we could spare almost any one better. If he had never done another useful act in his life, he earned a very large share of public gratitude by his services for the cause of the country in Great Britain, two years ago. We could not well have him consistent, without losing much that is piquant in his identity; so that one is tempted, after all, to exclaim, "Long may he live, and may his eccentricities never be less."
P. S. Mr. Beecher has corrected the report of his speech by explaining that in what he said of hostile and unpleasant things above, he referred solely to questions affecting the freedmen. We do not see that this helps the case much. The freedmen will be respected when our Government, places them in a position where they can demand respect-not earlier. They have nothing to hope from the magnanimity of the Southern people. The Southern people respect us to-day because we have compelled them so to do. The same compulsion will make our colored allies secure, if we do not basely desert them.-Resbury Journal.

TOO MANY COMPLIMENTS.
Foreigners are doing our magnanimity rather more than justice, Mr. Peter Bayne and others are looking on with delight to see how little torture we are inflicting on our late enemies. It is a dubious compliment. The truth is that we are inflicting quite as much suffering as a conqueror usually does. It is simply that we are forgetting our enemies, and torturing only our friends.
Every ounce of what is now called  “magnanimity” to a rebel counts as a pound of suffering to our loyal friends at the South-to the blacks in particular. And if things go on as now, the accumulated agonies of the present peace will mount up to a sum as fearful as that of the French Revolution.
It is we of the North who are restoring to the former lords of the Southern soil every inch of ground that the black loyalist cultivates. It is we who are permitting black loyalists to be disarmed, and white rebels to be armed again, under the name of “militia” It is we who are permitting open proclamation of the re-establishment of slavery under the name of “apprenticeship." It is we who consent to
<c05>
the exclusion from the courts and the ballot-box of, those who have fought to re-open the ballot-box and re-establish the power of the courts. It is we who are reviving the old assumption that “the people" of the South means the white population, rebel or otherwise; and that the black loyalists are some-thing less than " the people." All this we of the North have done, and are doing, by and through our national executive, Andrew Johnson.
Mr. Stuart Mill, one of our complimentary friends, generously assumes it as  “impossible" that any party at the North should advocate the desertion of these Southern loyalists, thus leaving them at the mercy of the late rebels. Unfortunately, he does not know the American nature, nor the effect of long prejudice upon it. When a gush of magnanimity is called for, we are as impressible as so many Frenchmen. To change the settled prejudice of years is as hard for us as if we were Englishmen. That crowning height of injustice, which Mr. Mill cheerfully pronounces inaccessible to any party in America, is being daily trod by the slippery feet of converted politicians. When they claim that the President himself has taken position there, who can disprove it? He justifies the claim by what he says and does, and more by what he leaves unsaid and undone. What most men mean to-day by “the President's plan of re-construction” is the pardon of every rebel for the crime of rebellion, and the utter refusal to pardon a single black loyalist for the crime of being black. 
For ourselves, we utterly protest against all participation in this cowardly desertion of those who have stood by us so well. There is no magnanimity in meanness. We are told, on high authority, that the maxim, “Love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy" is a phrase superseded; but we are nowhere told to reverse it by loving our enemy and hating our friend. The hostility of the slaveholder to the negro, strong enough at all times, has been infinitely embittered by the fact that the negro has been our steadfast ally. The more the rebel is made to cringe at Washington before a representative of the "poor whites," the more will he indemnify himself, if once restored to power, by persecuting the poor blacks.
Charles IV. of Spain, when driven half insane by the naval defeat at Trafalgar, took it into his head that the English were a nation of cats, and all cats; consequently English. He therefore had a supply of these quadrupeds daily driven into his court-yard after dinner, and used to shoot them, saying, afterward’ “I have this day killed so many English." We solemnly protest against surrendering our black allies in this manner, after our own victory, that the rebels may torment us vicariously through them, and claim each day to have murdered or tortured so many Yankees. - N. Y. Independent.

THE SCHOOLS FOR FREEDMEN.
The Boston, New York and Philadelphia Societies have each established schools in Washington, which are well attended, and do credit to their teachers and pupils, alike and equally. A critical visitor might suggest that, where the schools are near each other, some teachers and time might be spared, and a greater progress secured by grading them harmoniously-one taking all the primary, the other the more advanced scholars; and especially in the case of the Boston and Philadelphia Seminaries in I street. The Boston school is held in the basement or lecture-room of a church on the corner of Nineteenth and I streets, and has between 200 and 300 pupils, I should guess; and, as is customary with the Hubbites, a number of admirable teachers from New England. The Philadelphia school is but a few rods distant, in a building in the rear of No. 207 I street. It has over one hundred pupils and two teachers, one white and one colored Northern lady.
The New York school is in the Freedmen's Hospital building, corner of Fourteenth and M streets,. About three hundred and fifty pupils attend this school. One department of it is a novelty in the United States, in fact, in the world; for I believe it is the first negro infant school ever established anywhere. It is under the charge of a colored lady who left California to do her part in educating her race; and, under the auspices of the National Freedmen's Relief Association, founded this interesting establishment. She is assisted-mark you! not superintended, but assisted by-a young white lady of fine culture and ability; who, in taking a subordinate position to this colored principal is conscious of no degradation, but gladly, voluntarily, and with alacrity, fulfils her duty to these young souls, without dreaming that she is occupying an outpost in that grand onward march of humanity whose next stage shall be distinguished by a total disregard to all accidental distinctions among men:
“When worth, not wealth, shall rule the day."
When capacity, not color, experience, not the epidermis, the sharpness of the faculty, not the sharpness of the nasal feature, shall determine position.
There are seven ladies and a Principal, Mr. Zelie, in the other departments. They have been carefully selected. This school was founded last year, by the Rev. B. W. Pond, of Vermont, (son of Professor Pond, of Bangor Theological Seminary) who determined to raise up teachers for the colored people among themselves, and carried a grammar-class, numbering nearly sixty, up to elementary algebra 
The ease with which those pupils grappled with the problems of arithmetic was rather damaging to the popular theory advanced now-a-days by those who formerly denied that the blacks were human beings, and who, no longer able to assert that they cannot be taught to read, now state, with assurance unabated, that they cannot master those branches of instruction which require severe study. I advise all doubting Thomases or Miss Nancys who have imbibed this notion to pay a visit to Mr. Zelie's school. The teachers of all the schools report that the pupils learn not with facility merely; but with wonderful rapidity. They are improving also in regularity of attendance. This is an encouraging fact.

THE EPISCOPAL CONVENTION.
SCENE OVER THE BINNEY RESOLUTIONS.
The master mind of the Episcopal Convention now in session in this city, is evidently Stephen Eliot, of Georgia. When that eminent Southern prelate issued his famous mandate to the North, “Silence, if you please, but not one word of censure!” he sounded the key-note to which all the doings of the Convention have been carefully and accurately tuned. It must be intensely gratifying to Bishop Elliott to find that his influence is not only not abated, but that it is greater than ever. We have had several marked recognitions of the supremacy of the Grand Master of the Order of Re-United Episcopalians; but the culmination of them all was exhibited on Saturday morning, when our towns-
<c06>
man, Horace Binney, Jr., Esq., introduced his loyal resolution, asking the Bishops to recognize our debt of gratitude to God for the suppression of the rebellion and the removal of its cause. Had Mr. Binney invited the Convention to unite in a war-dance, be could not have met with a more violent response. From all parts of the house loud cries were beard, demanding the immediate slaughter of the resolution by laying it on the table. Forgetting, for the moment, those courtesies which the Convention may be supposed to owe to those whose liberal and willing hospitality they are so abundantly enjoying, the Pennsylvania deputation was loudly denied the privilege of a single word of explanation, and it was by the most determined insisting upon their parliamentary rights that they succeeded in securing a call for the ayes and nays. Before this was done, the President, Rev. Dr. Craik, of Kentucky, was asked if the vote about to be taken would dispose of the question, and even that usually bland and accomplished divine was so carried away by the excitement of the house, as to throw his influence against the resolution and to seek to bias the vote by replying, “Yes, we shall get rid of it for this time, at least."
Our readers have read the result. Thirty-six members of the Convention were all that could be found ready to thank God for the blessings mentioned in the resolution. The whole mass of the body promptly repudiated them and crushed the measure with an iron heel. We are proud to be able to say, that not only the whole Pennsylvania deputation voted as a unit for the resolution, but: the whole. New York deputation, with the exception of the Rev. Dr. Payne, voting against it, and Rev. Dr. Higbee, absent, stood by this most loyal resolution.  Hon. Samuel B.Ruggles, Jonas C. Heartt, Esq., Hon. Hamilton Fish and Hon. Mr. Pierpont are the lay representatives of the great Diocese of New York. We need hardly say that Ohio and Massachusetts proved true to their well known principles on this occasion. All honor to the little band of the clergy and laity who had the courage to declare that they are Americans as well as churchmen-that they are patriots as well as Episcopalians. 
We presume that this is the end of the matter, so far as this Convention is concerned. The loyal sentiment to the North is as effectually muzzled as it ever was in South Carolina, and it will be in vain for the distinguished gentlemen who represent the great Diocese of Pennsylvania to make any further effort to place upon the records of the Convention those “unuttered truths" which, if spoken, would kindle the affections of thousands of the free spirits towards the Episcopal Church. It is impossible to estimate the influence that would have been exerted in favor of the Episcopal Church, had it shown itself, on this occasion, true to its own daily repeated formulas.-Phila. Bulletin.

A TEST CASE.
“Bishop” Wilmer, of Alabama, a Confederate prelate appointed by the Confederate Episcopal Church, issued an order, forbidding his clergy everywhere, 
loyal or disloyal, to pray for “the President of the United States," until the President shall have complied with the terms upon which Bishop Wilmer thinks the Northern States should be permitted to unite with Alabama. For this refusal to pray, or to permit his clergy to pray for Andrew Johnson, Gen. Woods, commanding the district of Alabama, “cashiered" the Bishop and all his clergy till he should revoke the order. Commenting on Gen. Wood's order, a little penny squirt-gun of perhaps 350 circulation, called the Jackson News, thus flourishes the lash, of which commodity the President himself has distributed so large a quantity all over the South, in the President's face, and whips its snapper into the President's eyes, in a manner he may have seen before, " having lived at the South, and knowing its people well." The News says:
“Has it come to this? Will the freemen of the country permit his military despot to disgrace his position longer? Will not the President instantly rebuke him and remove him from a position in which he can only reflect dishonor upon the profession which he disgraces? We deem it unnecessary to  say more at present on this subject.* * * President Johnson will, in our judgment, condemn this outrage; if he does not, much of the admiration and esteem of the Southern people, which have been freely and honestly given him, will unquestionably be withdrawn."
Let the President understand the tenure upon which holds that “esteem and admiration of the Southern people," which he has risked so much to secure. To retain it, he must forbid the clergy of Alabama to pray for himself. We have heard of instances in which mild and amiable gentlemen have been superficially subjected to great indecency, but never of a more determined attempt to “rub it in.” We doubt whether Alabama prayers-even the best upland-bear a premium in the market. But as the President never needed so much praying for as now, it's a pity to lose even this small aid. But, if he sustains Bishop Wilmer, they will not pray for him, and if he sustains Gen. Woods, they will not pray at all-Chicago Tribune.

A LOGICAL CATASTROPHE.
There is nothing so damaging to a politician as to be caught trading in false logic. Such a man is as unfortunate as the eminent jurist, who, after hearing an important case exhaustingly argued, gave his opinion and printed it before he recollected that he had decided the same principles in exactly a different way only a few weeks before. The majority of the General Episcopal Convention occupy a position vastly more damaging to themselves. Acting as an ecclesiastical body, their action should not only be harmonious with their professions of piety, but consistent with history, and instinct with a decent respect to the wishes of a powerful part of their constituency. How they have entangled themselves, let the words of the eminent Dr. Vinton, of New York, bear witness:
“This house,” he said, “when in session three years ago, had prayed God to extend his authority over the whole land, and bring our brethren to be of one mind. He had done so; and the House was now called upon to return thanks for that signal blessing thus graciously vouchsafed."
An appeal which was thrice refused. This is what we call a logical catastrophe. We fear some of this apostolical porcelain are not much better that our common clay. The reasons in defence of the refusal are not even well-varnished plausibilities. It was fitting that Mr. Washington Hunt, of New York, should be selected to move to lay Mr. Binney's offending resolutions on the table. There is such a wintry air about Mr. H's politics, such  want of sympathy with the mighty movements and obligations of the hour, that we read his excuses without surprise. No logical catastrophe could have been more calamitously defended. He said, on Tuesday, in opposing Mr. Biney's second resolution:
"When we returned thanks for peace, the House certainly returned thanks for all the blessings flowing

PRES LINCOLN ON NEGRO SUFFRAGE. 
The following is an extract from an unpublished letter from the late President Lincoln, addressed to Gen. Wadsworth, taking strong ground in favor of universal suffrage:-
“You desire to know, in the event of our complete success in the field, the same being followed by a loyal and cheerful submission of the South, if universal amnesty should not be accompanied by universal suffrage.
Now, since you know my private inclinations as to what terms should be granted to the south, in the contingency mentioned, I will here add, that if our success should thus be realized, followed by such desired results, I can't see-if universal amnesty is granted-how, under the circumstances, I can avoid exacting in return universal suffrage, or, at least, suffrage on the basis of  intelligence and military service.
How to better the condition of the colored race has long been a study which has attracted my serious and careful attention; hence I think I am clear and decided as to what course I shall pursue in the premises, regarding it as a religious duty, as the nation's guardian of these people who have so heroically vindicated their manhood on the battle-field, where, in assisting to save the life of the republic, they have demonstrated in blood their right to the ballot, which is but the humane protection of the flag they have so fearlessly defended."

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
from it, among which might be enumerated the abolition of slavery, if that could really be considered a blessing. He declared his opposition to the resolutions on many grounds; among others that they proposed no action, but were merely an abstraction; that they were calculated to destroy all harmony and keep alive the spirit of discord. He hoped that the negro would not again be introduced, now that slavery was a thing of the past-but that the dead should be let bury their dead. Moreover, the history of the late civil war was being written, and the ablest minds of the country were engaged upon it, and would differ as widely in their conclusions as to the cause of it as did the historians of the civil war which terminated the career of the Roman Empire; and yet it was here proposed in a church convention, within six months after the close of the war, to declare the cause which produced it."
The stately Dombeyism of these heavy platitudes is only excelled by the exquisite Bunsbyisms themselves. Here is a worthy citizen, who, in a body of ministers and laymen collected to praise and honor the Almighty, doubts whether the abolition of human slavery can be considered a blessing; denies, almost in terms, that slavery produced the rebellion, when thousands of the traitors penitentially admit that that alone was the cause; and thinks that the discussion of the subject will produce discord among those who three years ago asked God to help the country out of the very troubles, for the end of which, including the chief provocation, Mr. Binney's resolutions returned the promised thanks! But our wonder must be confessed that after this display of pompous nothings by Mr. Hunt, so sound and genuine a patriot as Rev. Dr. G. B. Kerfoot, a native of Pennsylvania, should have followed in what was only less loose and weak because it was explanatory and apologetic. Mr. Hunt seemed to be in love with his work; Dr. Kerfoot showed in all he said that he was as much ashamed of the part be was taking as his friends were sorry to see him take it. Through all these pretences and pretexts frowns the stern fact that a sacred duty has been neglected by a great Christian body. How would it have read in history that Peace was consecrated by a National Episcopal Convention without a word of rejoicing over the downfall of that stupendous evil, human slavery? A silence the more appalling, that the event has awakened the gratitude of millions in foreign lands, and has extorted confessions of sorrow at their participation in slavery from the rebel chiefs themselves. Division, discord, heart-burnings, simply because these churchmen have been asked to do God service! There would have been more, if they had been dumb by calculation and concert; for then a whole brotherhood and sisterhood would have been involved in the guilty stillness and contempt of principle. Thanks to Mr. Binney for having given a bold voice to a grateful and irrepressible patriotism!-Philadelphia Press.
THE NEXT GREAT OPPORTUNITY.
A member of the Confederate Congress said to us lately:” If President Johnson had, at any time during the first two months after his accession, declared to the South,’ I want the negroes to vote,' the South would have acquiesced without a murmur; for the South were expecting such a policy, and could not have refused it. "The first great opportunity, therefore, was with the President. He let it slip. The next is with Congress. God forbid a second failure.
About one hundred gentlemen, lately rebels, will make their appearance in Washington about the first of December-elected by the Southern States to be Senators and Representatives of the United States. We trust that their visit will be enjoyable, profitable, and memorable; that they will find comfortable quarters at the hotels-though we are afraid to exact this as a prerequisite of reconstruction; that they will be shown the elegant improvements in the public buildings; that they will be politely received at the President's levees; but that, when they turn their steps toward the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, and ascend the stairs of the Capitol to the Halls of Congress, they will be touched on the shoulder by the sergeant-at-arms, saying: “Gentlemen, the lower floor is for members: your seats are in the gallery."
The President commits reconstruction to Congress.” What, therefore, is the authority of Congress?” I do not doubt," says Mr. Sumner,” its full power over the whole subject." What terms, then, shall Congress exact? The Government has already exacted certain terms. Not to mention all, we quote one:
WASHINGTON, Oct. 29, 1865. 
The following is the text of the communication, dated Washington, Oct. 26, 1865, and transmitted to his excellency, James J. Johnson, Provisional Governor of Georgia, at Milledgeville:
"Your several telegrams have been received. The President of the United States cannot recognize the people of any State as having resumed the relations of loyalty to the Union that admit, as legal, obligations contracted, or debts created, in their names, to promote the war of the rebellion.
WILLIAM H. SEWARD."
Now, how can the Federal Government say to Sovereign States,” You cannot resume your relations to the Union till you first repudiate the Rebel debt?” For the excellent reason that the Federal Government” has full power over the whole subject." Now, having this power, how shall the Government use it? We answer: Use it with equal generosity and justice. A Christian government should act like a Christian man. Our government should” do good to its enemies." It should” overcome evil with good." It should make its victory twice noble by showing clemency to the vanquished. But we indignantly protest against the mock sentimentality of that so-called magnanimity to white rebels, which is made to include injustice to black loyalists. We are not for putting hard conditions upon the Southern whites. We have no wish to harm a hair of their heads-no wish to dispossess them of a single right-no wish to heap upon them a single indignity-no wish to salute them with opprobrious words. On the contrary, we hold to the Christian idea of good-will to all men. We pray that the South may be speedily healed of her ghastly wounds-that sunbeams may again gladden her darkened homes- that her paralyzed industry may recover, as by miracle, from its shock-and that everywhere within her borders the” wilderness may blossom as the rose!" At the same time, we demand-with an earnestness which our written words can only idly and faintly chronicle-that to her downtrodden millions JUSTICE SHALL NOW BE DONE! And because of the beautiful laws by which God governs human affairs, we believe that, in asking for the rights of the Negro, we are asking for a blessing on the South!
Congress is now to secure these rights: otherwise, they go unsecured.
What, therefore, do we ask? We ask that, before Congress meets, the Executive shall once more survey the remaining fragments of its lost opportunity, and re-issue Mr. Seward's telegram, amended so as to read as follows: “The President of the United States cannot recognize the people of any State as having resumed the relations of loyalty to the Union so long as that State refuses Equal Rights to its most loyal citizens.” If the Executive shall still delay to make this just stipulation, then let Congress nail upon its doors the following
NOTICE.
The One Hundred rebels now asking for seats in these chambers are informed that they can be admitted as members of this body only on presentation of credentials showing:
First, that the rebel States have declared null and void the ordinances of Secession.
Second, that they have repudiated the Rebel debt. 
Third, that they have ratified the Constitutional Amendment.
Fourth, that they have ordained Equal Rights to all citizens.
To any terms at variance with these, the DOORS ARE SHUT!-N. Y. Independent.
A LITTLE CLOUD.
A little cloud no bigger than a man's hand, but the possible precursor of great troubles and dangers, is disclosed in the adoption by the Georgia Convention of the anti-slavery amendment of the State Constitution, with the proviso that ”said clause should not be held to impair or invalidate any claims which, any citizen of the State may hereafter urge against the government of the United States for the value of his slaves emancipated by proclamation during the recent war”
This is the first recorded appearance of this matter, although it has been much talked about at the South and has formed the topic of some speculation at the North. It will be seen that its intent is
<c02>
to transform emancipation, so far as the late slaveholders and the government are concerned, into a debt, founded on the idea that it was taking private property for public uses. The slaveowners, that were, agree to acquiesce in the measure, seeing that it cannot be helped, but they expect to be paid for it. It requires no great acuteness to see that here is a movement that is to be discountenanced from the start, and absolutely.
It is not only an unwarrantable attempt in itself, but if it receives encouragement, it will prove a breeding-sore of innumerable difficulties. It will give birth to all sorts of claims against the Government for war damages at the South. Already South Carolina has appointed a Commission to gather up evidence in support of claims for alleged unlawful seizures of cotton. We should not be surprised to see the government yet called upon to pay for Sherman's destruction at Atlanta and his devastating swarths through Georgia and the Carolinas. The movement may not be put in this plain shape at first, but be artfully pioneered by proposals to compensate” loyal slave owners, "loyal cotton," &c., &., by which many right minded persons may be drawn further than they are aware of in sanctioning a dangerous principle. Then these claims will be log-rolled with the schemes of Democratic politicians at the North, who want already little or no temptation but the necessities of their position, to throw their strength in solid alliance with their Southern brethren upon any position whatever which the latter may choose to assume.
The only safety against this brood of schemes for making the Union pay for the defence of its own existence and virtually disown the most effective deeds of its living and martyred sons, is to awaken a just and vigilant public sentiment on the subject. Every member of Congress should see and feel that this is a point on which the people will tolerate not a particle of yielding or equivocation. Even the Democratic leaders must be taught that if they wish to cultivate the favor of the South by trucking to these demands, they can only do it by losing utterly what little favor of the North they now enjoy. By this course, years of corrupt scheming in Congress, detrimental to the public interests, injurious to the expanding moral sentiment of the country and tending to nullify the most glorious achievements won by the blood of our gallant sons in the war, would be seasonably and effectually prevented. Our leading men, in political life and in the press, cannot be too vigilant on the subject-Journal.
The liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10,186
THE LAST QUARTER.
The Liberator is now on its last quarter, prior to the final close of its publication. It is not only desirable but necessary, therefore, that those who are indebted to it should promptly remit what is due; as the expenses of the paper have been greatly increased, and its receipts lessened, during the present year; and as every farthing will be needed-and more-to enable us to complete the volume.
THE COMING CONGRESS.
We look forward to the approaching session of Congress with no little interest and impatience even. So far as we have had opportunity to learn, this is the feeling of the people generally. It seems to us a matter for great regret that any abolitionist should have expressed distrust of Congress in advance. Indeed, we believe no reason for such distrust was given, beyond that based on a general apprehension that all things and all persons are drifting in a wrong direction. We should be sorry enough to think that any good ground existed for entertaining distrust of the prevailing loyalty, sagacity, knowledge of the situation, or purpose to exterminate every vestige and root of slavery in the land, among the members of the Congress soon to meet in Washington. We cannot forget that they were elected by the same votes, which called ABRAHAM LINCOLN to remain at his post a second term. No Congress ever came together, which had been chosen on such high patriotic and anti-slavery grounds. Accordingly, for a full year all the loyal people of the land (and none are so truly loyal as those who first and last have resolved to make no compromise with slavery) have looked forward to this coming Congress as morally sure to adopt every measure yet needed to complete the overthrow of slavery, and to perfect the redemption of the country from its blight, and curse. Even those who refused to believe, up to the last minute, that the Congress of last winter either could or would adopt the Anti-Slavery Amendment to the Constitution, anticipated with all confidence its passage by this. Why then seek to disseminate distrust beforehand of Congress and its action? We understand neither the policy nor the philosophy of such a course. For ourselves, we mean to take it for granted that Congress is to take no steps backward, but many steps forward; that it is the purpose of its members to carry out the anti-slavery determination of the people who so bravely, so persistently, and so triumphantly fought and overthrew the Rebellion, and to secure in the strongest and surest manner the perpetuity of Freedom and free institutions for all in the land. We assuredly believe that the people chose them with that paramount object in view, and we will not assume now that one of those so elected is going to prove false to his trust. Let it be understood that the people expect a compromising and yielding course in Congress, and the battle is already half lost. We rejoice to say that we have seen no evidence, in any quarter, that the people feel distrust of their representatives. On the contrary, they everywhere recognize a vast work to be done, and plainly have confidence that Congress will do it. And we also rejoice in the belief that the President himself fully recognizes the authority of the People, as embodied in and to be expressed by Congress, and will lay before it, for its full and deliberate consideration, all the vital questions which now agitate the land in regard to the reconstruction of the Union. And we think it due to the President, not for his sake, but for the country's, and in behalf of that great body of the freed people for whose liberties and rights he has spoken so many a brave word and done so many a brave deed, in times past, that there should be no bitter and unjust denunciation of him. We do not wonder that there is dissatisfaction with much that he has done, much that he has failed to do. Whether as to his leniency towards leading traitors, his readiness to pardon prominent and unrepentant rebels, or his dullness of vision as to the necessity of placing the freedmen on the absolute equal footing of citizens, we own our very great disappointment. His experiment, so far as it aimed to give the Southern people themselves the opportunity to do justice to the freedman, has proved a signal and lamentable failure. We believe it was right to have granted that opportunity. We do not object to many of the facilities which the President afforded them for doing voluntarily this act of justice. We thought so at the time; we think so still. We still regret that he did not, at first and firmly, insist upon suffrage for loyal men of every color,,-not that it is a sovereign, panacea for all ills, but because it is a right, because it is one of the indispensable means of the elevation of the emancipated, and because neither the favor of God nor the approval of our own hearts can possibly attend us while we withhold any right from the long-enslaved people of the land. But now that the Southern whites have shown themselves unworthy of the confidence placed in them, and have put far from them the great idea and principle of justice to the long-abused colored people, we turn from them, as we believe the President will, as we believe that he does in the various conditions which he has laid down and which they have refused to accept, and we look with renewed hope and confidence to the coming Congress. Let the voice of sincere prayer to God, mingled with the hearty labor of every hand, go forth in behalf of that most important assemblage of our National Legislature-S. M., JR.
<c03>
PARKER FRATERNITY LICTURES.
Rev. Jacob M Manning delivered an admirable lecture, the fourth of the Fraternity Course, at the Music Hall last Tuesday evening. His subject was” The Enchanted Ground." He thought that this nation was now passing through a period which, in its influence and tendency, resembled the Enchanted Ground described in the Pilgrim's Progress. We are taking our ease, resting quietly after the exhaustion of war, while the brambles of slavery lately burnt are springing again, and the pardons freely dropped from Presidential fingers are renewing the evils which we had thought destroyed. Precautions are to be taken, indispensable to our safe passage across this enchanted ground, yet the nation seems unmindful of them.
Our true counsellor in this emergency is not the Republican party; still less the Democratic party; not even the Constitution; but the spirit of our Government as expressed in the Declaration of Independence. (Applause.) If the national policy keeps in the line of that document, we shall go safely.
What is the idea at the basis of our Institutions? It is expressed in the Christian precept-Do unto others as ye would that they should do to you. This duty is implied in our statement that all men are created equal. The American citizen has this great advantage, that the central idea of his nation, his Ark of God, leads in the line of human progress and welfare. If our priests at Washington bear this Ark in its due course, we are safe. If not, not.
Plymouth, I mean the rock, not the church, (Great cheering,) was the basis of our national system. Plymouth offered the South its rock to build on; they preferred the sand for a foundation, and they fell. Their ruin was chattel slavery. If they now choose disfranchisement of the laborer for their corner stone, this will be equally fatal.
American history can have but one course hereafter, that pointed out by the Declaration of Independence. Freedom and the Right will guide those safely and surely who follow them. Only the man who keeps these in view can be our leading” Great heart." The people must keep this lamp trimmed and burning before the President.
Our chance in Congress is lessened by the fact that the office-giving power of the President gives him immense influence, even with that body. Only integrity in himself or the imperative voice of the people can keep him in the right direction. Let him hear that voice.
We hear it said-The President must observe the letter of the Constitution. But is the letter more sacred than the spirit. The letter killeth. It is the spirit that gives life and value. But this door of escape is shut to the President, since he has disregarded the letter, appointing Governors, and granting pardons before trial, thus arresting the processes of justice. Has he the right to take Stephens from Fort Warren, and can he not empower Robert Small to vote? (Loud Applause.) We ask the President only to exercise as much power on the right side as he is now exercising on the wrong.
The fashion now is to enjoin hopefulness upon us. Who is more hopeful than we, who demand negro votes? The laborers of a nation should be its voters. (Applause.) We have abolished slavery in the South. Let us now abolish idleness there.
The spirit of the leading whites in the South remains precisely the same as when Fort Sumter fell. What prominent rebel has yet confessed himself in the wrong. They drop their unsuccessful weapons and return to their old arts. If we have still rebels for opponents, I would rather meet them on the battle-field than at the ballot box. (Applause.)
The South clings to the idea of oligarchy, and hopes to realize it by disfranchising the negro. But its hopes will perish. It is written in the book of destiny that the laborers of America shall govern America. The President may postpone this, but he cannot prevent it. We must have labor instead of idleness in the South. It is the school, the free church, and the introduction of skilled labor that must save the South. And we must help in that work by persisting in the pursuit of freedom until it is gained.
The audience on this occasion was very large and warmly appreciative. Next Tuesday evening the lecture will be by Miss Anna E. Dickinson. Subject, Home Thrusts.-C. K. W
LETTEE FROM CHARLES SUMNER. 
Mr. Sumner has sent the following letter to the Independent:- 
BOSTON, 29th October, 1865.
DEAR MR EDITOR,-I rejoice that the Independent has planted itself firmly on the sure ground of Equal Rights. It is natural that a journal which has from the beginning so bravely and constantly opposed Slavery in all its pretensions should now insist that these pretensions shall be trampled out, so that nothing shall be left to breed future trouble. This can be done only through the establishment of Equal Rights.
To my mind, there never was a duty plainer or more instinctive. It is as plain as the moral law, and it is as instinctive as self-defence. If the country fails to do this justice now, it will commit a crime where guilt and meanness will strive for mastery. On this head, it is enough to say that it is a debt we owe to saviors and benefactors. But here all the instincts of self-defence harmonize with justice.
For the sake of the whole country, which suffers from weakness in any part; for the sake of the States lately distracted by war, which above all things need security and repose; for the sake of agriculture, which is neglected there; for the sake of commerce, which has fled; for the sake of national credit, whose generous trust is exposed to repudiation; and, finally, for the sake of reconciliation, which can be complete only when justice prevails, we must insist upon Equal Rights as the condition of the new order of things. So long as this question remains unsettled, there can be no true peace. Therefore, I would say to the merchant who wishes to open trade with this region; to the capitalist who wishes to send his money there; to the emigrant who wishes to find a home there, Begin by securing justice to all men! This is the one essential condition of prosperity, of credit, and of tranquillity. Without this, mercantile houses, banks, and emigration-societies having anything to do with this region must all fail, or at least suffer in business and resources.
To Congress we must look as the guardian under the Constitution of the national safety. I do not doubt its full power over this whole subject; nor do I doubt its duty to see that every pretended government organized by recent rebels is treated as a present nullity. President Johnson spoke well when in Tennessee he said, that” in the work of reorganization, rebels must take back seats, leaving place to those who have been truly loyal." There is the key-note of a just policy, which I trust Congress will adopt.
It is difficult to measure the mischief which has already ensued from the” experiment" which has been made. Looking at the positive loss to business and the productive industry of the country, it is painful. Looking at the distress which it has caused among loyal people by the revival of the rebel spirit, it is heart-rending. Looking at it in any way, it is a terrible failure. It will be for Congress to apply the remedy.
Meanwhile, you have the thanks of good people for your loyalty to the cause, and your strenuous efforts in its behalf. Go on, I entreat you. Do not hesitate. I am, dear sir,
your grateful fellow-laborer,
CHARLES SUMNER.
John Van Buren opposes black votes. The Tribune advocates them, assuming that the majority of the blacks will make a better use of the suffrage than John has done.
Nearly 13,000 persons in New York city registered their names on the day before the election.
<c04>
THE EIGHT HOUR MOVEMENT.
On Thursday evening of last week, a large and enthusiastic meeting of working-men was held in Faneuil Hall, to arouse public attention to the work of reform called the eight hour movement. Mr. James L. Babcock was chairman of the meeting. Resolutions expressive of the wishes and purposes of the working men were read by Mr. Ira Steward, (the writer of a valuable pamphlet on the same subject,) and were passed by the meeting before adjournment. Letters, in reply to invitations to attend and assist the meeting, were read from Generals Butler and Couch, Hon. A. H. Bullock, James M. Stone, Esq., and Judge Russell, and speeches were made by the President of the meeting, Major Mahan, Wendell Phillips Alderman Nash, and others.
The address of Mr. Phillips, as reported by the Advertiser, was as follows:- 
Mr. Wendell Phillips was next introduced, and was received with loud and prolonged applause. He said it was twenty-nine years this month since he first stood on the platform of Faneuil Hall, to address an audience of the citizens of Boston. He felt then that he was speaking for the cause of the laboring men, and if to-night he should make the last speech of his life, he would be glad that it should be in the same strain for laboring men and their rights. Mr. Phillips continued substantially as follows:- 
The labor of these twenty-nine years has been in behalf of a race bought and sold. The South did not rest their system wholly on this claim to own their laborers; but according to Chancellor Harper, Alexander H. Stephens, Governor Pickens and John C. Calhoun, asserted that the laborer must necessarily be owned by capitalists or by individuals. That struggle for the ownership of labor is now somewhat near its end; and we <illegible> commence a struggle to define and to arrange the true relations of capital and labor. To-day one of your sons is born. He lies in his cradle as the child of a man without means, with a little education, and with less leisure. The favored child of the capitalist is borne up by every circumstance, as on the eagle's wings. The problem of to-day is how to make the chances of the two as equal as possible; and before this movement stops, every child born in America must have an equal chance in life.
In this final arrangement, every man will combine in his own person the laborer and the capitalist. There can't be any conflict between labor and capital. What makes our lives easier than those of our ancestors? They are so because six generations of workmen have made Massachusetts a great treasure-house of capital. When our fathers landed here, Massachusetts was a wilderness. Forests have been removed, roads built, cities raised by capital, or aggregated labor. Capital and labor are only the two arms of a pair of scissors-useless when separate, and only when fastened together cutting every thing before them.
What, then, do we come here for? To find out the true relation between capital and labor, to make the laborer more comfortable, and a more worthy citizen. Where the government rests on the people, its administrators are bound to give time to the laborers to understand the theory of government. When shut up an excessive number of hours in labor, the workman comes out but the fag end of a man, without brain to think of such subjects. Now, therefore, it is a fair division to give him eight hours for labor, eight hours for sleep, and eight hours for his own-his own to use as he pleases. [Applause ] I shan't be the first to say, ’you shan't have it unless you come under bonds to use it well.' It is none of my business to say what he shall do with what is his own. I shan't say to the millionaire,’ We will defend you in the possession of your stocks and bonds, if you will use them well.' I may argue with him, and shall, to use his wealth properly; but my first object shall be to give it to him because it belongs to him. It has been argued that the negro would not work if his freedom was given to him. I have answered, his freedom belongs to him, and he is responsible for its use.
The present effort is to give the laborer more leisure, in order to make him more intelligent. Never in history has more leisure been secured to the working classes, but greater intelligence has resulted there from. Thirty millions of Frenchmen to-day hold a voice in the government, because the cry against lessening their labors was not heeded. The same cry has been raised here. It has been said that the workmen will not work unless you starve him, that starvation is the only stimulus which the masses will obey. I don't believe it; and I want to lift them to the possibility of showing that it is not true.
Now, how shall this thing be done? I will tell you. I have had a little experience in this matter. [Laughter]. I have never held, and never expect to hold, a political office; but this I know, that the man who only looks at the game can sometimes criticise it better than the players. This country is one of ideas. You can never gain your point by threats. It would be disgraceful to gain it thus. Why have you not carried your ends before? Because in ignorance and division you have let the other side have their own way. We are ruled by brains. You might as well try to roll back Niagara, as to try to rule New England against her ideas. You have got to face them, and to change them. You need not despair if truth is on your side. You must have the truth, and must work for it. There are three sorts of men; those who have the truth, but lock it up; those who have it not, but work like the devil against it; and those who have it, and force it on the willing conscience of the nation. You want books and journals. I am glad you have one Voice, but one can't cover the State or the North. You want something to subjugate all journals, and bring cultivated minds and foremost men to your service. Opinions differ, not from scoundrelism, or want of heart. You want to make the intellect of the country discuss the question, to make every; man speak of it. How did we anti slavery men do this? [A voice-'Kept at it!'] Yes, kept at it. You know the patient Job said,’ Oh that mine adversary had written a book!' Well, he was the wise man. [Laughter] When I made a speech here, the Daily Advertiser abused me; but it could not abuse justice so much but that men could see the delusion. I defy a man to make an argument against the laws of God that will bold water. Any man trying to dodge justice will answer himself.
How will you make the newspapers and the public men discuss the labor question? I will tell you. Go into the political field, and by the voice of 40,000 workmen say,’ We mean that eight hours shall be a day's work, and no man shall go into office who opposes it.' What will be the result? It will be the same as in 1846, when the abolitionists said they were going to trample on the whig and democratic parties. The journals then took up the question; the intellect and education of the country took hold of it, and settled it by balking the the South so that they said’ Neck or ruin, we will go outside.' How will you make your enemies wield the pen? Do it by announcing your political creed. Break into the debating society at the State House, and make them discuss the labor question. I don't want the subject made political in a bad sense of the word, but in a higher sense. When men have wrongs to complain of they should go to the ballot box and right them. I may be asked if I would give universal suffrage to ignorant men, and thus give them power over the property of the millionaire. I answer, yes; all the more for that, because then the millionaire would be willing to give a part of his wealth to aid in making voters intelligent. Universal suffrage is taking a bond of the rich to educate the poor. You will never reach the influential classes by meetings like these. How will you do it? Go to your next candidate for Mayor, and ask him if he is in favor of the eight-hour system. If he says yes, let it be known that he is to have your votes. If no, let him know that he will not have them. You will not, perhaps, gain the victory the first time. It would be a disgrace if you did. [A voice-' Why?' ] Because it would look as if you had frightened the city of Boston. You will gain your
<c05>
point by argument. The Journal, the Advertiser, the Transcript will discuss it, and the State will be lifted by the four corners. Ton will gain in twelve months what we gained in twelve years, if you are true to yourselves.
Some may think this is a political address. I belong to no political party, and if I live to the age of Methuselah, do not expect a vote. I want Charles Sumner to stand on this platform, and give his views on this question; I want Samuel Hooper to come down here and look his constituents in the face; I want Henry Wilson, with his tireless activity, to give his labors to the working men. Abbott Lawrence, in 1840, when asked by a committee of his constituents what his opinion was in regard to slavery in the district of Columbia, said he didn't know as he had any opinion on the subject, and if he had, it was not worth while to express it. Twenty years later he would have cut off his hands rather than give such an answer. Two years hence, if you are true to yourselves, instead of having an Ishmaelite like me to address you, you can take your pick out of all the politicians in the country instead of one journal, you will have all the journals discussing the labor question.
You must imitate the tenacity of the abolitionists in adhering to a single issue. The temperance party committed the folly of depending upon resolutions, and voting for whigs and democrats; and influential men, seeing that they did not value their own principles, left them out in the cold. There are men enough here to govern this city. When you have convinced thinking men that it is right, and humane men that it is just, you will gain your cause. Men always lose half of what is gained by violence. What is gained by argument is gained forever. Mass meetings, like these, amount to nothing. A political movement, saying’ We will have our rights,' is a mass meeting in perpetual session. Filtered through the ballot box comes the will of the people, and statesmen how to it. Go home and say that the working men of Massachusetts are a unit, and that they mean to stereotype their purpose on the statute book."
Mr. Phillips took his sent amid the most deafening applause.
RESOLUTIONS ON NATIONAL REFORM.
The Worcester Freedom Club, a patriotic organization in the heart of the Commonwealth, adopted and published in the month of August the following timely expression:
Resolved, That as a body of New England citizens untrammelled by party, but vigilant for the welfare of our common country, we observe with great anxiety the multiplying signs of an intended coalition on the part of the Democracy (falsely so called) with the present national administration in what they (the Democracy) term” its avowed policy” of reconstruction, and of re-admission into the Union of States lately in rebellion, without the guarantee of suffrage, to the black man, and leaving it optional with recent slaveholding rebels to give or refuse to loyal freedmen the American citizen's right of the ballot.
Resolved, That the experience of the past should warn leading Republicans that the Tylerization of their party, and its virtual betrayal into the hands of the twice-beaten Democratic party, so far from being an impossibility, is the most practicable and tempting method of lifting the pro-slavery Democracy again into power.
Resolved, That the NATIONAL SECURITY OF SUFFRAGE TO THE BLACK MAN THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE SOUTH is the only sure means of restoring and maintaining the Union of these United States, as well as of preventing the late slaveholding section of the country, with the political power again in the hands of its old masters, from uniting with it, as heretofore, the friendly Northern Democracy, and securing their co-operation in the demand for a national adoption of the debt of the late rebel Confederacy,-or its equivalent,-the payment from the national treasury of the money value of all the freedmen-A MEASURE, THE MERE AGITATION OF WHICH IS CERTAIN TO DEPRECIATE THE VALUE, IF NOT TO HAZARD THE REPUDIATION OF THE BONDS REPRESENTING THE PRESENT DEBT.
The same association, in view of late events and the present aspect to public sentiment and affairs, have passed and ordered to be printed the following: Resolved, That disgraced and mortified as New England is by the attitude lately assumed toward the black man by the State of Connecticut, we do but speak the overwhelming sense of loyal Massachusetts when we say that as a portion of” the people of the United States by whose authority the Federal Constitution is ordained and established as the supreme law of the land," and holding, under that Constitution, the protective right of suffrage, we will never consent that any other loyal portion of” the people of the United States," under the same Constitution, shall be denied that same constitutional protection of the ballot, still less so intensely loyal a people as the Nation's Black Men of the States lately in rebellion.
Resolved, That the injustice and deceit of that part of the recent” Platforms of the Democracy” should be made transparent to the country at large, in which, while it is asserted that the ballot is the right of every American citizen, care is taken to allow the late slave-holding States to restrict the right of suffrage to their white citizens, under the deceitful phraseology” that the constitution recognizes the right of the people of each State to prescribe the qualifications of electors," thus breaking the plighted faith of the nation to its loyal black men, and denying them the protection of citizenship.
Resolved, That we trust no politic manipulation of the Powers that be at Washington, nor any adroit pretexts of cunning politicians in the interest of Democracy and defeated rebellion, will be allowed to placate the approaching Congress into consenting to the admission of Representatives or Senators from any State lately in rebellion, whose constitution does not secure the equality of all men before the law, and the fundamental condition of a common participation, on equal terms, of its loyal black citizens and white citizens, in the elective franchise.
THE AMERICAN MISSIONARY ASSOCIATION.
The nineteenth annual meeting of this Association was held in Rev. Henry Ward Beecher's church, Brooklyn, Oct. 25th and 26th. Rev. Dr. Patton, of New Haven, Ct., presided. The annual report was read by Secretary Whipple, and presented an encouraging survey of the operations of the past year. The number of missionaries and teachers employed during the year at the South and Southwest was 320. The treasurer's report showed a total disbursement of over $200,000; including cash expenditures for the freedmen of $95,785, and clothing to the amount of $61,674. 
The discussions were of more than usual interest. The resolutions covered various topics of pressing importance in reference to the freedmen. The duty of the nation to them, and the true idea of liberty, in its enlarged sense, were stated in the following resolution, drawn by Rev. H. W. Beecher, and adopted unanimously:- 
Resolved, That the idea of emancipation which carries with it no protection of person and property, no advantage of the laws and institutions of the land-equal and impartial-is delusive and pernicious. In this age, and in this nation, there can be no meaning to liberty which leaves a man stripped of all civil rights, and free only as the beasts of the forest are free. Emancipation and liberty are but empty and mocking words if they do not convey the idea and rights of citizenship; and we protest against excluding men from the rights of citizenship, civil or political, on account of their color."
But the interest of the audience was most fully awakened by statements in relation to the prospective sufferings of the freed people during the approaching winter. Some startling facts were given on this point; and the duty and purpose of the Association were embodied in the two following resolutions:-
Resolved, That the inability of the colored people to secure the use of abandoned lands in season for planting, and the general restoration of the lands they have occupied to the former rebel owners, which leaves these colored people without homes and food, for shadow an unparalleled destitution among then the coming winter, and call upon this Association not merely to redouble its efforts to send them clothing to keep them from freezing, but to furnish them with food to keep them from starving.
<c06>
Resolved, That the Executive Committee of this Association be requested to appoint a Committee in person, or otherwise, to memoralize the President in relation to the rights of the colored people to the use of the: abandoned and confiscated lands hither to assigned to them, to cooperate with the Freedmen's Bureau in its measures for their assistance, and to devise a practical plan for providing food for their pressing wants the coming winter."
The Association intends to adopt immediate and vigorous measures to meet this impending suffering, by a great enlargement of its distribution of clothing, and by furnishing food to the destitute: and it most earnestly invites donations of clothing and money for these specific purposes.
The above is a portion of the Independent's report of the late anniversary of the American Missionary Association. In a paper of a very different sort, however, we find reported a speech of Henry Ward Beecher on that occasion, the spirit of which is in strange contrast with that of the excellent resolution from the same hand above quoted. In that speech Mr. Beecher exhorts to confidence in the right feeling and action of the ex-slaveholders, and support of the policy now in process of execution by the President, in spits of the fact that both these seem bent upon reducing the colored people to a state somewhere between slavery and freedom. Mr. Beecher has often shown himself independent of the thing praised of men as “consistency"; but it is hard that, in the
same meeting, he should pull down by speech what he builds up by resolution.- C. K. W.
resolution.
THE NEXT CONGRESS.
D. W. B, so long and favorably known to abolitionists as the Washington correspondent of the Anti Slavery Standard, for several years past, writes as follows to the Independent:-
The organization of the House of Representatives is discussed in certain quarters, as if it was still doubtful whether the old clerk, McPherson, who holds over, will put the names of the claimants from the rebellious States upon his official list. In point of fact, there is no doubt upon the subject. Mr. McPherson will not place the names of men coming from states which have been in rebellion against the Government, upon the list. I say this, not as a matter of opinion, but of actual knowledge. The list, I presume, is already made up; if not, it will be in a few days, and Republicans need have no anxiety whatever upon the subject. There can be no question among fair-minded men respecting the course to be pursued by the clerk. In no case since the war began has the House admitted a member to a seat who came from a State in rebellion against the Government, without a preliminary examination. The House examined the case first, and meantime the claimant remained outside. In the organization of the Thirty-eighth Congress, two men from New Orleans voted; but the previous Congress, after a long consideration of cases of claimants from the New Orleans districts, admitted them. By common consent, the members elect from the same districts were permitted to participate in the organization, to save time, as the two votes could not affect the result; but Messrs. Field and Cottman (the claimants) were soon afterward rejected.
Some of the Southern members elect will claim a place on the official roll from the State; but no Republican member will support them in that claim, and they must rest satisfied with a consideration of their cases by the Committee of Elections, whenever it and the House shall be ready for it.
Last week's Commonwealth said:
"Most rascally efforts are being made to dispossess the freedmen, who were settled on the Sea Islands by General Sherman, of the lands which were given to them. This villanous effort to rob loyal men, for the benefit of ruffianly rebels whose hands are red with the blood of Northern soldiers, can succeed only through a breach of faith on the part of our Government such as would be without paralled in history, all the circumstances considered. Gen. Howard, of the Freedmen's Bureau, is looking into the matter, and will soon return to Washington and report."
General Howard, while in Savannah, made an address to the colored people in the 2d African church of that city, which the Savannah Republican reports as follows :-
"One of the most important topics that the General discussed was of the universal complaint made to him by planters that the Freedmen would make contracts, but in nine cases out of ten would not he state to break them. This the General denounced in the strongest terms, and said that the men who advocated such a scheme were the worst enemies of the black race, and if the freedmen follow such advice ruin and misery will surely befall both races, while starvation will be upon the South. The colored people must make, contracts with the property-owners throughout the entire South, and the speaker, in a very impressive manner, invoked the freedmen to live most scrupulously up to all contracts, and strive by education and industry to attain to that prosperity which only constant employment can give. He believed that the majority of the Southern people were willing to treat the freedmen well, and to lend them every assistance toward every project which has in view the elevation of the freedmen. No matter how obnoxious the laws of certain States may be, he advised all to submit cheerfully to the laws of the land, no matter how many privileges were denied them, for the time must come when all of your rights will be restored.
Don't be in too much haste, but watch and trust. The only hope I do have is, that the marriage rites will be strictly observed. When these ties are zealously kept unbroken, we shall have abundant prosperity. If these sins are not stopped, God will rebuke you will be broken. General Howard exhorted the Freedmen to practice, in all their dealings, truthfulness; for, if they did not, God would chasten them. He also urged the colored people to be polite enough to defy any man to say that they could not be as polite in freedom as they were in bondage. The loafers and idlers were denounced as worthless members of society, with whom the just rights of its law must be meted out. The indolent people of either race cannot longer expect to be supported by Government, for Gen. H. has special instructions to feed none but those who were absolutely helpless.
Gen. Howard says the President is striving to do all in his power for the whole country, and it is now the duty of all men to cheerfully conform to the laws that govern the State. Gen. Howard remarked that he had conversed with many of the leading planters of the South, and a great many of them are not only willing to hire their former negroes, but treat them kindly and remunerate them liberally.
The speaker scouted the idea of the Freedmen obtaining lands from the Government, and after informing the people that the Sea Island plantations were to be delivered up to their former owners, be urged all to abandon such foolish ideas. Government gives land away to neither white nor black, and those who desire lands must work for them. Gen H. also urged the Freedmen to remain at home and cease perambulating-for home was the best place for the Freedmen, as well as the white race, and he wound up his pertinent address by stating that in six months the whole country would again be united, and each section striving to do what is right."
A NOVEL LETERARY ENTGRPRISE. There will be published in November a unique illustrated book, very properly entiled “The Flower of Liberty," which cannot but prove an extremely popular work during the holidays. The following named authors have contributed beautiful poems: O.W. Holmes, J. G. Whittier, W. C. Bryant, H.W. Longfellow, R.W. Emerson, Geo. W. Curtis, Bayard Taylor, J.G.
Halleck, John Neal, T. B. Read, Theodore Tilton H. Browness, Wm. R. Wallace, Dravid Barker, Edward. P. Nowell, T. W. Parsons, Henry T. Tuckerman, Charles A. Barry, Mrs. J. T. Fields, Phoete Cary, Lucy Larcom, Julia Ward Howe, Kate Putnam Mrs. Whitney., and others.
Mrs. Julia W. Furbish, a Maine lady, is the aritist and complier of this splendid book, the illustrations of which will number upwards of fifty lithographs is numbers. Messrs. Ticknor & Fields are the publishers.
HARPER, for November, closes the 31st volume of this favorite magazine, and is in no wise inferior to the 185 numbers which have preceded it. Many good things are promised for the succeeding volume. Received and for sale by the agents of Harper's publications in this city, A. Williams & Co.
The colored soliders must wait a while for their bounties. An order cancelling the decision of the Attorney-General and prohibiting the payment of bounties to those colored troops who cannot produce proof of their freedom at the commencement of the war, has been issued by direction of the President. The second Comptroller of the Treasury and the Attorney-General both held that enlistment in the Union armies made the slave free.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XLVI.
NEW YORK, NOV. 2,1865,
To the Editor of the Liberator.
It has been more than once remarkable how, with-out exiting the Executive displeasure, the Provisional Governors appointed by the President have assumed powers which he has studiously disclaimed <illegible> himself-how, in other words, the non possumus of his creatures. Such men as Hamilton, of Texas, and Martin, of Florida, have not scrupled to tell the people of those States that their slave-codes perished along with slavery, and that the old distinctions of <illegible> give way to complete equality before the law. The language is of course restricted to mere protection in person and property by the authorities and the <illegible> for the President expressly preserved so much of the State Constitutions as excluded all but whites from the ballot-box. He himself, without announcing so clearly as his subordinates the logic of his procedure is practically engaged in compelling the admission of negro testimony through the military agency of the Freedmen's Bureau. In the name of reason, if any part of the fundamental law of the South may be abrogated because its origin and its uses were derived from slavery, now obsolete, what is to <illegible> the rest from sharing the same fate on the same pretence? Nevertheless, the last utterence of the President in his conversation with Maj. Stearns which is palatable to the best Republicans only because it is not quite tolerable to the disloyal Democracy -repeats the state nonsense that he has no better right to interfere with suffrage in the Carolinas than in Pennsylvania. As if there were no difference in the present condition and immediate antecedents of the States compared; as if there had been no repudiation of the national authority, no supercilious contempt alike of the obligations and privileges of the Constitution, no rebellion treasonably bred and loyally fought down, no martial law, no war powers! Mr. Johnson's memory is none of the best: he forgets his most solemn and emphatic promises before they are six months cold; but how can he forget the epoch of which he was really a great part, but which would have failed to win distinction for itself or for him it his ideas of the impuissance of the Government had prevailed from the commencement?
The President is his own foil. Nashville is forever set over against Washington-the government of a subjugated State against the imperial control of a whipt Confederacy. But virtue and strength still a bide in the capital of Tennessee in the person of Mr. Johnson's successor, whose view of the relation of the rebellious territory to the Federal authority is so radical, so much more through than that I have been criticizing, that I am tempted to reproduce it in a few extracts from some of his official documents. In an address to the people of the State, on the 14th of last July, he said:
"When the nation entered upon its task of furnishing the people of Tennessese with a republican form of government, it had a right to present just such a particular form of free government as was most adapted to the condition of the people, and to choose the means of setting it on foot. If it had chosen the Constitution of Kentucky or of Maine, it is difficult to see what objection could have been made on constitutional grounds, but in deference to the tastes and habits of our people it chose our own Constitution, diverted only of that feature which had caused all our sufferings, and proceeded to present us with our own standoned ship of State, clothed in its ancient rigging. it is not for us to say there were irregularities in the mode or the time of setting the State Government in motion. It was for the national power, in performing its guarantees, to choose for itself the manner and time of discharging its duty. It chose to revive the State Government through loyal people of the State- those who had not proved themselves unworthy of a free government. It prescribed, through its agent, its own plan of operations, and had a right to do so."
This covers the whole ground, but is illustrated still further in detail:
"It is Mid the Convention in January last wag self-constituted and irresponsible, and assumed to amend the Constitution. That Convention was initiatory, the means chosen by the national administration through its civil agent. The people of Tennessee had <illegible> right to prescribe to the General Government what should be its first step toward a republican form of government for the State. The Convention consisted of over five delegates. Il it had been but five or one, or if Gov. Johnson himself had sat down in his office and drawn up the form of government, and by authority of the nation had proclaimed it to the people, it would have been all the same a national set. It is said the amendment and schedule were submitted to only part of the people, and were, therefore, partial and unfair. It may well be questioned whether national authority was under any constitutional obligation to submit it to a vote at all, its business being in place over us a republican form of government, choosing itself the means and channels of transmitting it to us. It was submitted to the vote of loyal people and why submit it to the disloyal, who were in arms, and in fact fighting to destroy the nation itself? But this, too, was a national act. in which we were strictly entitled to take no part. Again, it is said that State government was forced upon the people. Certainly it was forced upon the rebellious majority of the State. So was the authority of the United States forced upon them, and at the point of the bayonet, and just so the nation had a right to force upon them a republican form of government, for nothing but force was recognized by them.
Waiving the question of the status of Tennessee- whether it is fully restored, or awaits the good pleasure of Congress like all the rest of the revolted deague-the following extract from the Governor's recent message to the Legislature concedes the entire ground on which the agitation for a national enforcement of impartial suffrage is based:
"Whatever may be the result of the contest anticipated "Congress upon this subject, I take occasion to say, in advance, that Congress has no right to fix the qualification of a voter within a State. The subject of negro voting in any State claiming her rights under the Constitution, is one for the exclusive decision of the State. In revolted State it is a question of policy and military government, until such State is fully restored. Some of the Southern States should be left longer under military rule, until they can offer more security for the future. Tennessee is an exception to this rule, and she is not now in insurrection, and has her civil machinery in successful operation."
Here the argument closes and may rest. Yet, to the shame of a large class of people, embracing almost all the South, and, at the North, such men as Richard Grant White-the "Yankee" correspondent of the London Spectator-who turn a flinty countenance to the suggestion of negro suffrage even in the remotest hereafter, print also, if you please, what Gov. Brownlow says on the point
"I think that negro suffrage is bound to follow as one of the great results of the rebellion; that the time will come when it will be proper and right; but should be turned over to the emancipated slaves of this State, and the thousands who would rush into Tennessee from the cotton States on this account. To equality, I beg leave to respond that negroes, at one time or another, have voted in most of the Southern States, and yet they were in no way advanced to social equality with the whites. My recollection is that, in every Southern State, except South Carolina, the right of suffrage was originally exercised by free blacks. The original Constitutions of Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina and Georgia, members of the old thirteen, make no mention of color in defining the qualification of voters. Up to the time of the adoption of the amended Constitution, politicians of the State importuned them for their votes. In Maryland they voted until 1833, and in North Carolina they voted as late as 1835. All this failed to advance the negroes in the scale of equality, so foolishly talked of now, and so offensively deprecated; and omalgamation was not so common in those days as it has become since."
The weakness of the President is the more to be regretted because it is clear that the South would have submitted to any terms in order to get back to civil life. The people of those reconstructing States which have passed through the stages of conventions and legislatures have had scarcely more influence in Shall the State secede? Such has been and still is the discipline of the Southern politicians, and such the ignorance of the mob of voters, that few men of intelligence, craft or known ability govern a State
<c02>
as easily as they would develop a conspiracy. You can see this in the ill-concealed surprise and satisfaction with which the President's conditions are accepted, and the equal punctiliousness with which they are observed. It is visible also in the achievement of Gov. Perry, who has reimbursed South Carolina for all her losses in the war by the reformed Constitution which he sketched and recommended for adoption. Taken as a whole, the South might have been regarded as a vast army with a very few officers, to whom the privates looked up with obsequious reverence. When the battle ended in the rout of these leaders, first President Lincoln and then President Johnson took their place, and might have exacted the same uncomplaining obedience. Of course, when the field-marshal retired to make way for the old commanders, the old allegiance returned with the old prestige, and is assured to-day. Gen. Howard was told, in passing through North Carolina, that the present disposition to give the negro his rights was not nearly so strong as it had been, owing to the mild disposition of the Government and the withdrawal of the Federal troops. It is a mistake, therefore, for a statesman to regulate his measures for the South as for the North-by the public opinion there. Properly speaking, there is no such thing as public opinion in the States which were lately in arms; for this implies a degree of freedom in thought, speech and press such as the South never had. History has not in this instance repeated itself, so that we may boast a second " secession of the plebs." It was the patricians who withdrew from the American Union, and they were the chivalry who would have their own way by fair means or foul. The populace that followed at their heels was incapable of haughtiness or stubbornness: if it had " one peculiar feature, it was a nose that could be led."
M.DUPAYS.
CIRCULAR
Office of General Superintendent of Education for Refugees and Freedmen, State of Louisiana. 
NEW ORLEANS, October 9th, 1865.
SIR:-Permit us to call your attention to a subject which we wish to have presented to the next session of Congress, soon to convene. You are probably well aware what efforts have been made in this State for the benefit of the freedmen, and that, thus far, all the attempts to ameliorate their condition have been enforced by the military authority; that the people of Louisiana, by their conventions and speeches, while making loud professions of loyalty, and strongly in favor of sustaining the administration of President Johnson, are yet as strongly inclined to deny the practical benefits of the Emancipation to the freedman; that they are making every effort to reduce him to a stale of peonage; that they expect, as soon as they get the entire control of the State, and are relieved of the military authorities here, to make such rules and laws respecting his status as will bring him completely in their power. Since the advent of the Federal forces in this State, there is no subject which has called forth more deadly hostility and opposition, so stirred up the prejudices and antipathies of the slave-owner towards the unfortunate race, as the establishment of schools for the benefit of freedmen. A race of ignorant and down-trodden people, set free by the Proclamation of President Lincoln, (which, however, many of the people of this State deny has any validity,) if kept in ignorance of their rights may still be kept in a state of practical bondage; but as soon as they are taught to read, and to gain some information of what is going on beyond their master's plantation the power of the slave-master is broken, and their manacles fall to the ground. Even to this present day, the employe's of this office, who have visited some of the distant parishes of this State, inform us that the old regime of the whip and the bloodhound is not yet abolished; that nothing but the actual presence of the military will suffice to make the planters treat their former slaves with any kind of justice, or pay them a reasonable compensation for their labor. Wherever schools have been established, the most violent opposition has been displayed towards the cause, and they have only been sustained by the same arbitrary power, 
If the military power should be withdrawn to-day, and the State once more resume all her functions, our schools would cease to exist, and the whole moral and political influence of the people of Louisiana would be brought to bear against them. The Constitution of 1864 makes it incumbent on the Legislature to provide for the education of colored children, but that Constitution is not yet regarded us the law of the land, and the dominant party here demands that it be set aside as not expressing the will of the people.
During the last two years, there have been about 143 schools for colored children established in this State, under General Order No. 38, 1864, promulgated by Major General Banks, giving employment to nearly 250 teachers, and affording Instruction to 14,000 children and 5,000 adults, of which latter class more than 1,000 are soldiers. The success of this enterprise has been unprecedented, and the most sanguine expectations have been realized. The children of freedmen appreciate the benefit of education; they learn rapidly, and are anxious to improve their condition. But until this enterprise has some official recognition by Congress, and is not left to be dependent upon the military, which may at any time be removed, these schools are on a very precarious foundation; they are liable at any time to be abolished, and the people here openly declare that all efforts in behalf of the freedmen are temporary and ephemeral. How will these schools endure after the military power is withdrawn, which may take place the cooling year, unless Congress comes to their relief?
In view of this state of things, we would respectfully recommend that a bill be introduced into the next Congress, making an appropriation of public lands in behalf of the schools of this State. According to the Report of Hon. A. P. Dostie, State Auditor of Louisiana, there are in this State 3,300,000 acres of land now owned by the United States. For the white schools in this State there have already been granted by Congress 1,853,440 acres of land, The whole quantity of land of unknown ownership is 11,390,000,940 acres. Probably a considerable part of this belongs to the United States. What better use could be made of this vast quantity of public land than to make a donation of it to the freedmen for educational purposes? Do not the thousands of colored men. who have enlisted in the cause of the Union deserve some national recognition of their services? Are these brave soldiers, who stormed the fortifications of Port Hudson, to go back to their original status with no other recognition of their gallant services than their pittance of $16 per month? If the Government amba sde free, it is morally bound to keep them so. The freedmen look upon the Government as their father, and they revere the memory of the late President Lincoln as the Moses who brought them out of the house of bondage. While quietly submitting to the laws of the State, and in thousands of instances laboring for their old masters, without showing any symptoms of insurrection or ingratitude for their former treatment, they have no confidence in either; they look upon the General Government as their sole protector. Is there any more feasible method of showing them that it will continue this friendly interposition in their behalf than to grant this request? Will it not induce them to labor quietly and peaceably in the land of their birth? As a matter of simple political expediency, then, we strongly urge this subject on your attention.
In setting the slaves free and protecting them by means of the military, the Freedmen's Bureau, and other agencies, the Government has constituted itself a conservator or guardian of the freedmen; it has encouraged their mental and moral improvement it has taught a low hundreds to read and write, to gain a few practical ideas of business, and now we ask you, in all candor and honesty, is it right and just for the Government, after having held out these encouragements to their self-improvement, and after these 
<c03>
gifts have been so thankfully accepted, to refuse to place their cause on a permanent basis? Is not the Government, legally and morally, bound to provide for the education of the four millions of citizens which it has created? Is it not a matter of simple justice and common law?
The State -will never do this. We know the people of Louisiana too well to expect anything of the kind. The freedmen are too poor to pay for buying or leasing school sites, building school houses, providing books and apparatus, and paying teachers. It is as much as they can do to support themselves.
Unless Congress comes to their aid, they are doomed to suffer worse than the peons of Mexico or the serfs of Russia.
During the session of the Legislature last winter, a bill was introduced into the Senate, making an appropriation of three mills on a dollar for the education of the children of this State, with the proviso that the tax should be expended, one half in the education of the white children, and one half for the education of the children of people of color, and this beneficent measure was summarily rejected.
If the dominant party of this State can very modestly demand that Congress shall make the slave owners a remuneration for the slaves emancipated, equal to their value at the commencement of the war, a sum which is estimated in the last Report of the State Auditor to be $170,000,000, and to be made principally to those very men who have been most instrumental in bringing on this late rebellion, cannot we with equal propriety, request that two or three millions of acres of public lands be forever donated to that class of people whose loyalty and fidelity to the Union has become a matter of history?
The records of this office are replete with accounts from Teachers, Agents, and Directors, of the hostility and opposition which this enterprise meets with all over the State. On the coming Congress alone hangs its destiny. Another year may be too late. Our Senators and Representatives will soon be called upon to legislate upon the status of the freedmen for future generations. Will they neglect this golden opportunity? Will they pour contempt upon the memory of our martyred President, who said, in substance, that nothing in the world would induce him to break the pledges of freedom he had tuade to the slave? We hope not. We have too much respect for the honor, the virtue and integrity of the people of the North to believe this will be permitted.
Finally, we appeal to the honored head of the Executive Councils of the nation, His Excellency Andrew Johnson, President of the United States to lend his official influence in favor of the education of the freedmen of this State. In doing so he will carry out the purposes and designs of his worthy predecessor, and he will confer a lasting benefit on the children of thousands of truly loyal citizens of this country, who never raised a hand or struck a blow against the Union, but whose fidelity to it has displayed a strange but glorious contrast to their ormer oppressors.
A reply to this communication, with any information or suggestions which you may deem proper to communicate, is respectfully solicited.
Hoping that these views and suggestions will meet your sincere approbation, and that you will use your influence during the coining winter to secure the benefits of education to the unfortunate people of color in this State, on some permanent basis, and to have a liberal appropriation made in their behalf,
We subscribe ourselves,
Your obedient servants,
H. R. PEASE,
Captain and General Superintendent for Refugees and Freedmen, State of Louisiana.
N. WILLEY, Secretary.
Approved: THOMAS W. CONWAY,
Asst. Com. Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen and Abandoned lands, State of Louisiana.
LLOYD GARRISON SCHOOL-COLORED.
NEW ORLEANS, Oct. 14, 1865.
MR. GARRISON,-I have the honor to inform you, that among the eight large schools just established and graded in this city, by Capt. H. R. Pease, Superintendent of Freedmen's Schools for Louisiana, is a largo one named as above, and ranking as Grammar School No. 1. Of this school I am Principal, assisted by five colored ladies and two white. We have been open two weeks, and numbered 373 pupils last night, graded from the Primer to Fifth Reader- Monosyllables to Grammar-Object-counting to Fractions. We are proud of our pupils, and feel that you will rejoice with us. We feel, also, that you will not take it amiss if we ask a little assistance from Boston in the shape of apparatus to illustrate astronomy (Tellurian,) agyroscope and microscope, a numerical frame, conic sections, cube-root blocks, a magnet, and such other instruments as will enable us to fight this battle for our race against ignorance. Any donation like the above that the friends may make may be sent to the care of the Freedmen's Bureau, for the Lloyd Garrison School, 222 Colosseum Place, New Orleans.
Trusting that this appeal will not be in vain, I remain, dear sir, for another year's teaching here,
Yours, respectfully,
P. B. RANDOLPH.
GEORGE THOMPSON'S MOVEMENTS.
PETERBORO', Madison Co., N. Y., Oct. 26,1865.
MR. GARRISON,-Our noble anti-slavery friend Hon. George Thompson lectured at Oneida on Friday evening, Oct. 20th. On Saturday, Gerrit Smith sent his carriage and brought him to Peterboro'. This is the first time these distinguished men have met since Mr. Thompson's arrival in this country. On Sunday, Mr. Thompson addressed a large and attentive audience at the Presbyterian Church, and in the evening spoke to a full house at Morrisville. His addresses gave great satisfaction. On Tuesday, Mr. Thompson left to meet an engagement at Buffalo. We all enjoyed his visit here greatly, and he will probably return about the 14th of November, and spend some days with Mr. Smith.
Mr. Thompson has some intention of going as far west as Minnesota the latter part of January. He would undoubtedly meet a cordial reception from the free people of that noble State, and it is quite probable that a sojourn of a few months in that health-restoring climate would much benefit him. Wherever he goes, he will be welcomed by every lover of truth and justice as one of the most able and faithful advocates of human rights the world has ever seen. Yours, &c,, GEO. W. PUTNAM.
Mr. Thompson has also delivered a lecture at Indianapolis, Ind., as will be seen by the following dispatch to the Chicago Tribune under date Nov. 2d: -
A very select and a reasonably large audience assembled this evening in Masonic Hall to hear Hon. George Thompson, the distinguished emancipationist. He has been sojourning in this country for some months past on business, and partly expecting to make it his permanent residence.
His address this evening was entitled "The Signs of the Times," and was only partially of a political character. The invitation to speak having come from the Young Men's Christian Association, he adverted at some length to the progress that was being made everywhere in the supplanting of false religions by the light of Christianity. The destruction of slavery by the war would present the republican form of government in a more favorable aspect to other nations of the world. The triumph of free principles here in the eradication of oppression and wrong would exert a powerful influence for their triumph in all other lands, for this nation was looked to by all enlightened nations for truer and better principles than have heretofore prevailed. The nation had accomplished a portion of the great work entrusted to it, in the emancipation of its four millions from bondage, and there now only remained the duty of according to them equal civil and political rights with the men of all other nations. And this, he had not the least doubt, would at no distant day be accomplished. He believed that the present struggle would end in the practical application of the principle that all men are equal, and in granting to all men the unabridged rights of citizenship without regard to race or complexion. It was his opinion that 
<c04>
we had abolished slavery just in time, for if we had not destroyed it, it would have destroyed us. The nation now refined and purified in its struggle in granting justice to the long suffering race, and in upholding the principles of civil and religious liberty, would be honored and blessed by all nations.
Many points of his lecture were warmly cheered, although his style of delivery is not of the rousing kind, being more scholarly and graceful than that of most American political speakers.
MR. EDITOR,-Please insert the following quotations, and oblige many friends. CARBON.
" The word of the Lord came again unto me, saying:
" Son of man, prophecy and say, Thus saith the Lord God: Howl ye; woe worth the day!
" For the day of the Lord is near, a cloudy day; it shall be the time of the heathen.
" Therefore, thus saith the Lord God: Behold I am against Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and will break his arms, the strong, and that which was broken; and I will cause the sword to fall out of his hand. And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and put my sword in his hand; but I will break Pharaoh's arms, and he shall groan before him with the groaning of a deadly wounded man.
" And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and disperse them among the countries; and they shall know that I am the Lord."
BLIND TOM.
The Transcript of Monday evening last says
"' Blind Tom,' the pianist, will begin a series of concerts at the Tremont Temple this evening, and will continue them every evening during the week except Wednesday and Thursday. There will be matinees on Wednesday and Saturday. The fame of this negro performer readied us several years ago, and he has lately given concerts in the principal cities of the North, which have met with much favor. A large number of our citizens will avail themselves of the opportunities offered to witness the performance of this musical prodigy."
The New York correspondent of the Journal says of the performances of the same artist in that city-
"Blind Tom, the colored boy, is the fashionable sensation of the hour. Dodworth's Hall is crowded every night at a dollar a ticket. He is a genuine Southern negro, thick set, heavy moulded, low forehead, looking like a country clown, and apparently not over seventeen years of age. In his opening speech he speaks of himself in the third person, and says: ' Tom belongs to a despised race. He is black, he is blind, he is ignorant. How he should play as he does, Tom don't know. Why the piano should be Tom's "forte" is a mystery that Providence only can solve.' When Tom was a child he imitated every noise that he heard from man, beast or bird. At three years of age he groped his way to the piano, and commenced imitating the sounds that he had heard upon it. He cannot read, write nor spell, but he remembers every piece that he has heard from his childhood. The most difficult operas, and Thalberg's and Gottschalk's most brilliant compositions he masters with ease. His imitation of the music box is the most wonderful exhibition ever heard in this city. The most eminent musicians of the city come on to the platform and play most difficult pieces, and Tom will sit down and follow them with wonderful accuracy. He is indifferent to censure or praise. His excitement at times is so great that he cannot contain himself. He drinks in his own music with all the delight that could attend the performance of another. During the performance of some of his most brilliant passages he laughs, shouts, shakes with excitement as if he was going into a fit, and puts his ear close down to the piano to drink in every strain of melody. At the conclusion of every piece he springs to his feet and leads the applause by a hearty clapping of his hands, precisely as if some one else had been at the piano, and he was in raptures at the performance. Regarding him as a poor blind slave, his execution would be wonderful, my way. But his touches are really exquisite, and his performances, considered in an artistic point of view, would put to the blush many of the professors of music in our city."
THE PRESIDENT'S ULTIMATUM TO GEORGIA.
WASHINGTON, Friday, Nov. 3, 1865.
The National Republican has the following:
MILLEDGEVILLE, Ga. Wednesday, Nov. 1, 1865.
The following highly important dispatch from the President of the United States has been received here by Gov. Johnson:
EXECUTIVE MANSION, 
WASHINGTON, D. C., Oct. 28, 1865. 
To JAMES JOHNSON, Provisional Governor, Milledgeville, Ga.:
Your dispatch has been received. The people of Georgia should not hesitate one single moment in repudiating every single dollar of debt created for the purpose of aiding the rebellion against the Government of the United States. It will not do to levy and collect taxes from a State and people that are loyal and in the Union, to pay a debt that was created to aid in taking them out and subverting the Constitution of the United States
I do not believe the great mass of the people of the State of Georgia, when left uninfluenced, will ever submit to the payment of a debt which was the main cause of bringing on their past and present suffering, he result of the rebellion.
Those who invested their capital in the creation of this debt must meet their fate, and take it as one of the inevitable results of the rebellion, though it may seem hard to them.
It should at once be made known at home and abroad that no debt contracted for the purpose of dissolving the Union can, or ever will be, paid by taxes levied on the people for such purpose.
ANDREW JOHNSON,
President of the United States.
THE NEGRO QUESTION IN KENTUCKY.
The Mayor of Lexington Does One Thing and the Military Authorities Upset It.
NOTICE.
The congregation of colored persons in this city, claimed to he slaves by the neighboring farmers and others, has become an evil of such magnitude as to require correction. It is, therefore, hereby notified to such owners and claimants, that unless such colored persons are removed from the city to the homes of their claimants, by the 26th day of this month, legal proceedings will be instituted under the State law to compel compliance. The City Marshal and his assistants shall at once make out a roll of the age, sex and claimant of all colored persons going at large in this city, and hand a copy to the City Attorney for proper legal proceedings.
JOSEPH WINGATE, Mayor.
Oct. 17th, 1865.
HEADQUARTERS 1ST BRIG., DEP'T KY.,
LEXINGTON, KY., Oct. 20th, 1865.
To the Mayor of the City of Lexington, Ky.:
SIR: In accordance with instructions this day received from Major General Palmer, commanding Department of Kentucky, I desire to call your attention to a certain proclamation purported to be issued by you, "notifying all owners or claimants of slaves that unless they remove them before the 25th inst., legal proceedings will be instituted against them," and inform you that this shows a total disregard of the rights of these persons who were once slaves, and a determination to reduce them to the condition from which they have just escaped, and that the military authorities will protect all the people of the city to which your proclamation alludes, and that no portion of them can be seized and removed from the city at the mere will of persons who may choose to call themselves owners or claimants; that without discussing the questions whether there is in point of law any person in the State who can be truthfully called the owner of any other person, the wives and children of discharged soldiers and soldiers now in service are under the special protection of the military authorities, and all the people of the State are presumed to be free, and will he treated accordingly until further orders are received to the contrary.
Very respectfully, your ob’t serv't,
JAS. S. BRISBIN,
Brigadier General Commanding.
Missouri Democrat.
INDUSTRY OF THE FREEDMEN.- Washington, Nov.
2.-The Tribune's Washington special says a number of colored men of Norfolk, Va., have combined to purchase a farm of 1,000 acres for $10,000, on Currituck Sound, twenty miles from Norfolk. They expect to cut it up into forty farms of twenty-five acres each.
The National Freedman's Savings Bank already had deposits exceeding $250,000, and as the Government pays off the colored troops, the amount grows rapidly.
THE REVOLT AT JAMAICA.-New York, Nov. 2.- The Diario, of Santiago de Cuba of the 19th ult., gives the following particulars in regard to the insurrection which has broken out in Jamaica. The revolt commenced in St. Thomas District, which is now under martial law. The insurgents are led by a man named Paul Bogle, for whose capture the government has offered a reward of $2,000. The steamer Ardent was promptly despatched to Barbadoes, in order to transport troops to Jamaica. The Spanish war-steamers Santa Lucia and Andalusia left Santiago de Cuba for Jamaica, on the night of the 19th.
<c05>
THE ELECTION. - The Republican success last Tuesday was very decided. Bullock is chosen Governor by a vote of three to one. His plurality in Boston was 3,057. Banks was elected almost without opposition. The Democrats, however, have gained ten in the House and one in the Senate.
New York is Republican by a large majority.
New Jersey has chosen a Republican Governor, carried both Houses of the Legislature, and secured the Constitutional Amendment.
ARRANSAS.-The work of reconstruction is reported to have made rapid progress in Arkansas. The following despatch has been sent by the President to the Governor of the State:-
"EXECUTIVE OFFICE, WASHINGTON, D. C., 
October 30,1865.
To Gov. Murphy, Little Rock, Arkansas:
"There will be no interference with your present organization of State government. I have learned from E. W. Gannt, Esq., and other sources, that all is working well, and you will proceed and resume the former relations with the Federal Government, and all the aid in the power of the Government will be given in restoring the State to its former relation."
ANDREW JOHNSON.
President of the United States.
The State government here referred to is that which was organized in 1864 by the Union men, with the approval of Mr. Lincoln. The officers under it had registered a year ago between 12,000 and 15,000 loyal voters. General Reynolds, commanding in that department, says that the State is thoroughly reorganized and quiet, the new government being extended through every county except one. General Grant, in a letter to the Washington Chronicle, says:
" It is desired especially that the attention of the public be called to the fact that three important questions have been settled by our State: First, the Inserting of a clause in our State Constitution forever prohibiting slavery; second, the repudiation of the confederate debt; and, in the third place, the prompt ratification, by our Legislature, of the constitutional amendment abolishing slavery. They are adopted as just principles by a portion of our people, while a large portion of the residue acquiesce in them as points legitimately settled by the war."
MAXIMILIAN AND SLAVERY. Not satisfied with offending the United States by overthrowing the republicanism of Mexico and establishing therein imperialism, Maximilian has added to his impertinence by legalizing slavery. To persuade persons whom he calls "emigrants " to settle in the country, he, in a recent order, holds out inducements for them to introduce " laborers in considerable numbers." The employers are to be patrons; the laborers are to serve for a term of years; their children are to be held a service until they are of age, and both are inheritable, like other property. This is slavery under the name of serfdom or peonage. Mexico is open for an invasion of barbarians from Africa, China and Malacca, disciplined by the "middle passage." This method of " reconstruction " will make Maximilian's State more of a nuisance to the United States than he has been. This continent is not the place wherein the French emperor may try his theories. The time will come for the service of a writ of ejectment.- Watchman.
The Transcript reports that Miss M. F. Foley, the well-known sculptor, has recently arrived in Boston from Rome, where she has resided for several years. She intends returning thither next mouth. Meantime she has taken room No. 89 Studio Building, where she is modelling medallion heads of Senator Sumner, Longfellow, and other celebrities.
The tens of thousands of little ones who have listened with sparkling eyes and cheerful faces to the reading of the " Little Prudy Story Books," or have read them themselves, will be delighted to know that two new volumes have just been issued by the publishers, Messrs. Lee & Shepard of this city. They are called the Fairy Book and Dotty Dimple, and handsomely illustrated, and fully sustain the reputation which their predecessors have gained for their author as one of the best writers for children in America.
Gov. BROWNLOW still continues his uncompromising attitude as regards the rebels and the rebellion. He says:
The Governor of Tennessee bids defiance to all rebel assaults, and asks no favor of their traitorous and prostituted sheets. He is aware, that with the exception of those who have gone to their graves, there are just as many bitter rebels in the revolted States as there were in 1861. In Middle and West Tennessee, the rebels are just as bitter and as numerous as they were at the breaking out of the rebellion.
WHAT THE RADICAL CONGRESSMEN SAT.-A Washington dispatch to the Cincinnati Commercial says:
There are quite a number of leading radical members of Congress now here, and they are unreserved in their expression that not a single Representative from the rebellious States will be admitted to a seat in the House of Representatives. Governor Boutwell, of Massachusetts, is decided in his expression that they do not stand a ghost of a chance.
ENGLAND.-At the last meeting of the Social Science Congress in Sheffield, Rev. W. H. Channing read a paper, containing a variety of statistics, exhibiting the extent of the operations carried on by the United States Sanitary Commission. He said:
"The war in America had brought out a perfectly astounding amount of charity in different ways. No less than two hundred and twelve millions of dollars had been voluntarily subscribed. He paid a high tribute to the services rendered in the matter by the women of America, and, in conclusion, told his hearers that the work of the Commission had been done by voluntary effort, not because the Government of the United States had cot done its duty, but because the emergency was so great, the ground to be covered so vast, that the unaided operations of any government would be insufficient to accomplish all that was necessary. He was listened to with great interest, and at the close ' a most hearty vote of thanks' was returned to him ' for his able paper."
PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES. 
The eighth annual course of these favorite and eminently popular lectures will be continued in Music HALL on successive TUESDAY EVENINGS, at 7 1-2 o'clock, by the following distinguished orators:-
Nov.14-ANNA E, DICKINSON, of Philadelphia.
Dec. 12-GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS, of New York. 26-(To be announced.)
Jan. 2-GEORGE H. HEPWORTH, of Boston.
9-THEODORE TILTON, of New York.
16-(To be announced.)
Concert on the Great Organ each evening at 7 o'clock.
Mrs. FROHOCK, Organist.
Tickets admitting "The Bearer and Lady" to the course, $3. Tickets admitting "One Person" to the course, $2. For sale at OLIVER DITSON & CO.'S, 277 Washington street; JOHN C. HAYNES Jt CO.'S, 33 Court street; JOHN S. ROGERS', 1077 Washington street; Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington street, and by the Lecture Committee.
Checks for seats reserved until 7 1-2 o'clock, at one dollar each for the course, for gale only at DITSON & CO'S, and at J. S. ROGERS'.
N. B. Only a portion of the seats in the body of the house (those to the right of the speaker) will be reserved, leaving a large number on the lower floor and both balconies to the other ticket-holders.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak on " Peace," at Cummington, Sunday, Nov. 12.
THE COLORED POOR AT RICHMOND.
In answer to the appeal of Rev. Peter Randolph, which appeared in the Liberator of Oct. 20th, concerning the suffering among the colored people of Richmond, Virginia, the following donations have been received:
Several friends, by Samuel May, Jr., - - $20.00
Mrs. Nancy L. Howes, Barnstable,... 20.00
Attention is again asked to Mr. Randolph's letter, that the collections may go forward as soon as possible. All donations should be sent to Samuel May, Jr., Liberator office, Boston, Mass..
AUSTIN KENT TO HIS FRIENDS.-I have 600 copies of my small work on Conjugal Love. I know many to have highly prized it. Inflammatory rheumatism has crippled me. I have not stepped upon my feet for eight years, nor fed myself for over three. I may live some years, but shall never do either again. I cannot attend to the advertising and sale of the book. I am poor. If any person or persons will prepay and get them in small or large numbers, for sale or gratuitous circulation, I will sell them for half what it will now cost to print them, and for less, if I must. Whoever writes will send stamp for return postage. AUSTIN KENT.
East Stockholm, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y., Oct 24.
<c06>
CLARK'S SCHOOL VISITOR.
VOLUME X.
A DAY SCHOOL MONTHLY.
THE VISITOR will commence its tenth volume with the January number, 1866. This is the only Day School Periodical published at SEVENTY-FIVE CENTS A YEAR!
Magazine form, beautifully illustrated. New type now features; Readings, Music, Speeches, Dialogues, Stories, Puzzles, Enigmas, Rebuses, &c., from the very best writers
The VISITOR has the largest circulation of any Educational Journal published. Now is the time to form clubs. The Publisher, in order to reach all parts of the country, will send the VISITOR one year FREE, to one person (who will act as an agent) at any post-office in the United States. Address, with five cents for particulars,
J. W. DAUGHADAY, Publisher,
1308 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.
Exchanges copying the above, and sending a marked copy, will receive the "Visitor" for one year.
Nov. 10.
LESSONS IN ORNITHOLOGY.
PARLOR CLASSES.
GRACEANNA LEWIS will give Instruction in the NATURAL HISTORYOF BIRDS, to Schools and Private Classes of Ladies and Gentlemen.
It is not intended, by these Lessons, merely to interest and amuse the learner, but while these objects will be kept in view, efforts will also be made to use the feathered tribes in all their beauty and attractiveness, as a means affording an insight of the wonderful Order found in every portion of creation.
The familiar Habits of Birds; their Manner of Flight; their Migrations; their Songs; their Guiding Instincts; their Affections; their Nests and Eggs; their Plumage, with its exquisite colors and ornamentation; Microscopic Examinations of the Down of the Young, and the General Structure and Classification of Birds, will be treated of, as well as the relations of Physical Causes to the Residences of Birds; their Geographical Distribution, and their importance to Agriculture.
Geology, in its connection with Ornithology, will also be considered; and the position of the Class of Birds in the Progressive Order of Creation, so far as revealed by Modern Science, will be made apparent.
Many of the most beautiful or remarkable Birds of the World will bo noticed, and their location in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, designated.
These Lessons will be finely illustrated by numerous Elegant Engravings, and Specimens of the majority of our common Song Birds may be seen by the Class during the continuance of the Courses, while the subject will be further elucidated by Charts prepared for the purpose.
TERMS, for a Course of Six Lessons, $3.00 each.
Liberal deduction made to schools and classes of over fifty persons. Those who desire lessons will address
GRACEANNA LEWIS,
Care of EDWARD PARRISH,
South-west corner of Eighth and South Sts,,
PHILADELPHIA.
TESTIMONIALS:
The undersigned have great pleasure in recommending the Lectures of Miss Graceanna Lewis, as in all respects worthy the confidence and encouragement of persons disposed to study Natural History, and especially Ornithology.
JOHN CASSIN,
Vice-President of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, and author of " Birds of California and Texas," &c., &c., &c.
T. C. PORTER,
President of Franklin Marshall College, Lancaster, Pa.
ISAAC P. TRIMBLE, M. D.,
Author of "Insect Enemies of Fruit and Fruit Trees," and Entomologist of the State Agricultural-Society of New Jersey, Newark, N. J.
VINCENT BARNARD,
Kennet Square, Chester County, Pennsylvania April 10th, 1865.
The undersigned, who have enjoyed the pleasure of Grace anna Lewis's instructions on Ornithology deem it due to her to testify to the interest with which she succeeded in clothing the subject, and the clear and lucid method adopted in her Lectures. We greatly desire that she may find a wide field for her valuable and elevating instructions. DILLWYN PARRISH, E. H. CLEVELAND,
HELEN LONGSTRETH, MARGARET J. BURLEIGH,
ANN PRESTON, EDWARD PARRISH,
MARTHA KI.MBER, CALEB S. HALLOWELL,
EDWARD TOWNSEND, E. M. DAVIS.
J. G. HUNT, M. D.,
Philadelphia, 7th mo., 1865.

Ayer's Pills.
ARE you sick, feeble and complaining? Are you out of order, with your system deranged and your feelings uncomfortable? These symptoms are often the prelude to serious illness. Some fit of sickness is creeping upon you, and should be averted by a timely use of the right remedy. Take Ayer's Pills and cleanse out the disordered humors-purify the blood, and let the fluids move on unobstructed in health again. They stimulate the functions of the body into vigorous activity, and purify the system from the obstructions which make disease. A cold settles somewhere in She body, and deranges its natural functions. These, if not relieved, react upon themselves and the surrounding organs, producing general aggravation, suffering and derangement. While in this condition, take Ayer's Pills, and see how directly they restore the natural action of the system, and with it the buoyant feeling of health again. What is true and so apparent in this trivial and common complaint is also true in many of the deep-seated and dangerous distempers. The same purgative effect expels them. Caused by similar obstructions and derangements of the natural functions of the body, they are rapidly, and many of them surely cured by the same means. None who know the virtue of these Pills will neglect to employ them when suffering from the disorders they cure, such as Headache, Foul Stomach, Dysentery, Bilious Complaints, Indigestion, Derangement of the Liver, Costiveness, Constipation, Heartburn, Rheumatism, Dropsy, Worms and Suppression, when taken in large doses.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them easily, and they are surely the best purgative medicine yet discovered.
AYER'S AGUE CURE,
For the speedy and certain Cure of Intermittent fever, or Chills and Fever, Remittent Fever, Chill Fever, Dumb Ague, Periodical Headache, or Bilious Headache, and Bilious Fevers; indeed, for the whole class of diseases originating in biliary derangement, caused by the malaria of miasmatic countries.
This remedy has rarely felled to cure the severest cases of Chills and Fever, and it has this great advantage over other Ague medicines, that it subdues the complaint without injury to the patient. It contains no quinine or other deleterious substance, nor does it produce quinism or any injurious effect whatever. Shaking brothers of the army and the West, try, it, and you will endorse these assertions.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
Oct. 13 2m.
IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from
223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a hark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all eases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
DR. DIO LEWIS'S FAMILY SCHOOL 
FOR YOUNG LADIES,
LEXINGTON, MASS.
TWENTY superior Teachers, among whom are THEODORE D. WELD, formerly Principal of the Eagles, wood School, New Jersey, and I. N. CARLETON, formerly of Phillips's Academy, Andover.
Send for Catalogue and Circulars to Dr. LEWIS,
August 11.
NEW EN G LAN D
EMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE.
THE Eighteenth Annual Term of seventeen weeks will commence Nov. 1, 1863. PROFESSORS-Stephen Tracy, M. D., Theory and Practice of Medicine; Frances S. Cooke, H. D., Anatomy, also of Physiology and Hygiene; Edward Aiken, M. D., Material Medica, Therapeutics and Chemistry; Minerva C. Meriam, M. D.,Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children; Albert R. Robinson, M. D., Principles and Practice of Surgery and Medical Jurisprudence; Mercie H. Dyer, M. D., Demonstrator of Anatomy- Tuition fees, to the six Professors and Demonstrators, $65-free to students needing aid.
SAMUEL
GREGORY, Secretary,
30, Canton Street, Boston, Mass.
Sept 8. 3w
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
ON SEEING A PORTRAIT OF E. H. W.
O poet brow, dark, soulful eyes,
Whose beauty haunts the heart!
O lips, with music-woven words,
Or sweet, sad smiles, to part!-
By the sad beauty of thine eyes
And song's pathetic power,
With all thy gifts, full well I know
Some sorrow was thy dower!
Beautiful spirit, sainted now,
Lean from thy blessed skies;
Look down on one who, kneeling low,
Looks up with tearful eyes!
I love thee! One kind glance of thine
Would make my spirit strong
To bear life's bitter cross, and shun
The easy paths of wrong.
Sweet were thy songs, thy gentle deeds 
For freedom were as sweet;
The new-freed slave and wounded brave
Felt thy heart's pitying beat.
I never saw thy face on earth,
But Hope-still bids me trust
To kneel and weep, and kiss the sod
Above thy precious dust!
Did glorious BROWNING greet thee well,
With love in her deep eyes?
Grew HEMANS' voice less plaintive, blent
With welcoming harmonies?
Hath our ELIZA FOLLEN oft
Aside thy footsteps led,
To mark, from o'er the jasper walls, 
How Truth's great battle sped?
Near thee, with eyes so like thine own,
Another form I see;-
Hast thou not wept upon her breast,
And slumbered on her knee?
Oh! since the handmaid of the Lord
Hushed on her happy breast
The Babe whose reign the angels praise, 
What mother was so blest?
'T was not because her babes were dowered 
With gifts of genius rare;-
Not for the wreaths they win, that kings
Might doff their crowns to wear;-
'Twas that they softened, for God's poor,
All eyes with pity's tear,
And Truth's scarred, weary band fought on,
Thrilled by their rallying cheer!
Mammon and pride had based a throne
On trampled hearts that bled;
And even the crowned bards of the land 
Bowed, each his laurelled head;
When, lo! a youth with fame unwon,
That brother-soul of thine,
Turned from the crowd, and cast his lyre,
His all, on Freedom's shrine!
She took-how thrilled her trembling hand!-
The offering where it lay;
Baptized his lyre in altar fire,
And sent him on his way.
Since then, what scorn his soul hath borne 
Thou knowest, sainted one;—
'T was thine to cheer him, and how well
The blessed work was done!
He knew the prophet's meed of old-
The poverty, the pain,
Scorn for the heart's full trust and truth,
And youth's sweet dreams in vain,
Yet his rapt spirit listed not 
For echoes of his name;-
His eyes, turned sunward, glanced not back
To the wan blaze of fame!
But that faint light on Freedom's shrine
Burns clearer, steadier, now;
And the unsought laurels bloom at last
Upon the poet's brow;
And, just as dawn's first gleaming broke
O'er war's deep crimson tide,
Ere the full morn-the angels came
And won thee from his side!
But, O white soul the angels loved,
Do angels need thee more
Than this dear one who walks alone 
His memory-haunted shore?
Be near him here; but lead him not
Near Life's fair river's flow,
Still spare him to the hearts that love,
The land that needs him so!
Our South hath clouds;-the black man's rights
At traitors’ mercy there:-
An unfledged nestling, wisely left
In the hawk's guardian care;-
We know the nestling yet may prove
Full-fledged, an eaglet strong;
But, till that time, our land hath need
Of fearless word and song.
And, oh! did songs of triumph ring,
What heart had we to hear,
Led not his voice who raised the first
Bold note for freedom's cheer?
We gave him nought but thorns-but thorns
When laurels should be given;-
Now God grant us to crown him well
Before the crown of heaven!
Yet, O great heart, bereaved and worn,
Rest, angel-guarded, rest;-
God's dove of peace fold, fair and soft,
Her wings upon thy breast!
Rest, gather strength, let the tired pulse
Gain calm and healthful beat,
And ”April rain of smiles and tears”
Make life's full August sweet!

THE PEACE AUTUMN.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
Thank God for rest, where none molest,
And none can make afraid,-
For Peace that sits as Plenty's guest,
Beneath the homestead shade!
Bring pike and gun, the sword's red scourge,
The negro's broken chains,
And beat them at the blacksmith's forge 
To ploughshares for our plains.
Alike henceforth our vales of snow,
And vales where cotton flowers;
All streams that flow, all winds that blow,
Are Freedom's motive-powers.
Henceforth to Labor's chivalry
Be knightly honors paid;
For nobler than the sword's shall be
The sickle's accolade.
Build up an altar to the Lord,
O grateful hearts of ours!
And shape it of the greenest sward
That ever drank the showers.
Lay all the bloom of gardens there,
And there the orchard fruits;
Bring golden grain from sun and air,
From earth her goodly roots.
There let our banners droop and flow,
The stars uprise and fall;
Our roll of martyrs, sad and slow,
Let sighing breezes call.
Their names let hands of horn and tan
And rough-shed feet applaud,
Who died to make the slave a man,
And link with toil reward.
There let the common heart keep tune
To such an anthem sung
As never swelled a poet's rhyme,
Or thrilled on singer's tongue.
Song of our burden and relief,
Of peace and long annoy;
The passion of our mighty grief,
And our exceeding oy!
<c02>
A song of praise to Him who filled
The harvests sown in tears,
And gave each field a double yield
To feed our battle-years!
A song of faith that trusts the end 
To match the good begun,
Nor doubts the power of Love to blend
The hearts of men as one.
-Atlantic Monthly.
Selections.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
The Independent publishes the following account, by Mr. Carpenter, of an interview between the President and Robert Dale Owen:
Punctual to the appointment, the hour found Mr. Owen at the White House. A repeated summons at the bell brought no response, and he at length pushed open the door and walked leisurely up the stairs to the reception-room. Neither servant nor secretary was to be seen. Presently, Mr. Lincoln passed through the hall to his office, and all was still again. Looking vainly for a servant to announce his name, Mr. Owen finally went to the office door, and knocked.
"Really," said he, ”Mr. President, I owe you an apology for coming in upon you in this unceremonious way; but I have for some lime been waiting the appearance of a servant."
"Oh," was the good-natured reply,” the boys are all out this morning. I have been expecting you; come in and sit down.'
Proceeding directly to the subject he had on hand, at the same time unfolding a manuscript of large proportions, Mr. Owen said: 
"I have a paper here, Mr. President, I have prepared with some care, which I wish to read to you."
Mr. Lincoln glanced at the formidable document, (really much less voluminous than it appeared, being very coarsely written,) and then, halt unconsciously relapsing into an attitude and expression of resignation to what he evidently considered an infliction which could not well be avoided, signified his readiness to listen. 
The article was a very carefully-prepared digest of historical precedents in relation to the subject of amnesty, in connection with treason and rebellion. It analyzed English and continental history, and reviewed elaborately also the action of President Washington in reference to Shay's and the subsequent ”whiskey" rebellion.
"I had read but two or three pages," said Mr. Owen, ”when Mr. Lincoln assumed an erect posture, leaning slightly forward, and, fixing his eyes intently upon me, seemed wholly absorbed in the contents of the manuscript. Frequently he would break in upon me with, ‘Was that so?' ‘Please read that paragraph again,' &c. When at length I came to Washington's Proclamation to those engaged in the whiskey rebellion, he interrupted me with: ’What, did Washington issue a proclamation of amnesty!'
"'Here it is, sir,' was the reply. ’Well, I never knew that,' he rejoined; and so on through."
Upon the conclusion of the manuscript, Mr. Lincoln said: ”Mr. Owen, is that for me?" 
"Certainly, sir," said Mr. O., handing him the roll. ”I understood that you were considering the subject, and thought a review of this kind might be interesting to you."
"There is a good deal of hard work in that document," continued Mr. Lincoln,” May I ask how long you were preparing it?”
“About three months; but then I have more leisure for such a work than you, Mr. President."
Mr. Lincoln took the manuscript, and, folding it up carefully, arose, and laid it away in the ”pigeon-pole” marked” O." in his desk. Returning to his chair, he said:” Mr. Owen, it is due to you that I should say that you have conferred a very essential service, both upon me and upon the country, by the preparation of this paper. It contains that which it was exceedingly important that I should know, but which, if left to myself, I should never have known, because I have not the time necessary for such an examination of authorities as a review of that kind involves. And I want to say, secondly, if I had the time, I could not have done the work so well as you have done it."
This frank and generous avowal-so unlike what might have been expected, under similar circumstances, from most public men-was exceedingly characteristic of Mr. Lincoln.-Cleveland Leader.

WOMAN'S COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS.
The opening lecture of the session of 1866 of the Woman's College of Physicians and Surgeons, connected with the New York Dispensary and Hospital for Women and Children, was delivered last evening by Mrs. C. S. Lozier, M. D., in the lecture-room of the Dispensary, No. 252 West Twenty-sixth St. About one hundred ladies and gentlemen were in attendance. The Rev. Mr. Street offered prayer and invoked a blessing on their undertaking, after which Mrs. Dr. Lozier commenced her lecture by extending a cordial welcome to the new students of the Institution, and thanking the kind friends and patrons who labored for the success of the establishment. The cause in which they were interested embraced the welfare of the entire race. The wide-spread bearings and consequences of the diseases peculiar to women and children have made the establishment of the Women's College of Physicians and Surgeons a matter of imperative necessity. The urgent call for professional women to act as physicians in midwifery sink into insignificance when considered with the demand arising from these conditions. There woman had more ready access to the hidden causes of disease, and an undoubted birthright to the title of ”handmaid of nature and physician to her sex." The delicacy of the relation between the sexes is such that it is an undeniable fact that thousands in our midst perish for lack of fitting medical aid. The male practitioner cannot make that nice investigation into the nature and the causes of these, peculiar diseases which is essential to success. The best physicians of our day acknowledge this fact and bid the movement God-speed. It is to be admitted that when the movement for the medical education of women was in its infancy, information had to be drawn from whatever source it could; but now that women physicians are numerous, and there are to be found those abundantly qualified to teach their sex, why should instruction be forced through wholly artificial channels? It is true that for some time the female wards of our large public hospitals, such as Bellevue, ar likely to continue under the management of men, and that clinical instruction will be there given by them, while the invalid inmates are subjected to the gaze and close inspection of male students; but this state of things must soon be remedied by women coming forward to take their proper place. Time and Woman will soon correct this evil. Sixteen years ago, but one woman had graduated and entered the practice of medicine. There are now about three hundred, many of whom have gained a highly honorable and remunerative practice, and large numbers are taking their positions in the profession. Now, the practice is honorable; then, questionably so. Now, the public, the pulpit and the press are clearly pronounced in favor of it. Legislatures charter and foster colleges for it. Courts sanction and protect it. Then it was an experiment; now it is a success. If ten thousand women physicians were to-day in practice in this country, there would be room for as many more to educate and care for their sex. Our public charities, prisons, and insane asylums need them in the capacity of physicians to their female wards. Our female educational institutions need them as Professors of Physiology and Hygiene, and Matron Physicians. The demand is too great to be supplied for years to come. Already women are appointed examining physicians to some of our first Life Insurance Companies. Recently, the Professorship of Physiology and Hygiene in the Vassar College at Poughkeepsie was given to Miss Dr. Avery. As a field for remunerative employment, this offers inducement superior to any other. It is right that women should receive equal compensation with men for equal services rendered. The duties of the physician are arduous; the preparation for them requires time, talent and means, and no calling ought to or does pay women better than this. It may be objected that women will be called from the duties of wife and mother, but, according to our statistics, how many unmarried women and widows, offered a prospect of proper maintenance, would be glad to enter this work, which has the blessing of Heaven, the approval of man, and which an angel might truly covet! Mrs. Losier then alluded to the disputa-
<c03>
tions of the various schools of medicine, and woman's physiological ignorance of herself. To this latter cause was attributable her folly and unreasonableness in dress. Nothing was needed but endowment to rank this institution as one of the scientific and philanthropic of the day. To this end, the trustees submit the following plan: $200 shall procure a scholarship to extend through two full courses of lectures, $10,000 shall endow a professorship, and $50,000 shall endow the College, which has, by law, the right to hold property to the amount of $125,000.

HORRIBLE TREATMENT OF A NEGRO WOMAN.
A letter from Griffin, Georgia, dated the 11th instant, appearing in the Cincinnati Commercial, relates the following story. If it is true, there is no punishment that could be named of sufficient severity to atone for the brutality of the fellow named below:
“One John M. Ingram, a resident of Carveta county, a score of miles from Griffin, formerly owned a young and intelligent quadroon. There existed a mutual attachment between her and the family, and she was given what, under the system of slavery, was the post of honor in the household, that of waitress. Occasionally, Ingram would return home more or less intoxicated, at which time he would require the waitress to brush the flies away and fan him while he slept. Recently he returned, slightly under the influence of liquor, and the usual programme transpired; but after he had fallen asleep, the girl, for some urgent purpose, left the room for a moment. During this period, Ingram, woke. Discovering her absence, he called, and on her approach, he felled her to the floor with a blow. At this unusual procedure, she remarked that if he persisted in his abuse she would tell the Yankees of him.
Ingram flew into a rage, and instantly locking her in the rooms tripped every shred of clothing from her body, and obtained a long rope, with one end of which he tied firmly her wrists together behind her back. Putting the other end of the rope through a hook in the joist above, (which thus became a pulley,) he drew her arms up as far as possible without dislocating them from their sockets. The dwelling was one and a half stories, the second floor being laid loosely, and the ceiling of the story not being plastered. His next step was to go up stairs and remove immediately over her a few planks from the second floor, alter which he set fire to some’ light wood'-a kind of pitchy pine wood used in this region for torches and kindling-and, standing directly over her, let the seething, resinous drippings, all ablaze like burning tar, fall through the aperture he had made on the poor creature's back, neck head and shoulders. Her body was drawn by the rope into a stooping posture, the head inclining forward, and the vertebrae wholly exposed. Wherever the fiery substance came in contact with the cuticle, the flesh was burned to a crisp. Her screams attracted his wife and all the plantation negroes. No entreaty availed while his passion ruled. To continue his work he descended the stairway and applied the torch to her feet, legs and other parts not reached from above. 
The excitement had entirely sobered him. Then he threatened to murder her outright, but by this time his wife, pale and fainting with fatigue and fright, had run a furlong after neighbors, among whom had come a sister of this fiendish wretch. She induced him to desist. After weeks of lingering between life and death, by good care and medical skill, miraculous as it may seem, his victim began to recover."

THE ENEMY AT OUR DOOR.
It is almost certain that in a short time the cholera will be upon our shores. Passing through France, it has reached England. In a month, we may look for it in New York. How shall we face this foe? By proper sanitary regulations and temperate habits. The cholera lights upon the drunkard, it steals into crowded cellars, where the air has been poisoned. In every American city, there are hot-beds of vice and crime which stimulate the appetite and passions. A large class are either destitute or ignorant. Thus, all along the great thoroughfares, there is a mass of cholera tinder. Drop in a spark, and the whole will kindle into a blaze.
Must we, therefore, passively sit down with oriental fatalism and await the ravages of this disease? No; much can be done. Cholera has two stages,-a premonitory or mild stage, and a stage of collapse, which is fatal. The first is indicated by a mild, painless diarrhea, which sometimes continues hours, and, in some instances, days, before the collapse sets in. The premonitory stage is curable by simple means. At the approach of the first symptoms, the patient should lie down, keep warm and quiet, and take the necessary remedies to relieve the diarrhoea. A knowledge of these facts, we are told, led many English towns, in former visitations of cholera, to organize a body of visitors, under the direction of a central medical board, whose duty it was to visit from house to house, two, three, or four times daily, and to inquire in every family for these cases of diarrhoea. Each visitor carried the proper remedy, and personally attended to its administration, and to the confinement of the patient to his bed.
The result of these organizations was most happy; in numerous instances, towns lying in the direct track of the disease did not lose a single inhabitant by cholera, though thousands of cases of painless diarrhoea were treated. In other instances, districts lying in large towns were covered by these house-to-house visitors, and not a case proved fatal, though the districts around suffered a fearful mortality. There is now a general movement in English towns towards the formation of these corps of visitors to meet the exigencies of the present visitation of cholera. Lord Brougham, Earl Shaftsbury, and other prominent statesmen, recommend these organizations in the strongest terms.
We commend these practical considerations to our readers. Let each town begin to organize and prepare. If the enemy does not come, it will do no harm to be ready; if he does come, we must meet him with skill and courage. There is no cause for alarm. What we need is precaution.-Christian Register.
CHOLERA IN NEW YORK.
The steamer Atlanta recently arrived in New York harbor, from Havre, with twenty cases of cholera on board.
An examination has lately been made by gentlemen connected with the pubic press of that city, into the condition of its tenement houses and specially unwholesome localities. An account of the fearful condition of things there is published in the N. Y. Tribune, closing with the following suggestions.
THE OBSTACLES TO REFORM.
These are the facts as we have seen them, and as the cholera will find us if it comes. We suppose it is only necessary to point out the enormity of this danger to cause steps to be taken for its remedy. The difficulties in the way are two-fold-those of municipal legislation and of capital. The population of the island is becoming so dense that every available space is used to its utmost, and in some parts, far beyond reason and safety. Landlords, who have not the custody of either the health, the morals, or the comfort of their tenants, consult only their own profit in the erection and construction of these edifices. It is but just to say, that within a few years, a few very commodious blocks of tenement buildings have been erected, which combine all the advantages of comfortable homes. But most of the houses we have visited are incapable of being made tidy or healthful by any interior effort of their occupants. They are not built on the right plan. The controlling design is to see how many persons can be huddled into them, without regard to the supply of pure air, light or drainage.
A VIGOROUS INSPECTION NEEDED.
The great difficulty, as we understand it, lies in the fact that there exists no authority to control or prevent these matters; no person whose function and responsible duty it is to have them corrected. Any person may erect a house as he pleases, and carve it up into any number of little rooms, without fear or restraint. One of the urgent needs of the time is the establishment of an inspectorship of public buildings worthy of the name. It should be one of the conditions of a permission to build, that a sufficiency of light, air and sewage should be provided by the builder, and a public officer should see that the conditions are fulfilled, and if not, have them filled, at the cost of the property.
At all events, the danger is very great. Should
<c04>
the epidemic pestilence reach us, there can be no manner of doubt that it will sweep off hundreds of thousands who have no means of escape. Even if contagion was unknown, the dwellings we inhabit are a disgrace to the city, to the municipal government, to the Christianity, the science and civilization of the time, and it behooves us, from sound principles of sanitary, no less than material and moral considerations, to look into and remove this ghastly death's-head which is at our doors.

PREVENTION OF CHOLERA
The following is a report lately read before the Board of Aldermen of Boston on the Grade and Sewerage of Church street and vicinity.
Alderman Standish, Chairman of the Committee on raising the grade of the territory between Boylston street on the north, Pleasant and Washington streets on the east, Dover street on the south, and the Back Bay lands, so called, on the west, to whom was referred a communication from the Superintendent of Sewers, respecting the necessity of action as to drainage at the south part of the city; and also a communication from the Superintendent of Internal Health, respecting a nuisance on the Water Power Company's lands; and who have also had under consideration sundry petitions for relief from inconvenience caused by the flowage of estates in the above-named vicinity, submitted the following report:
“That the present urgent demand for action comes chiefly from the north side of Tremont street, the neighborhood of Church, Fayette and Knox streets; and the committee are fully satisfied that the residents of that locality are suffering great discomfort and injury, and are liable, if the flowage should continue or become aggravated, to danger from malaria or epidemic disease. These difficulties and dangers result from defects of the drainage.
The grade of this territory is only four or five feet above low water-mark. When the estates of the petitioners and others in the vicinity were first improved, they were drained into the empty basin in the Back Bay; and as the water in the basin did not rise more than two or three feet above low water, the drainage was sufficient to carry off all the water from these premises. After the lands at the South End were, generally built upon, and the sewers discharged the house offal and other filth in increasing quantity upon the flats, an offensive nuisance was created, to remove which, by carrying the sewerage out to the unobstructed waters of the harbor, a system of drainage was adopted, and is now substantially in use. It consists of a marginal sewer in Tremont street, into which all the sewers southerly of Tremont street are emptied, which formerly had their outlet in the empty basin, and a connecting sewer extending from Tremont street through Dover street into the South Bay, at the Dover street bridge. To avoid the overflow of the territory at high tides, gates or flaps were constructed at the outlets of the Dover street sewer, which were closed by the action of the rising tide, and remained so until the tide receded; and waste weirs or outlets were placed in the Tremont street sewer, opening into the empty basin, to provide for a discharge of the sewers while the Dover street sewer should be closed.
Except on extraordinary occasions, this system afforded satisfactory drainage until the Back Bay lands were filled. This partially prevented, and eventually will entirely prevent, any drainage into waters having a lower level than the ordinary tidal waters. It is therefore inevitable, that the lands, the grade of which is below high water, cannot be properly drained; and the remedy lies only in raising the grade of the territory.
A very erroneous impression has hitherto prevailed, that the city of Boston is not only responsible for damages occasioned by the defective drainage, but is bound to raise the whole territory and build new sewers, or otherwise provide good drainage of the territory at its sole expense. The committee are satisfied, after obtaining the best information and advice they can procure, that the city is in no way responsible for the existing condition of things; and without going into the question at length, it is sufficient to say that this belief is sustained by the decision of the Supreme Court in the Dover street cases. (See City Document 38, of 1862.)
The Committee are aware that in making this statement, they controvert the opinions, honestly formed and firmly held, of a large portion of the owners of estates on this territory; but as their conviction is clear that the: condition of this territory is the misfortune of those who hold property there, rather than any fault of the city, they deem it their duty to state the case frankly and without reservation. 
It is, however, against the interests of the city and of the public at large, as well as against those of the proprietors of this territory, that the low grade and bad drainage should be permitted to continue; and whenever the proprietors become sensible that they cannot legally or equitably rely upon the city for the execution of the desired improvement, and are ready to make some reasonable proposition as to raising the grade, the City Council will, without doubt, gladly co-operate in an undertaking which partakes so largely of a public character."
The report was accepted and sent down for concurrence.

THE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. The action of the several States upon the Constitutional amendment abolishing slavery has been as follows:-
RATIFICATIONS.
Illinois, Feb. 1,1865. East Virginia, Feb 9.
Rhode Island, Feb. 2. Indiana, Feb. 13.
Mary land, Feb. 3. Nevada, Feb 16.
Massachusetts, Feb. 3. Louisiana, Feb. 17.
New York, Feb. 3. Missouri, Feb. 24.
Pennsylvania, Feb. 3. Wisconsin, Feb. 24.
West Virginia, Feb. 3. Vermont, March 9.
Michigan, Feb. 4. Tennessee, April 5.
Maine, Feb. 7. Arkansas, April -
Ohio, Feb. 8. Connecticut, May 4.
Kansas, Feb. 8. Iowa, June 30 
Minnesota, Feb. 8. New Hampshire, June 30
REJECTIONS.
Delaware, Feb. 8, 1865. New Jersey, March 1.
Kentucky, Feb. 23.
It is expected that Colorado (the new State) will soon ratify the amendment, and that the copperhead action of New Jersey will be reversed.
RE-SWORN. Robert E. Lee, late General-in Chief of the rebel army, has taken the amnesty oath under the proclamation of the President of the United States. It was on the 9th of April that this man surrendered. On the 2d of October, nearly six months afterward, he took the oath of allegiance at Lexington, in Virginia. He swore that he would ”faithfully support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, and the Union of the States thereunder"; that he would in like manner abide by and faithfully support all laws and proclamations which have been made during the rebellion with reference to the emancipation of slaves. But as the same Robert E. Lee has already taken a part of the same oath as officer of the United States army, a child of the United States, educated at the expense of the people, and supported at our charge, and as he shamefully broke it upon the miserable pretence that he ”must go with his State," the fact that he has sworn the same oath a second time is not very interesting. He would doubtless break it again did interest or passion incite him to do so. The fact is only interesting as a historical proof that the rebellion is over. As for the oath, we can say, with Hamlet, ” ‘Tis deeply sworn; if he should break it now!”-Philadelphia Inquirer.
IOWA THE BANNER STATE. The recent Republican victory in Iowa was won upon the avowed platform of impartial suffrage for loyal men, without regard to color. Col. Stone, who headed the Republican ticket, took the bull squarely by the horns, and proclaimed himself an advocate of impartial suffrage and asked support on that ground; and he is reelected by 15,000 majority, while the residue of the ticket will average 20,000. Iowa has thus passed the dead point, and has nothing further to dread. She has taken her position on principle and right, and need no more dread the influence of vulgar prejudice and grovelling meanness. In all the West, her banner floats highest and proudest, and the honorable prominence she has so fairly and bravely won will be is remembered with pride by her sons in generations yet to be.-Salem Observer.
THE GREAT NATIONAL PICTURE, being a collection of photographs of all the Senators and Representatives in the last Congress of the United States who voted for the joint resolution amending the Constitution of the United States for the abolition of slavery, has just been published by G. M. Powell & Co., New York. It is mounted on good stout paper, ready for framing. We have never seen a more faithful and well-executed photograph. It is a triumph of art, and should be framed by every loyal family.
<c05>
A JUST MEASURE. We are happy to observe that Tennessee is leading the way among Southern States towards making ”persons of African or Indian descent” competent witnesses in the State courts. A bill has passed the Senate, in which, it is said, the House will concur, entitled ”A bill to do justice,” of which the provisions are in the following words:
"Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Tennessee, That persons of African or Indian descent are hereby declared to be competent witnesses in all the courts of this State, in as full a manner as such persons are, by an act of Congress, competent witnesses in all the courts of the United States; and all laws and parts of laws of this State, excluding such persons from competency, are hereby repealed."
SLAVERY IN CUBA. Allusion has already been had to the movement for the abolition of slavery in Cuba. The New Orleans Bee, referring to a Havana letter in the Paris Moniteur, says:
"A meeting of wealthy slave-owners, capitalists and well known merchants, Creoles and Europeans, was held at the house of Mr. O. Farrill to take into consideration various projects for the abolition of slavery. Col. Montaos suggested a plan based on the purchase of their freedom by the labor of the slaves. It was also proposed to effect a loan of $180,000,000, in order to indemnify the proprietors at the rate of $500 for each emancipated slave. Mr. Sorin, on behalf of a number of planters owning among them one hundred thousand slaves, advocated the policy of immediate emancipation and the conversion of the slaves into plantation apprentices, bound to labor ten years for their old masters, and to receive wages during that period at the rate of four dollars a month. At the end of the ten years, the emancipados would have the option of changing their places of labor or renewing their former contracts."
The number of slaves at Havana is estimated at 378,000.
WHAT THE REBEL STATES MUST Do. The dispatch of the President to North Carolina, advising the Convention to repudiate the rebel debt forever, did its work. This is an indication of his opinions. He has his tests as well as the radicals, only they are more moderate than theirs. He desires that the State Conventions shall repudiate the rebel debt, give the black man a place in the Courts as a witness, and finally that the Legislatures shall agree to the Constitutional amendment. When this is done, he desires that the State shall regain all its rights and privileges. Congress will hardly quarrel with him on such an issue. As yet, not a single rebel State can comply with these conditions, and therefore not a delegation has any chance of immediate admission.-Washington corr. of Journal.
New Orleans dates of the 15th ult. state that a circular from the Freedmen's Bureau says that abandoned plantations, seed, implements and animals will not be given to freedmen by government as they expected, and that the lands will be delivered only to those who can show they have the capital necessary to buy seed, tools, animals, and to carry on the work in a proper manner; and it advises all who cannot do so to make contracts for labor with planters or others needing their services. The Times advocates the abandonment of all Freedmen's Bureaus.
A Democratic meeting in New Orleans passed resolutions, asking that the same clemency be shown Jeff. Davis as to the other leaders in the late rebellion, and denouncing Thaddeus Stevens and Charles Sunnier as having raised a vindictive, unchristian and un-American clamor for Jeff's blood!!
In the Fenian Congress at Philadelphia, 21st ult., the President of' the body announced that B. Doran Killian, Esq,, delegate from Missouri, who had procured the unconditional release of John Mitchell, was present. This announcement electrified the assemblage, and three cheers were given for President Johnson, three for the United States, three for Mr. Killian, and three for John Mitchell! When the cheering had in some measure, subsided, it was moved and seconded that the Secretaries of the Congress prepare a resolution conveying the grateful thanks of this Congress to Mr. Killian for his efforts in bringing about the release of John Mitchell.
As an evidence of the rapidity with which commerce in the South is reconstructing itself, we see it stated that the St Louis and New Orleans tonnage, now over 40,000 tons, is 33 per cent, in excess of the tonnage of 1859. The Ohio River tonnage has increased 50 per cent., and the Missouri River 50 per cent since that time.
It has recently been decided in a New York court that a person born a slave cannot inherit property. A woman, formerly a slave in Virginia, claimed the estate of her uncle, who died in New York. The right to recover was resisted on the ground that the plaintiff had no inheritable blood, because the laws of Virginia did not allow marriage among slaves, who were mere chattels, legally incapable of marriage, of family relationship, and of owning, transmitting, and inheriting real estate.
DAINTY POLITICIANS. Thurlow Weed says there are two men in the country with whom he would never coalesce, viz.: Caleb Cushing and Fernando Wood. As an offset to this, Fernando says that he would not, under any circumstances,” taste, touch or smell” such a politician as Thurlow Weed, nor demoralize his political sentiments by any affinity with the party that Mr. Weed represents, or belongs to. Fernando and his party ”rely on their own strength and the rectitude of their principles.”Oh!
A letter written by Joe Davis, brother of the caged rebel ex-President, to an officer of the Freed-men's Bureau in Mississippi, was received recently by Gen. Howard. Davis not only impudently demands the restoration of his own property, but that of his brother Jeff., which, for two years past, has been cultivated by a colony of freedmen. The modest rebel even declines to debase himself by taking the oath. No decision is yet made in the matter.
President Johnson has ordered the military authorities of Alabama to transfer to the civil courts Geo. W. Gayle, the man who offered the $1,000,000 reward for the assassination of President Lincoln.
The teacher of the colored school at Greenville, (Tenn.) was notified by the citizens to leave immediately alter the withdrawal of the troops from that place.
The New York Tribune says:” In his forthcoming message, the President fully recognizes the manhood of the negro, but would quality or limit the right of suffrage by education or property. When proved to be possessed of either of these, Mr. Johnson thinks he ought to be allowed to vote."
Forty persons were poisoned lately in Shiloh, by the use of calomel administered by physicians, which it was discovered had been mixed with corrosive sublimate. The calomel containing the poison was put up in the ordinary way, and had not been tampered with alter leaving the store of a wholesale druggist in St. Louis, by whom it was imported from England. Seven of the patients had died at latest accounts, and others were not expected to survive.
A Charleston letter is emphatic in the expression that a union of the M. E. Church South is utterly impossible.” Deeper, far deeper," says this letter, ”is the secession feeling in the Church than ever it was in the State; nor is there the remotest probability that this feeling can ever be eradicated."
The next Congress will officially proclaim the territory of Colorado as the thirty-seventh State in the Union.
Andrew Johnson (so the story goes) did not learn to read and write until after he became a voter; he certainly, then, is not the man to deny the right and privilege of voting to persons because they are uneducated-cannot read and write.
A register has been compiled in the War Department, and is now in the hands of the printer, which gives the name and rank of every volunteer officer who has served in the army since the commencement of the late war.
Secretary Seward responded to a request for a contradiction of the statement that Irish arrests were made through his advice, that he could not depart from his habit of leaving the contradiction of calumnies to an intelligent country.
In the Mississippi State Senate a resolution restricting the rights and privileges of freedmen to what the statute laws granted before the war, was laid on the table by a large majority.
The Freedmen's Bureau has received despatches from Texas, giving very favorable accounts of the condition of affairs. But ten freedmen are substituted at Government expense in the city of Galveston.
Ex-Governor Sharkey, of Mississippi, has been elected by the Legislature of that State United States Senator. A majority of the Legislature is in favor of negro testimony.
The Vermillion (La.) Advertiser of the 30th ult. has the following: ”We saw a gentleman who informed us, that during the storm which swept the Gulf States on the 13th of September, the buildings at Calcasieu Pass were all destroyed but one, and all the people were drowned except one man, who saved himself by getting on top of a house. There were 24 lives lost. At <illegible> everything was swept away and the residents, to the number of sixty-one, were drowned.
<c06>
The Most Wonderful Invention of the Age!
MORILLL'S PETROLEUM STOVE.
One of the Most Brilliant Triumphs of American Genius.
IT COOKS, WASHES AND IRONS WITHOUT COAL,WOOD, OR GAS!
DOES the work easier, quicker, better, and with as little expense as any known method; and in its use, without a radiator, does not perceptibly affect the temperature of the room, while it may be used with a radiator to heat a room in a very short time. It is also perfectly free from soot, ashes and smoke, and makes no unpleasant smell.
Warerooms No. 36 Bromfield St., Boston, Mass.
Baking in these stoves, instead of the old imperfect process, is rendered a certainty; the bread comes out of the oven in thirty minutes, with a fair brown crust, neither burnt nor dough, for the heat can be instantaneously regulated. Potatoes and large joints of meat are ”done to a turn."
Broiling;-Mr. Morrill, the inventor, to use his own language,
"CHALLENGES THE WORLD
to produce a method by which a steak can be broiled that will compare with the Patent Broiler," which always leaves the steak juicy, making even a tough one tender. Not a drop of the fat or juice can possibly be wasted, although it is broiled by the pure sweet blaze coming in actual contact with the meat. Ironing is accomplished quite as satisfactorily; the heat being communicated to the interior of the iron, there is no roughness or dirt to trouble, as in irons heated on the face; and in the summer the heat is confined to the iron alone, instead of sweltering the ironer. Washing-day is bereft of half its troubles,-the stove, light and portable, can be carried out-doors even, in good weather, and the steam and disagreeables of washing in the house avoided. In fact, every kind of household labor can be accomplished with more certainly and economy, and with far less labor, than with coal or wood. To those confined to rooms requiring cooking done at home, these stoves must prove an invaluable blessing, the Petroleum costing less by one fourth than gas at two dollars per thousand feet, while the work is performed infinitely better. Young men out all day, wanting a quick heat on returning to their rooms,-families with children needing instant fire at night,-mechanics wanting early breakfasts, and HOT BISCUITS in thirty minute’s time after lighting the fire,-house keepers wanting heat in rooms without flues-country houses,-in fact, all who value their time or money, or the health comfort and convenience of themselves, wives and families, must eventually buy these stoves.
If you wish to save time, trouble and expense, buy the 

MORRILL PETROLEUM STOVE.
READ THE FOLLOWING TESTIMONIALS
[From Messrs. E.D. and G. Draper, Manufacturers, Hopedale, Mass.]
The undersigned have used Morrill's Patent ”Erovapor stove" in our families, and have thoroughly tested its merits in cooking, and many other families of our acquaintance have it in use, and are well satisfied with it. We consider it a very valuable improvement, and cheerfully recommend it for general use, especially for a summer cook-stove. We think it has never been surpassed for broiling and baking meats and baking bread, and is the best stove for heating flats for ironing we ever saw.
E. D. & G. DRAPER.
Hopedale. Mass., May 6, 1865.
[From Dr. J. Cheever, of Charlestown, Mass]
CHARLESTOWN, May 24, 1865.
MR. MOORE-Having fully tested the Erovapor Cooking-Stove purchased of you two months since, and promised at that time to give you my opinion of it, after becoming fully satisfied with its merits or demerits, as the case may prove, I now, without hesitation, pronounce it far superior to any cooking apparatus I have ever seen. It not only proves to be all you recommended, but infinitely more, for not half of its advantages were named. In fact, it does not fail in any particular in being all that can be reasonably desired by any one after acquiring a little experience in its use.
JOSEPH CHEEVER, M. D.
[From Mr. Edward Perkins, Proprietor of the large Eating Establishment, Nos. 37 and 39, Congress Street, Boston.]
BOSTON, May 27, 1865. 
TO THE AGENT OF THE MORBILL PETROLEUM STOVE Co:
DEAR SIR-Having fully tested the new Petroleum Stove made by your Company, I am happy to bear testimony to its merits. I have them in use in my eating house, and find them superior to anything I know of for cooking purposes. It bakes biscuits and broils steaks splendidly, and indeed performs most admirably all that is claimed for it.
Wishing you every success, I remain yours, truly,
EDWARD PERKINS.
[From Rev. T. C. Potter, Pastor of the Methodist E. Church, South Reading, Mass.]
SOUTH READING, Mass., May 29, 1865.
To THE PETROLEUM STOVE Co:
Allow me a place upon your circular to make the following statement:-
For several weeks my family have been testing the uses and economy of your ”single burners," and find that for the common purposes of a family it excels everything else of the kind we have ever seen. In point of economy, it has cost us less than one and one-fourth cents per hour. My wife can do her ironing in less time than with a common stove, and avoid the necessity of being tortured with excessive heat. We have absented ourselves from the house for hours, and returned to find our beef or beans nicely baked, and ready for the table; and for baking all kinds of pastry, steaming, broiling, and toasting, I do not hesitate to say that I never have seen its equal. I intend to use it as a heater for the study, sparing it to the kitchen a short time when called for to prepare our meals. I have had no experience in the use of the ”double burner,” but should judge its utility must be in a corresponding ratio.
T.C. POTTER,
Pastor of M. E. Church.
[From Rev. J. P. Cushman, Pastor of Orthodox Congregational Church, Brighton, Mass.]
BRIGHTON, June 2, 1865.
O. F. MORRILL:
DEAR SIR-After a brief experience with your stove, it gives me pleasure to say that it gives great satisfaction. For baking, it answers better than any stove or range with which we are acquainted: for broiling, it is perhaps unsurpassed, and the arrangements for ironing prove very convenient, while the escape from the heat given out by an ordinary fire must, in the summer, make your stove a great comfort in the kitchen.
Very truly yours, J. P. CUSHMAN.
BOSTON, August 10, 1865.
MESSRS. MORRILL & Co.:
GENTLEMEN-I am often asked how I like my ”Petroleum Stove." I would here state that it works admirably, and like it much. I have been a housekeeper more than forty years, and have, during that time, used nearly half the same number of cooking apparatus, such as ranges, cook-stoves. &c., but have never found any thing equal to this for summer use, and see no reason why they may not be used equally as well in winter. We can get break fast with it-viz: boil tea-kettle, make tea, and cook steak, while a person would be building a fire in a range. We have used ours since early in June, and have never found the least difficulty whatever. Certainly there is nothing that equals it in baking biscuit, bread, or pies.
Yours, truly, V. H. HEWES,
No. 3 Tremont Place.
MOUNT WASHINGTON, August 23, 1865.
SIR: I do certify that, with the thermometer at freezing point, (32 degrees,) I heated my office (ten feet by seven) with one of Morrill's Petroleum Stoves, in five minutes, to such a degree that I was obliged to open the office door. And I would recommend them as the best and cheapest, most portable and safest stove for warning offices or small rooms that ever came under my observation.
Yours, &c., S. A. BATTISON,
Telegraph Operator, Summit of Mt. Washington, N.H.

WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Jr.,
WOOL COMMISSION MERCHANT,
No. 6 Channing Street, Boston.
WITH every facility for selling Wool to the best advantage,-a good store, situated in the centre of the Boston trade, and an extensive acquaintance with manufacturers,-I respectfully solicit consignments.
No market offers greater inducements to the Wool Grower than this. It is the headquarters for New-England manufacturers; here are their agencies, and here  it is most convenient for them to buy. My terms for selling are as follows:
WHEN ADVANCES ARE NOT REQUIRED,
One per cent, per pound, and one per cent. (and government tax of one-tenth of one per cent.) on sales.
WHEN ADVANCES ARE REQUIRED,
Five per cent. (and government tax) on sales. These charges cover all expenses after the Wool is received in store, for three months-labor, storage, insurance and selling. If required to carry it over three months, additional expenses will be charged. Interest on advances and other disbursements reckoned at the legal rate of this State.
I shall aim to keep my consignors thoroughly informed; and all Wool sent to me will be carefully graded to suit the market. Letters, asking information, will be promptly answered. Address P. O. Box 1861.
Reference:
Messrs. HALLOWELL & COBURN, Boston.
Messrs. HALLOWELL, PRESCOTT & Co. New York.
Messrs. DAVIS, FISS & BANES, Philadelphia.
Boston, August, 1865.

THE RADICAL:
A JOURNAL FOR SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS CULTURE.
PUBLISHED MONTHLY, BY S. H. MORSE, BOSTON.
