THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLILSHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,.
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS- Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLEARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents—one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, VIZ:—FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 9
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 1859.
WHOLE NUMBER, 1582.
<C01>
SELECTIONS.
From the London Anti-Slavery Reporter.
AMERICAN INTRIGUES IN ST. DOMINGO.
NO, II.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE ‘ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER.’
SIR-There are not wanting indications of a crafty; change in the tactics of the pro-slavery party in the United States. Finding that very serious difficulties stand in the way of the acquisition by America of any portion of the island of St. Domingo, they are now endeavoring to tempt the cupidity of France. This is the more necessary, as, up to the present time, France, as well as England, has strenuously resisted American encroachments, both in St. Domingo and in Cuba. The New York Herald is the fitting exponent of this new scheme of the American filibusters. That journal proposes that the Emperor Napoleon and the American Government should come to an arrangement, by which he should regain possession of the old French colony of St. Domingo (now the empire of Hayti); and they should, as a quid pro quo, be permitted to annex Cuba to the Union. Louis Napoleon is complimented for having ’shewn himself to be a practical man, far above the fanatical tendencies of European humanitarians, and capable of rightly estimating the true elements of civilized well-being.’ His efforts ‘to re-invigorate’ the French West Indies with African labor having failed, he is advised to direct his attention to the former French colony of Hayti, or St. Domingo. ‘France,’ continues the New York Herald, ‘now holds a mortgage over Hayti of someone hundred and eighty or two hundred millions of francs, which will never be paid. In view of this state of things, we advise Louis Napoleon to send out a portion of the fleet and army he has prepared, and take possession of the once rich colony so foolishly thrown away by the first French Directory. By so doing, he will do a great good to civilization, give employment to the armament that now alarms Europe, and augment the power of France with a colony containing thirty thousand square miles of territory, and capable of unlimited expansion in an industrial sense.’
There is, of course, no truth whatever in the statement of the Herald, that France holds a mortgage of any kind over Hayti. The simple truth is, that, in 1833, Hayti entered into two treaties with France. By one, France recognized the independence of Hayti and by the other, which was a financial convention, the latter country agreed to pay the sum of sixty millions of francs to the former colonists of St. Domingo, as an indemnity for the losses they had sustained during the revolution. It was agreed that this indemnity should be paid in the form of annual instalments, and, up to this time, the engagement has been honorably fulfilled. So much for the story of the New York journalist. The reader will perceive by what despicable falsehoods the scheme to despoil a nation of its liberties and independence is sought to be justified.
In another article, published on the 9th July, the New York Herald says:
The probability of an entente cordiale between France and the United Slates, in regard to the future political relations and industrial security of Cuba and Hayti, is beginning to attract public attention.
‘No political arrangement between two Governments would meet with greater approbation from the whole civilized world, when once effected, than the transfer of these two islands—one to follow the course of its former sisters, Louisiana, Florida, and Texas, and become a State in our Union; and the other to return to its allegiance to France, and accept from it the civilization it has lost, and the skilled labor and capital so necessary to enable it to become a contributor to the wants of the world. The proposition will, no doubt, evolve some opposing discussion, for there are never wanting opponents for any plan, no matter how generally advantageous it may be. But there are in the condition of both Hayti and Cuba reasons which call for interference on the part of governments that comprehend the true march of the world more rationally than do those of either Soulouque or Isabel Segunda.
‘In Hayti we have a barbarous and fruitless imitation of the forms of a constitutional absolutism, if such a thing could exist anywhere but in a negro community. The social condition of the people is no better than that of slaves, with the disadvantage that they are slaves to their own kind, who do not possess the intelligence necessary to guide their labor productively nor the humanity to govern the bondsmen with lentity. The very existence of this state of things in close proximity to civilized communities is a blot upon the age. France has claims upon Hayti which fully entitle her to re-assume her sway there, and Louis Napoleon has shewn himself to possess the practical mind necessary to re-organize government and society there. In the growing importance of the transit routes across the American isthmus, and the care with which England clings to her military position, present and prospective, in the Carribean Sea, there are abundant reasons why France should enter again upon that dominion which was thrown away by the agrarianism of the first French revolution.
‘The situation of Cuba, too, though very different from that of Hayti in a social point of view, is equally unstable in its present political relations. The military positioin which it holds towards this country makes it an important feature in our scheme of national defence, and points with unmistakeable certainly to the fact, that, in the event of any great convulsion in Europe, we must take immediate possession of it for our own safety. Another element of change in Cuba which the United States are morally bound to guard against, is the policy pursued by Spain there. That government openly consents to the prosecution of the slave-trade, and thereby fosters the elements of a war between England and this country, which must be removed. But beside this, she persistently entertains the idea that she will reduce Cuba to the same state of black barbarism from which the whole world now desires to see Hayti and Jamaica reclaimed. For this purpose is she arming the negroes there, and making them a part of her standing army, while the white Creoles jealously precluded from learning the use of arms or military drill and tactics. Such a policy, if not changed by the interference of other powers, will inevitably light the flames of a war of races in Cuba, in which our people will take pan from a feeling of sympathy with the Cubans, and ultimately result in a war between the United States and Spain.’
The coolness with which the American writer proposes that the Emperor Napoleon should play the part of an imperial bandit, and seize upon Hayti without the slightest cause of quarrel, will surprise no one who is acquainted with the character of the party of which the New York Herald is one of the chief organs. They especially hate every thing in the shape of negro self-government, and therefore St. Domingo, the British West Indies, and Liberia, are in turn the objects of malignant calumnies on their part. They exult to the professed belief that ‘the bright dreams that were entertained of the political millenium which was to come to the free niger through the black empire of Hayti, or the mulatto republic of Liberia, have been dissolved; the economical fallacies about free labor being cheaper and more productive than slave labor have given way before the intense laziness of the emancipated black in all the West India islands and Spanish America; the great social mistake that whites can live in a community where blacks preponderate, and
<C02>
prosper under a social equality with them, is demonstrated; and the popular error, that the negro is only a white man with a black skin, is fast melting away. No revival of the Exeter-Hall eloquence of the olden time can save its fallacies and its fanaticism from destruction. I to theories have been reduced to practice, and they have utterly failed. No community of emancipated blacks has preserved its’ industry, its mechanical skill, its knowledge of the arts, or its memory of the teachings of Christianity. Everywhere in them production has declined, handicraft has disappeared, science has waned, and the moral truths have become sadly darkened.’
There is, happily, no reason to believe that the Emperor Napoleon is, in the least degree, favorable to the scheme of spoliation proposed by the Northern organ of the American slaveocracy. The French consuls in St. Domingo have, equally with the English, set their faces against American intrigues in that country; and the policy of France is opposed, equally with that of England, to the acquisition or conquest of Cuba by the United States. The articles in the New York Herald must, therefore, be simply regarded as ‘feelers,’ and it is gratifying to know, that, as yet, they hare met with no response from the French press.
The statement of the New York journal that ‘the social condition of the Haytian people is no better than that of slaves,’ and that ‘no community of emancipated blacks has preserved its industry, its mechanical skill, its knowledge of the arts, or its memory of the teachings of Christianity,’ is worthy only of ridicule and contempt. The falsehood of one part of the statement is sufficiently proved by the annually increasing export and import trade between the United States and Hayti. Appeal from the unscrupulous journalist to the merchants of New York and Boston, and ask them whether the supplies of coffee, of sugar, and of mahogany, which they receive from Port au Prince and Jacmel, do not furnish proofs of the industry and intelligence of the, negro traders of Hayti. There is scarcely a mechanical art in which the Haytiens have not attained to a high state of proficiency. The various trades of harness-making, clock-making, goldsmithing, saddlery, and cabinet-making, are carried on with skill and success: nor are there wanting equally gratifying signs of progress in several branches of the fine arts. Hayti also possesses a newspaper press, and a literature of character and respectability. Her historical writers, Madiou, B. Ardouin, Linstant, St. Remy (who lately died at Paris), and Emile Nau, have achieved a European reputation: so likewise have her poets, Dupre, Milsent, Ignace Nau, Corcolan Ardouin, and P. Faubert. The Roman Catholic religion is the religion of the state, but full toleration is allowed to all other sects. Ample provision is made for the education of all classes of the people. In the chief town of every province there are maintained a college, a superior school for girls, and two primary schools, one for boys and the other for girls. The smaller towns are provided with a public school for both boys and girls, some of them with two. There are also many private scholastic establishments, there being no fewer than twenty-five in Port au Prince alone. Large numbers of the Haytian youth are educated in the colleges of France, where many of them have acquired high distinction.
A valued correspondent informs me that ‘three Haytians obtained, in August last, the greatest honors at the Academy of the College of Paris. During two consecutive years, Fenelon Faubert gained the prize of honor in rhetoric. Alexander Delva obtained the first prize of Greek in the second class; and young Dupuy a prize in the third class.’ I may add, that these successful students have been rewarded by their own Government, and that M. Lespinasse, the Secretary of the Haytien Legation in London, has presented each of them with a gold medal, a testimonial which was raised by public subscription in Port au Prince.
When the education of the Haytian student, who visits France, is completed, he returns to his own country, becomes a merchant, adopts the profession of the law, or enters into the service of the state, so that there is growing up in Hayti a highly educated aristocracy and middle class. It cannot, of course, be pretended that Hayti has made the same progress in the arts and sciences, education and religion, at older and more favored communities have done. But taking into account that only sixty years have elapsed since Hayti was peopled by a nation of slaves, that she has suffered severely from internal disruption and civil war, and that she has had to develop her resources, educate her people, and maintain her independence with no counsel or assistance from any of the civilized governments of the world, every unprejudiced observer must admit that she has effected wonders for her own elevation and advancement. But even if the facts were otherwise, it is scarcely becoming in those who advocate the enslavement of the negro, who withhold from him, as far as it is possible, all the means of intellectual and moral improvement, and who endeavor to shut him out from all intercourse with the more civilized race, to make the law of nature and of Providence responsible for the results of their own selfish and unchristian policy.
What every friend of the negro must desire to see is the re-union of the two sections of the island of St. Domingo. During the twenty-two years that this union existed, the whole country became the scene of surprising improvements; both the East and the West participated in the benefits which flowed from peace, union, and contentment. ‘The face of the eastern country (now the Dominican Republic),’says an eye-witness, ‘changed immediately after the union had been accomplished. Slavery was forever abolished there. A new and better administration was established; an armed and regular force organized; the Haytian system of legislation introduced; order maintained in the interior, and the seaports guarded from attack; labor encouraged; the exportation of precious woods increased; and agriculture developed. The results soon became manifest. The great markets of the West received and disposed of large numbers of the cattle of the East. The more talented Dominicans were called to the Haytian legislature and courts of justice. The funds of the great commercial bodies, especially of the English houses at Cape Haytian, Gonaives, St. Mare, Port au Prince, and Jacmel, were diffused throughout all ports of the country, revivifying industry everywhere.’ Such is the glowing but true picture of the state of St. Domingo from 1822 to 1844, in which last year the Dominicans raised the standard of independence on the ground of discontent with the new Haytian constitution, and especially with that clause of it which gave religious freedom to all sects. The separation, which has continued since 1844, has given birth to foreign intrigue and domestic treason; it has divided the Dominican Republic into two hostile camps, and made it suffer all the calamities of a bankrupt exchequer and an impoverished and decimated people; and, lastly, it has led to war between two provinces which had previously enjoyed all the blessings of a fraternal union. It is cause for regret that the influence of both France and England has been employed to maintain and widen this separation. Doubtless the present deplorable state of things may give more power and importance to officious consuls and their subordinates; but it is unquestionably as
<C03>
much opposed to the true interests of England and France, as it is to thoee of the people of St. Domingo. The erection of a strong negro government in that island would prove a bulwark of defence to our own West Indies; and most assuredly, if England; will exorcise her influence on the side of union, rather than of separation, she will find that, in this case, duty and interest will go hand in band.
Your obedient servant,
F. W. CHESSON. 
London, 14th Dec., 1858. 
RETIREMENT OF JOSHUA R. GIDDINGS
FROM CONGRESS.
Reminiscences of this Veteran’s Representatives
Career.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 21, 1859. 
Great changes will take place in the next House of Representatives. Some members of the present Congress will retire wholly from public life at the close of this session. Others may reappear upon the scene. A few who led in the memorable conflicts of the last session have been called to other theatres of action, while two or three have gone to their final repose. Of these a few have been long in Congress, and here and there one has played a conspicuous part in affairs. We may instance Giddings, Stephens, Quitman, Campbell, Orr, Clingman, Harris, and Letcher.
At the head of the list stands the venerable member from Ohio. Mr. Giddings is a historic character. He has sat twenty years in the House; he is the connecting link between the large body of able and faithful representatives who now bear up the Republican standard, and the small band who aroused and maintained the same principles when he entered the hall.
The leading members at that time were Clifford and Evans, of Maine, Adams, Cushing, and Lawrence, of Massachusetts, Truman Smith, of Connecticut, Barnard, Fillmore, Granger, and Grinnell, of New York, Sergeant, of Pennsylvania, Botts, Dromginia, Goggin, Hopkins, Hunter and Wise, of Virginia, Stanley, of North Carolina, Pickens, Rhett, and Waddy Thompson, of South Carolina, King, of Georgia, Bell, and A. V. Brown, of Tennessee, Lewis, of Alabama, A. G. Brown and Thompson, of Mississippi, and Tom. Corwin, of Ohio. Of these only Mr. Hopkins is in the present House, and he has been a member hut a portion of the intervening time. Messrs. Hunter, Bell, and A. G. Brown, are in the Senate. Mr. Clifford is on the Supreme Bench; Messrs. A.V. Brown and Jacob Thompson are in the Cabinet. Of the then members of the Senate, Mr. Crittenden only is now in that body. Mr. Buchanan was then also a Senator.
Thus our friend has outlived nearly a whole generation of public men. It would be a lesson for those who now ‘fret their brief hour’ in the marble pile on the hill yonder, to run their eyes over the journals of the two Houses, and scan the list of members for the last twenty years, and see how large a proportion hare utterly perished from human recollection, leaving not the slightest trace of their greatness of their littleness behind.
	One of Mr. Giddings’s first acts in Congress was to vote with all the Whigs, for Robert M. T. Hunter, for Speaker. Botts, Goggin and Wise voting with Giddings for Hunter! Goggin now runs for Governor of Virginia. Hunter and Wise oppose him, and so would Giddings if he could. Botts supports him. And yet Giddings and Botts dwell in the same political hemisphere, while Hunter and Giddings are wide as the poles asunder. The complications which the negro has infused into American politics are more mazy than the wildest measures of Strauss.
Mr. Giddings entered Congress in the midst of the contest about the Right of Petition. He followed the lead of Adams in his championship of this right. He shared with him in the perils of the fight, and the glories of the triumph. He bore a distinguished part in the subsequent conflicts over the Annexation of Texas, the Oregon Joint-Occupation, and the Wilmot’ Proviso.
The country recollects the agitation which sprung from the enfranchisement of the negroes of the brig Creole, by the British authorities in Bermuda, when driven into one of its ports by stress of weather, while voyaging from Virginia to New Orleans, with a cargo of slaves. In March, 1842, Mr. Giddings offered, in the House, nine resolutions touching thin case, and affirming that all attempts to regain possession of, or to re-enslave these negroes, were unauthorized by the Constitution and laws of the United States, and incompatible with our national honor. On reading the resolutions, a wild storm broke out, raging nearly all day. in the midst of which he withdrew the obnoxious paper. Mr. Botts drafted, and endeavored to offer a resolution (with a wordy preamble) declaring that ‘this House hold the conduct of the said member [Giddings] unwarranted and unwarrantable, and deserving the severe condemnation of the people of this country, and of this body in particular.’ The State of Virginia having been passed in the call for resolutions, Mr. Botts could not offer it, and he handed it to John B. Weller, of Ohio, for that purpose. The tempest, which had lulled on the withdrawal of the paper, now burst forth afresh on this resolution of censure. It raved with ungovernable fury for two days. Though the previous question was pending, the Speaker, Mr. White, of Kentucky, a liberal-minded man, ruled that Giddings could’ be heard in his defence, as a matter of ‘privilege.’ The House, insane with passion, overruled the Speaker. Giddings stood dumb before his accusers. After a struggle, the resolution was adopted—125 Yeas to 69 Nays. Among the Nays were John Quincy Adams, Caleb Cushing, William Pitt Fessenden, Millard Fillmore, Francis; Granger, Robert C. Winthrop, and John McKeon, all honor to him! Giddings resigned his seat, returned to Ohio, and was sent back by a splendid majority.
In the seventeen years that have passed since this event transpired, the people of the North have taught the House of Representatives some salutary lessons concerning the discussion of Slavery within its walls. Mr. John Minor Botts is older and wiser now than he was then. And Mr. Giddings has sat in the Hall till, so far from resolutions and debate on the Slavery question being ruled out of order, it has become almost disorderly and impossible for members to talk or act upon anything else! ‘It does move though! ‘said Galileo.
On the death of Adams, his Anti-Slavery mantle fell upon the shoulders of Giddings. His course during the contest over the Compromise measures of 1850, and in all the phases of the Kansas controversy, from its initiation in the repeal of the Missouri compact, down to the crowning infamy of the Lecumpton swindle, would have met the approbation of the great man whose fame in coming generations will rest leas upon the statesmanship he displayed, during the noon-day of his powers, in high administrative positions, than upon the skill, courage, and eloquence with which he defended, in his declining years, on the floor of Congress, the cause of Liberty and Humanity.
The stalwart form of Giddings, unbent with the weight of years, his towering head crowned with flowing white locks, is a marked object M he calmly sits in the House amid the surging sea of young.
<C04>
life around him. Though he be an interesting spectacle to beholders, and though it be a treat to hear his, on questions of order, give from memory, or, it may be, from his own personal observation, the rulings of previous Congresses; or to we him silence some upstart negro propagandist with a crushing fact, or impale him-on a sharp retort, or roast him with irony as he implores his Republican colleagues not to interrupt by cries of order his ‘young friend from the South,’ who is cursing like a very drab in vindication of the Divine origin of Slavery; yet your interest in the aged man culminates as you go with him to the old Hall, and he points out the localities where thrilling events transpired in times gone by. Here is where Adams stood when he offered the famous petition for the dissolution of the Union. There spoke Kentucky Marshall when he denounced him as guilty of high treason. Here sat the fiery McDuffie, and yonder the classic Everett. Standing in this aisle, Corwin delivered the inimitable speech, describing a Michigan militia-muster to the life, and killing Brigadier-General Crary stone dead. By the side of that pillar stood Webster, when he pronounced the immortal oration that fulmined over Greece, and roused the drooping spirits of her people in the struggle for independence. On this spot the chair of Adams rested for many years, and it was here that the great patriot fell.
We must give one scene in the Old Hall more in detail. We write from recollection. In 1846, the Indian appropriation bill was under consideration in Committee of the Whole. Mr. Giddings attacked an item which proposed to pay the State of Georgia for certain runaway slaves who had found shelter. among the Creek Indians. Mr. Black, of Georgia, replied in a grossly foul personal assault upon Giddings. Amid much excitement, Giddings standing in the side aisle at the left of the chair, was responding with great severity to this attack. Black, armed with a pistol and heavy sword-cane, and followed by three or four Southern Members, (one of whom is now a distinguished Senator.) crossed the hall, and coming within striking distance of Giddings said, ‘Repeat those words, and I’ll knock you down!’ He repeated the words, and went on with his speech. At that moment, Mr. Dawson, of Louisiana, rushed to the spot, cocked his pistol, and shouted, ‘I’ll shoot him! by G—d. I’ll shoot him!’ The peril of Giddings was imminent. Quick as thought, Mr. Causine, of Maryland, his hand on his pistol, leaped into the aisle between Black and Giddings, to defend the latter; Kenneth Rayner, of North Carolina, also armed, took a position at the left hand of Giddings; Charles Hudson of Massachusetts planted himself on his right; while Solomon Foot, of Vermont, now in the Senate, stood immediately behind him, to prevent an assault from that question. And there, surrounded by Causine and Rayner, of the South, and Hudson and Foot of the North, with Block, Dawson, and other armed and incensed men in front, stood Giddings, his head towering above the crowd, delivering his speech with great vigor and entire self-possession, and never, from the beginning to the close of the melee, losing the thread of his subject, except when, as Black approached him, he hurled at him the defiance, ‘COME ON! THE PEOPLE OF OHIO DON’T SEND COWARDS HERE!’
It is understood that Mr. Giddings will spend his remaining days in preparing a work that shall depict the scenes that have passed before his eye, and in so many of which he has borne a leading part, during his ‘Twenty Years in the House of ‘Representatives.’ He cannot render a higher service to the country, nor make a more valuable contribution to the great cause. Let us hope that he will not take for his model the heavy volumes of Mr. Benton, on a similar theme.—[Corr. of N. Y. Tribune.
From the New York Tribune
THE ADMISSION OF OREGON.
We hold that the great body of the Republicans voted just right on this question, and of course that the fifteen who separated from, opposed and defeated them, did a grievous wrong. Our reasons are briefly as follows:
I. Free Kansas is held out of the union under a provision of law requiring her to have a demonstrated population of at least 93,340 before she can even apply for admission. Oregon has notoriously less than that number—decidedly less than Kansas. At the elections held by these two embryo States respectively last Summer, Kansas polled for and against the Lecompton Constitution) 13,088 votes, while Oregon polled (for Governor) 10,049, and for Congress 10,105. Kansas has since gained very rapidly, owing to the ‘Pike’s Peak’ Gold fever, while Oregon, which is a much older Territory, is gaining population but slowly. Kansas must have at least twenty per cent, more inhabitants than Oregon. The House, just before voting in Oregon, voted (in effect) not to remove the peculiar and invidious conditions imposed on Kansas (118 to 95). They who thus voted to keep Kansas under the grindstone of the English bill of last Session, were the champions of the instant admission of Oregon. They ought to have been beaten, especially when there were Republicans enough to beat them, and it is a shame that they were not. If Oregon in 1860, unbalanced by Kansas, shall elect a Pro-Slavery President, then woe to those Republicans whose, votes will have enabled her to do so!
II. It is said that Oregon is a Free State. Those who care more for words than things may rest satisfied with this assertion. But those who look below surfaces know that, practically, Oregon, as represented in Congress by Joe Lane and his tools, will be as thorough and as servile a satrapy of the Slave Power as Arkansas—that it will have her; vote solid for stealing Cuba, keeping Kansas in sub jugation, and for reopening the African. Slave-Trade whenever it shall desire and demand it. Indeed, no logical champion of the ‘Popular Sovereignty’ dodge can oppose the revival of the Slave-Trade whenever it shall be demanded by even one Slave State. How could he? With what face could he deny the demand of the people of Texas, that they be permitted to import such labor as they deem best suited to their needs and their circumstances? If it be the inalienable right of a thousand squatters on a Western Territory to establish Slavery if they see fit, why not of a sovereign State to buy her slaves in the cheapest market rather than the dearest? We defy any advocate of what is called ‘Popular Sovereignty’ in the Territories to oppose the demand of any State to be allowed to stock her cotton-fields with African rather than Virginia negroes without stultifying himself. At all events, Joe Lane & Co. never balked at-any determined requisition of the Slave Power, and never will. And these men are now admitted, by Republican votes, to the seats in Congress which should be filled by Republican members from Kansas.
III. Oregon is not even in the letter a Free State. Her political managers were unable to make it a technical Slave State—negroes being hard to get and very costly on that side of the continent—but they did their utmost in that direction. By the express terms of their Constitution, just accepted by Congress, any of Mr. Eli Thayer’s constituents and supporters guilty of having African blood in his veins, who should visit Oregon with intent to settle there-
<C05>
in, is guilty of a grave offence against the majesty of that State, and will he treated therefor like an outlaw and a felon. Any white ruffian may, with perfect impurity, rob him of every farthing of his property in broad daylight: be is forbidden to institute an action in any Court of Oregon for the redress of any wrong whatever; and, as Chief Justice Taney has tuned him out of the Supreme Court, and bolted the door behind him, his case is hard indeed. That Border-Ruffian Democrats should sanction and give effect to such cruel injustice is but natural; that a few Republicans should be induced, no matter on what specious grounds, to aid them, is deplorable.
IV. The Indiana delegation, it will be seen, cast a solid vote for Joe Lane &Co., haying been instructed to do so, we understand, by a vote of their Legislature. But <W>. of the House are no wise amenable to a Legislature, and should no wise be governed by its rescripts. Their constituents are the People, and to them only should they look for guidance The same Legislature which thought lessly gave this vote, has chosen two United States Senators for Indiana, who are now cooling their heels on the doorstep of the Senate, and are not even allowed to state their claims to the seats which Bright and shadow have usurped. We had hoped that, when the new Senate shall assemble, with Republican Senators in the seats now filled by Allen of Rhode Island, Jones of Iowa, and Wright of New Jersey, the true Senators from Indiana would at least be treated with decent courtesy. But since the Representatives of Indiana have voted Joe Lane (whom they know right well) and Delusion Smith into the Senate, even this hope is shattered. If Bright wants them to vote it unconstitutional to elect anybody in his stead, so long as he chooses to remain in the Senate, he has only to my the word. 
V. Had the Republicans voted solid against the Oregon bill, they would have forced their opponents at least to take the restriction off from Kansas, in order to secure the admission of Oregon. Want of nerve in a few has changed what might have been an inspiriting victory into a humiliating defeat. 
OREGON-ITS CONSTITUTION—ITS ADMISSION. 
Yesterday, we briefly and in moderate terms expressed our disapproval of the admission of Oregon as a State. The more we reflect upon this act, the less do we find in it to excuse the conduct of those who voted for the bill, and the more firm becomes our conviction that a great wrong has been done which it is difficult to palliate, and which it will be still more difficult to remedy. There is little doubt, in our mind. that the verdict of the vast majority of the people of the free States, and a very respectable minority of the slave States, will be an emphatic condemnation of this act of Congress. It was wrong in itself— primarily, radically wrong, and it will require a vast deal of ingenuity, and a mountain of arguments, based on expediency, to justify the deed Various arguments will doubtless be urged in excuse and justification. We are willing to be convinced, but nothing, as yet advanced, tends to change our first impression of this admission of Oregon. The Journal of yesterday has the following timid language of doubting palliation of the act:— 	There were some very grave objections to the Constitution of Oregon, as well as those drawn from insufficiency of the population. We should also hare preferred to see Oregon and Kansas placed In the same position, before the former was admitted into the Union. But as that was not done, we do not see but that a precedent has now been established which will inure decidedly to the advantage of Kansas, when ever she shall legitimately apply for admission. As to Oregon herself, we welcome her into the Union. She is one more in the phalanx of free States. Hitherto she has been rather freely colonized and ruled by Democratic office-seekers and office-holders; but that day will soon pass over. By virtue of her position, her interests, and the principles of her thronging immigrants, she will ultimately become the New England of the Pacific coast.
This is simply substituting a glorification over the creation of a new State, and a dim prospect of something better in the future, for a sound justification of what the Journal virtually acknowledges is a bad thing. How fallacious and empty is the idea that this precedent can inure to the benefit of Kansas, is apparent from the fact that Congress has pertinaciously refused to do even the slightest measure of justice to Kansas during this very Oregon discussion and action. Does the Journal mean to intimate that Kansas has never made application for admission as ‘legitimately’ as Oregon? If the Oregon application was legitimate, that of Kansas was infinitely more so. Does the Journal affect to believe that the Democratic party will ever do justice to Kansas, because they have set this precedent in the case of Oregon? But the Journal must be aware that, in voting for this Oregon bill, these Democrats have set aside the precedent which they made only a year ago, and that they regard no precedent, and no pledge, when the interests of the slave power demand that it shall be broken or set aside
As to toe Republicans, they neither asked nor needed any precedent for doing justice to Kansas The Journal must find some better excuse than its delusive hope and idle expectation. As to welcoming Oregon, as a free State, we are not so strenuous for free States as to be anxious to welcome a State, whose constitution is inhuman, prescriptive, anti-republican, and in contravention of the federal laws. We had much rather wait until it has a constitution that is at least decent, proper, and based in some degree on justice. If we must rejoice over the admission of a State, without regard to its character or its laws, then we may be called on to glorify Utah with laws forever fixing polygamy, as a legal institution, upon the people, or even some Mexican State with a constitution establishing a State religion, or an unending system of human slavery. Is the Journal prepared for this? We are not. But the most absurd excuse of all is, that Oregon has been hitherto too ‘freely colonized and ruled by Democratic office-seekers and office-holders,’ and the Journal thinks her admission at the present time is to reverse all this!
It is very remarkable then, that these Democratic office-seekers and office-holders should have been the men to urge the measure which was to terminate their rule. The admission in this shape, and at this time, was just what they wanted to fix themselves Is firmly in power. The Constitution, as made and now it approved, was the work of a few Democratic office-seekers, not of the people of Oregon, and was made to suit their partisan purposes, and win answer its design. A pretty prospect, indeed, of checking the evil of too free colonization, when it is now expressly provided that these Democratic operators may import and colonize thousands of foreigners and half breeds, and make them voters, without the requisition of any previous residence, or any single qualification which a voter should posses! Never was an instrument framed which gave such unlimited opportunity for corrupt politicians to thwart the people will as this Oregon Constitution. The position, the interests and the principles of the emigrants from New England to Oregon, will be powerless against the barriers, and under the fetters which
<C06>
this Constitution, manufactured by Democratic politicians, imposes.
In a series of years relief may come-probably will—but who shall answer for the wrongs perpetrated meanwhile? No-we cannot wink the facts of the case out of sight, nor can we shrink from plain speaking-we prefer to call things by their right names, let the blame fall where it may. We should not withhold our opinions because they may be disagreeable to some men of oar own party, nor give utterance to timid and half-hearted talk, through fear that it may be unpopular to condemn the admission of a new State. What sort of excuses our members of Congress will frame for their conduct, we shall all learn in good time Mr. Comins said in the debate:
‘There were provisions in her constitution which, if called upon to vote, would never receive his sanetion, but in the vote which he gave for her admission, he did not regard himself as responsible for each and every item in her constitution. He voted for her admission on general principles.’ 
We should be glad to have Mr. Comins state clearly on what ‘general principles ‘he voted for this bill. Suppose that a town charter were asked for, and very much needed by a set of people, but that it were made a condition that all red-haired women and crow-eyed men should be, in that town, deprived of all privileges which others enjoy, and made liable to seizure and imprisonment, and ignominious expulsion—would Mr. Comins vote for such a measure on the general principle that a charter, required by a great majority of the people petitioning, ought to be granted? 
But we must pause in our remarks. This subject deserves the thoughtful and candid attention of every citizen, and should we hereafter be convinced that our present judgment in erroneous, we shall be only too glad to reverse it,—Boston Atlas.
The Worcester Transcript, speaking of the vote on the Oregon bill, says: 
‘We notice with great regret, that two gentlemen from this State, Messrs. Comins and Thayer, voted for its admission. If the telegraph is correct, eleven members of the Republican party voted for it—just the majority by which it passed. We trust that it will not be claimed by any one—we are certain that it cannot be honestly claimed by any one— that by his vote Mr. Thayer represented the views of his constituents. Were the admission of Oregon, with her present constitution, and with the refusal to admit Kansas, left to the vote of Worcester District, it would be rejected four to one.
It was a fitting result of this vote, that when the Democrats serenaded their most distinguished men. including the President, for the admission of this new State, they went to Mr. Thayer’s residence, and serenaded him.’
ABOLITION ‘WITH A BUT.’
A colored ehattel, from Portsmouth, Virginia,— Bob Butt, by name—has become quite a lion, by reason of his faithful services in time of the great sickness there, by yellow fever, three or four years ago—he having, as is said, attended to the grave, and buried with his own hands, more than a thousand of the victims. Recently, in a removal of some of the bodies for a re-interment at Philadelphia, Bob accompanied the remains as a sort of Major Domo of the house of the dead—and is still there, we believe, soliciting aid to free himself from bondage. This he does under patronage of his master, and other Southern friends, who are willing, for a consideration, to grant him this fancied boon.
But why thus impose upon a poor fellow,’ ‘not able to take care of himself’—but quite able to take care of a thousand of the dying and the dead? If slavery is a blessing, as the South contends, why impose the curse of emancipation upon so faithful a thing as this colored chattel has proved himself? Why should not the master say to him, ‘My good fellow, you have been so faithful, and done so well for my pecuniary interest in digging graves at five and ten dollars apiece, on pressing occasions, that you need have no fear of freedom, being forced upon you, in these dull times, or at any tine. They are running this matter of abolition into the ground— but, never fear, you shall live and die my slave, as in duty bound. Nobody shall nm you off living, or into the ground dead, as a free nigger. The boon of slavery you shall still enjoy. This giving one the freedom of a city, or any other freedom, all moonshine. To be sure, it is sometimes voted as a matter of form—and was once given in Carolina to a slave, for saving the State Capitol from conflagration —but it was a burning shame thus to impose upon the poor fellow. They should have guaranteed to him the blessing of perpetual bondage, without any these freedom-mongers to molest or make him afraid.’—Bangor Courier.
DEMOCRACY OF THE BOSTON POST.
The following piece of blackguardism, from the Boston post, is a fair specimen of its democracy’:—
The literature of Boston, like the tea of our great grandmothers, is getting to be all back ‘Congo;’ a negro is always to be found at the bottom of the cup. Be it Fraternity Lectures, or Mercantile Lectures, or Monthly Periodicals; sermon, essay, poetry, philosophy, or what not. the members of the Mutual Admiration Abolition Society will be found there bepraising one another and abusing their country. Conspicuous among this pestiferous transcendentalism and anti-Americanism is the Atlantic Club,’ as it is called, made up of the principal Abolition writers and orators. It is pity to see that they have drawn into their colored circle each names as Holmes and Longfellow and Agassiz, especially the latter, which belongs to the universe of science, and should never be narrowed down to such a squaring of the circle of his great reputation. These literary gentlemen do not seriously mean to he made use of by small politicians, but an incident the other day placed them completely in the power of such managers. Mr. Blair, a gentleman of very moderate abilities sad a heavy talker, left his own slaves hard at work for their master in Missouri, and came all the. way to Boston, upon invitation, to delight as Anti-Slavery audience with his lecture on the universal freedom of the colored gentlemen. The ’black’ politicians gave him a drink at Parker’s, over which Gov. Banks presided. The ‘Atlantic Club,’ we are told, happened to be dining is another room of the hotel, and so it was easily contrived to draw these literary gentlemen in to help make up the glorification of Mr. Frank Blair, and more especially of those who feasted him. The newspapers have told as that the invitation to the Clan to join the Blair party was accepted, and <w> Lowell, Holmes, Longfellow, Whipple, Emerson sad Agassis entered the room and were cordially received, when a felicitous season of enjoyment followed. This is not a very flattering picture to send abroad of the intellect of Cambridge and Boston, The grand old town, m revolutionary days <w> the tax on black Bobes, and abandoned the <w> The modern Athens seems to delight in making her men of letters 
and science pay tribute to ‘congo’
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is ‘a  convenantt with death, and an agreement with hell.’
‘The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution  …There is some excuse for communities, when under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men on unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMINO THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution .  .  .  .  No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free states are tending.’
-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, MARCH 4, 1859.
NO SLAVE-HUNTING IN MASSACHUSETTS-ANOTHER HEARING.
On Thursday forenoon, last week, another hearing was granted in the Representativesï¿½ Hall, by the Committee on Federal Relations, to the petitioners for the passage of a law, giving liberty and protection to every fugitive slave coming within the limits of the Commonwealth. Notwithstanding the inclemency of the weather, the Hall was well filled by a deeply interested audience, whose feelings were evidently wholly with the object of the petitions. The speakers, on this occasion, were SAMUEL  E. SEWALL, Esq., Rev. JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE. FRANCIS W. BIRD, Esq., WM. LLOYD GARRISON. and Rev. SAMUEL MAY, Jr. The speeches of Mr. CLARKE, and Mr. BIRD we hope to be able to print next week. Below will be found those of Messrs. SEWALL and GARRISON. The hearing being now closed, it is hoped, and reasonably expected, that the Committee having this matter in charge, will make a favorable report without delay, and that the Legislature will promptly meet the case, in the right manner, by an overwhelming vote.
Outside of the Commonwealth, as well as within it, there is a great deal of interest felt as to the action of the Legislature on this subject. Onward!

SPEECH OF SAMUEL E SEWALL, ESQ,
BEFORE THE COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL RELATIONS,
In support of the petition asking for a law to
prevent the Recupture of Fugitive Slaves,
IN THE HALL OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTAIVES,
Thursday, February 24, 1859.
PHONOCRAPHIC REPORT BY JAS. M W. YERRINTON.
MR CHAIRMAN, AND GENTLEMEN OF THE COMMITIEE:
I regret that I was not present at the former hearing before the Committee. Although I have a very few remarks to offer, I am afraid I shall tread upon ground already occupied by other gentlemen. Yet, as I was not present, and have not been able to read what they said, I trust I shall be pardoned if, in any degree, I take up the same positions that they have.
The petitions upon your table are very numerously signed; but yet, if there had been a systematic effort to present to the Legislature, the whole extent of the feeling which is expressed in those petitions, I have no doubt the number could have been increased tenfold. Indeed, gentlemen, I believe that the whole body of the people of Massachusetts, men and women, who are capable of thinking on this subject, agree in the wish of these petitioners, and that it is only a very small and insignificant fraction of the community who oppose it. The claim of these petitioners is that no person coming into this State as a fugitive slave, should ever be allowed to be torn from its protection; and, I doubt not, that it is the feeling; of this Committee, I doubt not that it is the feeling of the Legislature, that this wish of the people of Massachusetts should be carried into effect, unless there is some controlling, overwhelming reason to prevent it.
Massachusetts has already passed a great variety of laws more or less connected with this subject. We have ancient laws against kidnapping; we have the old writ of habeas corpus; we have the old writ of personal replevin; we have new laws giving new force and vitality to both those writs; we have laws denying the use of our jails for the purpose of imprisoning fugitive slaves; laws prohibiting our magistrates and officers from taking any part in the surrender of fugitive slaves; laws prohibiting our militia from coming out to protect officers who may be carrying off fugitive slaves; we have laws giving counsel to every man who is arrested and imprisoned as a fugitive slave, and aiming to secure to him a trial by jury. Besides these, we have numerous resolutions upon the same subject. Resolutions expressing the feeling of abhorrence with which we regard slavery and the slave trade; the earnest desire of Massachusetts that slavery shall not go into any new territory, and her determination that no new slave State shall be admitted into the Union. Besides, upon this particular subject of the rendition of fugitive slaves, we have various resolutions;-resolutions, at one time, I am sorry to say, admitting that Congress had power to legislate upon this subject, but still expressing the abhorrence of Massachusetts of the enormous crime which the Fugitive Slave Law attempts to perpetrate, and the diabolical means by which it seeks to accomplish it. But in a later resolution, passed in 1855, this State has made one great advance, at least, in denying that Congress has the power to legislate at all in regard to fugitives from service.
There is one thing in all this legislation which is melancholy. The statutes and resolutions of the State in regard to slavery,-and there is a great mass of them,-show a constantly growing feeling and sentiment in this State, an irresistible progress in favor of freedom and against slavery. But, still it is sad, that in all these laws and resolutions, from beginning to end, there is a tacit, and sometimes an express admission, that there is an obligation on the part of Massachusetts to surrender the poor trembling fugitive. This is melancholy; and, in the present state of public sentiment, it is disgraceful to the State. Now, the people of the State come before you,-I may say the whole people come before you, and declare that Massachusetts is under no such obligation, and they call upon the Legislature to give effect to their will.
In order to express my views more fully, it may be well for me to present to the Committee the draft of a bill which I have prepared, that I suppose would be satisfactory to these petitioners. I have not given a title to it, but will call it ï¿½An Act relating to Slavery.ï¿½
Be it enacted &c.
SEC.1. Slavery cannot exist in Massachusetts. Every parson living in this Commonwealth is free. Every person who may hereafter come into this Commonwealth, or be born in it, shall be free.
SEC. 2. Any person who shall arrest, imprison, or carry out of this Commonwealth, any other person, for the alleged reason that that such other person is a slave, shall be punished by imprisonment in the State Prison not exceeding ten years.ï¿½
I think, if such a law could be passed,-a law similar to that which now exists in the State of Vermont, -it will be satisfactory to the petitioners, and satisfactory factory to the people of the State. It makes the arrest of any person as a slave a high crime, to be punished by our law. No matter whether such person is a runaway slave, or is brought here by his master, whether he comes here from a foreign country, or from one of our sister States, he is free; Massachusetts protects him, and declares that to attempt to carry him away is a crime.
The first peculiarity of this act, you will notice, is, that it is in some degree declaratory of what is now the law here,-that is, that every person in the State or coming into the State is free. Every one will admit that this is true, with the single exception of runaway slaves; and the wards of the law are intended to be general, and embrace this case of runaway slaves. But, it may be said, Why wake any declaration of the known law of the State; why legislate except as regards runaway slaves? This is the reason. It is the systematic attempt, on the part of the Southern States, and especially of the Supreme Court of the United States, to change the established law of slavery, and to force it upon the territories and the free States, in some shape or other. The established and known law of slavery is this: Slavery is the law of force; being against natural right, it is local; it only exists in the State where it is created, and by positive law; therefore, when the slave gets out of that State, he is necessarily free. When he gets into any
<c02>
other State, the owner of the slave cannot follow him, as he can other property. The right of property in an ox or a horse is recognized throughout the civilized world; and, therefore, when a man owns an ox or a horse, in one place, and the animal strays into the limits of another nation, the owner may go and take it as his property. But slavery being nothing but force, the slave is not property, except where the force controls him, and when he gets out of the reach of that force, he is free. Now, the judges of the United States Court are endeavoring to change this law, and say that slavery is a just and legal institution, and that property in slaves exists everywhere; and that if a man takes a slave into any territory of the United States, he is still a slave; that if the owner of a slave is travelling through one of the States, he may take his slave with him; and in the Lemon case which is still pending before the United States Court in some shape or other, it is no doubt the intention of some of the judges of the Court to declare that the master of those slaves had the right to take them through the State of New York, and, of course, that any slave owner might take his slaves through Massachusetts. But if there is a distinct law of the State, positively declaring that slavery cannot exist here, that, of course, interferes with any such assumed right of any slaveholder to carry his slaves through it. It is, therefore, to meet the aggressions of the Southern States, and especially of the United States Court, that I wish, and I believe the people of the State with, that such a declaratory act should be passed.
But then as regards this denial of the right to carry away fugitive slaves. We are met, at the outset, by the assertion, that the right of carrying away fugitive slaves has been established by the long practice of seventy years, since the United States Constitution was formed, and by numerous decisions of the Courts since that time; therefore, before considering the construction of the clause of the United States Constitution, and showing that we are under no such obligation, I have to examine that objection.
The clause in the Constitution to which I refer is as follows:
ï¿½No person held to service or labor in one State, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labor, but shall be delivered up, on claim of the party to whom such service or labor may be due.ï¿½-Art. 4, sec. 2.
Now, the positions which I take are these: First, that the words ï¿½person held to service,ï¿½ &c., in this clause, do not imply or include a slave; second, that Congress has no power to legislate upon the subject of fugitives from service; and, third, that whatever the meaning of these words may be, even if they do include slaves, even if the clause was intended to give the power of legislation to Congress, still, that this clause is absolutely null and void as far as it concerns fugitives from bondage, because a violation of the immutable law of God, and, in that respect, it imposes no obligation whatever upon any State. These are the positions which I propose to argue, principally as legal questions, before this Committee. But, as I said, I am met at the outset by this objection, that the long practice of seventy years, under the Constitution, of the extradition of fugitive slaves, and the decisions of the Courts recognizing it as a right, do, in fact, establish it, so that it is too late now to dispute it.
First, as to the practice. The length of time during which any wrong is continued can never make it right. If, on the day the Constitution was formed, it was wrong to surrender a fugitive slave, it is just as wrong, and just as illegal, now. No length of time can sanctify oppression. It is no matter how many years a nation has been under the yoke of a despot, when the nation rises and breaks its chains, the whole world applauds the deed, and admits no rights whatever in the oppressor. The slave born in South Carolina to-day, is, by right, just as free as the slave brought from Africa two centuries ago. The right is not lost in the least degree by the lapse of time; and, if, when the Constitution was framed, we were not bound by it to surrender fugitives slaves, we are not bound now to surrender them.
Next as to the decisions of the Courts. There is an almost superstitious idolatry upon this subject-more even amongst the public, than among enlightened jurists. The public seem to think that the Courts are oracles, and that the decisions they make are sacred precedents, which must be followed. An entire mistake as it regards their functions, and as to the legal effect of their decisions. Do men grow wiser in a single day because they come upon the bench? Are the opinions of nine judges any better than the opinions of nine lawyers of equal skill in the law? Who will say so? Is not a book written by a learned jurist as valuable in regard to opinions, as the opinions of a Court? Why, in all nations, the volumes written by learned jurists, of the highest order, have always had a weight of authority greater than the opinions of ordinary judges, and always ought to have, because, being formed on reason and on principle, they deserve more weight. Now, it is true, that on matters of mere practice, and many other subjects, which involve no great principles of justice, and which may as well, or nearly as well, for general rules, be settled one way as another, the decisions of courts are to a great extent acquiesced in as authority in their own States. Even in regard to these classes of subjects, they are authority only to a limited extent.
Are not the decisions of Courts reversed every day by themselves? Look at the volumes of Reports that have been published. There is not one of them in this country, or in England, of twenty years standing, in which there is not more than one case that has been overruled, and in some, many cases. Judges are constantly overruling the decisions of their predecessors, and occasionally even their own. Take the early volumes of reports in Massachusetts, that are thought such sacred precedents-there is not a volume among them that has not had several cases overruled; and in the course of half a century, I venture to say many more of those cases will be overruled. The reason is this: Law is a progressive science, founded upon principle, and when the Courts make a mistake of principle, they settle nothing but the case before them;ï¿½ they cannot settle anything else. A question presented to a Court, which really involves a great principle, is never settled until it is settled right; and then it is not the authority of the Court that settles the question, but the rectitude of the decision, it being in conformity to reason and justice. (1)
We have greater lawyers in this country than any upon the bench of the United States Courts. Are not their opinions upon matters of law at least as valuable as those of the judges? Perhaps there were some lawyers on the United States bench as good as any there now. I recollect the names of Marshall, and Story, and Johnson on that bench. We know that the decisions of those men have been overruled by more recent judges. I do not say which decisions were the best, or which decisions are most likely to stand; but I say that the new judges overruling the
(1) We have a very striking example of the little regard which is paid to the decisions of courts as authority, in the history of the Bank of the United States. The Supreme Court of the United States had again and again decided the act establishing this court to be unconstitutional. Yet in Congress its constitutionality was questioned with the greatest vehemence and pertinacity to the last hour of its existence.
It may be well to remind those who regard legal decisions as the responses of oracles, that the earliest case on record under the Constitution, decided that the owner of a slave could not claim his return. The case I refer tois well known, but it will bear repetition. The decision was given by Judge Harrington in the Supreme Court of Vermont, in 1807. A fugitive slave had been brought before the court, and the master had made out his title as he thought satisfactorily. But Judge Harrington said that a link in the chain of title was wanting, that he had not shown a bill of sale or grant from the Almighty, The Judge on this ground discharged the slave.
<c03>
opinion of the former ones, does not establish the lav. The law cannot be established until it is established right.
Gen. Jackson said-and it was the wisest thing he ever said-ï¿½The Constitution, at I understand itï¿½ Every State, every Congress, every Legislature, and every man, is bound by that principle. Massachusetts must take the Constitution as she understand it, and not be dictated to by the Congress of the United States, or by the United States Court. It is our duty to examine the compact for ourselves, and see what it means, and how far we are bound by it. And it is not merely the individual that is bound in conscience, but the Legislature also as much as the individual; and though Courts may sometimes compel men to yield obedience to an iniquitous decision, they cannot make it the law.
Considering this, then, as an entirely open question, just as open and fresh as it was the day when the Constitution was formed, I look at these words of the Constitution, and inquire, what do the words, ï¿½No person held to service or labor,ï¿½ mean? Do they mean a slave? Is a slave, in the eye of the law, a ï¿½person held to service or laborï¿½? Is a slave a ï¿½personï¿½? What does the civil law say?-and the law of slavery is the same every where. Slaves are held ï¿½pro nullis, pro mortui; pro quadrupedibus.ï¿½ Pro nullis-they are held as no persons; pro mortuis-as dead; pro quadrupedibus-as quadrupeds-horses, asses, chittels. That is what the civil law says about slaves. The slave laws of the Southern States are precisely the same. The law of South Carolina says distinctly, they are ï¿½chattels personal, to all intents and purposes whatsoever.ï¿½ They are not persons. It is not a mere form to say, they are not persons; they can make no contracts; they cannot own or inherit property; they have no property that can descend to their heirs; they have no heirs; they have no wives; they have no children. Their wives and children do not belong to them, but to their owners. They have no right of self-defence. However violently they may be assaulted by a white man, they cannot raise a hand to protect themselves; they cannot appeal to a court of justice if they are injured. The law does not recognize them as persons. Then, when the State says they are not persons at home, shall it pretend to come to Massachusetts, and say they are persons, under the words of the Constitution?
How can slaves be ï¿½held to service or labor under the law of any State?ï¿½ Are slaves ï¿½persons held to serviceï¿½? The clause means ï¿½personsï¿½ held by contract, express or implied, ï¿½to service or labor.ï¿½ A slave is under no obligation to perform any service for his master; he is driven like the ox or the horse, to his labor; and it is as absurd to talk of a slave being ï¿½held to service or laborï¿½ as to talk of an ox or a horse being ï¿½held to service or labor.ï¿½ It cannot be; he is under no obligation. He never made any such contract. He cannot make it.
But there were two large classes of persons, at the time the Constitution was formed, to whom this clause under consideration would rightfully apply; these were apprentices, and persons known by the name of redemptioners;ï¿½-persons who were brought over here from Europe, and, not being able to pay the expenses of their passage, bound themselves to serve for a term of years to pay those who brought them over. There were, then, at the time the Constitution was formed, actually two great classes of persons to whom the clause would apply. I have myself known of a ease where the attempt was made in Boston to carry back an apprentice to Philadelphia as a fugitive from service. Happily, the movement was defeated by a writ of habeas corpus from our Supreme Court; but still there was no question but what apprentices came under this clause. That being the case, there are great principles of law which say, that if this clause applies to other persons than fugitive slaves, it cannot apply to fugitives slaves for that very reason. The principle of law, the universal and well recognized principle is this-that where the terms of any private compact, or any treaty or public compact, or any Constitution or statute whatever, can be rightfully, justly and consistently with equity and good conscience applied to one class of subjects, and can only unjustly and inequitably be applied to another class of subjects, those terms shall only apply to that class of subjects to which they can be rightfully applied. Then here is a class of subjects-apprentices and redemptioners-to whom this clause of the Constitution can be rightfully applied; and for that very reason, it cannot be applied to any other class. The principle may be stated in still more general terms,-that every compact and treaty shall be construed, if possible, so as to make it lawful and just, and not unlawful and unjust. And, therefore, when this clause of the Constitution says that ï¿½no person held to service or labor shall be discharged from such service or laborï¿½ by the laws of another State, it means, ï¿½no personï¿½ lawfully, justlyï¿½ held to service or laborï¿½; and when it says that a State shall not interpose laws to prevent the return of such fugitive, it means when they can return him without committing a crime-when they can fairly and honestly do it.
I will take a parallel case. Suppose a contract is made by a man saying. ï¿½I agree with A B for a compensation of $200, to saw two cords of wood every day during the ensuing year.ï¿½ That embraces in terms, you see, Sundays as well as week days. Now, the law says no man shall do any work, except of necessity, on Sundays. This contract must be construed in reference to the law; and although it says, absolutely, ï¿½every day during the ensuing year,ï¿½ the law says, ï¿½that means every day on which he can legally saw two cords of wood, and does not include Sundays,ï¿½ The construction which must be put upon the Constitution is precisely similar. It must mean those persons who are lawfully ï¿½held to service or labor,ï¿½ and who can be returned without a violation of the great principles of law and justice. This is the construction, I have no doubt, that every jurist in Europe would adopt, if the question was put to him; and that is the construction which, I venture to predict, every Court in the free States will finally come to. It is the construction which the Court of Wisconsin has already come to.
But I know that it has been often said, that alï¿½though the words in question do not mean exactly slaves, yet it was the intention of the parties to the Constitution that they should mean slaves. I think it is entirely unimportant what the framers of that instrument meant, the Committee who drafted it, or the Convention that accepted it. They were not the parties to be bound by it. The parties to that instrument were the people of the United States; and when we are searching for the meaning of the instrument by ascertaining what the intention of the parties to the compact was, we must ask what did the people of the United States intend? It is very likely that by this awkward periphrasis, the persons who drafted the clause intended to smuggle in slaves-very likely indeed; but have they not excluded the idea of slavery by the very words they have used? That is the question-and although they intended to bring in slaves, if they have not done it, they must take the consequences. Although, every contract is to be conï¿½strued as the parties intended, I say that the parties to this contract never intended slavery. Do you suppose that the yeomanry of Massachusetts, in 1789, men who had fought during the Revolution, men who had read the Declaration of Independence, when it was new and fresh, declaring that ï¿½all men are created equal,ï¿½ and have ï¿½inalienable rights,ï¿½-do you suppose that these men intended to surrender fugitive slaves when they accepted the Constitution? I do not believe it. I believe, if the men and women of that time could now be called from their graves, and stand before us, or rather called down from that high heaven they now occupy, and asked what opinion they did entertain in regard to this subject at that time, every one of them would spurn the idea that they intended to surrender fugitive slaves. The
<C04>
truth is, that, even if the persons who drafted that clause intended to include slaves by that clumsy periphrasis, they have failed in their intention. And we have no means of knowing what the people of the United States intended, except by ascertaining the meaning of the words of the instrument. Furthermore, I would say, that Congress has no power to legislate upon the subject of fugitive slaves; that this  clause gives no power whatever to Congress. It says thatï¿½No person held to service or labor in one State, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labor; but shall be de-livered up, on claim of the party to whom  such service or labor may be due., ï¿½ This compact evidently imposes an obligation upon the States to surrenderï¿½persons held to service or laborï¿½; and the 10thArticle of Amendments to the Constitution expressly declares that allï¿½ powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.ï¿½ This is a power, plainly, manifestly,not given to Congress by the Constitution, and therefore it is reserved to the States. I will not, however,dwell upon this point, because the Legislature of this State has already explicitly, by its resolutions of 1855, taken this very position, in almost the very words that I have used.
But there is still a further ground on which these petitioners rest their claim. Admit that this clause in the Constitution was intended to refer to slaves; admit that Congress has the power to legislate on the subject; still, they say that the compact is null and void, because a violation of the higher law of God. I am not going to appeal to authority to prove this. I ask you, gentlemen, whether any one of you would be concerned in the surrender of a fugitive slave? Does any one of yon feel that this clause of the Constitution imposes an obligation upon him? Gentlemen, your hearts rebel against it, and the heart of every man in Massachusetts rebels against it. We have a law within us which tells us we cannot be bound to commit this enormity. If it were necessary, there is no end to the authorities which I could cite, to show the opinions of great men on this very subject; saying that no treaty, no compact, no statute is binding, when it calls for the commission of crime. I might cite passages without end from Cicero, from Grotius, from Vattel, from Puffendorf, from Milton, from many of the greatest names in the English law, from Fortescue down to Blackstone; I might cite cases where, again and again, statutes have been set aside because they violated this great principle, because they attempted to compel what was in its nature un-just. But I do not rest the claim of the petitioners on authority. I say that the feeling of the whole people of Massachusetts is this:-ï¿½We will have nothing to do with the surrender of fugitive slaves; we abhor the deed, and we will not do it'; and we demand of the Legislature of the State to do what they can to prevent this crime from being committed, to save the State from again becoming slave-hunting ground.
 I have thought that it might be well to have some resolutions, in addition to the law, to express more distinctly the feeling of Massachusetts. I do not know that what I have written will suit all classes of the petitioners, because many who are anxious to have this law passed do not exactly agree with my construction of the Constitution, but still I believe that they are resolutions that a large part of the petitioners would like to have passed. I think that the effect of the passage of this law and of these resolutions will be, to strengthen, our citizens, and to give courage to our officers and magistrates in resisting the iniquitous and unconstitutional act of Congress.1. Resolved, That the clause of the Constitution of the United States which provides that ï¿½NO person held to service or labor in one State under the law thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labor, ï¿½does not give any power to Congress, but imposes an obligation upon the States.2. Resolved, That all acts of Congress regulating the return of fugitives from service are usurpations and null and void. [That is no more than the Legislature has already declared.]
3. Resolved, That  the words ï¿½person held to service or laborï¿½ in said clause do not imply or include a slave, but only a person held to service by an express or implied contract.
4. Resolved, That if the said clause expressly, provided for the rendition of fugitive slaves, the clause would be, to that extent, null and void, because a violation of the immutable and higher law of God, and would impose no obligation upon this Commonwealth as a sovereign State, or upon its citizens as individuals.
5 Resolved, That it is the first duty of a State to protect the persons of its- citizens, and all others coming within its limits and claiming its protection; and that fugitive slaves coming within this Commonwealth become subject to its laws and entitled to its protection.
What the petitioners wish is, that Massachusetts should no longer stand in the mean and shameful position she now occupies,-attempting to overrule the operation of the Fugitive Slave Law by legal subtleties, and efforts to give the slave a trial by jury, and various other devices; but that she should come forward firmly and boldly, and say, ï¿½The soil of this State is free: no slave shall ever be taken from it.'ï¿½ Thus let Massachusetts, as she did in the Revolution, lead the van of the States in the cause of freedom. (Applause.)

SPEECH OF WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
MR. CHAIRMAN, AND GENTLEMEN of THE COMMITTEE:
I do not rise to define my position. I am an Abolitionist; and therefore for the abolition of slavery in Carolina, and for the abolition of slave-hunting in the old Bay State, now and forever.  (Applause.)
When, a week ago to-day, you kindly consented to give another hearing on this occasion, I took it for granted it was not because your minds were not made up on this question in the right direction, but only as an act of courtesy to the petitioners; for I mean to take it for granted, at least till I see your report, that you are on the side of humanity and justice; and that I am not looking into the faces of those who can consent to kidnapping in this State, under any circumstances, or for any considerations whatsoever.
 How extraordinary is an interview like this! and how it will read in the history of the Commonwealth! that we meet here gravely to deliberate whether it will be right, or proper, or safe, or constitutional, for us toï¿½ hide the outcast, and bewray not him that wandereth!ï¿½ -or whether we ought not to co-operate with slave-hunters, and reduce their victims again to bondage!
ï¿½And what man, seeing this	
And having human feelings, does not blush,
And hang his head to think himself a man!ï¿½
a Massachusetts man, under these circumstances? It implies great moral degradation on the part of the people of this Commonwealth hitherto,-great in-humanity of heart,-that, for seventy years, we have allowed the slave-hunter to course with impunity over our soil, from Cape Cod to Berkshire, and every where, at Plymouth Rock, in Faneuil Hall, on Bunker Hill, to seize his poor hunted victim, and drag him back to the hell of slavery. The time past must suffice for all this. The people, thank God, have resolved that it shall come to an end. No matter what this Legislature may say or do, in the premises; if it be in opposition to the will of the people,-as those who sit in these seats are but the mere creatures of that will,-the people willï¿½send them to Coventry,' 
When an appeal is made, at any time, any where, in behalf of justice and mercy, it carries with it every thing of argument, and rhetoric, and logic, and law; and no additional words are needed, in fact, to enforce it.  If the object be just, humane, glorious, no

<C05>
multiplication of words can strengthen it. And this is the case presented to you in the multitudinous petitions lying on your table.
Let me say a word in regard to the petitioners as a body.  I know that, in this hall, a member of your own legislative body has undertaken, in advance, to pour contempt upon them; to represent them as fanatics, incendiaries, and traitors; to identify them with the class known as radical Abolitionists, . Now, gentlemen you have but to examine these petitions to see how utterly false is such a charge. They have been signed without distinction of party, and with no reference to the Anti-Slavery movement as such. I mean that men and women have put their names to the petition, as people rush out in common to put out a conflagration which is threatening to consume the city; that there is no fanaticism in it; that the persons who have signed it are not agreed in their views in regard to the best method of attacking slavery in our country, and of effecting its ultimate abolition. On many points we are an divided; but on this one point of maï¿½king Massachusetts free soil to every human being planting his foot upon it, there is but one opinion among the people, and that opinion will prevail. No insult, no ridicule, no menace, on the part of any man or body of men, as against these petitioners, will avail any thing.  I know the heart of the Commonï¿½wealth; I know what are the pulsations of the peoï¿½ple; I know that if there be one thing, more than another, which unites them at this hour, cost what it may, it is this proposition to consecrate our soil to freedom by giving protection to every hunted fugitive slave who may come to us for protection. Whoever is this Legislature shall seek to vote down the prayer of these petitioners, will have an account to settle with the people, and the people will have an account to settle with him; and none can doubt which way the balance will turn.
A member of this House, in the spirit of demagogueism, has raised the outery, that to grant the prayer of this petition will be to come under the dictation of the Abolitionists; that the Abolitionists boast that whatever they decree is enacted by the Legislature; and you are summoned, by every feeling of self-respect and manhood, to stand your ground, and not be driven by such ï¿½fanatical agitators.'  Now, gentlemen, if this be true, that, hitherto, all that the Abolitionists have asked of the Legislature has been granted-and it is trueï¿½then one of two things is also true:ï¿½either that the Abolitionists of the Comï¿½monwealth are a large majority of the people, and so it is the popular and all-pervading sentiment of our State which is branded as fanaticism; or else that the Abolitionists, few in number, have always been so wise, so sagacious, so just, so humane, in every reï¿½quest they have yet made, that the people have been constrained to say ï¿½Amenï¿½ to it. (Applause.) And this, gentlemen, is the simple fact. The Abolitionists, though held up as fanatics and madmen by priest and demagogue, have no fanaticism and no madness, either as to their object or the spirit which animates them. WE BELIEVE IN THE DECLARATION OF AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE; and all our fanaticism, from the beginning to this hour, has consisted in thisï¿½in meaning just what we say of that Declaration; but, alas! the nation is hypocritical and perfidious. We believe in the inalienable rights of man, and our crime has been, that we have refused to compromise these rights to accommodate any party or sect, or to sustain any law, constitution, or compact. We shall surely be vindicated at the court of conscience and at the tribunal of God, and the verdict of posterity will be,ï¿½The Abolitionists were in the right, and the nation was in the wrong.
Let us see, gentlemen, whether there is any cause for blushing, on the part of the Legislature, that it hasï¿½bowed to the dictation of the Abolitionists,'ï¿½ and done certain things atï¿½ their command.'ï¿½ We first asked the Legislature to record a strong and solemn protest against the existence of slavery in the District of Columbiaï¿½not a slave State, but territory owned by the whole nation, and under the exclusive jurisdiction of Congress, and for the government of which the nation is responsible. Our petition was promptly responded to by the Legislature, and it has no need to be ashamed of its action.
We asked, again, that there might be an expression of sentiment, in behalf of the State, against the inter-State slave trade, which presents more than the horrors of the foreign; for there are circumstances attending it which are peculiarly distressing and revolting; and the Legislature again responded to the appeal in strong language. Is this to be ashamed of?
 Next, when the daring attempt was made to over ride the forms of constitutional law, and transcend the powers of the national government, in order to secure the extension of slavery by the annexation of a foreign slave State to our own,ï¿½Texas,ï¿½we petitioned the Legislature to place on record the protest of Massachusetts against that lawless and wicked deed. It did so.  Is it any thing to be ashamed of?
Again: when South Carolina and Louisiana under took to imprison such of our colored seamen as were found in their ports,ï¿½not only to imprison, but also in various instances to send them to the auction block, and sell them as slaves to pay their jail fees,ï¿½we called upon the Legislature to protest against this perfidious and oppressive treatment, and to send agents to those States to seek legal redress by taking an appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States. The request was complied withï¿½with what success., gentlemen, you well know. But, surely, the Commonwealth has no reason to be ashamed of its course in this matterï¿½only ashamed that it has been intimiï¿½dated from making a fresh effort to protect the rights of our outraged colored citizens.
Again: In some sections of the State, especially in Boston, colored children were illegally excluded from the benefit of public schools, and compelled to herd together as a separate and despised caste. For a long time, the aristocracy of Boston was contumacious and defiant toward the popular feeling of the State on this point, and resolved that there  should be no blending of white and colored children in the common schools of the city. We asked the Legislature to decree, in unmistakable terms, the abolition of all complexional distinctions in  the schools. It did so: and in Bosï¿½ton, to-day, the blackest child sits quietly and honorably by the side of the whitest. Gentlemen, there is no cause for regret or shame in this act.
Again: the protest of the Legislature has been requested, and granted, against thatï¿½ bill of  abominations,ï¿½ the Fugitive Slave Law, the passage of which excited a thrill of horror throughout the civilized world; and also against the infamous Dred Scott decision, and the swindling Kansas and Nebraska act. What true son of Massachusetts has cause to blush at what has been done in these particulars?
The last thing we have asked, what we are now asking, is, that every fugitive slave coming to this State shall be protected, and that no person from the South may be allowed to hunt him on our soil as though he were a wild beast. All the other requests have been granted, and is this to be denied? Is there any doubt with regard to the public opinion on this subject? Do the people still rule in the Old Bay State? I take it they do; and I affirm that they are ready for this measure. They want no delay, no paltering, no dodging; but they want a decree, simple, plain, explicit, which shall protect every fugitive slave coming within our borders. I trust, gentlemen, that your report will be unanimous, and that you will bring in a bill which shall be most effectual for this purpose. (Applause.)
Gentlemen, the petition implies that Massachusetts now allows slave-hunting on her soil as constitutional. This is either true or it is not. If it be true, then the people of Massachusetts are a commonwealth of kidnappers by constitutional agreement., Hence, every man who does not  protest against the deed is to be put into the category of kidnappers. He may be a gentlemanly man, but he is a gentlemanly kidnapper.

<c06>
He may be a Republican, but he is a Republican kidnapper. He may be a Democrat, but he is a Democratic kidnapper. He may be a Presbyterian, Methodist, or Unitarian, but he is a Methodist, or Unitarian, or Presbyterian kidnapper. Every man who is not for putting an end to this nefarious business becomes an accomplice in it, and, of course, reveals his true character. He shows that, in that direction, and is that extent, his heart has been turned to stone, and that he is willing to trample upon the law of God, and disregard all the claims of bleeding humanity. If it be true that slave-hunters are permitted to us through the Commonwealth, and seize their victims wherever they can find them, then it is time, and the people now say it is time, to put an end to this forever. But if it is not true that there is any law binding us, any contract compelling us to allow this, then, of course, it is the greater shame to us that we have allowed it so long, and there can be no valid objections to the passage of the desired decree. We stand here in the name of the living God to say, that no matter what your parchments may be, or how many contracts you may have made to seize the fugitive, to ï¿½berry the wanderer,ï¿½ the law of God is paramount over all; and your iniquitous parchments are to be given to the consuming fire, your unrighteous pledges are not to be kept, and justice is to be maintained at all hazards.	ï¿½Your covenant with death shall be annulled, and your agreement with hell shall not stand.'ï¿½ If we have made any such covenant, or entered into any such agreement, shame to us that we have kept it so long; it will be to our honor and glory when we trample it beneath our feet.
I cannot, gentlemen, place the same construction upon the Constitution, respecting the rendition of fugitive slaves, which my respected friend Mr. Sewal has done. I cannot plead that it is not in the bond to give up the fugitive slave. It is for those who can to do so; for myself, I cannot outface this nation, and say, that, for seventy years, it has never understood its own Constitution in this particular. I believe that Massachusetts consented, with her eyes open, and for the sake of making a union with the South possible, to allow the slave-hunter to come here, and take his prey; and I would not spend one moment in attempting to argue, on the words of the Constitution, that we have never agreed to do any  such thing. I believe that the intent of a bargain is the bargain, whatever may be the language used, and I would not try to get rid of an obligation, however unjust, by a false interpretation of the instrument. I believe Washington, Franklin, Hamilton, Jefferson, Jay and Marshall, and all those who made the Constitution, and the people who adopted it, understood what they were about. They knew that they agreed to allow a slave representation in Congress; yet the words are not to be found in the Constitution. They intelligently and deliberately agreed that the foreign slave-trade should be prosecuted for the term of twenty years, without Congressional intervention; yet they did not allow the 'termï¿½slave tradeï¿½ to be inserted in the Constitution. They also understandingly agreed that slaves who should escape from their masters into other States, should be given up. Why, gentlemen, the Fugitive Slave Law itself, which creates  universal disgust and horror, does not contain the words runaway slave, or slaveholder, or slave-catcher; in its language, it is entirely unexceptionable. It is the language of the Constitution of the United States ï¿½What a waste of time and effort it would be to argue, from the phraseology of that nefarious law, that it was never designed by Congress to refer to fugitive slaves! Enough that, for seventy years, all the Courts, all the Legislatures, all tho Congresses, and all the people, have understood these compromises of the Constitution in precisely the same way, and pronounced them obligatory. It is too late, therefore, to get up a new and unwarrantable construction of the Constitution, in order to justify us in doing right and obeying God. All I have to say is, as one holding loyalty to God to be paramount in all cases, I care act though every word in the Constitution be for slavery, or every sentence an agreement on our part to stand by it. In that case, it is all null and void, and a crime of the deepest dye for us to carry it out; and so I stand here on the ground of eternal justice, and appeal to the law of the living God, and ask you to do likewise.
 Gentlemen, the cry ofï¿½treason' has been raised in this hall. ï¿½Treason!'ï¿½ I thought treason was something very plainly defined by the Constitution. I understand it to be an overt actï¿½giving aid and comfort to the enemy in time of warï¿½taking up arms against the government. It is no treason in which we are engaged; it is loyalty to Heaven. It is only the reason to the devil and all his works. (Loud applause.) I know they said, of old, when they perpetrated that crime which has shocked all generations since the event took place, and the remembrance of which will go down to the end of the world, causing a universal shudder.ï¿½I know, when they nailed Jesus to the cross between two thieves, they justified themselves by the plea, ï¿½WE HAVE A LAW, and by that law he ought to die; his blood be on us, and on our children.'ï¿½ But I know that they were none the less guilty on that ground, and that their pretended regard for the law was loathsome hypocrisy and horrible impiety. And I maintain that, in view of all the light we enjoy, and living as we do eighteen hundred years after those old dark days of Judaism, it is, before God, a greater crime in us to allow a slave to be carried off from the soil of Massachusetts, than it was in the Jews to allow Jesus to be crucified. We have incomparably more light; and guilt must be in proportion to the amount of light enjoyed and resisted. For myself, I would rather take my chance hereafter with those who put the spear into the side of Jesus, than with those who, in this day, with the gospel of Christ in one hand, and the Declaration of Independence in the other, consent to allow a human being to be transformed into a beast, and to be carried off from our soil to stripes and bondage.
 How is it, gentleman, that latitude and longitude make such a wide moral difference respecting acts that are essentially alike? By the law of the land, you know that whoever seizes a man on the coast of Africa, and makes or helps to make him a slave, is adjudged guilty of piracy. True, the law is now a dead letter; for it is a Slave Oligarchy that rules us; still, it remains the recorded judgment of this nation, that every one who enslaves a native-born African is guilty of piracy. Now,ï¿½a manï¿½s a man for aï¿½ that.'ï¿½ Are we then to consent to be pirates, by joining in the chase, and hunting down those who come to us for safety and protection? Allow me to give you an account of the latest case of an escaped fugitive slave which has taken place in this State. I will read you the narrative, as taken down from the fugitiveï¿½s own lips;ï¿½
'ï¿½On the 4th of December, 1858, I secreted myself on board the brig William Purington, of Boston, Capt. James L. Bryant, then lying at the 	wharf in Wilmington, N. C. Three days afterwards, the brig sailed for Boston. About three days out, I was discovered by the mate of the brig, who informed Capt. Bryant that a runaway slave was on board; whereupon the captain, in a great passion, swore terrible oaths at me. He threatened to blow my brains out, and to send me back to Wilmington, the first chance he could get. I had forty-five or fifty dollars in specie tied up round my body:ï¿½the mate searched me, and took the money from me, in the presence of the captain. I asked the captain to give it back to me, several times, but he only swore at me, and refused, and has never restored it to me. He ordered me into the booby hatch, which was filled mostly with barrels of spirits of turpentine, rosin, &c., to punish me, as I believe. I could not lie down or walk there, but could only sit upon the barrels, for several days and nights. The air was so close there, and so impregnated with the fumes of the spirits of turpentine, that I became almost entirely exhausted. I could neither stand nor walk. I told the mate I should soon die
 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
there; he saw my condition; then the captain ordered me on the open deck, and forbid my going to any other part of the brig, day or night. There I recovered from the bad effects of the spirits of turpentine. I could not sleep upon deck, the weather was so cold; my feet and hands were so badly frost-bitten, that I am yet (Feb. 25th) unable to work, and under the doctor's care.
From the day that I was discovered in the brig, the captain directed that only bread and water should be given to me. He said that was too good for me; but when the crew caught a porpoise, I was allowed some of that. I was treated in a brutal manner, both by the captain and mate. My sufferings were terrible in the booby hatch, and on the deck.
The brig put into Holmes' Hole, and lay there several days. I was obliged to keep upon the deck there I endeavored to get on shore while in that harbor, but could not succeed.
On the evening of Dec. 26, we arrived at the outer harbor of Boston. A pilot-boat came along-side, but the captain refused to take the pilot, saying that he knew the way in. Soon after, he got aground in the Narrows. All hands were then called, and great exertions were made to get the brig afloat; but they could not succeed, as the tide was falling. All hands worked till midnight, and then turned in. I had worked as hard as the rest to help get the brig off, but there was no rest for me. The captain ordered me to remain on deck, work the pump, and keep her free. At daylight, I let myself down into the ship channel, and swam to Lovell's island, a distance of about two hundred feet, as near as I could judge. I then travelled over to the other side of the island, entirely out sight of the brig;-there, in that cold morning, I kept constantly walking to and fro, to keep from freezing, for about two hours, when I spied a small sail boat, and held up my pocket handkerchief as a signal of distress. The boat neared the island; I hailed them, and begged them to take me on board. They did so, and took me up to the city, and landed me upon Commercial wharf.'
Such is the narrative. I know nothing personally of the captain or mate of that vessel, but from this representation, which I have no doubt is strictly true, they are evidently devoid of all the feelings of our common humanity; and the last thing I should wish to do would be to touch the hand of either of them. But, gentlemen, what a case is this! The victim, in our own harbor, in the wintry month of December, throws himself overboard, at the risk of drowing or freezing, in order to effect his escape; for he well understood that he might be taken back to slavery, even. from Massachusetts. The question is, shall he be protected among us; or shall we join with that captain and mate, be as inhuman and brutal as they, seize him, and send him back to the South? Massachusetts says, ‘No; God forbid! Let him remain.’ (Applause)
Gentlemen, let those who raise the cry of disloyalty to the Union, in disparagement of the friends of humanity in this Commonwealth, go to the South, where they belong. They are feverishly anxious, forsooth, that the law should be scrupulously kept, and the compact carefully observed, when fugitive slaves are to be caught; but as to the outlawry of our colored citizens at the South, and the ruthless violation of our own constitutional rights in that section, they have no complaint to make, no censure to bestow. Let them go and seek a residence in Georgia or Alabama. They have no sympathy with the free spirit of Massachusetts, are perfidious to her highest interests, and approvingly see her insulted and dishonored by the entire South. I recommend one member of this House, who represents not the Commonwealth but Carolina, to lose no time in taking the cars southward; and if he is anxious to see the Constitution maintained, let him there begin the work of rebuking and exposing those, who, for the vilest purposes, are ever disregarding its most sacred provisions, before raising the senseless cry of ‘treason!' from these seats, against those who are true to the principles of freedom.
Talk of 'our glorious Union'! THREE IS NO UNION. The free States are conquered provinces— that is all. We are living under a usurpation, bold, audacious, bloody, and the forms of government have become mockeries. There is no Union; and the man who throws up his cap and cries, 'The Union forever!' is morally in a condition to be sent to a madhouse, and have a straight-jacket put upon him. There is no Union—none, I mean, for free souls and manly hearts. There is a Union for slaveholders, slave- traders, slave-speculators, slave-hunters, and their Northern pimps and allies; but none for honest, manly, freedom-loving spirits in this land. Take the last Presidential election, which proves all that I say in regard to our living under a usurpation. James Buchanan is the President of the United States! Just as legally and constitutionally so as Louis Napoleon of France. We have had no constitutional Presidential election. When, in all the slave States, the slaveholders made it perilous to the life of any man to say-‘I am in favor of the election of John C. Fremont'-when, in all the South, it was not possible to hold a Convention in favor of Mr. Fremont, or to nominate and advocate an electoral ticket bearing his name, except at great personal hazard-when border-ruffianism actually took possession of every ballot-box at the South, to secure the election of James Buchanan-was not that the overthrow of the very forms of Republican government, and the triumph of high-handed usurpation? I understand a constitutional election to be this: entire freedom of choice for all parties, without limitation, and without peril-the recognized right to hold meetings, employ speakers, and use all necessary means to operate upon public sentiment, in order to success. This was the freedom accorded to the Democratic party throughout the country. During the campaign, distinguished Southern slaveholders were every where at the North, at all Democratic gatherings of local importance, advocating the claims of its Presidential candidate. They found their way to Bunker Hill, into Faneuil Hall, and down to Plymouth Rock, declaiming against impartial freedom, and hotly opposing the election of Mr. Fremont; but who thought of putting them in bodily peril; Who, in all the North, among the most heated partisans of Mr. Fremont, thought of saying, 'Whoever dares to avow himself in favor of the election of James Buchanan, the candidate of the slave oligarchy, let him be lynched, or driven south of Mason and Dixon's line'? Nobody. On the Democratic side, there was liberty of speech, of locomotion, and of choice, North and South, to the utmost extent. But what Republican ventured down South to advocate the claims of Mr. Fremont? Why did not Mr. Wilson, or Mr. Hale, or Mr. Seward, or any other distinguished leader or advocate of the Republican party go? Because they knew if they went, they would never come back again! Is this the enjoyment of constitutional liberty?
Besides all this, even Southern men.-not Abolitionists, not hostile to slavery in spirit or purpose on Southern soil,-for simply avowing their preference for Mr. Fremont, (as in the case of Prof. Hedrick, of the University of North Carolina, Mr. Underwood of Virginia, and other highly respectable citizens,) were compelled to seek safety in flight, and have not deemed it advisable to return to their homes and firesides, even to this day. In one instance, a friend of Mr. Fremont was shot dead in the presence of his wife, and she obliged to flee for her life. Under such circumstances, this is not a constitutional government, but a bloody usurpation; and a brute-force slave oligarchy reigns over us.
In a recent speech in this city, Gov. Banks intimates that, in his opinion, those who seek a dissolution of the Union are ‘not of women born’! With all due deference, it seems to me, rather, that he who goes for perpetuating such a Union must be made of cast iron, and may therefore be appropriately styled
<c02>
'the little iron man.' I would like to have Gov. Banks, if he dare, go to South Carolina, and simply advocate the non-extension policy of the Republican party. I would like to see him go to any part of the South, and, taking the Constitution with him as his aegis. and waving the American flag over his head, openly tell the slaveholders-'I am against your slave system, root and branch, and I call upon you to cease from your horrible oppression'-and then come back and tell us of his reception, and what he thinks of 'our glorious Union,' and whether he considers it the duty of any to uphold it, except those who are 'not of women born’!
Gentlemen. I know what the plea of the South is, and I admit its full force. They put our colored citizens into jail, they send them to the auction block, they drive them to unrequited toil as slaves on their plantations; and they make you and I outlaws, if we attempt to talk about freedom. Their excuse is the old one, 'Necessity-the tyrant's plea.' They say, and they say truly-'We do the best we can under the circumstances. If we should permit the free colored citizens of the North to come among our slaves, they will whisper of liberty, and incite them to insurrection. We regret that we are driven to this course; we know it is illegal and unconstitutional; but we cannot maintain our slave system without it, and self-preservation is the first law of nature.' And again, with regard to the white citizens of the North who are Abolitionists, they say-‘It will never do for them to come down South, and avow their anti-slavery sentiments; for if they do, they will operate upon the non-slaveholding whites, and ultimately our slaves will be taken out of our hands, and this we cannot permit.’ I admit the force of their plea as slaveholders; and it shows the folly and madness of attempting to form a union between elements that can never coalesce. All the trouble between the North and the South has been to this hour, and will be to the 'bitter end,' not because of a difference of soil and climate, but because of institutions and ideas which are utterly antagonistical; because, in one part of the land, man is man, and in the other, he is reduced by another to the condition of a mere perishable piece of property. So that, when Senator Seward said in his Rochester speech, this anti-slavery movement is no fanaticism, no ebullition of transient feeling, no party device, but grows out of the nature of things-is, because it cannot help being-is, because the nation must be either all for freedom or all for slavery, or else there will be perpetual trouble and conflict-he recognized the simplest truth in the universe. Our fathers, in framing the Constitution, were led in their blindness to undertake to do that which it is not in the power of God to consummate,-for God cannot reconcile good and evil, light and darkness; and no power can put into the same union liberty and slavery, free men and slaves, without confusion and strife. We are driven to the wall, therefore, by the South, in regard to this subject. If we allow slaves to be hunted here,' why is not slavery everywhere right?' asks the South. If you are ready to give us your aid and support and protection in holding four millions of slaves, why not allow us to have twenty millions, if we can get them? Where is your conscience-where your morality-what are your ideas of right and wrong? What is damnable in Massachusetts, morally, must be damnable in Virginia; and you must either go against slavery everywhere, or admit that slavery is right everywhere.' Here, I say, the South has us in the argument, and drives us to the wall, because we occupy a foolish, inconsistent and criminal position.
You will be admonished, doubtless, by those who are unscrupulous in their devotion to Southern interests, that you have taken an oath to sustain the Constitution of the United States. Well, gentlemen, what is that oath? Does it bind you to give up the fugitive slave, or to consent that he shall be hunted on Massachusetts soil with impunity? If it does, put that oath under your feet, and dare not carry it out, as you regard your own souls' salvation. That oath is not binding upon you for a moment. But there is an oath which harmonizes with the law of God; which is on the side of humanity and justice; and which you have taken upon your souls to see fulfilled, as pertaining to the rights of man. It is this:
ARTICLE 1. All men are born free and equal, and have certain natural, essential, and inalienable rights: among which may be reckoned the right of enjoying and defending their lives and liberties; that of acquiring, possessing, and protecting property; in fine, that of seeking and obtaining their safety and happiness.
The oath lies upon your souls, to-day, gentlemen, to maintain these rights. It is an oath that you can and must carry out; an oath that the people of this State are resolved shall be carried out; and if this Legislature will not do it, another one will be chosen which will assuredly stereotype public sentiment into law. 
I have referred to the plea of the South, that she is shut up to the terrible necessity of disregarding all her relations and agreements with us, in order to perpetuate her slave system. Now, I would have nothing done by way of vindictive retaliation; but I would say, as the very worst thing I would have done to the South, for the atrocious injustice she has done to us and our citizens,-I would say, in the language of Whittier—
'Have they wronged us? Let us then 
Render back nor threats nor prayers;
Have they chained our free-born men?
LET US UNCHAIN THEIRS!'(Applause.) 
And that is what the people of Massachusetts are resolved to do.
Pass the law, then; not in anger, nor by way of retaliation-no, but that Massachusetts, in this respect, may stand at least by the side of Austria;-Austria, which proclaims that the moment any slave, from any part of the world, shall touch the deck of an Austrian ship, or any part of the Austrian soil, his chains shall burst asunder, and he shall be protected against recapture or harm by the whole power of the nation. Let the old Bay State try to reach the position of Austria! If the Courts shall nullify what you may enact-it is surmised that they will, but that is to beg the question, and we ought not hastily to conclude that our judges are ravening wolves-but if they should do so, yon will have done your duty. You are not responsible for the action of the Courts, and the people will settle the matter with them.
Gentlemen, I conclude by saying that all opposition to this movement will be unavailing, because it is ‘of heaven, not of men.’ It is the conscience of the; people of the Commonwealth in insurrection against satanic wickedness. The Anti-Slavery struggle is for the freedom of man, without distinction of race or color. It is God who inspires and guides it, who bears it upward and onward; and it is impossible for Him to be overcome or vanquished. No matter who the man may be that shall try his hand against this movement, he will fall in the end. No matter what party may attempt to put it down; that party will be dashed in pieces. It is a rock; and 'whosoever shall fall thereon shall be broken, but on whomsoever it shall fall, it shall grind him to powder.’
‘Tyrants! in vain ye trace the wizard ring!
In vain ye limit mind's unwearied spring:
What! can ye lull the winged winds asleep,
Arrest the rolling world, or chain the deep?
No! the wild wave contemns your sceptred hand
It rolled not back when Canute gave command!’
I conclude by asking you, gentlemen, to join with the people in crying out, in thunder tones, that all the nation may hear, in the language of oar own Lowell-
’From being slave, or making slave,
God save the Commonwealth!’ 
(Loud applause.) 
We are again excessively crowded for room, and compelled to omit a great deal of matter designed for this number, together with many communications. Correspondents must wait patiently.
<c03>
LETTER FROM GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
It is some time since any direct intelligence has been received from our beloved but deeply afflicted friend, GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., and therefore we have not been able to give any definite information as to the actual state of his health. But, a few days since, we received a long and highly interesting letter from Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY, of Syracuse, dated at London, giving a minute account of his interview with Mr. Thompson, with respect to his illness, situation, &c. Since that came to hand, the following letter from Mr. Thompson himself, (as dictated to his son, he being deprived of the use of his hands,) has been received; and though it was written for our special perusal, it is of such a nature, and there are so many friends of Mr. Thompson who will take the liveliest interest in reading it, that we venture to put it in print.
It will be seen that Mr. T. has had a long and distressing illness, from which he is slowly recovering; and that, in consequence of it, his pecuniary resources for the support of his family have been entirely out off. Shall one so deserving, so eloquent in the cause of freedom, so true to principle,-who did so much to strike the fetters from the limbs of eight hundred thousand slaves in the British West Indies, and to electrify this country in the memorable days of 1834-5, in behalf of three millions of slaves on American soil,-be allowed to suffer in this respect? It is desirable, therefore, that a liberal pecuniary testimonial should be sent to Mr. Thompson, from this country, as a token of the regard in which he is held, and of the sympathy which is felt for him and his family in his present adverse situation. Whoever, on reading the letter, may feel desirous of contributing (to however small an extent) to this object-a subscription having been already favorably started-are requested to send their donations either to ROBERT F. WALLCUT, 21 Cornhill, or to FRANCIS JACKSON, Esq., 27 Hollis street, who has kindly consented to act as Treasurer, and to forward the amount to Mr. T. with as little delay as possible.
1 Fentiman Road, South Lambeth,
LONDON, Jan. 31, 1859.
MY DEAR GARRISON:
The two most joyful events which have happened to me, since my return from India in July last, have been the receipt of your letter, and a meeting with our mutually beloved friend, SAMUEL J. MAY. If you had accompanied him, we should have composed the trio which one cold, clear, frosty morning left the door of the Marlboro' Hotel, Washington Street, in a lumbering stage-coach, for the good town of Groton, and the hospitable roof of Dr. Farnsworth. This was a quarter of a century ago. We were all then young men; we have now reached the grand climacteric; but, though advanced in years, we have not left those principles behind us, which at first attracted us to each other, but have carried them with us in our journey of life, and are as much concerned for their spread and triumph, and are even more convinced of their truth and righteousness, than when we first found ourselves in the ardor of comparative youth banded together as recruits and comrades in the glorious struggle for the redemption of the bondman.
Mr. May, notwithstanding the brevity of his stay in London, found time to pay me two visits, and I found srrength enough to be his guide and companion through the labyrinthine halls and corridors of the stately palace of Westminster. From our friend I obtained much valuable light on the position, projects, and prospects of the political and non-political parties in the United States. While I was in India, I received regularly and read with eager appetite the Liberator. I am, therefore, tolerably posted up in all matters relating to the operations of the American Anti-Slavery Society.
I often think that a special Providence has watched over the prominent laborers in the field you were first to enter, now a generation ago. You yourself have been a remarkable instance of God's sustaining power. Of all who gathered around you, in the early days of your Anti-Slavery career, how few have been waited upon by the angel of death! True, some have disappeared, fulling from gradual decay and extreme age-a Lovejoy has sunk under the fire of assassins-a Follen has been mysteriously cut off by a fearful catastrophe-and a Shipley has gone the way of all flesh; but you, with the Chapmans, the Westons, the Quincys, the Phillipses, the Burleighs, the Fosters, the Mays, the Wallcuts, and others still live, fighting beneath the same banner, rallied by the same watch-word, and struggling for the same divine object. Not less singular, nor less worthy to be recorded, has been the all but universal constancy, integrity and fidelity of those who have, from time to time, like the disciples of old, left their secular callings to bear the cross of Anti-Slavery, and to be the followers of Him whose mission it was to preach deliverance to the captive. The annals of the past do not, in my belief, furnish a more striking exemplification of stedfastness and perseverance, on the part of men and women espousing, under the influence of humane feelings and high principles, an unpopular and persecuted cause. No such fruits can be shown among the converts to any system of mere human philosophy; and those who, in their pride and prejudice, brand the abolitionists of the Garrisonian school as infidels would be much perplexed, if called upon to account for the fact, that lives like those which have illustrated the movement, of which you are the honored leader, have been formed on any other code of ethics than that which was promulgated by the great Teacher, who taught his disciples from the Mount of Judea.
You ask me to write you about myself. The 12th of January, 1856, saw me on board a steamer, leaving Marseilles for Malta, on my way for the second time to the banks of the Ganges, on a commission of inquiry into the nature and qualities of the fibrous products of India, with a view to the importation into England of such as might be adapted to the manufacturing interest of the country. My health was then good, and I contemplated a five years' residence abroad, including a visit to China, a tour amongst the Himalayan regions of India, and a journey to Persia. Nothing could exceed the gratification I enjoyed on my way to the place of my destination. The scenery of the Mediterranean-a three days' stay at Malta, (full at the time of bustle and activity, created by the presence of thirteen thousand British troops on shore, and eighteen ships of war in the grand harbor)-a trip from Alexandria to Cairo by railway-and a seven days' detention at Suez, which enabled me to visit Joseph's well in the desert, to join an expedition to set a trap for a hyena, to go to the spot (called the Valley of Encampment) where the Israelites made their last halt before their passage of the Red Sea, and also to the well of Moses on the opposite shore, where Miriam sung her song of triumph,-these and other occupations, with the enjoyment of high spirits, and a climate than which I could conceive nothing more delicious or heavenly, filled up my time, until having got our mails, passengers, and a large amount of treasure on board, we sailed at midnight beneath the light of a full moon for the Rock of Aden, and thence via Ceylon to Calcutta. I landed at the city of palaces on the 25th of February, in time to witness the departure of Lord Dalhousie, the unscrupulous spoliator of the native Princes of India, and the author of the iniquitous Burmese war; and the installation of the present Viceroy, Lord Canning, who is, I believe, a man who would much rather win laurels in fields of peaceful industry, than amidst the horrors and crimes of war. I had not been five months on shore, before I was visited by a violent attack of the liver, and was ordered a voyage to Ceylon for my recovery. I returned, and resumed my duties, and was tolerably well re-established during what is called the cold season. In the following June, my health again gave way, and again I sought, by a trip to Ceylon, to recover it; but in this hope I was disap-
<c04>
pointed. Worse symptoms than any which had before appeared, and which threatened a fatal result, detained me a prisoner in the island for more than three months; during the whole of which time, I ex­perienced an amount of hospitality and kindness at the hands of previously unknown individuals, which not only alleviated my sufferings, but saved my life. Once more I returned to Calcutta, and, trusting to the effect of the cold season, recommenced operations, and continued them until March, 1858, when, utterly broken down, and told by my doctors that nothing but the air of my native climate would raise me up again, I took passage in a screw steamer via the Cape of Good Hope for England. Hitherto, a sea voyage had always had the effect of restoring me when an invalid, but this time such was not the case. My sufferings before I reached the Cape were dreadful, while at the Cape I lost the use of my limbs by paralysis, and reached home in a perfectly helpless condition, requiring the same kind of assistance as an infant,-my food having to be conveyed to my mouth by others, and requiring to be lifted even from one chair to another. During the last six months, I have been gradually recovering; I can walk with almost my accustomed ability, and eat and sleep well. It is my nervous system that is now most affected, and I am incapable of bearing much excitement or mental effort. I am still deprived of the use of my hands for the purpose of writing, and send you this letter by dictation to my son. I have had many invitations to take a share in the agitation now going on, on the Reform question, but have been compelled to decline them, as it would be perilous to venture upon public speaking in my present state; besides which, I cannot dispense with the services of a male attendant, and should not like to be thrown upon the offices of strangers, as I should be, if I at present went from home.
The failure of my health has occasioned the loss of my income, as my salary has been withheld from the time I was forced to relinquish the field of my exertions, and I cannot hope for any from a new source until the re-establishment of my health permits of my entering upon some fresh sphere of labor.
I am greatly cheered by the kind sympathy conveyed to me, through your letter, and the many messages of regard brought me by Mr. May. I wish it were in my power to furnish practical proof of my gratitude; but you must accept, for the present, my assurance that I cherish the strongest possible attachment to the very dear friends with whom it has so long been my privilege and honor to be united, not only by the ties of a common object, but by the most sacred bonds of friendship and affection, only equalled by my admiration of the lofty virtues and inflexible courage which they have displayed in behalf of the down-trodden slave.
I must here leave off, for I am tired. My affectionate remembrances to Mrs. Garrison, to the dear friends at Weymouth, to Wendell and Mrs. Phillips, to Edmund Quincy, to Charles and Mrs. Hovey, to John T. Sargent, (whom I will shortly address a letter to, in reply to his own to me,) Mr. Wallcut, S. May, Jr., and to the whole ‘household of faith’
Now and ever, your affectionate friend,
GEORGE THOMPSON.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
A STRINGENT PERSONAL LIBERTY BILL.
[Correspondence of the New York Tribune.]
ALBANY, Feb. 26, 1859.
Mr. POWELL, from the select Committee to whom were referred the petitions for an act for the better protection of personal liberty, reported this morning by bill entitled ‘An act to protect the rights and liberties of the citizens of the State of New York,’ which provides as follows:
SEC. 1. No person within this State shall be considered as property, or treated as such; nor shall any person within this State be deprived of liberty or property without due process of law.
SEC. 2 Defines due process of law to be the usual process and forms in force by the laws of this State, and provides for a jury trial.
SEC. 3. Whenever any person shall be arrested on the ground of owing service or labor to any person not an inhabitant of this State, either party may claim a jury trial, and shall have 20 peremptory challenges in addition to the challenges to which a person indicted is now entitled.
SEC. 4. Every person who shall deprive or attempt to deprive any other person of his or her liberty, contrary to the provisions of the preceding sections of this act, shall be guilty of a felony, and subject to a fine of $1,000 to $5,000, and imprisonment from 5 to 20 years.
SEC. 5. Neither descent, near or remote, from an African, whether such African is or may have been a slave or not, nor color of skin or complexion, shall disqualify any person from being or becoming a citizen of this State; nor deprive such person of the rights and privileges thereof.
SEC. 6. Every person who may have been held as a slave, who shall be brought or come to this State, shall be free.
SEC. 7. Every person who shall hold or attempt to hold in this State, in slavery or as a slave, any person or any free person, in any form, or for any time, however short, under the pretence that such person is or has been a slave, shall be imprisoned in the penitentiary for a term of 5 to 20 years and fined from $1,000 to $10,000.
SEC. 8. Any person sustaining wrong or injury by any proceeding punishable by the preceding sections of this act, may maintain an action and recover damages therefore in any Court of record of this State.
SEC.. 9. No person, while holding any office of honor, trust, or emolument, under the laws of this State, shall in any capacity issue any warrant or other process, or grant any certificate under or by virtue of the Fugitive Slave Bill, or shall in any capacity serve any such warrant or other process.
SEC. 10 Provides that any person who shall violate any provisions of Sec. 9 of this Act shall be deemed to have resigned any office he may hold under the laws of this State, and shall be thereafter forever ineligible to any office of trust, honor, or emolument, under the laws of this State.
SEC. 11. Any person acting as attorney or counsel for a slave-hunter, shall forfeit any office he may hold under the laws of this State, and shall be debarred from practising in the Courts of the State.
SEC. 12 Subjects any Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff, Constable, Policeman, or other State, County, City, or Town officer of this State who shall arrest, imprison, detain, or aid in arresting or returning any person adjudged to be a fugitive slave, to imprisonment from two to ten years, and a fine from one to ten thousand dollars.
SEC. 13 Requires the Governor, by and with the advice of the Senate, to appoint in each county of the State an Attorney, whose duty it shall be to defend all persons claimed as fugitive slaves, to receive $50 for each person so defended, to be paid by the State on the warrant of the Governor.
This bill, which it will be seen contains some of the more important features of the personal liberty laws of Vermont and Massachusetts, was drawn by Mr. C. S. Spencer, and the Assembly by a vote of 65 to 26, made it the special order for Wednesday next at 12 o’clock. That vote looks very well, and it is to be hoped that the ‘curvature of the spine’ does not prevail to such an extent as to endanger the passage of this bill through the Legislature.
Dr. CHEEVER delivered a grand address in the Assembly Chamber last evening, in behalf of the passage of such a law as is proposed. The Chamber was well filled with attentive listeners, but it is to be regretted that but few members of the Legislature, for whose enlightenment the address was made, were present. They, however, were the losers, for the address was one of the most terse, compact, vigorous statements of the claims of freedom over slavery, to which I ever listened, and I have heard some speaking on that sub­ject in my time. As strange as it may appear, the speech contained a number of new and strong points against the inherent wrong of Slavery, and the way the Doctor did hurl the thunderbolts of God’s wrath against slaveholders and their abettors, was a caution to that kind of sinners. The address ought to be published, and extensively circulated.
A cold-blooded assassination took place in Washington, on Sunday last. Dan. Sickles, member of Congress for the city of New York, deliberately shot Philip Barton Key, Attorney General for the District of Columbia, and son of the author of the ‘Star Spangled Banner.’ Key was unarmed: he survived but a few minutes. The alleged provocation for killing him was his seduction of Sickle's wife.- Sickle was committed to prison.
<c05>
A FATHER INCARCERATED FOR HARBORING HIS OWN CHILD-JUSTICE AT WASHINGTON.
(Correspondent of the N. Y Tribune)
WASHINTON, Feb. 22, 1859.
A case has recently fallen under my observation which illustrates what may be done in the interest of Slavery under the laws of the District of Columbia. Let me state the facts as they are:
A free colored man, named Emanuel Mason, lives on Capitol Hill. His wife and children are owned by his former master, from whom he bought his own freedom, and who lives at the other end of the town. Mason has been in the habit of hiring his wife from time to time, and of supporting his children until they were old enough to be of service to their master. His youngest son, born in his house, lived there until he was ten years of age, when the master demanded him. The father thought that if he must give up his boy, to be taken he knew not where, it was at least fair that he should receive some remuneration for bringing him up, from the man to whom all his future earnings would go. This being refused, the boy was not to be found.
A warrant of arrest, founded upon a charge of harboring his own son, was issued against the father by a magistrate named Ferguson, who, in conjunction with a county constable named Reynolds, served it himself, and thrust the poor negro into a Washington jail. The next day, he was brought before the mag­istrate, but refused to disclose the whereabouts of his boy, and was remanded to prison. On the ensuing day, he was bailed out, against the cautious advice of the magistrate, by a humane gentleman of this city.
Two days subsequently, I witnessed his mock trial before the same magistrate who arrested him. In proof of his guilt, the affidavit of an interested witness in the city, who might have appeared personally-as in law he was bound to do-but was unwilling to do so, was offered and admitted as evidence. Of this affidavit the defendant had no previous notice or knowledge. 
To an objection from the counsel for the defence, the magistrate replied that the accused had had notice, for he had himself mentioned in his presence that such an affidavit would be taken, which is true, but he had not intimated the time or place, nor given the defendant any legal notice thereof whatever. In reply to the objection that the evidence, if competent, could not be deemed sufficient to hold the prisoner for trial, the magistrate said that 'if Mr. Diggs of Maryland were present, he had no doubt that his testimony would make the evidence strong enough; as it was, he thought it probable.’
On this insufficient and exparte testimony, he said that he should hold the prisoner to bail in the sum of $2,000 to answer at the next Criminal Court of the City of Washington the charge of harboring his own son! While the friend of the accused was remonstrating against the excessive and unreasonable amount of bail, his counsel also suggesting that $500 would secure his appearance at Court, the magistrate became so excited as to say that if he went on talking, he would raise the bail still higher. Such is legal justice in this city-a fair specimen, according to my observation, during the last two years.
This case is, indeed, hard. The little son alluded to is the last of a number that have been forcibly taken from their father, as fast as he has reared them, and now that the oppressor cannot find the last remaining object of a heart-broken parent's love, in order to sell it off to the far South, this free American father is to be tried in a criminal court of the Federal metropolis for the crime of having harbored his only child.
MARTYN

CRISPUS ATTUCKS.
The subscriber proposes a Meeting and Levee, on Monday evening, March 7th, at Upper and Lower Chapman Halls, in commemoration of the Leadership and Martyrdom of CRISPUS ATTUCKS, the Colored American, in Boston, March 5th, 1770, the day which History has selected as the dawn of the American Revolution.
The exercises will consist in part of speeches from a galaxy of distinguished friends of freedom, interspersed with vocal music, original and appropriate to the occasion, performed by volunteer Glee Clubs, and choice selections on the Piano, augmented by Gates’s full Quadrille Band.
Among those who have been invited to participate during the evening are, Wendell Phillips, Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Charles Lenox Remond, Hon. Thomas Russell, Dr. John S. Rock, Hon. John A. Andrew, and Rev. J. B. Smith.
Tickets to the whole, 75 cents each. To be obtained at 21 Cornhill, and at the door. Admittance to the meeting, (exclusive,) 10 cents. Doors open at half-past 7 o’clock. Exercises to commence at 8 o’clock. 
Every effort will be made to ensure satisfaction to all whose presence evinces their appreciation of the man, and of the deed which has immortalized his name. 
WILLIAM C. NELL. 
Boston, March 4, 1859.

NOTE FROM MR. HIGGINSON. 
Will Mr. Garrison notice the following important errata in the report of my remarks in the last Liberator?
1. At middle of second column, for ‘Horace Mann said, I am told,’ read, Horace Mann once said to me.’
2. Second column, 27th line from bottom, dele the first not,’ and for ‘but’ read ‘and,’ three lines after. 
Your reporter, who is commonly almost infallible, misunderstood me in both cases. In the last case he makes me hold to the pro-slavery construction of the Constitution, whereas I took the contrary position, so far as I took any.
T. W. H.
Worcester, March 1, 1859.
NEW MUSIC. The following pieces have just been published by OLIVER DITSON &Co., 277 Washington street, Boston:—
Le Brindisi. Valse brillante par F. Burgmuller.
Vocal Beauties of Flotow's Opera, Martha. Povero Lionello, &c
Pride Schottisch, by Fred. W. Brower.
The New Caledonian Quadrilles, arranged with the original figures by J. S. Knight. These Quadrilles have been recently introduced to supplant the Lancers.
I'm a laughing Zingarella, the Gipsy’s Song, composed by Abelli.
Newport Lancer Quadrilles, as performed by various bands at balls in Newport and the great cities. 
Satanella, the new Opera composed by M. W. Balfe.
Grand Juggernaut March, played in the Grand Spectacle of the Cataract of the Ganges, at the Bos­ton Theatre. Composed, and respectfully dedicated to Thos. Barry, Esq., by Thos. Comer. 
Children. Written by Henry W. Longfellow; music by William R. Dempster.
Good Morrow. Sung by Sig. Mario, Sims Reeves and others. Music by Frank Mori.
Hunting Tour; or, 'When ye gang away, Jamie.' Scotch Song, arranged by John Deman.
CHARLES C. BURLHIGH’S SPEECH, at the late Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, is now published in a neat pamphlet form, for circulation. It is most admirably adapted to help forward the good work, which is sufficiently described in its title,-'No SLAVE-HUNTING IN THE OLD BAY STATE.’ Let the edition be immediately bought, and put into circulation. It is for sale at the following low prices:-By the hundred, $3.00; dozen, 50 cts.; single, 5 cents. 
A large edition of Wendell Phillips’s eloquent argument, addressed to the Committee of the Legislature, in behalf of a law to prohibit slave-catching in Massachusetts, has been published in neat pamphlet form, and is for sale at this office, at the following low prices: By the hundred $2 50; dozen, 40 cts.; single, 5 cts. Friends! help to circulate this valuable argument!
Rev. Theodora Parker has safely arrived at Havana, after a very rough passage. The latest intelligence received from him, we are happy to state, is decidedly encouraging, as all the symptoms of his case were favorable. He has gone to St. Croix.
<c06>
FUGITIVE SLAVES. 
The Vigilance Committee of Boston would informs the friends of Fugitive Slaves, that they have been, and probably will continue to be, constantly in want of places, where such fugitives can obtain employment. Any one in want, or who can employ such help, is earnestly requested to apply to R.F.WALLCUT, 21 Cornhill, or, by letter, to FRANCIS JACKSON, Boston, stating what employment they can give.

TREASURER'S REPORT 
Of Receipts, from February 1, to March 1, 1859. Ree'd of S. May, Jr., donations and collections made at annual meeting, $432 94
Also from S. May, Jr., for collections from R .H. Ober $10, Sylvanus Smith, East Boston, 5,E.S. Page, Boston, 1,JohnB, Prince, Lynn, 10, James N. Buffum, do,. 50,-all to redeem pledges,-from Susan Mayhew, New Bedford, donation, 1, 77.00
From Sallie Holley:-Collections at Paxton 1 53, Rutland 5 27, West Boylston 4 26, of Miss Caldwell 1, at Athol 1,Montague 11 46, of Rev. C. Bradford 1, at Greenfield 5 09, Deerfield 4 50, Rowe 4 72, Northampton 2 92, Florence 10, Hopkinton 16 02, Dorehester 16, West Cambridge 8 67, waltham 6,Greenwood 3, Stoneham 4 25, Stoneham Ladies’ A. S. Society S, 8, a friend 12, 126 69
SAMUEL PHILBRICK,
Treas, Mass, A. S. Society.
Brookline, March 1, 1859
The General Agent of the Liberator acknowledges to have received the following sums from subscribers in England and Ireland, by Richard D. Webb, Esq.:
From Miss Whitelegge, Manchester, Eng., $3 00, paying to Jan. 1st .1859.
From Rev. S. A. [Steinthal, Eng., 3 00, paying to do. " Joshua Sharrutt, Buckley, Eng., 1 76, paying to do.
From Rev. Dr. Joseph Hutton, Derby, Eng., 3 00, paying to do.
From Mrs. Henry Turner, Lentonfield, Ireland, 4 80, paying to Jan. 1,1860.
From James Haughton, Dublin, Ireland, 3 00, paying to Jan. 1, 18.59.
From Mrs.Eliza Jacob, Ballytore, Ireland, 4 80, paying to Jan.1, 1859.
From Maria Waring, (Mrs. Palmer,) Waterford, Ireland, 4 80, paying to Jan,.1, 1860.
From Miss Barrington. (old act.) Dublin, Ireland, 3 00, paying to Jan. 1, 1859.
Mrs. FOLLEN, on behalf of the Managers of the late Anti-Slavery Subscription-Anniversary, acknowledges the following additional contributions:
A lady in Brookline, $20 00
William I. Bowditch, Esq., 30 00
Miss Mattie Griffith, New York, 5 00
ROCKPORT.-An Anti-Slavery meeting will be held in Rockport, on Sunday, March 6th, day and evening. WM. LLOYD GARRISON and PARKER PILLSBURY, on account of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will be present. 
SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will speak in PORTSMOUTH, N. H., on Sunday next, March 6.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will speak on Slavery at HOPKINTON, (Hayden Row,) on Sunday forenoon and afternoon, March 13th, at the usual hours of religious services. He will also address the citizens of MILFORD, on the evening of that day, in the Town Hall, on ‘Garrisonian Infidelity’.
E.H.HEYWOOD will speak in
Montague, sunday, March 6.
Deerfield, Tuesday, "8.
Greenfield, Wednesday "9.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture in Newburyport, on Sunday, March 6.Subject, in the afternoon: The Christ of Calvary, and the Christ of Christendom-the difference between them;-in the evening: The Mission of Woman as a Wife and Mother.
TO THE FRIENDS OF THE FUGITIVE.-A robust and able-bodied fugitive slave from the South-a carpenter, who has worked many years at house-building, framing and finishing-wants a place. Apply to R.F.WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery Office, 21 Cornhill, or, by letter, to FRANCIS JACKSGN.
WANTED—-An opportunity to learn bookbinding, by a young woman. Apply to W.C.NELL, 21 Cornhill.
COLORED BOYS AND GIRLS.-A good colored Boy can hear of a situation in a family a few miles from Boston. Apply to W.C.NELL, 21 Cornhill.
An amiable colored girl of 10 or 12 years of age, whose parents or guardians would be willing she should accompany a lady to Europe, can hear of such a situation by applying as above.
WANTS A SITUATION.-A widow lady wishes to get a situation to wait on a lady, or to work as seamstress in a respectable family. 
Apply at this office, or at 6 Stillman street. 
DIED-In Charlestown, Feb.23, BATHSHEBA, Wife of Samuel Fowler, aged 78 years.
In this city, Jan. 22, Mrs. MARY ELSBURY, aged 68; Feb.19, Mrs. SUSAN W. AKINS, aged 83.

NOW READY.
The Life of
JOHN H. W. HAWKINS,
THE GREAT APOSTLE
OF THE
WASH1NGTONIAN TEMPERANCE REFORMATION.
THE LIFE of a most extraordinary and useful man, and faithful and indefatigable laborer in behalf of degraded humanity. It is a book which no person can read without being stimulated to noble deeds.
All orders for the Book, or for Agencies, should be addressed to the Publishers,
Fifty Thousand should be sold in six months.
It makes a handsome 12mo. volume of 420 pages, with several wood-cuts, and a fine steel portrait of Mr. Hawkins. Price $1.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO.,
20 Washington street, Boston.
February 11. 4wis 
Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma, Croup, Whooping Cough, Diseases of the Throat and Lungs, and Pulmonary Affections,
Of the severest type, are quickly cured by that long-tried and faithful remedy,
DR. W1STAR'S BALSAK OF WILD CHERRY.
Says a well-known Editor-'This is truly a balsam and a blessing to invalids. It contains the pure balsamic principle of Wild Cherry, the balsamic properties of tar and of pine. Its ingredients, which are mingled after the true principle of chemistry, are all balsamic, and therefore it is safe and sure in effect. Coughs, Colds, Consumption, and Bronchial troubles disappear under its balsamic influence as though charmed away. Probably no medicine has ever attained so extended a sale, or accomplished so much good, as this renowned Balsam.’ 
CASSVILLE, (Ga.) Feb. 26, 1858. 
Messrs. SETH FOWLS & CO., Boston, Mass.:
GENTLEMEN-At the request of your Travelling Agent, I give you a statement of my experience in the use of DR. Wistar's Balsam of Wild Cheery. I have been using it for two years in my family, for Colds and Coughs, and have found it the most efficacious remedy that I have ever tried. For Colds and Coughs in children, I know it to be an excellent medicine.
Respectfully yours,
JOHN H. RICE.
The genuine article always has written the signature of ‘I. BUTTS’ on the wrapper, and is for sale by all respectable Druggists everywhere.
Prepared by SETH W. FOWLE & CO., BOSTOM, and for sale by dealers in Medicine in nearly every town in New England. Feb. 25-4 tis

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
For the Liberator.
A WINTER MORNING.
Oh! fairy world in the red light!
Saw you ever in dream-land aught more bright
Then this strange work of the storm last night?
No Genii of ocean hare beauty more grand
Than springs to the light from the frost-spirit's wind.
Bright flash the diamonds aloft on the trees,
Brilliant as gems that are brought from the seas,
Grand like the stars “gait the deep blue sky,
And sparkle rich light from the grass where they lie.
Aye! the tiniest blade and the creeping vine
Are as royally decked as the oak and pine;
And not the lees grand do they look in their pride
For the dazzling glory beneath, at their side;
While towering in splendor, their gems the most fair,
Fling out their rich light around every where
'Mong columns of crystal and pillers of light,
And arches of pearl, and garlands of white.
'Tis only the winter can give you a scene
'To dazzle your sight with its glorous sheen.
KATE.

For the Liberator. 
THEODORE PARKER.
May the soft air
Of summer climes bring healing in its wings!
We cannot spare him yet; earth needs the heavenly light
Of his pure soul. Our eyes may ne'er have seen
The flash of his, nor heard his eloquence;
But his high thoughts are winged with fire
Of God's great truths; they kindle light afar,
Revealving life—the real life—the life with God,
So deeply rich, so grandly beautiful. KATE.

ODE TO THE OENTENARY OF BURNS.
AN ENGLISH PRIZE POEM, BY ISA CRAIG.
We hail, this morn,
A century's noblest birth;
A Poet-peasant born,
"Who more of Fancy's immortal dower
Unto his country brings
Than all her kings!
As lamps high set
Upon some earthy eminence,-
And to the gazer brighter thence
Than the sphere-lights they flout, 
Dwindle in the distance and die out,
While no star waneth yet;
So through the Past's far-reaching night,
Only the star-souls keep their light.
A gentle boy,—
With moods of sadness and of mirth,
Quick tears and sudden joy,—
Grew up beside the peasant's hearth.
His father's toil he shares;
But half his mother's cares
From his dark searching eyes,
Too swift to sympathize,
Hid in her heart she bears.
At early morn,
His father calls him to the field; 
Through the stiff soil that clogs his feet,
Chill, rain, and harvest heat,
He plods all day; returns at eve outworn,
To the rude fare a peasant's lot doth yield:
To what else was he born?
The God-made King
Of every living thing,
(For his great heart in love could hold them all,)
The dumb eyes meeting his by hearth and stall—
Gifted to understand!—
Knew it, and sought his hand; 
And the most timorous creature hath not fled,
Could she his heart have read,
Which fain all feeble things had bless'd and sheltered.
To Nature's feast,—
Who knew her noblest guest,
And entertained him best,—
Kingly he came. Her chambers of the east
She drap'd with crimson and with gold,
And poured her pure joy-wines
For him the poet-souled, 
For him her anthem roll'd, 
From the storm-wind among the winter pines,
Down to the slenderest note
Of a love-warble from the linnet's throat.
But when begins
The array for battle, and the trumpet blows, 
A King must leave the feast, and lead the fight.
And with its mortal foes— 
Grim gathering hosts of sorrows and of sins—
Each human soul must close.
And Fame her trumpet blew 
Before him; wrapp'd him in' her purple state;
 And made him mark for all the shafts of fate,
That henceforth round him flew.
Though he may yield.
Hard press'd, and wounded fall, 
Forsaken on the field, His regal vestment soil'd;
His crown of half its jewels spoil'd;
He is a king for all.
Had he but stood aloof!
Had he but arrayed himself in armor proof
Against temptation's darts!
So yearn the good: so those the world calls wise,
With vain presumptuous hearts,
Triumphant moralize.
Of martyr woe 
A sacred shadow on his memory rests;
Tears have not ceased to flow; 
Indignant grief yet stirs impetuous breasts,
To think,—above that noble soul brought low, 
That wise and soaring spirit, fool'd, enslav'd,—
Thus, thus he had been saved! 
It might not be!
That heart of harmony
Had been too rudely rent;
Its silver chords, which any hand could wound,
By no hand could be tun'd,
Save by the Maker of the instrument,
In every string who knew,
And from profaning touch His heavenly gift withdrew.
Regretful love
His country fain would prove 
By grateful honors lavished on his grave:
Would fain redeem her blame 
That he so little at her hands can claim,
Who unrewarded gave
To her his life-bought gift of song and fame.
The land he trod
Hath now become a place of pilgrimage; 
Where dearer are the daisies of the sod 
That could his song engage;
The hoary hawthorn, wreath'd
Above the bank on which his limbs he flung,
While some sweet plaint he breath'd;
The streams he wander'd near;
The maidens whom he lov'd; the song he sung:—
All, all are dear!
The arch blue eyes,— 
Arch but for love's disguise,— 
Of Scotland'! daughters, soften at his strain;— 
Her hardy sons, sent forth across the main 
To drive the ploughshare through earth's virgin soils,
Lighten with, it their toils;
And sister-lands have learned to love the tongue
In which such songs are sung. 
For doth, not song 
To the whole world belong?
Is it not given wherever tears can fall, 
Wherever hearts can melt, or blushes glow, 
Or mirth and sadness mingle as they flow,
A heritage to all?
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
A CASE OF PARTIAL BLINDNESS.
The Rex. Henry Ward Beecher, annoyed, as it would seem, by the criticisms of some of his clerical brethren upon his sayings in the pulpit and his doings on the platform, has lately published, in two numbers of the Independent, a defence of his position, and an explanation of his defence.
Mr. Beecher is ranked by others, and evidently ranks himself, as a Trinitarian. Yet, in both the documents in question, he treats the First Person of the Orthodox Trinity with such slight regard-nay considering what are the natural and appropriate relations of a Father to children, we might even say, with such disparagement-as to make his statement well worthy of note in the theological history of the times.
The church of which Mr. Beecher is pastor affirms its belief in one God, existing as The Father, The Son, and The Holy Ghost-three Persons, equally Divine.' And this is a general expression of the belief of Mr. Beecher also. But, the criticisms of the New York Observer having moved Mr. Beecher to give a more particular and minute statement of his individual belief, and also to set his belief strongly in contrast with a very different one, which he chooses to represent as the belief of Theodore Parker, he made the following statement respecting it in the Independent:
'Could Theodore Parker worship my God?-Christ Jesus is his name. All that there is of God to me is bound up in that name. A dim and shadowy effluence rises from Christ, and that I am taught to call the Father. A yet more tenuous and invisible film of thought arises, and that is the Holy Spirit. But neither is to me aught tangible, restful, accessible. They are to be revealed to my knowledge hereafter, but now only to my faith.'
The New York Observer, itself holding a firm belief in the equality, and the equal divinity, of the Three Divine persons, was of course shocked by this statement. It was naturally dissatisfied to see the First of these persons (primus inter pares) reduced ‘ dim and shadowy effluence,' and the Third tenuous and invisible film of thought,' and both these represented as arising from the Second, and contrasting unfavorably -with him in the important point of giving help in time of need-of, restful, accessible'-and it opposed this representation in strong and decidedly personal language. To be sure, this was only Mr. Beecher's individual opinion; but he was an Orthodox clergyman in regular standing, and his opinions influenced a large number of people; and after the Reverend editors of the observer had been teaching to thousands of new converts, during the past year, that they might properly address their prayers to God the Father, and also to God the Holy Spirit-and might expect to find both these ‘tangible, restful, accessible,' to the sincere worshipper-it must have been unpleasant to see all this so unceremoniously set aside by a brother clergyman of the Orthodox faith. They remonstrated in a manner somewhat acrid, and Mr. Beecher replied-still in the Independent-with a reaffirmation of his position, and the following additional statements in regard to his idea-or his want of idea-of The Father:-
'To our mind Christ is clear, definite, manifest, most accessible. But the Father is not.'
'Except in Christ, I have but little conception of the Father.'
It is very common with Orthodox clergymen to be so intent upon exalting the name, and their professional theory of the character, of Jesus of Nazareth, called Christ, as to disobey and reverse the instructions of that very person. He represented God the Father as eminently ‘accessible.' He spoke of Him to his disciples  Father and your Father,' and not only recommended their direct application to this Father in prayer, hut gave them a formula of application, as follows, in which there is not the slightest intimation of the need of a mediator between child and Father:-
'Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory, forever. Amen.'
So much for the statements and the precepts of Jesus. But this great characteristic feature of his system, that which makes it a Gospel-good news-glad tidings-the doctrine of the paternal relation of God to man, and of the filial relation of man to God, has been beautifully amplified and illustrated by many of those who have ‘been with Jesus, and have learned of him.' Here are two such passages, which Mr. Beecher might profitably rend. The first is from a book ‘Dred,'1 written by one Mrs. Stowe:-
'I stand so much alone!' said Nina. ’girls have some friend or relation to lean on; but I have nobody!'
'Why don't you ask your Father to help you?' said Milly to Nina, in a gentle tone.
'Ask who!' said Nina, lifting up her head from the pillow.
'Your Father!' said Milly, with a voice of solemnity. you Father who art in heaven You haven't forgot your prayers, I hope, honey?'
Nina looked at her with surprise. And Milly continued: ‘Now, if I was you, lamb, I would tell my Father all about it. Why, chile, he loves you! He wouldn't like nothing better, now, than to have you just come to Him, and tell Him all about' your troubles, and he'll make 'em all straight. That's the way I does; and I's found it come out right, many and many a time.'
'Why, Milly, you wouldn't have me go to God about my little foolish affairs?'
'Law, chile, what should you go to, den? Sure dese are all’s got.'
'Well, but, Milly,' said Nina, apprehensively, ‘you know l’ve been a very bad girl about religion. It's years and years since I've said any prayers. At school, the girls used to laugh at anybody who said prayers; and so I never did. And, since I' ve neglected my heavenly Father when things went -well with me, it wouldn't be fair to call on him now, just because I've got into trouble. I don't think it would be honorable.'
'De Lord bless dis yer chile Do hear her talk! Just as if de heavenly Father didn't know all about you, and 't been a loving and watching you de whole time Why, chile, he knows what poor foolish creatures we be, and he an't no ways surprised nor put out. Why, laws, don't you know he's de good shepherd And what you suppose dey has shepherds fur, de sheeps are all de time running away, and getting into trouble Why, honey, dot's what dey's fur!'
Milly evidently thought that God the Father was accessible. The other passage we wish to quote, as a clear expression of the same view, is from Theodore Parker's first published volume, ‘A Discourse of Matters Pertaining to Religion,' as follows:-
'The world w not nearer to our bodies than God to the soul;' for in him we live and move, and have our being.' As we have bodily senses to lay hold on matter and supply bodily want, through which we obtain, naturally, all needed material things; so we have spiritual faculties, to lay hold on God, and supply spiritual wants; through them we obtain all needed spiritual things. As we observe the conditions of the body, we have nature on our side; as we observe the Law of the Soul, we have God on our side. He imparts truth to all men who observe these conditions; we have direct access to Him, through Reason, Conscience and the religious Sentiment, just as we have direct access to nature, through the eye, the ear, or the hand. Through these channels, and by means of a law, certain, regular and universal as gravitation, God inspires men, makes revelation of truth; for is not truth as much a phenomenon of God, as motion of matter? Therefore if God be omnipresent and omni active, this inspiration is no miracle, but a regular mode of God's action on conscious spirit, as gravitation on unconscious matter. It is not a rare condescension of God, but a universal uplifting of man. To obtain a knowledge of duty, man is not sent away, outside of himself, to ancient documents, for the only rule of faith tad practice; the Word is very nigh him, even in his heart and by this Word he is to try all documents whatever. Inspiration, like God's omnipresence is not limited to the few writers claimed by the Jews,
<c03>
Christians, or Mahometans, but is co-extensive with the race. As God fills all space, so all spirit; as he influences and constrains unconscious and necessitated matter, so he inspires and helps free and conscious man.
This theory does not make God limited, partial, or capricious. It exalts man. While it honors the excellence of a religious genius, of a Hoses or a Jesus. it does not pronounce their character monstrous, as the supernatural, nor fanatical, as the rationalistic theory; but natural, human, and beautiful, revealing the possibility of mankind. Prayer,-whether conscious or spontaneous, a word or a feeling, felt in gratitude, or penitence, or joy, or resignation,-is not a soliloquy of the man, not a physiological function, nor an address to a deceased, man; but a sally into the infinite spiritual world, whence we bring back light and truth. There are windows towards God, as towards, the world. There is no intercessor, angel, mediator between man and God; for man can speak, and God hear, each for himself. He requires no advocate to plead for men, who need not pray by attorney. Each soul stands close to the omnipresent God; may feel his beautiful presence, and have familiar access to the All-Father; get truth at first hand from its Author.'-pp. 215-217.
The writer of this also plainly teaches that God, the Father of all men, is accessible to all.
We wish to call particular attention to the fact, that this view of the character of God, which runs through the whole of Mr. Parker's numerous religious and theological -writings, and which is substantially expressed twenty times in different portions of them, is clear, distinct, and unambiguous.
We had charitably formed the opinion that Henry Ward Beecher, being less fettered by tradition and by clerical usage than the majority of Orthodox clergymen, was more honest than they in his dealings with theological opponents. Judge then of our surprise in reading, in this same article, immediately after along quotation from Mr. Parker, describing the idea of God taught in the popular theology, the following sentence.-
'What Mr. Parker's positive views of God are, we find it some chat difficult to tell from his writings.'
Any reader of Mr. Beecher's article who is acquainted with the very full expression of Mr. Parker's positive view of God which runs through all his sermons, and who is at the same time disposed to make a charitable construction of the very extraordinary statement above, will naturally ask himself-Has Mr. Beecher read none of Mr. Parker's statements but the paragraph just quoted? Has he calumniated Mr. Parker without taking the trouble to read him? A subsequent sentence in Mr. Beecher's article renders this supposition inadmissible; for he says-
'Neither can we believe that the Observer would do I so unscrupulous and dishonorable a thing as to have avowed its preference for Theodore Parker's views of God, without having read what Mr. Parker did believe.'
Mr. Beecher then has read, and searched-to a certain extent-the writings of Mr. Parker. He considers his acquaintance with them sufficient to authorize him to speak very unfavorably of them. He quotes two more passages from them in this very article; and he proceeds from the passage last quoted (above)to say-taking (or rather, as we shall proceed to show, making) an opportunity to be severe upon the observer:-
‘There are quite a number of things in Mr. Parker's books which the Observer had better read before adopting. For instance, adopting the ideas of Ann Lee, on p. 107, he speaks ‘God as the Infinite Father, as the Infinite Mother of all.' Does the Observer embrace the Shaker doctrine, that God is male and female?'
It is a pity that Mr. Beecher's patience and perseverance in the investigation of Mr. Parker's views of God lasted only through the collection of passages which might be turned against him! It is a pity that, before representing Mr. Parker as teaching that God is limited by the imperfections of male and female, he had not found (p. 27 of the ‘Discourse on the Function of a Teacher of Religion') this better and real reason for Mr. Parker's speaking of God as Father and Mother:-
'There are no types in human affairs to represent the relation of the Infinite God to man. The words of tenderest and most purely affectional human intimacy best convey the idea; so let us call God our Father and our Mother, too.'
It is a great pity that Mr. Beecher did not persevere till he found, in this same sermon, the two following passages, which give at once Mr. Parker's positive views of God' and the sentiment -which he feels, expresses and inculcates, in relation to Him:- 'God must have all-conceivable perfection-the perfection of Being, self-existent, eternity of duration, endless and without beginning; of Power, all mightiness; of Mind, all knowingness; of Conscience, all righteousness; of Affection, all lovingness; of Soul; all holiness, absolute fidelity to himself. These words describe the Idea of God, and distinguish it from all others; but these qualities do not exhaust the perfections of God, only our present conception thereof.' p. 21.
'If God be preached to men as endowed with Infinite Perfection, He at once is felt as the object of desire for every spiritual faculty; to the Mind, Infinite Wisdom-the Author of all Truth and Beauty; to the Conscience, Infinite Justice-the Creator of all Right; to the Affections, Infinite Love-the Father and Mother, of all things which are; to the Soul, Infinite Holiness-Absolute Fidelity. So here is presented to man the Infinite God-perfectly powerful, wise, just, loving and holy, self-subsistent, self-reliant. Is any man an atheist to such a God No, not one 1 Who can fail to love him?' p. 32.
But, above all, it is a pity that Mr. Beecher's patience did not last long enough to read to the end of the half-sentence which he has quoted in disparagement of Mr. Parker from the third sermon of his book ‘Sermons of Theism, Atheism, and the Popular Theology.' With only three seconds further expenditure of time and attention, he might have found, and qualified himself to tell-what at present he finds it' somewhat difficult to tell'-what Mr. Parker's positive views of God are! Here is the entire sentence:-
' From behind this dark and thundering cloud of the popular theology, how beautifully comes forth the calm, clear light of natural human religion, revealing God as the Infinite Father, as the Infinite Mother of all, PERFECTLY POWERFUL, PERFECTLY WISE. PERFECTLY JUST AND LOVING, AND PERFECTLY HOLY TOO!'
When Mr. Beecher's friends next make for him  Party,' we hope they will supply him with a pair of spectacles and a mirror.-c. K W

MR. PHILLIPS ON THOMAS PAINE.
EDITOR LIBERATOR:
DEAR SIR-Mr. Phillips, in his argument before the Legislative Committee last Thursday, misinterpreted, as I think, the expression which he quoted from Paine's ‘Rights of Man.' I was sorry to see that magnificent address-which adds new lustre even to Mr. Phillips's brilliant oratorical fame-marred by a seemingly unjust reflection upon the opinions of so staunch a friend of Liberty, and so determined a foe of oppression-under whatever garb -as Thomas Paine,-the man, whom, if I am not, in error, first proclaimed that sentiment which the American Anti-Slavery Society has made memorable,  has as property in man;'-and I desire to call attention to the paragraph, trusting that Mr. Phillips will perceive the misconstruction, if such it be, feeling assured, that, if he does, he will willingly correct his remark. I am by no means ready to suppose that Mr. Phillips would intentionally thus give currency to an erroneous impression, even for the sake of making a sharp thrust at the Democratic party by a constructive appeal to the religious prejudices of his audience.
Mr. Phillips observes that' there in a law, above this, [the will of the majority,] which says, 'All your provisions in this kind of corporation must be within the girdle of right. 'I know no authority but Thomas Paine-except the present Democratic party-that has denied it. In 1774 or'75, Thomas Paine published  of Han,' in Which he lays it down as a fundamental proposition that a nation has a tight to do “whatever they please. All the jurists have
<c04>
always laid down the principle that a nation has no right to do, however large the majority, that which is unjust."
Mr. Paine, it is true, affirms  which a whole nation chooses to do, it has a right to do; 'but the principle is not stated, as Mr. Phillips puts it, as an independent proposition, but is declared strictly and solely in reference to the establishment by such nation of a form of government, or a change of government. In other words, ‘whatever form of government, be it republican or monarchical, which a whole nation at any time desire, that form of government they have a right at any time to establish,' is the simple,. and to me, obvious meaning of the words quoted. Mr. Paine was arguing against the assumption defended by Mr. Burke, that posterity can be bound by the legislative acts of their predecessors-an assumption,-by the way, which Mr. Phillips found it necessary to combat in reference to  obligations' of which we hear so much-and the sentence alluded to is found in the following extract from  of Man,' which I ask your readers to peruse, and submit to them, if, in the connection in which it stands-to say nothing of the whole tenor of all of Paine's political writings-the sentence quoted by Mr. Phillips can fairly admit of Mr. Phillips's interpretation. 
'There never did, nor never can exist a parliament, or any description of men, or any generation of men, in any country, possessed of the right or the power of binding or controlling posterity to end of time,' or commanding for ever how the world shall be governed, or who shall govern it; and therefore all such clauses, acts, or declarations, by which the makers of them attempt to do what they have neither the right nor the power to do, nor the power to execute, ore in themselves null and void. Every age and generation must be as free to act for itself, in all cases, as the ages and generations which preceded it. The vanity and presumption of governing beyond the grave, is the most ridiculous and insolent of all tyrannies. Man has no property in man; neither has any generation a property in the generations which are to follow. The parliament or the people of 1688, or of any other period, had no more right to dispose of the people of the present day, or to bind or to control them in any shape whatever, than the parliament of the people of the present day have to dispose of, bind or control those who are to live an hundred or a thousand years hence. Every generation is and must be competent to all the purposes which its occasions require. It is the living, and not the dead, that are to be accommodated. When man ceases to be, his power and his wants cease with him and having no longer any participation in the concerns of this world, he has no longer any authority in directing who shall be its governors, or how its government shall be organized, or how administered.
I am not contending for nor against any form of government, nor for nor against any party, here or elsewhere. That which a whole nation chooses to do, it has a right to do. Mr. Burke denies it. Where, then, does the right exist? I am contending for the right of the living, and against their being willed away, and controlled and contracted for, by the manuscript-assumed authority of the dead; and Mr. Burke is contending for the authority of the dead over the rights and freedom of the living. There was a time when kings disposed of their crowns by will upon their death-beds, and consigned the people, like beasts of the fields, to whatever successor they appointed. This is now so exploded as scarcely to be remembered, and so monstrous as hardly to be believed: but the parliamentary clauses upon which Mr. Burke builds his political church are of the same nature.'

THOMAS PAINE.
HOPEDALE, Feb. 24, 1859. 
DEAR LIBERATOR-If no one else offers, I protest; against a certain statement of WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., made before the Legislative Committee on the 17th inst., in regard to Thomas Paine's proposition in  ‘Rights of Man,' ‘a nation has a right to do whatever they please.' I do not believe Mr. Paine ever placed any such proposition in this attitude. Certainly. Mr. Phillips is singularly inaccurate in dating his charge; for that remarkable work was published in answer to Edmund Burke, who libeled the French Revolution, which was at least a dozen years after 1775.
I am particular to write, because the remark ministers to a hateful popular prejudice against a man who was as remarkable for his original hatred of oppression, as is Mr. “Wendell Phillips. This is a strong statement, but 1 say it admiring both, and must protest if no one else will.
Now, will Mr. Phillips, or some one for him, quote said proposition from the Rights of Man? ”
IRA STEWARD.

INJUSTICE TO GERRIT SMITH.
To Henry C. Wright:
DEAR SIR,-Your note to me, in the Liberator of Jan. 14th, has just come to hand. It seems to me evasive and ambiguous. Had you said of Mr. Smith, in the letter from which I quoted, ‘He will, if elected, interpret the laws according to his ideas of God i.e., justice and right; he will use the sword, if needs be, in the execution of that interpretation; and, in so doing, does it not follow that he would be using the sword to compel others to see God as he sees him?' I say, had you spoken in this wise of Mr. Smith, it would have reduced the whole affair to a mere abstraction, about which I should have cared but little.
But I submit, that the paragraph quoted from your letter is, to all appearances, aimed, not at Mr. Smith's disposition in regard to his official course, in interpreting and executing the laws, but at his disposition, in the abstract, respecting the religious opinions of others. When you say that Mr. Smith desires power  all to see and worship God as he sees and worships him,' it looks to me like a most unequivocal imputation of a spirit of bloody intolerance; the very opposite of which trait is as notoriously true of Mr. Smith, as of our friend, Mr. Garrison.
If, my friend, you did not mean to charge Mr. Smith with a spirit of religious intolerance, all is right; only I regret your choice of language, and manner of presenting your ideas of Mr. Smith.
The man in whom the Jerry rescuers found a stout backer-a mountain of strength to protect them- and who would so wield the executive power of the State as to protect from the slave-hunter the poorest black baby, even though the Union should go to pieces in the operation, should not be treated with such careless obloquy as at best your letter amounts to.
Yours, very truly,
A. HOGEBOOM.
Sheds Corners, N. Y., Feb. 8, 1859.

A WORD TO A BOSTON DEACON 
On the Evils of Tobacco.
MY BROTHER:
In preaching, lecturing, and writing against Tobacco the last ten years, you reproach me ‘having left the Word of God to serve tables.'
You should understand me, my brother, and understand the effects of this GREAT POISON on many millions of the human family! I wish to state, in few words, my views of the mischief it is doing in some of its bearings. My statements shall be substantiated by explicit testimony, if you will publish such testimony. I cannot; I am poor-you are rich.
Tobacco, I believe, hinders the salvation of multitudes around us, particularly young men. It deadens noble aspirations, allays conviction, absorbs affection, and is the last idol its votary gives up when he submits to God.
It injures piety in churches. Used in one form, it renders its victim porcupinish or unamiable among brethren. Used in another form, it soothes nerves, abnormalizes mind, and renders its victim a good-natured dolt,-a cipher in the church.
I believe it renders Clergymen ascetic, misanthropic, lank and lean, in more senses than one. It sends them to Saratoga Springs, sends them to Europe, sends them to an. early grave.
The above statements you may think already sufficiently confirmed by facts, in some twenty Anti-Tobacco Tracts which I have published.
<c05>
Tobacco, like strong drink, intoxicates, some votaries are moderate users, some genteel fumigators and masticators, and other drunkards to all intents and purposes.
Indians are great smokers. I believe they are drunk on smoke; and, as the Spirit of God does not convert drunkards when drunk, here is one reason why they are not converted. Mighty tribes go down to death, in mournful procession, on STRONG DRINK and TOBACCO.
Germans are great smokers. Here is one reason, I Believe, why so few German emigrants are converted; why Germans, with splendid scholarship, have in theology made shipwreck of common sense; and why Germany, once glorious on land and water, has now so little nationality among nations.
Turks are great smokers. They smoke from morning to night. Turkey is a volcano of smoke; and the conversion of its smoky, emasculated, stultified, adult population is as hopeful as the conversion of Etna or Vesuvius.
There is a sense in which God has not made all things possible. Do we expect the conversion of maniacs raving in madness? Do we expect the conversion of inebriates profoundly drunk? And why should we expect victims of Tobacco to be converted when drunk?
Tobacco is an immense obstacle to the conversion of the heathen; and, before much is accomplished, tribes and nations, narcotized by Tobacco, will do I as some Sandwich Islanders did, collect their pipes, make a vast heap, and utterly destroy these idols before the Lord.
You say, my brother, that I' serve tables.' Had you said that I was using my one talent as a pioneer in a pioneer work,-had you said I was a small engine, with a plough in front, aiming to clear the track, that better men-Missionaries and Missionary Boards-with sounding parade might address perishing souls to better effect,-you had spoken with more kindness and discrimination.
You may accuse me of' ‘talking large' respecting the Anti-Tobacco Reform. No, my brother; I think I am simply making a beginning. The American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, venerable with nearly fifty years' service, absorbing millions of dollars, and millions of prayers, has simply made a beginning. Place a half-time on the crown of your hat, and it relatively brightens a larger place than the Board brightens on the globe. I aim to arouse attention to a GREAT EVIL,-an evil on which as much money is annually consumed in our land as would support nearly One Hundred such organizations as the American Board!
With gratitude to God I can say, thousands of gentlemen, in various spheres-clerical and others- have abandoned Tobacco. A hundred thousand youth, at least, in our land, are pledged against it; ‘an agitation has begun,' says another,’ worth a thousand times all it costs.' In a word, a beginning is made, an auspicious beginning you will admit, when I tell you it has not cost, year by year, half the salary of a city preacher or organist.
I beg you, my brother, to bear in mind that Tobacco is a Deity, worshipped by millions on the globe. Then, should I again ask you for a little aid in pouring Gospel light on its worshippers, you will acknowledge that, in my humble way, I am as really serving God as though I stood side by side my missionary brother, assaulting the idols of China or Hindustan.
Tobacco is an evil, even in Boston, too great for you or I to measure. Its tendencies are all bad. ‘Tobacco,' says a venerable clergyman,’ is the devil's seed-corn among Boston boys! We are glad to know that your Young Men's Christian Associations flourish; but the mass of Boston youth chew or puff, wag their heads, and care little for such things. We are glad so many throng your Prayer-Meetings; but, alas! how few, compared to those who fur the hour are spell-bound by fumes of Tobacco! Gentlemen in your city, who publish religious books and papers, I suppose do a good business; but a single wholesale Tobacconist will probably handle more capital, and make more money, than the whole of them.'
Away, my brother, with, all rant about serving tables. You have two thousand places which death,' to which troops, old and young, repair and drink, as they say,’ to whet their whistle, and smoke to dry it.' Awful trade! awful havoc of souls! You have a hundred pulpits! We beg you, and men like you, to step aside, let your pulpits come into line, and pour both Law and Gospel upon twin demons, Rum and Tobacco, and soon glorious old Boston will rise as from a debauch, and no longer hang as a millstone on the neck of Temperance. Yours fraternally, 
Fitchburg, 1859. GEO. TRASK.

From the Hingham Gazette.
MRS.DALL AT SOUTH HTNGHAM.
Messrs. Editors:-The addresses of Mrs. Dall here Sunday afternoon and evening, were listened to with deep interest and apparent satisfaction. The subject of the afternoon's discourse The Sabbath, the Jewish idea of the Sabbath, and the Christian use of Sunday.' The Jewish idea of the Sabbath was one of separation. The man who gathered up sticks on the Sabbath was not put to death on account of sin, but on account of the consequences of the example. We hold the day sacred, not because Moses enacted it, but because it is fitted to the needs of human nature. The Jewish idea of the Sabbath, which was one of rest, is passed forever. The Sunday of the resurrection is what we keep now; it comes to stir us to greater activity by reminding us of the duties which adhere to immortality. This change is significant. It is a change from inactivity to that rest which comes from intellectual and spiritual labor. To him who enters into the spirit of Christ, it matters nut so much the details of his life. The laboring man, when he goes home from church, may sit by his fireside, and whittle a toy for his sick child. Another may turn to poetry, or another may study laws learnt at the nearest hillside,-all will be well, if each of these has entered into the mind of Christ. 
The Christian idea of Sunday is not one of separation, but permeation. We are not to keep apart from the world, but to enter into it, to improve it, and make it better. A good deal of Sabbath work might be done by reading the Hebrew Scriptures, with reference to the position and history of women. Deborah judged Israel, and was its supreme head in all civil and religious matters for forty years; the first reformer after Moses, and the only one who escaped the judgment of the prophets. Her pure and active life was without a stain. Moses deceived; Joshua was indiscreet; Sampson dissolute; David frail and sensual; Solomon a luxurious idolater; but of Deborah, the record says only that she saved her people from their sins, and ruled wisely for forty years.
The lecture delivered in the evening was not especially prepared for a Sabbath service, but Mrs. Dull felt that its application was eminently religious, and left it to her audience to secure that end. She showed that when the right to education was fairly granted, woman had all that she would ever need to claim. The right to educe or draw out the faculties involved the right to choose the end to which those faculties should be trained, or the right of vocation. The right of vocation involved the right to protect and limit that vocation, to decide how far it should be used, &c, Sec.; in one word, the right to the elective franchise.
Of this statement, she only considered the first term. She claimed that education was not won for woman till it gave her honor, respect, and bread, and told a touching story to illustrate the unfair price of woman's work.
She then showed what was the ideal standard of female education in France, Germany, England and this country, two centuries ago, and that the dwarfing effect of public opinion prevented it from being practically attained.
In spite of public opinion, however^ there was a growth of the best kind, and Mrs. Dall quoted the names of distinguished scientific women in England and this country to prove this position. She also gave an account of the educational efforts of Alice Holliday in Egypt, and of Mad. Luce in Algiers.
In conclusion, she claimed a revised and corrected public opinion, as the best educational influence for her. & c., and called on public men to assist them in obtaining it. J.C.
South Hingham, Feb. 13th, 1859.

MOUNT VERNONISM.
One of our American weaknesses is a mania for hobbies. The one at present under the saddle is  and Immortal Memory.' A very excellent hobby in. itself, but in great danger of being over jockeyed. ‘is so mixed up with ranks, lotteries, auctions, Jews, opera-dancers, mountebanks, etc., that if it were not internally glorious and immortal, it would soon become disreputable. 
In plain English, the memory of George Washington
<c06>
is the grand stalking horse of the day and if Humbug could ride it to death, there would soon be an end of it. and Tomb' are being retailed out in fifty cents-worth; any one purchasing a pecuniary interest to that amount in the property being entitled to a certificate, or coupon, representing his share in the Mount Vernon stock. One large operator, holding some ten thousand dollars worth of the Father-of-his-country scrip, will probably realize a hundred thousand dollars by the speculation. He may be considered, the big ‘bell of the glorious and immortal memory-market.
If the illustrious individual whose ‘sacred <illegible>’ is raffled for at ladies' fairs, banked upon by theatre managers and opera impressions, and made a basis for the circulation of a sensation print, the glimpses of the moon, how would be relish such associations? Fancy his indignation at finding that he had unconsciously been made the slapping partner of a chap-man of slop-shop literature The case of and turned to clay,' as put hypothetically by Hamlet, is less suggestive of humiliating reflections, than uses' to which the remains of Washington are applied by the  ‘bone-miracle' workers.
If Barnum was to blame for making money out of a of Washington,’ what shall we say of hauling the relies of mankind' through the advertising columns of the press for business purposes, and making his catafalque as advertising cart cobb's last story'? New York Saturday Evening Press.

SUNDAY IN LONDON.
[London correspondence of the Boston Transcript]
Have you ever passed a Sunday in London? If not, try to avoid doing so, by all means in your power. When I went down to breakfast this morning, I found some ten or twelve person, having finished their meal, and gathered silently around the bright coal fire. I ate a hearty breakfast, during which time not one of the gentlemen spoke a word. After I had finished eating, I drew near the party, and taking a chair, remained seated some ten minutes; at the end of which time, I could stand it as longer-in fact, I am too much of a Yankee to hold my tongue a very long while so turning to a young gentleman sitting near me, I expressed an unfavorable opinion regarding the weather. When I addressed him, the young man started, apparently in great surprise, and then he answered my remark with every appearance of pleasure at having some one to talk, to; in fact, we chatted for a long time, and I noticed that some of the rest of party commenced speaking to each other. The thing as plain. Here had these ten or a dozen been sitting in silence, all-wishing to speak, but all of them too much imbued with either pride  house' to begin, lest his neighbor should snub him
All day long the strata have been deserted and I am disappointed in my expectations as to seeing the evening service at St. Paul's Cathedral, where, I am told, the people congregate each Sunday as early as four o'clock, to hear the singing At six they get together in great crowds, and render each other as miserable as possible by pushing and crowding. Once the doors open, they struggle to get in, us <illegible> were a matter of life and death; but to-night the wind and beating rain have damped their ardor, and so I must wait for another opportunity to see the scrimmage. Here the poorer classes have no place to go to on Sundays or holidays, except the gin houses; and the consequence is a great consumption of blue ruin on those days. How’ much better off is the Parisian laborer, who. on such occasions, has so many fine museums to visit! In these places, he does no wrong, his mind is kept upon healthy subjects, and he enjoys the treasures of art and science, gathered together at an immense cost, as much for him as for any one. Who will deny that in that in his respect France is ahead of England?
Here they cry aloud, if any one advocates the opening of the Crystal Palace or the National gallery on Sunday. It is, they say, a desecration it the Sabbath. Why, surely, ‘worse to spend the day in a dark gin cellar, than in lofty, well-ventilated rooms, filled with works of art, appealing to the feelings. Why should the poor man, who is compelled to work all the days of the week, be refused a sight that cannot but do him good? It is because superstition and bigotry are still alive, and that <illegible> chooses to make laws himself, and then call them the commands of God. Surely the Almighty and not create these poor people to drudge and to soul, and to live on without enjoyment and without rest. No; he gave them sight and senses which enables them to appreciate the beautiful, as well as the wealthy and the noble; and it is only because they are so kept down in England that they are dull and stupid.
I have never seen on the Continent any class of laborers more servile and humble than the poor of England; their cringing is something painful, and in the large cities they all have a look of misery and poverty, increased in some cases to absolute repulsiveness by the effects of gin-that damning curse. of not only the men but the women, for I have noticed here that the latter are as ready to <illegible> as the former. Of course, you will understand that I speak now of the lowest classes. Let these poor people have some rational amusement on Sunday; let them, as the poor do in Paris, go out into the parks and sit there, visit the museums and the galleries of paintings and sculpture, and soon a great and favorable change would take place; and the poor man finding himself cared for, would rise in his own estimation, and from that fact alone became more of a human being, and more serviceable to those who are now so eager to prevent his rational amusement, and thus drive him to drink and to consequent degradation. If the philanthropist of London would think more of their own poor than their have hitherto done, the condition of this class if persons would soon be ameliorated, and they would have the satisfaction of seeing the result of their good labors. 

TWO FREE LECTURES
EVERY WEEK, AT LINDEN HALL, 16 SUMMER ST., BOSTON,
BY MISS S.D.CARMAN. Physiological, Mechanical & Pathological physicians
On THURSDAY EVENINGS, at 7 o'clock, to Gentlemen and Ladies, and on FRIDAY AFTERNOONS, at 3 o'clock, to Ladies only. The other four days devoted to country practice.
Physicians, Invalids. Parents, Teacher, Guardians and Philanthropists will find science, common sense and medical skill illustrated and applied to the <illegible> of each and all.
The only scientific SKIRT SUPPORTER, with Braces of all kinds, and CHAIRS to correct and support the Spine for sale and fitted at her office, Lindes Hall,-open only on Friday and Saturday, for patients and visitors, from 9 A. M. to 7 P.M.
Beware of imposition practiced by the pretenders who recommend worthless and useless articles.

John Quincy Adams.
JUST PUBLISHED, by BELA MARSH. 14 Bromfield Street. Boston. in one large handsome octavo volume of 459 pages, ‘ Message fine the Spirit John Quincy Adams,’ through Joseph Stiles, Medium, to Josiah Brigham, Quincy-writes in the peculiar handwriting of Mr. Adams.
This unique work contain the autographs of Mr. Adams, Mrs. Abigail Adams, and George Washington -first, as recorded by themselves when in the body-and second, as written by them through mediumistic agency.
Price $1, 50. Jan 9

BREAD,
WITHOUT POWDERS OR YEAST
‘We have seen bread so prepared, and can testify that it was light, highly palatable, and very desirable.'-Boston Herald.
‘The disuse of yeast, salaeratus, soda, and all health-destroying mixtures in bread-making is an item that will recommend itself to every housekeeper.' -Boston Traveller.
'We recommend this work, because we know, from happy experience, that it gives directions how to make the best bread we ever tasted.'-world’s crusis.
This light, delicious bread (with flour and water only) can be prepared for baking in a few minutes, and may be eaten warm without injury. we mail the above, with other receipts for health cooking, &c.,) for 10 cents; cloth covers,15 cents.
Your address merely, and dime, will insure you. by return of mail, the above little work. Persons interested are invited to call and see this delicious bread at Temperance House, 18 and 20, Ls Grange Place. February 18.
