THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR. 
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz;- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, Our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 23. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 6, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1641.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
ABOLITION DESPOTISM.
We have referred heretofore, in terms more or less general, to the purposes and action of a class of men, in congress and out of it, and some in high office, who entertain the traitorous project of-"TAKING POSSESSION OF THE GOVERNMENT FOR THE NORTH." Since the South, under the Constitution, is entitled to its due share in the Government, to take possession of it for the North is evidently to violate and overturn the Constitution. This would naturally produce and justify rebellion. Supposing all the North were united against the South, in an effort to break it down and make it subject to unconstitutional legislation-this would afford that just ground for revolution, which every man of spirit and condor would admit to be defensible upon principles universally recognized. Of the class of legislation referred to, is the proposition to reduce the States in which insurrection has arisen to the condition of territories, that for emancipation, and that for general confiscation of property.
It-is easy to see, therefore, the application of our previous remarks, as it will be in respect to those which we intend now to present. The question, in reality now before the American people is -whether they prefer a CONSTITUTIONAL GOVERNMENT, OR AN ABOLITION DESPOTISM. In order to substitute the latter for the former, no efforts have been wanting on the part of those engaged in this nefarious scheme against our institutions. Nor is the idea by any means or recent growth. We could give details, going back to a period of years, all leading to the same point; but we prefer to confine ourselves to later developments. Nor do we care now to the more than refer to certain violent and high-handed acts of the party in power, under the terror of which this country lay, during many gloomy months; when remonstrance by the friends of free institutions was almost completely hashed by the party cry,-that those who objected were opposed to the war and opposed to the Government. These acts consisted of violations of the Constitution, of the rights of the judiciary, of those of individual citizens, of the press, of the people and of Nations. We have a right to congratulate ourselves that this paper never failed to remonstrate against these things, at the darkest hour, or amidst any accumulation of obloquy and false accusation-for we could not prove recreant to our cherished principles of "THE CONSTITUION, THE UNION, AND THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE LAWS."
In order to carry out the scheme for the establishment of the Abolition Despotism upon the ruins of our institutions, the faction who sought this object put forth certain dogmas to aid in its accomplishment. One of these was-"The Constitution is gone, and is not to be restored." This was boldly asserted at the Cooper Institute meeting, and has been reiterated since, by a long file of the Republican press, in Massachusetts as well as in New York and elsewhere throughout the country. The Constitution manifestly was an "obstacle" in the way of Abolition Despotism. Another dogma was-"The Union is gone, and is not to be restored under the Constitution"-since a restored Union would necessarily condemn and destroy Abolition Despotism.
In order to advance these dogmas and to make them triumphant, to the utter overthrow of our free institutions-acts of emancipation, of confiscation, and other similar measures were to be passed through Congress. To encourage Congress in this course of legislation, the press, the pulpit and the forum were all employed to foment mutual hatred between the North and the South; it was for this end that the "Emancipation League" was formed, and every means taken to enforce its pestilent doctrines; in order that the Union could not be restored, but that a separation would be inevitable, and the Confederacy must be recognized. In this event, it was thought that the North being stronger than the South, the former would then take the latter at advantage, unrestrained, as it then would be, by any Constitutional provisions. Thus Abolition Despotism could abolish slave property, only at the cost of war, and would do it in self-justification, and could plunder all other property, everywhere, for self-perpetuation, by means of war and taxation. A part of the programme has been carried out-the bills for emancipation and confiscation are pending in Congress--and to what extent the plundering has already proceeded, we need only read the reports of the several committees of Congress, and the exposures of one another, which take place upon the floor of the House, to see.-Boston Courier.

SLAVEHOLDERS.
Senator Sumner, on Wednesday, characterized slaveholders as auctioneers in human liberty, brokers in human rights, and jugglers in human sufferings. Wendell Phillips said publicly, in Boston, at the anti-slavery convention, that Sumner "ruled the Senate," and Thad. Stevens ruled the House; and that both spoke the voice of Garrison Abolitionists.
Every day is showing that Senators, especially from the West and Northwest, are restive under the Abolition rule. Thus Senator Sherman, of Ohio, (Republican.) though he said "he abhorred and opposed slavery, would not stigmatize the whole class of man as 'jugglers in human suffering' or other opprobrious <illegible>. Though he believed the tendency of slavery was to degrade the masters, yet there were many gentlemanly, courteous, patriotic man among slaveholders. Some of the most courteous men he ever met were slaveholders." Senator Preston King, of New York, (Republican,) also said that "so long as the slaveholders remained loyal, they had ample protection under the laws. He was in favor of having all the protection given which was accorded by the laws of the country, and in favor of having all the laws of the country executed."
Senator Sumner, something unusual for him, cracked his whip over Sherman's head again, as he retorted that the Senator form Ohio eulogized slave-masters, and said:-"if men continue to uphold an institution which violates all human rights, we must expect no soft words. If the Senator form Ohio chooses to sound their eulogies, he could not follow." 
Senator Fessenden, with the good sense and point that so often mark his courses, quietly said, after the Massachusetts rhetorician sat down, that as to slaveholders, denunciation on one side and eulogy on the other had nothing to do with the question. The simple question is, have we a right to tax them according to the Constitution? Of this he had no doubt at all. The slaveholder has peculiar privileges, and a large amount of the property of some States is in slaves, and he saw no reason why they should not be taxed for these peculiar privileges.
The difference between the Republicans and others and the radicals is just this: the former mean to act under the Constitution, while the latter say the day for parchment limitations is gone; the South is a clean field, and they can do what they please with it This is what the Abolitionists here openly
<c02>
say, and they are pushing up Sumner to act accordingly. This set are traitors to the Constitution and the country—Boston Post.

GENERAL HUNTER'S LATE ORDER.
WASHINGTON, May 19, 1862. 
Editors of the National Intelligencer:
My attention has been called to a Washington letter in the Philadelphia Press, in which the writer, after quoting a passage from one of my letters published in your paper, says:
"Thus it will be seen that even the veteran Democrat, Amos Kendall, while objecting to the course of the abolitionists, in entitled to the credit of having made the proposition which Gen. Hunter has thus practically carried out."
Now I should consider myself a traitor to my country if I were to approve the late order of Gen. Hunter, purporting to set free all the slaves within his military district. While exposing to Southern rebels the gulf that is yawning before them, the conception never entered my brain that any military commander, or even the President himself could constitutionally, by general order or proclamation, confiscate their property and emancipate their slaves, or that such an object could be effected otherwise than by conviction for treason by due course of law in the courts of justice. In the order of Gen. Hunter I see the essence of military despotism, utterly subversive of the Constitution we are fighting to maintain; and it is deplorable that the President does not, by the enforcement of a general line of policy, repress these assumptions of power by his subordinates. Every such assumption unrebuked by him exposes him and Congress itself to the charge of hypocrisy and perfidy in their announcements of the purposes for which the war is waged; it discourages the loyal men in all the slaveholding States, and in an equal degree encourages the leading rebels; it will cost the North thousands of lives and millions of money; it alarms conservative men everywhere, and makes them begin to think their own liberties in danger; it strengthens disloyal men in loyal States, and enables them to embarrass the government in its legitimate operations. In fine, there is but one safe course for the Government to pursue, and that is to disregard all party affiliations, and adhere firmly to the programme originally announced, viz: The prosecution of the war for the sole object of preserving the Constitution and the Union with the rights of the States intact, to be followed by peace <illegible> be not firmness enough in the Administration to do this, we are on a sea of revolution, with scarcely a hope of ever again reaching the haven of unity and peace.
AMOS KENDALL.

GEN. HUNTER'S PROCLAMATION.
Next to the visible effect of this proclamation on its writer, and greatly more important in its significance, is the visibly impression it has left on the public mind in the rebel States. With a unanimity that was hardly to be expected, when we consider the exasperated temper of the hour, the loyal press has given a nearly unbroken testimony in opposition to the Policy attempted to be initiated by the military politician in South Carolina. The fact is a most instructive one, and however much we may regret, for his own credit, or for its probable effect in disloyal communities, that Gen. Hunter has allowed himself to be carried by military caprice beyond the bounds of discretion, we cannot but rejoice that he has afforded a new occasion for the reiterated expression of that popular will which has thus far sustained the National Government in the pursuit of the policy prescribed for it by the Constitution and the laws. They greatly mistake the American people who suppose that, even in a time like this, they can be seduced from the safe moorings of the Constitution, to launch on the shoreless sea of a military despotism.—National Intelligencer.
The President's flat rebuke of General Hunter and the semi-official exposition of the National Intelligencer, which we publish to-day, cannot but create fresh hope, and give a new and needed assurance to the conservative and patriotic men of the nation. The exposition is an unvarnished, solid and timely presentation anew of the pledges given by the Government as to the simple object of the war; and the stand of the President, declaring the order of this abolition General null and void, and forbidding Generals in future from issuing more such nonsense, must meet the hearty approval of every true friend of the Union and the Constitution. Let us hope that this action may slay the tide of radicalism, and, at least, teach our ambitiously political Generals to confine themselves to their legitimate duties—Boston Post.

Selections.
THE DEATH OF SLAVERY THE LIFE OF THE NATION.
SPEECH OF HON. HENRY WILSON,
OF MASSACHUSETTS,
Delivered in the U. S. Senate, May 1, 1862, on the Bill to Confiscate the Property and Free the Slaves of Rebels.
The Senate having resumed the consideration o the bill (S. No. 151) to confiscate the property am free the slaves of rebels—
Mr. Wilson, of Massachusetts, moved to strike out the sixth section of the amendment of the Senator from Vermont, and, in lieu of it, to insert:
Sec. 6. And be it further enacted. That in any State or part thereof in which the inhabitants have by the President been heretofore declared in a state of insurrection, the President is hereby authorized and required, for the speedy and more effectual suppression of said insurrection, within thirty days after the passage of this act, by proclamation to fix and appoint a day when all persons holden to service or labor in any such State or part thereof; whose service or labor is by the law or custom of said State doe to one who, after the passage of this act, shall levy war or participate in insurrection against the United States, or give aid to the same, shall be free and discharged from such claim to labor or service; and thereupon said person shall be forever free and discharged from said labor or service, any law or custom of said State to the contrary notwithstanding.
Mr. WILSON said:
Mr. PRESIDENT: The Senator from Vermont' [Mr. COLLAMER,] in submitting this amendment to the original bill, proposes to authorize the President of the United States, if in his judgment it shall be necessary for the more speedy suppression of this insurrection, to appoint a day when all persons held to service or labor in any State whose inhabitants
<c03>
he has declared by proclamation to be in a State at insurrection, shall be declared free. That honorable Senator, in the course of his speech, said that it seemed to be the principal object of some of the supporters of the original bill to carry that provision of the bill emancipating the slaves of rebels; and, yesterday, the Senator from Virginia [Mr. CARLILE] alluded to and endorsed that declaration. Now, sir, I am free to confess here that it is with me the chief object of solicitude. I care something for the confiscation of the property of the leading rebels; but I do not wish to touch the property of the masses of the people. I think the distinction is a just one-that the leaders should be punished, and that the masses of the people should feel that they will be forgiven and protected if they return to their loyalty. 
I do not expect that we shall realize any large amount of property by any confiscation bill that we shall pass. After the conflict, when the din of battle has ceased, the humane and kindly and charitable feelings of the country and of the world will require us to deal gently with the masses of the people who are engaged in this rebellion. It will be pleaded that wives and children will suffer for the crimes of husbands and fathers; and such appeals will have more or less effect upon the future policy of the government. But, sir, take from rebel masters their bondmen, and from the hour you do so until the end of the world, to "the last syllable of recorded time," the judgment of the country and the judgment of the world will sanction the act, and it will be stronger every day while the world lasts. Therefore, sir, I am in favor of emancipating the slaves of all the rebels who are engaged in this rebellion.
Sir, with the lights of to-day, I do not see how any man can be for slavery, and at the same time be a loyal man. Slavery and treason this day and this hour in this country are one and the same. Slavery and treason are synonymous words. I can conceive how a man of intelligence and character can recognize the existence of slavery, look upon it as it is, as an evil, and yet not see how it is to be abolished or when it is to be got rid of. I can appreciate the position of such a man; and I think I do appreciate it. But, sir, how can any man, looking over this broad land to-day, and seeing flashing from every quarter of the heavens the crimes of human slavery against this country and its institutions, how can any man be loyal to this country, and labor to uphold, strengthen and support human slavery in America? It is the cause, and the whole cause, of this rebellion. We talk about Jeff. Davis, Slidell, Mason and Toombs, and their treasonable confederates; but they are not the cause of this rebellion; <illegible> brain, the soul is slavery; the motive power <illegible>. Slavery is the great rebel; Davis and his compeers are but its humble tools and instruments. 
Slavery for thirty years has been hostile to and aggressive upon the free institutions of America. There is not a principle embodied in our free institutions, there is not an element of our Government that elevates or blesses mankind, there is not anything in our Government or our institutions worth preserving, that slavery for a generation has not warred against and upon. It smote down, thirty years ago, the great right of petition in these Halls. It destroyed, in large sections of the country, the constitutional freedom of the press. It suppressed freedom of speech. It corrupted presses, churches, and political organizations. It plunged the nation into a war for the acquisition of slaveholding territory. It enacted a fugitive slave law, inhuman, unchristian, disgraceful to the country and to the age. It repealed the prohibition of slavery over half a million square miles in the central regions of the continent. It seized the ballot-boxes; in Kansas, it usurped the government of the Territory, it enacted inhuman and unchristian laws, it made a slave constitution and attempted to force it on a free people, it bathed the virgin sods of that magnificent Territory with the blood of civil war. It mobbed, flogged, expelled, and sometimes murdered Christian men and women in the slaveholding States for no offence against law, humanity, or religion. It turned the hearts of large masses of men against their brethren, against the institutions of their country, against the glorious old flag and the Constitution of their fathers. It has now plunged this nation into this unholy rebellion, into this gigantic civil war that rends the country, and stains our waters and reddens our fields with fraternal blood.
Sir, I never see a loyal soldier upon a cot of sickness, sorrow, or death, without feeling that slavery has laid him there. I never gaze upon the wounds of a loyal soldier fallen in support of the flag of the Republic, without feeling that slavery inflicted those wounds upon him. I never see a loyal soldier, wounded and maimed, hobbling through your streets, without feeling that he was wounded and maimed by slavery. I never gaze upon the lowly grave of a loyal soldier dying for the cause of his country, without feeling that he was murdered by slavery. I never see a mourning wife or sorrowing children, without realizing that slavery has made that mourning wife a widow, and those sorrowing children orphans. Sir, all these sacrifices of property, of health, of life, all this sorrow, agony and death, now upon us, are born of slavery. Slavery is the prolific mother of all these woes that blight our land and fill the heart of our people with sorrows.
Slavery pronounced long ago against the free elements of our popular institutions; it scoffed at the Declaration of Independence; it pronounced free society a failure; it jeered and sneered at the laboring masses as mudsills and white slaves. Scoffing at everything which tended to secure the rights and enlarge the privileges of mankind, it has pronounced against the existence of democratic institutions in America. Proud, domineering, defiant, it has pronounced against the supremacy of the Government, the unity and life of the nation, Sir, slavery is the enemy, the clearly pronounced enemy of the country. Slavery is the only clearly pronounced enemy our country has on God's earth. There it stands. Hate is in its heart, scorn in its eye, defiance in its mien. It hates our cherished institutions, despises our people, defies our Government. Slavery is the great rebel, the giant criminal, the murderer striving with bloody hands to throttle our Government and destroy our country. Senators may talk round it if they please, they may scold at its agents and denounce its tools. I care little about its agents or its tools. I think not of Davis and his compeers in crime; I look at the thing itself, to the great rebel with hands dripping with the blood of my murdered countrymen. I give the criminal no quarter. If I, with the lights I have, could utter a word or give a vote to continue for one moment the life of the great rebel that is now striking at the vitals of my country, I should feel that I was a traitor to my native land and deserved a traitor's doom. Sir, I believe that every word spoken in Congress, or out of Congress, every act that continues, strengthens, or keeps the breath of life in human slavery in America, is against the existence and perpetuity of democratic institutions-against the dignity of the toiling millions of my country--against the peace, the honor, the glory, and the life of the nation.
Sir, slavery being the criminal, slavery being
<c04>
the rebel, it should be stricken down through the agents it employs. It has its hundreds of thousands of rebels in arms against the country. To punish its instruments, I will strike at it and destroy it if I can. I believe that we have a constitutional right to free the slaves of rebel masters, and I think it would be a crime against my country if I did not give a vote to free the slaves of every rebel on this continent If this Congress adjourns without putting upon the statute-book of the country an act to free the slaves of every rebel in the United States, I believe it will be false and recreant to the cause of the country.
I believe it is policy to emancipate the slaves of rebels. Gentlemen tell us that they do not see success in this direction. I do not see success in any other direction. I expect the armies to win brilliant victories. I have no doubt of success, either on the Mississippi or at Yorktown, under Halleck or McClellan. I have no doubt but that the brave men whose hearts are burning with love of liberty and of country, and hatred of this criminal that is striving to destroy the Republic, will, with arms in their hands, smite down its agents on land or wave. Victory I am sure will flash upon the banners of the Republic.
I believe that we are to win victories, but how are we to change the hearts of the masses of men that have plunged into this rebellion? What made them hate the people of this country? What made them jeer at the toiling millions of the free States as "mudsills" of society? What made them scoff at the Declaration of Independence, and at the free institutions that do not pull down the highest to elevate the lowly? What made them hate the old flag of our country? What made them raise their hands for the overthrow of our institutions, the destruction of this government and this nation? Slavery made them do it. It was slavery, nothing more, nothing less, that perverted their hearts, clouded their reason, blinded their consciences, and made them traitors. Just in proportion to the strength of slavery in any locality in the country is the hate of the people against our institutions, our Government, and our people; and so long as slavery shall live, so long as it shall have vitality, so long as it shall be an institution to be nurtured and strengthened, upheld and sustained, so long as it shall be an element of power on this continent, just so long will the people now in rebellion against the Government hate our people and hate our country. An intelligent man who believes in slavery, who would strengthen and spread it, who would nurture it, who would make it an element of political power, cannot love the democratic institutions of <illegible>. It is an impossibility, a moral impossibility.
You have all cast your eyes over the country in rebellion. Where live the loyal men? In Western Virginia, in eastern Tennessee, in western North Carolina, in Missouri, in the mountain regions where there are few slaves. There you have men who are not seduced or conquered by slavery; men who yet love our institutions, love our Government, love our people, love our old flag. But wherever slavery is strong, it has seduced, subdued, or conquered the hearts of the people, made them disloyal against the country; and they will hate us so long as slavery is a power on earth.
Sir, casting aside all regard for the bondman, looking at this question simply in the light of action for the suppression of the rebellion and the restoration of the future harmony and repose of the country, I believe it is our duty to destroy the cause that has changed the hearts of millions of our people. Destroy slavery, and you take from the heart of that people the sole motive for hating us and hating our country. When they shall see that the cause of all their hate and disloyalty lies low in the dust, they will rise again and support your institutions and your Government, and be proud again to recognize the flag of their country. Slavery has intoxicated and maddened the people of the slaveholding States. Take the cup from the trembling hand of the drunkard who is ready, in his delirium, to smite down wife and child, and the drunkard will be a man again, and love and protect that wife and child. Strike the chains from the limbs of the slaves of rebel masters, and those masters will become loyal again, ready to pour out their blood for the institutions they now hate and the Government they so madly assail.
Every hour of thought and reflection brings me to the conclusion that death to slavery is life to the Republic. Believing this, I think it is our duty to walk up to the extreme verge of our constitutional power, and I would go no further, but I would walk up to the extreme verge of our constitutional power to destroy slavery. If there is a doubt, I would not give that doubt to slavery, but I would give that doubt to my country. If I have any doubts on these points, I give the doubts in favor of my country against slavery, and not for slavery against my country. But, sir, l have no doubt. We have a right to take the life, take the property, and free the slaves of every rebel on this continent. While I would not take the lives of many, if any, while I would not take the property of more than the leaders, I would take the bondman from every rebel on the continent, and in doing it I should have the sanction of my own judgment, the sanction of the enlightened world, the sanction of the coming ages, and the blessings of Almighty God. Every day, while the world stands, the act would be approved and applauded by the human heart all over the globe.
Sir, it seems to me our duty is as clear as the track of the sun across the heavens, and that duty is, before the adjournment of this Congress to lay low in the dust under our feet, so that iron heels will rest upon it, this great rebel, this giant criminal, this guilty murderer, that is warring upon the existence of the country. It is in our power to do it, and we ought to meet it; and I must confess that I have no sort of respect for any of those doubts that have been thrown out during this session of Congress, in regard to this policy of freeing the slaves of rebel masters.
Why, sir, I remember from the time the flag of rebellion was raised, that every act of the Government to uphold its authority has been denounced in Congress and out of Congress as offensive to the rebels. We could not propose anything to sustain the authority of the Government without being told, "Oh, you will offend the loyal men of the border States, and you will exasperate the rebels." We disregarded it in many cases, and this country has lost many lives and millions of dollars because we did not disregard it in the commencement, and boldly act up to our constitutional obligations. Last summer, when it was proposed to free the slaves who had actually been employed by their masters with arms in their hands to smite down our brethren, we were told, "It will not do: yon will offend these rebels; you will unite the hearts of the people of the slave States against you; you will offend the loyal border State men." Well, sir, we passed the act in spite of these doubts, and it is the law of the land to-day. I only regret that it is not more faithfully executed by the Government and by the military men in the service of the Government. When we proposed to abolish slavery in this District the other day, we 
<c05>
were told it would not do; we should unite the hearts of traitors against the country and strengthen their hands, and it would be a rock of offence before our border State men. We passed the bill, and this day and this hour thirteen thousand black men in this District in their churches are offering up prayers to Almighty God for blessings on us for that beneficent act. Sir, every movement we make, every proposition we make, we are met by this same talk about giving offence to rebels. I do not fear these rebels. Our bayonets will be as bright and as sharp after we act upon this subject as they are now. 
Sir, every day that slavery stands, every moment that it breathes the breath of life in all its power, there stands an enemy that can never love our people, our institutions, or our Government. It is a moral impossibility. Then destroy it, and when it is gone will come back the old sentiments of the Washingtons and the Jeffersons and the great men of the revolutionary era in the slaveholding States. Then will come back the love for the Declaration of Independence, for the Constitution of the United States, for the free institutions that adorn, bless, and elevate the masses of mankind. Then will come back the reverence for the glorious memories of the past. Then will come back the love for the stars and stripes of our country. Then will come back a feeling of amazement and of shame that men were so perverted by the monster slavery as to imbrue their hands in the blood of their countrymen. Rebels will come back with a feeling of repentance for these crimes against their country. Then, when slavery is stricken down, they will come back again, and offer their hands, red though they be with the blood of our brethren, and we shall forgive the past, take them to our bosoms, and be again one people. But, Senators, keep slavery; let it stand; shrink from duty; let men whose hands are stained with the blood of our countrymen, whose hearts are disloyal to our country, hold fast to the chains that bind three millions of men in bondage, and we shall have an enemy to hate us, ready to seize on all fit opportunities to smite down all that we love, and again to raise their disloyal hands against the perpetuity of the Republic. Sir, I believe this to be as true as the Holy Evangelist of Almighty God, and nothing but the prejudices of association on the one side, or timidity on the other, can hold us back from doing the duty we owe to our country in this crisis.
The Senator from Vermont has proposed in his amendment to authorize the President of the United States, whenever he shall believe it necessary for the suppression of this rebellion, to issue his <illegible> gives up the whole question. If I understand it, it is a full concession. It concedes the right of this Congress to authorize the President of the United States to emancipate the slaves of rebels in all the States where be has made proclamation that the people are in insurrection. I accept it, sir; and if Congress has the right to authorize the President to issue a proclamation emancipating these <illegible> if, in his judgment, he believes it necessary, then Congress has the right to authorize and require the President to do it, if Congress believes it necessary for the suppression of the rebellion, that such a proclamation shall be issued. The Senator from Vermont has laid down a doctrine upon which we can stand; and therefore I propose to amend his proposition, and not allow any discretion anywhere but in the law, and let the law say that, for the more speedy and efficient suppression of this rebellion, the President shall be authorized and required to issue his proclamation. We decide that question for ourselves. With the lights that are flashing upon us this day, how can we doubt for a moment? If the Senate will sustain the amendment I have proposed, we shall require the President, thirty days after the passage of this act, for the speedy and more effectual suppression of this rebellion, to issue a proclamation declaring the slaves of rebels in these States, and parts of States, free. I hope the Senate will thus amend this proposition, so that we shall leave nothing to accident, nothing to contingencies. With the lights of to-day, let us meet the responsibilities of to-day, and do our whole duty.
I feel, sir, that if we adjourn, if we go hence without putting upon the statute-book of our country a law declaring the slaves of rebels free men, we shall be guilty of the blood of the brave men who are to uphold the flag of our country in the hot and sickly climes of the South. Many of them lie to-day in humble graves in the land of strangers. Many of them are now marching to the far South. They are to die by thousands with the disease and sickness of the climate. They are to perish by thousands on battle-fields. Shall we permit this power to stand in front of them, ready to overwhelm them? Shall we permit this power to stand unbroken, because we are afraid of offending timid or doubting men? Sir, I care for the blood of the brave men from my State, from the loyal part of the country, who are fighting this battle for freedom and for national life. Their lives are dearer to me than the doubtful constitutional rights of criminals. We are very tender of the constitutional rights of crime. Hardly a day passes that the constitutional rights of crime are not illustrated in this Chamber or in the other House. Sir, I joyfully give my vote and my voice for the cause of my countrymen and my country, against the great criminal that stands to-day, with bloody hands, ready to pull down the institutions and destroy the existence of my country. In thus acting, I am cheered and sustained by the proud consciousness that I am actuated by a patriotism that embraces our whole country, and the present and future welfare of the Republic.

THE HOUR OF PERIL.
In the memorable battle of Williamsburg, when our weary troops were contending, under great exposure, against superior numbers, who were well protected by their earthworks, after hours of slaughter, the ammunition of part of our forces gave oat. Finding themselves unable to do anything, these began to retire, leaving the field in possession of the foe. Gen. Heintzleman, learning the fact, rode up, and ordered every regiment to return to its position, and retain it, even though their guns were empty. The discouraged men objected to standing before such superior numbers with empty rifles, but the General was imperious, and the gallant men, marching back to the bloody field, took their stand in the face of a murderous fire, thus keeping our ranks full, and holding the enemy in check. That little piece of strategy and valor saved us a defeat, for meanwhile the General was dispatching couriers for reinforcements, which arrived just in time to save the day, and make the victory ours.
The history has a moral. Success depends more upon valor than numbers; upon obstinate persistence rather than strength. The moral heroes, now in the heat of their conflict, must not fail to notice the instructive facts which history is careful to collate, and gather from them the wisdom which is nowhere else to be found. History informs us that Manassas was lost to us, not by the superiority of the forces brought
<c06>
against us, but for want of that persistent valor with which Sagonyi achieved his brilliant triumph under Fremont, and Sigel cut his way through a surrounding army; by which Grant stormed Donelson. and for want of which Pittsburg Landing was nearly lost. It is when alarm seizes upon men, and they yield to their fears rather than to their foes, that defeats are suffered. Daring at the most perilous hour, and at the greatest risk, has won our brightest triumphs. The history of our political struggles illustrates the same fact. Southern slaveholders, but a handful in number, hare ruled this entire country for sixty years, simply by persistent political daring. The flourish of canes, bowie-knives, pistols and secession threats have alone, all these many years, held at bay the vast millions of Northern freemen. We have always been strong enough to carry our points and compel submission, had we not been frightened by bravado. Now that the two powers are brought face to face, it is easily seen who are most able to govern this country; and it is well understood that all we need is to go forward determined to conquer. Heintzleman at Williamsburg is the type of men who must rule the day.
Thus much saith history. The past, to which it refers, is safe, and we rejoice in the halo of glory that rests upon its brow. But the future, the stupendous future, lies before us full of vast interests yet at stake. Many of them are physical; the more important are moral and intellectual. The greatest forces now contending are not at Corinth or Richmond; they are where they have been since the days of John Quincy Adams, in the halls of Congress, the public press, the two elements of public sentiment-truth and error. The contestants have been moat unequally matched in point of numbers, all that truth could rally on her side being a few almost powerless friends against immense multitudes of well trained foes. A small Garrison in Massachusetts, that never knew when it was taken or whipped, and still fought on; an Adams, "single-handed and alone," against countless numbers in Washington, battling for the right of petition, and the power to emancipate and confiscate; a Lovejoy in the West, whose love of joy was to see others enjoy it, and counted it joy to die that they might; and a John Brown, alone in the mad crowd of Virginia, with a whole country pouring curses upon his head-these are the representatives of our long straggle. We have succeeded in driving the Congressional bullies from Washington, compelling them to lay down intellectual weapons, and resort to the tomahawk and pike; the slave hounds have been sent howling from the fields of Massachusetts to their southern <illegible> march to freedom in larger numbers than John <illegible> pressed the spirit of liberty and justice; that public sentiment has been thoroughly revolutionized. The people are prepared for any measure of freedom, and already Missouri has called a convention to discuss emancipation for compensation; South Carolina, Georgia and Florida are declared free.
But we are met just here by the most determined opposition to our further progress. The minions of slavery, having recovered from the fright which seized them when traitors were cast into forts, and under the mild and accommodating policy of Mr. Lincoln, have assumed their old bullying style. Mr. Davis tales up a cast-off speech of former days three hours long, and tales of woe and horror that flow from emancipation; threatens resistance to the government; the beauties of slavery are rehearsed again; the Abolitionists are inveighed against as the cause of all our trouble, and as still endeavoring to destroy the Constitution, and drive the South to such desperation that they can never again be induced to enter the Union. The army is to be so soured towards the blacks by prejudice against working or fighting side by side with them, that they will lay down their arms, rather than allow any advantages to accrue to the slaves. The array of hostility is becoming more and more fierce. The bill passed in one House to allow blacks to carry the mails, is defeated in the other; and bitter opposition is shown to the simplest justice of giving the value of the steamer Planter to her deliverer, Small. The confiscation bill, which is to affect the pockets of the South, is dropped, and the tax bill, which affects almost alone the interests of the North, is taken up. No stone is to be left unturned in efforts to put things back twenty-five years. The President is beleaguered day and night to allow no abolition measure to receive his sanction. The passage to Richmond is not more beset with obstacles than the way to Freedom.
What then is necessary to our success? We want the spirit of Heintzleman-" Stand in your places, if your guns are empty" We must have the most determined valor, and press on in the very face of the enemy's fire, though it mows us down in columns. In the history of this struggle, courage and determination were never more imperatively demanded than at this critical juncture. If our lines waver; if our leaders hesitate; if cowards flee to the rear; if those who think they can do nothing for want of ammunition begin to retire from their position, the enemy will soon see the advantage, and rush to overwhelm us with defeat. We must not abate our earnest demands upon the President or Congress. Why should we not be heard in the White House as well as Kentuckians and Tennesseeans? Shall we be excluded because we have no vulgar threats to make? Shall our loyalty and desire for our country's good be the reason for trampling us under foot? We must be earnest and urgent, and if our claims are not enforced by Southern bravado, they must be by a no less persistent and powerful determination. The lovers of Justice and Freedom most let it be known that they demand an equal voice in the administration of this government. There is danger of yielding to the length of the struggle. But we may never lay our weapons down till victory perches on our banner. If we must live over the days of mobs and gibbets, let them come; but to allow slavery to survive this war we must never submit to, cost what it may. What we do must be done lawfully, but it must be done. Nebuchadenezzar must be led out to eat grass, and kept there until he acknowledges that the Lord of heaven rules among men. He will doubtless behave himself when he returns. We cannot allow the unprincipled leaders of slavery amount us to monopolize courage at this stage of affairs. Never were the people so universally anxious to see slavery blasted and swept away. Democrats and old conservatives by scores are heard to say, "I was never and Abolitionist, but they have now compelled me to be." Blessed encouragement! Let us seize the flag of freedom, and rush forward with words of cheer. The President's Proclamation must neither lull nor quell our fiery ardor. Our mission is worthy such devotion. We fight not selfishly for homes, but for the disenthralment of our nation from every chain, and its elevation to the highest summit of earthly glory-American Baptist.
The Richmond Enquirer, in a long article on the danger Richmond, suggests that it means the city should be given to the flames rather than to the Yankees. 
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."  
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPTION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHCIH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE FUGITIVE SLAVE EXCITEMENT
WASHINGTON, D.C. May 26. 1862.
There will be no end to slavery agitation till slavery itself is at an end. When slavery was abolished in the District, some sanguine persons imagined that the agitation of the whole question was set at test. It was not so. This very day there is more excitement, more agitation, on the subject of slavery here, than there was when slavery was defended by the states of the District. And there should be agitation here, for Washington, during the last week, has been turned into a pandemonium. There is not a capital in the world in which such atrocities are committed as those which have made honest men blush in our streets during the last few days. For the first time since the war broke out, I have despaired of success in this war against the rebellion:—it has sometimes during the past week seemed as if God would not permit a Government and people who wink at such things to triumph. Let me particularize.
On Friday evening, while taking a leisurely walk upon our great -street, Pennsylvania Avenue, I saw a white fiend pounce upon a young colored man, who, neatly dressed, was passing up the street with his young  wife. The first act of the officer was to knock the negro down, or nearly so', to prove the white man's superiority. He then collared him, every now and then shaking him, as if he were a dog instead of a man. "I am not a slave!" cried the victim. "Hold your tongue" was the reply. The poor wife followed crying, beseeching, "Don't take him off—he is not a slave. Where are you taking him to? Don't strike him in that way! Oh dear! Oh dear! Oh dear! "Reply from the white brute:" Keep' still, now mind, will you? I'll arrest you, if you don't!" That scene I witnessed while taking a little walk after dinner upon the broadway of the Capital, and it was but one case out of a hundred that have made the last week one of horrors in the capital of a country professing to be. Christian and free. The shrieks of wretched slaves have been beard night and morning, at noonday and at mid-might, until it has become too terrible for a man with ordinary sympathies to bear.
A few days since, a Maryland slaveholder came here, and pot out a warrant for his fugitive slave. He succeeded in capturing him. put manacles upon his wrists, and just at night started off with him to his  somewhat distant home. In the course of the evening the poor fellow escaped the second time, and the master being on horseback failed to capture him. After repeated struggles, the captive broke his chains in twain, but the links still clung to his wrists. When the next morning's sunlight fell upon the marble walls of the Capitol, it revealed a sight to make a man ashamed of home, country, Government—almost of his race. There sat the panting negro on the Capitol steps, the iron links of his manacles jingling against the marble column upon which he leaned. Was he guilty of any crime? Nothing. He simply desired to own his own body and soul, and in attempting to assert this right he fled to the American Capitol. There was no protection for him there, and the wretched man was again recaptured, and dragged off to jail.
If this Government will protect such heaven-defying atrocities, does it deserve success in the war it is waging? What act of the Jefferson Davis Government is any more heinous in the sight of God than the seizure of innocent men and women by the agents of the Government that they may be returned to slavery?
Congress is mainly responsible for this. It can repeal the Fugitive Slave Law. If it does not, then we have toe confession before the world, that under the Constitution every voter in the free States is made directly responsible for the worst outrages of slavery.
Gen. Wadsworth, the Military Governor of the District, is an enemy of slavery. Naturally enough he has come in collision with Marshal Lamon, who is returning the fugitives. The Governor attempts to protect such slaves as have come to him from rebel -masters for protection. On Thursday night the Governor and the Marshal came into open collision. The Marshal threw a slave woman into the city jail who possessed a written pass, signed by the Military Governor. The Governor sent a squad of soldiers, and took her out of the jail. Arrests were made on both sides—by the soldiers and by the police. The President being absent from town, the case was not conclusively settled.
The principle involved is an important one. "Shall raw <illegible> his liberty?" asks the anti-slavery man, and with much propriety. The Government arrests a white citizen hero, and throws him into the military prison. He attempts to sue out a writ of habeas corpus, and the President orders the Military Governor to refuse admittance to the civil officers. This is all Gen. Wadsworth claims respecting fugitive slaves. When a slave having come from a rebellious district obtains his military protection, he does not wish the civil officers to interfere. But enough upon this absorbing subject at the present time.
Senator Wilson has introduced an admirable bill into the Senate, modifying the Fugitive-Slave Law. His bill permits only loyal masters to lay claim to a runaway slave under the law, and even then the slave must have a jury trial, both slave and master being permitted to give evidence in the case. These are the most important points of the reform he proposes, and as such an amendment to the existing law would make it less harsh and unbearable, would set many slaves free, in its practical operations, who are now caught by rebel and dishonest masters, it will be welcomed. Let us hope, however, that the day is at hand when slaves cannot be captured here at all, under any circumstances.—Corr. N. Y. Independent.

ON THE STEPS OF THE CAPITOL.
Not long ago, the nation was thrilled by a message over the electric wire, announcing that Congress had triumphantly passed the bill abolishing slavery in the District of Columbia. In a few days, another message sped after it, creating equal enthusiasm, bearing tidings that the President had given the act the sanction which made it a solemn law of the land. Bells were rung and cannon fired. The fetters of three thousand slaves were broken. The national Capitol stood on free soil.
But a sudden shadow has since fallen upon this general rejoicing. Liberty has been stung with insult in the very place of her triumph. The District of Columbia has been turned into a spacious slave-jail. The National Capitol stands not yet upon free soil.
The telegraph, within a few days past, has been busy with stories from Washington of attempts at recapturing fugitive slaves, and returning them to bondage in the neighboring slave States. Disgraceful scenes have been witnessed in that city. Riot has reigned in the streets. The military power, administered by Gen. Wadsworth, came in collision with the civil power, administered by Marshal Lamon. The soldiers took sides with the slaves; the Marshal's deputies with their masters. Among the incidents was one which no man who loves liberty and bates injustice ought to read without a blush of mingled shame and indignation. The telegraph, on Friday, said:
"A fugitive slave, pursued by the law-officers, ran up the steps of the Capitol, faith his manacles upon him."
Our Washington correspondent, whose letter is on another page, gives the horrible details of the story, showing bow the panting negro was seized by his pursuers, dragged down the steps and hurried away to the slave-jail.
Is it possible that such a deed can be perpetrated, and not be branded by the nation as a disgrace? When the eyes of the civilized world are thus drawn to the most conspicuous spot on the American continent, by the spectacle of so unhallowed an act, shall a Christian people look on quietly, and smother their righteous indignation? Now that slavery, no longer content with crushing the slave, seeks at last to crush the nation, shall the Government, in high places, still be an obedient servant, bowing its humble compliance at the beck of the slave power? How much longer shall we add sin to folly by trampling on justice for the sake of aiding our enemies? If the Government has a conscience, let this act sting it to the quick.
The Commissioners appointed by the District Court to consider the claims of the masters of escaped slaves have outraged public justice and the spirit of patriotism by refusing to admit evidence to prove the disloyalty of the claimants. A confessed traitor, serving in the rebellion, if his slave escape into the hands of these Commissioners, finds no obstacle in the wav of recovering him. We can imagine how this decision will be gratifying to our enemies, but not how it is honorable to ourselves.
<c02>
No <illegible> the Republic, loyal or disloyal, has a constitutional right to recover a fugitive slave in the District of Columbia. The Constitution, if it, provides at all for the return of fugitives, expressly specifies those, and those only, who escape from one Slate into another State. It makes no provision for the recapture of slaves escaping out of a Slate into the District of Columbia. Long ago, the Supreme Court decided that the District was not to be regarded, in any sense, as a State. To return a fugitive, therefore, who escapes within the ten miles square of the capital, is an act unwarranted by the Constitution. It carts a human body as a gratuitous sacrifice, under the wheel of the great Juggernaut.
The whole subject has gone up to toe Supreme Court. That Court, a few years ago, brought shame upon itself by being false to liberty. It has now a chance to atone for its great offence, and to retrieve its lost reputation. Let it now, for once give judgment according to justice!—N. Y. Independent.

The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 6, 1862.
THE CONVENTION.
The New England Anti-Slavery Convention, the report of which appears in this paper, was one of the most interesting and satisfactory gatherings which the cause has ever witnessed in Boston.
To speak of minor matters first, the place of assemblage was well chosen, being central, commodious, well ventilated, graceful in aspect and proportions, and removed from all sound of travel and business. Though not large enough for the sessions best attended, it comfortably accommodated the majority of them, and the convenience of having al the meetings in one place overbalances even the advantage of having one or two great gatherings elsewhere. It should certainly be engaged in season for future meetings.
The audience was a highly satisfactory one. The fast friends of the cause old and young assembled as usual from city and country some of them from distant States. And it needs not be said that the interest of these friends remains unabated in a reform which has of late made such accelerated and triumphant progress. As these veterans met, after a year's separation, for pleasant converse and mutual counsel one of the first and most constant topics of remark was the wonderful, wonderful, wonderful change that has taken place in our national affairs. Astonishing indeed is this change. For, next to what we should most desire, a voluntary action of the President and Congress, the army, the navy and the people against slavery is what we now see their commencing and increasing action in the same direction, under the pressure of irresistible necessity. Seeking to convert men, we have pointed out the path they out the path they ought to walk in. Well may we rejoice when, in spite of their continued refusal, we see the imperative voice of God's providence compelling them to walk in it.
As to that portion of the audience which, not belonging to the Convention, simply accepted its invitation to hear and learn, it was never, in any of our gatherings, more attentive, serious and earnest. The hearers were always ready in advance of the hour appointed for opening the meeting; and throughout all the sessions was seen the evidence of deeply interested attention. Frequent and hearty applause, with occasional marks of dissent from the thought expressed, greeted many of the speakers; but not a single intimation appeared, from beginning to end, of a wish to disturb the meeting; and only on one occasion, when but little time remained before the inexorable cars would call the out-of-town bearers away, was there a specimen of the indecorum, so common in political meetings, of interrupting a speaker, new on that platform, by clamoring for an old favorite. In this case, those who interfered had not the excuse of dulness, or irrelevance, or insufficiency of any sort, on the part of the speaker; for no address delivered in the Convention was more admirable in matter and manner, more <illegible> the abortionists themselves, than that which was thus interrupted.
A large proportion of the speeches made in this Convention were of a high order of excellence. Even men and women so accustomed to impressive and inspiring eloquence as the abolitionists had a rich and rare treat. And they had a right to say, as many did say, and more felt that even the old champions of the cause, the pioneers, leaders, agents, who for a long series of years have been accustomed to address the New England Convention, and to raise expectations which only the highest powers could satisfy, never did better; never uttered more timely and momentous truths never expressed them with an eloquence more convincing.
Besides these accustomed speakers, the audience listened with great pleasure to the remarks of Miss Anna E. Dickinson, of Philadelphia, who has for several weeks past been laboring in various parts of New England, under the direction of the General Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and whose youth gives promise of good service in various departments of reform; and the addresses of Aaron M. Powell, of Ghent, N.Y., and of Mrs. Ernestine L. Rose, of New York city, in regard to the necessities of the present time, and to the fundamental principles upon which reform should at al times be conducted, were of the highest order of excellence.
The eloquence enjoyed on this occasion was not that of formal addresses merely, but of animated and exciting discussion. Still, as heretofore, those who are most firmly fixed in agreement on the principles of freedom, and the need of preaching the gospel of liberty, find themselves differing in opinion on the best methods for present operation. It is the glory of the Anti-Slavery cause that these varieties of sentiment find free expression on the platforms of its meetings; and to this it is owing that these meetings are eminently instructive as we as attractive. In the Convention just held, differing views with regard to the wisest present course of action were clearly and elaborately stated by those who held them. In several cases, by the courteous indulgence of the speaker, an address gave place to an animated debate, questions and objections being heard and answered, and the elaborate statement of opposing views being allowed and replied to, often amid intense excitement, while perfect good humor reigned on each side, and among the listening audience.
Whatever varieties of opinion existed upon other topics, all agreed that the anti-slavery work still requires assiduous and unfaltering exertion on the part of its friends. Whatever may be the providential advancement of our cause, however emancipation may come, more or less extensively, as a military necessity, or as a work of political expediency, our work is the preaching of righteousness in relation to it. Our work is to admonish this people and their official servants, so long corrupted by slaveholding in the South and complicity with it in the North, that true welfare can come to them only through a willing promotion of justice and freedom; that they have a debt to the despised and trampled black race, South and North, as great in amount, and far older and more urgent in its call for settlement, than that which the rebellion and the war have brought upon them; and that, under the government of God, we can hope for permanent prosperity, and fulfil the obligations resulting from human brotherhood under the universal Father.-C.K.W.
Secretary Stanton has informed Mr. Sumner that the instructions given to Gov. Stanley, as Provisional Governor of North Carolina, did not warrant his breaking up of schools for colored people, and that the "Black Code" of that State is not now in force.
The communication of J.S. will appear next week. It was duly received and marked for insertion, but has been kept out by press of matter.
<c03>
THE NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY C0NVENTION.
CONCLUDED FROM FOURTH PAGE.
THURSDAY, May 29.
Re-assembled according to adjournment, at the Melodeon; the President in the chair.
The Business Committee presented the following resolution:—
16. Resolved, That while we rejoice in that change in national affairs, and of public sentiment at the North, which has compelled the American Tract Society to avow a pretended interest in freedmen and freedom, or accept an empty treasury, we regard as infamous, pharisaical, and essentially treasonable, the voice of that Society, as given through Robert C. Winthrop at its late anniversary, justifying its past complicity with slavery, condemnatory of confiscation and emancipation, and counselling a revival and renewal of fraternal fellowship between the evangelical church members of the North, and the men-stealing, cradle-plundering, evangelical pirates and rebels of the South.
The resolutions offered yesterday afternoon by S. S. Foster were read again, by request.
J. B. Swasey inquired what action had been taken by the Convention on Mr. Foster's resolutions.
The Chair stated that the Convention had taken no action, as yet, upon any of the resolutions before it.
Mrs. FOSTER rose to second the resolutions offered by S. S. Foster, and addressed the Convention in an earnest denunciation of the pro-slavery policy of the Administration, and in condemnation of those Abolitionists who gave the Administration any degree of support or confidence. She declared the nation to be hopelessly lost, and its destruction sealed. The slave may be freed, but only from a regard to our own safety. The hate of the colored race will still continue, and the poison of this wickedness will destroy us as a nation. She thought the Anti-Slavery Society had come to trying to save themselves and the country, instead of trying, as of old, to save the negro. She was sorry to see a return to the old doctrine of a choice of evils, and that it was said we must support President Lincoln because he was not so bad as Jeff. Davis. When we are ready to accept the less of two sinners, the serpent of compromise has. crept into our midst. We seem to be partaking of the general corruption of the times in this respect. Age tends to conservatism, and we should pray to be preserved in the freshness of our fanaticism. This we can do by repudiating a choice of sinners, by repudiating a slave-creating government which sacrifices our young men in maintaining the bondage of four million blacks. She did not believe in the possibility of Union—God cannot save this Union, much less we. Abraham Lincoln is a practical atheist, or he would not have acted as he has. Were his wife and children in the clutch of slavery, he would cry—Dash the Union in pieces!—Whatever the course of this Convention, there are a few who will leave their pro test against supporting the government in its present position. The growth and progress of public sentiment which have been claimed during the past year are more specious than real. Over Fremont's proclamation there was a momentary triumph of the popular instinct; then came a pro-slavery reaction—a renewal of the old hatred against the negro. Mrs. F. again urged the impossibility of a restoration of the Union, and the necessity of adhering to the old ground of total abstinence from slavery, and saving ourselves by saving the negro. She saw no fault in the resolutions, nor why what was true a year ago was not so now.
Mr. J. B. SWASEY believed that men honestly differ from each other in a choice of means. So he did from Mrs. Foster, while sympathizing with much that she had said. He believed that every one at this time is impelled to support or embarrass the government, and therefore he laid it down distinctly, that between the government at Washington and that al Richmond there is absolutely a great choice. The government of to-day is not identical, in its relations <illegible> stincts assert it. Yet looking at the conduct of our Generals, the acts of Congress, &c. &c, we can accumulate a powerful argument for the condemnation of our government, if we could stop short at that point But if the South were successful in this contest, as is remotely possible, we should have not only a restoration of the old Constitution, but a pro-slavery reign which would make slavery everywhere normal on this continent. Such is the aim of the South, though the time is not yet come for her to own it.
He did not believe Mr. Foster's resolutions represented the voice of the Convention, and he had spoken that they might not pass. He could wish for a leader such as Mr. Foster could choose, that he might follow him through principle and enthusiasm purely, and not through necessity. But we must take things as we find them. Mr. Lincoln is not great, but he believes slavery to be wrong, and would like to stab it fatally if he could. Was Mr. Buchanan ever in such a frame of mind? Grant Mr. Lincoln is not the man for the crisis, it seems unquestionable that he is honest and sincere. Evidence of this can be found in his late proclamation, though this was far from what might be desired. He believed it a sign of the government's intention to take the road to universal emancipation, and therefore it is condemned by the border State men as an impertinent interference. Our friends on the other side allow no charity to our public men—no consideration for the obstacles they must encounter.
Mr. MAY, in behalf of the Society here represented, made an appeal for the necessary financial aid.
AARON M. POWELL, of Ghent, N. Y., said he wished to increase the sense of personal responsibility in this hour, and the duty of renewing our exertions in behalf of the freedom of the slave and of mankind. The nearer the hour of freedom approaches, the more we should proclaim the right of immediate emancipation for every slave, and the duty of liberation to the master. The great bulwark under which slavery had hitherto sheltered itself he recognized as shattered. The Union is broken—the disruption is complete. With the Union began a. downward, de. moralizing career for the nation. The earliest discord grew out of slavery in the first Convention for the Union. This difference was settled by compromise alone. From that as the starting-point, a long line of indulgences and concessions to the South reached down to the time of the outbreak of the rebellion.
He saw these alternatives: annihilation of the South or separation. The former, so horrible is it, he did not believe it could ever be consummated; against the latter is the prevailing Union sentiment, which puts Daniel S. Dickinson into the Attorney General's chair in New York, and is restoring the Democrats to places of power everywhere, while such Generals as McClellan and Halleck in the field are working in the same direction. In the Union meetings which he had attended, the cause of the war was thoroughly ignored and kept out of sight Even Mr. Buffum, yesterday, could offer all his support to the President in his present position. It was another sad proof of the painful results of the attempt to reconstruct the impossible Union. In this drifting of principles and parties, we must go back to our old standard of justice and truth.
Mr. SWASEY. Do you or do you not sustain the government?
Mr. Powell. I do not, any more than I am compelled to. I should be ashamed to.
Our fate is wrapped up with that of the negro. Mr. Phillips used to say the slave should be the basis of all our action, and he (Mr. Powell) could not see such a change in the position of affairs as that this principle of our warfare should be reversed. He would hare the government supported when it acted as it ought. But he bad ever seen such alacrity to carry out the Fugitive 8lare Law as now in the District of Columbia. If that was the honesty of the Republican administration, he could only characterize it as awful. What language is too strong to condemn this inhuman-
<c04>
ity! This is the result of the idea that there can be a union without freedom. Let patriotism be conditional till the government endorses emancipation, and our work, to bring it op to that point. We are left without an anchor, except the army and the White House. The Church is still dead. It looks not to Christ,-but to "honest" Abraham Lincoln. What infidelity! This was the man who had lately taken the awful responsibility of re-enslaving a million freed-men; who had shown indecent haste to fetter and remove Gen. Fremont, to emasculate Cameron's report, to annul Hunter. He had no patience to trust the rulers of the land; he did not believe in their integrity. They knew the right, for they were not fools, and could read the Declaration, and listen to Wendell Phillips at Washington. Yet recreant Massachusetts representatives could vote down emancipation when they knew it to be just. Moreover, the proof of insincerity is visible in the treatment of known disloyalists (like the President's gardener) at the seat of government.
There can be no peace, no prosperity, no happiness until we get rid of all our responsibility for slavery. He would save liberty first, and let union come afterward or not We shall have no power in the North until the slave is primary with us, and union is forgotten. We always lose by cooperation with those whose principles belong to a level lower than our own. Mr. May confirms this by stating that for the first time in many years, the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society is in debt. The accustomed contributions have been swept away by the tide of war and unionism. There is no other explanation.
Mr. SWASEY offered the following resolution:—
Resolved, That this Convention, never surrendering the principle, "No Union with Slaveholders, none the less, in the present exigency, believes its due to be to sustain the government.
Mrs. THANKFUL SOUTHWICK said that the President has always proposed a restoration of the Union precisely as it was. Anti-Slavery has nothing to do with he President's movement. We shall have a restoration of the Union as it was, because the nation is pro-slavery at heart.
PARKER PILLSBURY thought Mr. Swasey's resolution utterly inconsistent with itself. He heartily approved Mrs. Southwick's remarks. At three late Anti-Slavery gatherings, said he, I have assisted in affirming that the President and the Government have the power legally and constitutionally to abolish slavery. We have affirmed this to be not only a duty, under the higher law, but the constitutional right of the people of this country. This being so, why should we debate the comparative demerits of Lincoln and Buchanan? The latter never enslaved a million freedmen.
The present position of the Government is a legitimate result of its position and actions in the past. Our Government violates the Constitution in all its present support of slavery. It was bad in Buchanan to uphold slavery when the Constitution required it. It is worse in Lincoln to uphold it now that the Constitution forbids it
It has been said that there is no need of further Anti-Slavery agitation. I think we have no strength or power, except as a body demanding unshaken and undying fidelity to sound principles.
Mr. P. exhibited the secession flag that first waved over Fort Sumter after its capture by South Carolina. How is our flag better? Our flag in South Carolina now waves over a million of newly-constituted slaves. He rose to enter his protest against a resolution so absurd as that last read. When has Mr. Lincoln acted decidedly in favor of freedom? What avails the abolition in the District, while fugitive slaves are still seized there? Never was our capital more disgraced and degraded. Thousands and thousands may perish in battle, but the great problem is yet unsolved.
Half a million of the sons of the North have gone to that worse than Ganges crocodile that inhabits the rivers of the South, and now 200,000 more are demanded. Why did not a voice go-up from the united <illegible> (Great applause.)"
We must still be "a peculiar people." We must still plead for the cause of the slave. Abraham Lincoln, formerly called the slave hound of Illinois, has increased and enlarged his former tendency. And we, as well as the American church, show a falling off from our original principles.
The Church Anti-Slavery Society has proved only one thing, that the churches hated us not for our infidelity, but for our fidelity.
Mr. Heywood said nobly that a Government which would abolish slavery only as a military necessity, would establish slavery for the same reason. We should demand emancipation, military necessity or not. The slave needs it, and we should demand it for his sake as a duty, irrespective of all things else.
Until this idea is acted upon, our victories with the sword will accomplish nothing. Christ came to save men's lives, and we should imitate him.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., objected to the implied charge of Mr. Pillsbury, that the Anti-Slavery Society had left any ground of principle, or lowered one jot their moral standard.
WENDELL PHILLIPS wished to correct a false impression possibly arising from the excellent addresses of Mr. Powell and Mr. Pillsbury. He knew no anti-slavery body which has declared that the work of abolition is done, or which proposes to support the Government at Washington, or to relinquish the old principles of anti-slavery. No such body has proposed to support the Government as it is. It advises, not supports the Government.
Mr. SWASEY asked if Mr. Phillips had not rejoiced in and upheld the uprising of the North? and if this is not support to the Government?
Mr. P. replied—I have supported it by trying to force it on to a better position.
Mr. Phillips very fully elucidated this idea, frequently stopping to reply to inquiries from the audience, which he answered with great clearness and point. It is a subject of regret that this interesting discussion could not be reported verbatim. So much engrossed by it was the Convention, that the session was extended nearly an hour beyond the customary time of adjournment.
At nearly 2 o'clock, adjourned to 3 P. M.
AFTERNOON. Met according to adjournment, Mr. Quincy, the President, in the chair.
STEPHEN S. FOSTER introduced the following resolution:—
Resolved, That the persevering silence of the great body of our clergy on the sin of slavery, and their refusal or neglect to demand its abolition, now that it has ripened into a desolating civil war, coupled with their continued religious fellowship with rebels who are now seeking the nation's life in order to give greater stability to their bloody institution, stamps them with a depth of infamy which finds no parallel in any other profession or class; and calls upon the friends of freedom everywhere to turn from themes "blind leaders of the blind," willing tools of the Slave Power, hypocrites, who cast abolitionists from their churches for refusing to fellowship slaveholders, and yet, under the pressure of public sentiment, send their sons to destroy the lives of those same slave-holding brethren on the field of bloody strife; and we now publicly arraign them as those whom history will hold the primarily responsible authors of all our present national troubles.
In explanation of his remark yesterday, that he would fight under the banner of the South, if Jefferson Davis should proclaim emancipation, he said that he made it from his love of freedom everywhere, and his desire to cooperate with all who sincerely aimed at freedom. There is no need to compare Davis and Lincoln, any more than any other two slaveholders. If there were, the uniform past record of the abolitionists would place Davis above Lincoln; for if slave-catching is worse (as we have declared it) than slave-holding, the latter is a greater slave-catcher than the former. Mr. Lincoln hat admitted in his declaration,
<c05>
that abolition as a dernier ressort would end the rebellion- he knows, then, that it would now. Yet he must sacrifice 200.000 of our young men first. He (Mr. F.) would rather take his chances with Jefferson Davis at the last judgment, than with the President. He thought a marked change had come over the abolitionists in their dealing with slavery, whether they knew it or not. There is not the same united testimony against our pro-slavery Government as formerly. The record of last year he would gladly seal from posterity. He hoped they would forget the past, and-work better in future.
Mr. J. N. BUFFUM said he had complained yesterday of Mr. Foster, because he had not recognized the progress in hitherto pro-slavery men. He had to repeat the same: He could not understand the comparison or the logic which put Jeff. Davis above Abraham Lincoln. Facts, which he had given, disproved such a statement. He reiterated his intention to support the Government, and appealed to his past career as a testimony to his anti-slavery character. If Jeff. Davis were to triumph, the platform from which Mr. Foster speaks would be taken from tinder him. Mr. B. was for maintaining the platform, though that involved sustaining the Government in this war. He enumerated some of the acts of the present Administration—the abolition of slavery, in the District of Columbia, &c. He was willing to accept emancipation under the war power, as a military necessity, if it could come on no higher grounds.
J. H. FOWLER, of Cambridge, said: Two years ago, he attempted to speak on this platform, for the last time. He saw then what has since happened, as clearly as he now remembered that time. He saw yet worse to come, and he wished to speak for justice. He knew the South—the whole South—was in earnest in going into war. Our injustice to our fellow-men is the cause of our calamity to-day. He believed if restoration could be carried out, as desired, by Mr. Lincoln and the Government, the abolitionists would be hung in Boston streets. Justice to the slave alone will save us from a horrid civil war.
He had heard his scientific fellow-students hope this war might not end without the removal of the black race from the continent. Science and politics joined hands on this issue. This is the crime of the American people, that they think inferiority of race a ground for injustice.
He thought Abraham Lincoln as culpable as Jeff. Davis. He found no. proof of his anti-slavery disposition—only insinuations communicated by unknown parties.
PARKER PILLSBURY hoped no time would be lost in mere words. This audience wishes to know what the abolitionists think in this crisis which many have expected and some predicted. There has been some confusion In our utterances which he would like to dispel. Our mission, from the beginning, has been one and the same—emancipation without conditions. A change of circumstances has come, it is true; there have always been changes: now, perhaps, growing more and more marked. But he knew of no conditions that could discharge him from his anti-slavery obligations. At present, we were no part of the Government in peace, and not any more can we be in war. He could not support Pierce or Buchanan with a ballot, nor Lincoln with a bullet, when they were all pledged to slavery. He disliked to differ with the anti-slavery leaders,—his teachers,—but he felt he has learned more than they, and by their example and precept was bound to express his differences. He did not believe with Mr. Buffum in taking a step backward to gain a better opportunity to work. He believed in keeping the whole law in all its points. His duty seemed clear,—to maintain his old position as leader of the Government, not as follower.
Unless we demand abolition as a moral principle, we shall never obtain it as a military necessity. There have been signs of slackening on the part of 'some of the abolitionists,—signs which mislead the public. The people should hear from this platform only a certain sound. He specified the Pennsylvania <illegible> their duty.
The Government is as ready to compromise as ever. It will not hang the privateers for fear of Col. Corcoran's death. Secretary Seward's letter to Minister Dayton justifies the belief that secret plottings are now going on for a mediation to restore the old condition of things. Our government is more atheistic than the government of Robespierre. Therefore we are to preach righteousness and demand justice and freedom, no matter for expediency and military necessity. May it not be our fault that the nation grope still longer in darkness and crime!
ANNA E. DICKINSON criticised a remark of Mr. Buffum, that he was glad to see Parson Brownlow introduced to the Northern public, because he exhibited better than any other could the barbarism and villainy of the South. She believed he rather helps to clog the wheels of government, because he refuses to acknowledge slavery as the cause of the war. He advocates the war from his personal sufferings, and awakes sympathy for those union men South who have been well-nigh our destruction; who sat and saw the capital threatened; and who massacred Massachusetts soldiers rushing to the rescue.
She saw progress in the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia; in Hunter's proclamation and Gov. Andrew's letter.
The prophets of the national evil, who have been so long derided, now stand justified of their old warnings and forebodings. People who thought they had nothing to do with slavery, now find their own homes on fire, their own children swallowed up in the flames.
S. S. FOSTER moved that the question be taken on the resolutions which have been immediately under discussion to-day carried.
The Secretary first read the three resolutions offered by Mr. Foster yesterday, and it was voted to take the question on them separately.
The first of the said resolutions was adopted.
The second was lost.
The third was, on motion, laid on the table by a vote of 32 to 11.
The question was then taken on Mr. Foster's resolution on the church and clergy, and, on motion of Mr. Garrison, it was laid on the table, by a vote of 47 to 33.
Mr. SWASEY withdrew his resolution in support of the government.
Mr. GARRISON presented the following resolutions:
Whereas, Governor Andrew, in reply to a requisition from the Secretary of War for additional Infantry Regiments from Massachusetts, nobly said in the spirit of considerate humanity and of a true patriotism, " If our people feel that they are going into the South to help fight the rebels, who will kill and destroy them by all the means known to savage as well as civilized war, will deceive them by fraudulent flags of truce and lying pretences, as they did the Massachusetts boys at Williamsburg, will use their negro slaves against them, both as laborers and fighting men, while they themselves must never fire at the enemy's magazine, I think they will feel the draft is heavy on their patriotism. But if the President will sustain Gen. Hunter, and recognize all men, even black men, as legally capable of that loyalty the blacks are waiting to manifest, and let them fight with God and human nature on their side, the roads will swarm, if need be, with the multitudes, whom New England would pour out to obey your call"; and
Whereas, for the expression of these exalted and timely sentiments—sentiments that will redound to the lasting honor of their author—such journals as the Boston Courier and the Boston Post are heaping the vilest opprobrium upon Governor Andrew, and maliciously derogating from his unimpeachable patriotism, while their own columns are daily disseminating the most subtle treasonable views; therefore, 17. Resolved, That it is demonstrated that these journals, rather than have the foul and brutal slave system overturned, even as a military necessity and to save the unity of the republic, would incomparably prefer to subject the brave soldiers of the North to be shot down, assassinated, poisoned, mutilated while living,
<c06>
and their dead bodies dishonored and outraged in the most revolting manner—the war indefinitely prolong ed—the national debt needlessly and enormously in creased—tens of thousands of Northern lives destroyed by malaria and disease in their multifarious and multitudinous forms on the Southern soil and the final victory of the rebellious  Confederate States over the national government.
Whereas, no fact is more undeniable than this the traitors of the South are constantly making use of their entire slave population to dig their ride pits, build their fortifications, raise the necessary food to sustain them, and in various instances arming a portion of them to shoot down the Northern soldiers, and give complete success to the rebellion; therefore,
18. Resolved, Thatthe House of Representatives of the United States, in rejecting a motion to confiscate the slave property of these miserable traitors, is convicted of astounding infatuation, of utter moral cowardice, and of leaving in their hands the essential power and the most potent instrumentality by which they are enabled to bid defiance to the government; and thus is practically guilty of "giving aid and comfort" to the very conspirators it brands outlaws, and pronounces worthy of an ignominious death.
These resolutions were unanimously adopted, the whole assembly rising in approval of them.
Adjourned to 71/2 o'clock.
EVENING. Met according to adjournment, the President in the Chair.
Lieut. THOMAS EARLE, of Worcester, of the Massachusetts 25th Regiment, addressed the Convention. He gave many interesting details concerning the expedition of Gen. Burnside to North Carolina, in which he was a soldier. One of the speakers, he sail had credited him with the escape of twenty-eight slaves, but that was the sum total from all the camps at Annapolis, though he had done what he could. He had listened from his boyhood to anti-slavery lectures, but only after his enlistment as a private in this war had he realized what it was to be an anti-slavery man. He had endured a share of all the hardships of the Burn side expedition. The night before landing at <illegible> island, a negro came out to Gen. Burnside in a boat and gave him essential information about the landing place, the force of the enemy, &c. The experience Roanoke had abolitionized the young men of <illegible> county in that regiment. For himself, his month was, Universal, Immediate Emancipation. His had, many of them, been pro-slavery from Worcester to Hatteras, but their eyes were opened the island. He spoke in the highest terms of General Burnside, and said he had seen him welcome with his own hands the fugitives from the mainland, escaping in boats. The soldiers under him today would <illegible> their caps out of sight, if emancipation were decreed They were especially abolitionized by the luxuries treatment of the rebel officers, and their own neglect and exposure.
Mr. FOSTER.—Shame on the government!
Mrs. FOSTER.—Shame on those who fight for such a government!
Lieut. EARLE.—Where would you have been to-day Mrs. Foster, if we had not gone to fight for our country? Pennsylvania ravaged, New York ravaged, Worcester burned, your farm destroyed!
As soon as the slaves got confidence in to, they showed us where their masters had buried their arms The release of the rebel prisoners on parole bad mad still further converts to abolition.
He had gone into the war for emancipation, and the alone. He felt proud of Massachusetts, and of her Governor. He wished to say that the soldiers improved in sentiment as the campaign advanced. There we some exceptions to this among the officers; these government ought to remove, men far more ready return a single fugitive than to have a fight with re (Loud applause.)
Mr. EARLE was recalled to relate an incident is own experience at Annapolis. Gen. Dix had for den any black men, bond or free, to enter the <illegible> beat (he was then a private standing guard) The slave was allowed to pass in, and was sent to the ,<illegible> house with Mr. E's blanket. Mr. E. told Col. next morning, if any officer in the regiment sent be a fugitive, his gun should go on the ground for years, no matter what the consequences to himself He would drag the ball and chain for years before would lift a finger to send a poor fugitive before slavery. When the master of the slave came, he refused admission. He went off, and meanwhile a slave was sent on North, and is now in "Worchester After that, twenty-eight slaves were sent off from the Massachusetts Regiments at Annopoli3, except Col. Morse's, who has since been removed through Got. Andrew. (Applause.)
Mrs. FOSTER said Mr. Earle had sustained her exclamation—Shame on those who fight for such a government! It is in complicity with the rebellion for it might put an end to it in twenty-four hours, if would. It is playing putting down the rebellion.
W. L. GARRISON spoke of his physical unfitness make a speech to-night. He had been unable to attend the morning session at all.' He said that from he had learned of the course of the proceeding, them seemed to be a preponderance of gloomy sentiments. In these he had no sympathy, though aware of the complex and paradoxical state of affairs. For himself he had no pulse that did not beat for President Lincoln against Jefferson Davis. Is there no difference between North and South? No difference between Jefferson Davis and President Lincoln? How then do we have a war? If government designedly is aiding rebellion, how do we happen to have a rebellions Why is Lincoln outlawed from the South Induct is a great matter with slaveholders. The fact is, great change has taken place in the country, culminating in Republicanism—which, though not Abolitionism, has forbidden the South longer to abide with as The North is at least anti-slavery enough for that Mr. G. read extracts from Southern papers, showing that the hatred of the South is directed against the North as a body, not against Abolitionists simple The South hates freedom in name and every aspect This conflict is the death-grapple between the two principles.
He, Mr. G., had not been backward in censuring the President and Congress when they deserved it. though trying to give credit to whomsoever it was due. He thought, on the whole, the progress of events had been as great as could have been expected. Those who hold office by the will of the people cannot be just ed wholly like private men. He believed the sent back dent would move with the people.
It has been said, this administration has sent back more fugitives than any other. The cases were no parallel. That fugitive slaves were crowding into the District of Columbia, even though some were recaptured, was a proof of the value of emancipate that District. Then, we have had a new and string treaty with England against the slave-trade. Thousands of slaves, too, have been emancipated sanction of the government, and slaves are daily escaping in every direction. Northern Senators and Representatives, at last, have free speech on the of Congress. Indeed, the gains of freedom been so rapid and magnificent, that we fail to appreciate them.
One thing remains; the ending of the war and the rebellion by emancipation, and the unity of republic thereby made possible. The President so much from pro-slavery feeling as from and excessive caution. He fails to realize of public sentiment in favor of the total slavery. The proclamation of Gen. Fremont how wide-spread was that sentiment, but dent was not then convinced of it. It will, however, ere long, become irresistible.
Mr. Garrison concluded by offering the following resolution in regard to the Church and Pulpit:-
19. Resolved, That, now that slavery is placed within the grasp of the government, by its rebellious and treasonable attitude, the American Church and Pulpit, by refraining from demanding, in the name of the
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
living God, the immediate liberation of the millions in bondage by the fiat of the government, fearfully enhance the guilt they have incurred by their long-protraeted and hearty religious complicity with slavery, and their persevering opposition to the Anti-Slavery movement.
Mrs. ERNESTINE L. Rose, of New York, said we had heard a great deal, the past two days, about what the government has done or not done. All these short comings had sprung from an error in principle, always productive of error and mischief in practice. That principle was to be found in the law which made every tree Northern man a slave-catcher to send back fugitive slaves. Going back to the Constitution and the cause on which the law was based, she could find no justification of that law. Yet nineteen millions of Northern men accepted that law without reflection, simply because it was a law. She loved a just law, but an unjust law she defied.
In relation to the government, she said that he who assumed great powers, owed great duties and great responsibilities. Lincoln must answer to the ages for the use of the power he has taken, and will not wield aright. He had done wrong to the nineteen Free States, yes, and to the Slave States themselves. The people, too, are to be called to account. Tens of thousands of lives already sacrificed, and are we content to have done so little? to have spent so much for the education of Lincoln and Seward? An analysis of the President's proclamation showed its weakness and ambiguity. However, her hope was large and active-because she had faith in the success of the right. The President did not wait for the public or for Congress in calling out the 75,000 men, and he was right. He should have acted thus in an emergency far greater than that-when the freedom of all, white and black, the progress of the nineteenth century, the Declaration of Independence, were in question. Does the Constitution bar him in the latter case more than in other when he has violated it? To call Lincoln "honest" so frequently is suspicious, and suggestive of the contrary. So she believed he was not honest. (Hisses.) I am proud to think I have said the best thing in the Convention-ecce signum! If the President cannot move without pushing, push him on. I stand here to push you on.
The nineteenth century demands the fruits of the Declaration of Independence. Hitherto it has been a sealed letter. Who will lead the people on to open it? She wondered that any Abolitionists should be found in this emergency to cry that the work is done, and to cease from it. Why, their work was never more needed than now. Washington and Lincoln need this platform and this audience. Encourage them; give them credit for all they may do or have done—how-ever little. But let not your hope run away with your judgment.
She thanked the South for the emancipation in the District of Columbia, and she credited it to the rebellion, without which it would never have been consummated. It has taken seventy years to accomplish what was always perfectly constitutional—the liberation of three thousand slaves in the District. How long will it take to free four millions? Slavery will not end in a century, if it does not before the war closes,—except through foreign intervention. She depicted some of the effects of a return of slavery. We never had a Union—for union is based on reciprocity. Union can only be formed, not restored among us.
WENDELL PHILLIPS said he was much pleased with the speech of Mrs. Rose,—first, because he could assent to almost every word of it; secondly, because he had hoped to have time enough for only a brief speech. He wished to read a resolution expressive of the position of this Convention before the public:—
20. Resolved, That this Convention repeats its old pledge, "No UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS", —no support of any government which upholds or allows slavery within its limits; and that we value this war solely because its results must be Emancipation by order of the Federal Government, or Disunion which secures Emancipation speedily.
That resolution, said Mr. P., explains my interest in public affairs.
He thought there had been, in fact, remarkable unanimity in the speakers of the past two days. The seeming difference had arisen from an ambiguous use of the word government. He did not locate the government at Washington. Public opinion—that is the pilot: the President is but the tiller-boy, the man at the wheel.
Jeff. Davis dares not go into partnership with Charles Sumner in the Senate, because he dreads him. It is an indication of what our strongest point is. Davis sees the genius of the anti-slavery movement standing at the elbow of the President.
This is no time for dispute of words. We are striving to take possession of the Government, and to spur it on to its duty. Our support of THE PEOPLE, in their effort to rule the country, is whole hearted. McClellan's army, in six months, is fated to break the Union in pieces, or to preserve it through emancipation. God has put in our hands the thunderbolt of the war power, to accomplish in months the work of years, and 500,000 pupils plastic to our hands. This new weapon has destroyed slavery in Missouri, and established the Liberator at Baltimore, (for the Baltimore papers are now advocating emancipation,) and has established a negro colony at Port Royal. Who rules the House? Thaddeus Stevens. Who is the leader of the Senate? Charles Sumner. Isn’t that progress, when Pennsylvania and Massachusetts take the places of Virginia and Georgia? Lincoln may hinder emancipation—he cannot prevent it. The war can end only in emancipation by North or South.
He accepted his co-laborers, the President and Cabinet, though not Garrisonian Abolitionists. In Congress, which he could not enter, are half-a-dozen men who will say all that he can, and more.
What is our function to-day? Not to dally over old mottoes. The Secretary of War carries them in his heart. A new road opens. Our former object was to break the bonds of the slaves, and to protect the race when free. To-day, it is that and more. The county is to be saved under one banner, if possible. The President has diminished the chances of a Union one-fourth by his annulling Hunter's proclamation. Union is desirable and necessary, for the sake of the negro as well as for ours.
We blame Abraham Lincoln. But look at this: Five Massachusetts Representatives in Congress have told him within a week, that we don't want emancipation! The bankers of State Street send delegations to the President to instruct him as to the tax bills. When has Massachusetts sent notable Republican delegates to instruct him of the wishes of Massachusetts about abolition? We are dealing not with a great man. Lincoln if honest, like George III., who lost an empire by his honesty. He is slow, too, and cautious to timidity.
South of the Potomac, said Mr. P., I don't believe in the existence of a loyal white man, much less a loyal slaveholder. If Lincoln doesn't emancipate before December, there will never be a Union in your day or mine. The foreigner will enter then into the conflict.
But suppose McClellan takes Richmond, and Lincoln proclaims emancipation from the rebel capital, what kind of representatives will come from the Southern States restored to their right of ballot? If not Jeff.Davis, &c., there will come those just like him. Therefore, we must urge upon the Government the fact that there is no States of Alabama, South Carolina, Georgia, &c. The South consists but of men and land,-tabula rasa,-blank paper for us to write on at will. The ballot must be taken from every white man in the rebel States. Black men alone to role-to have representations-till the whites purge themselves, by years of purification, from the last stains of rebellion and slavery. The workers alone are our brothers, to be recognized as such.
Liberty North and South is certain. Union I do not despair of. There is a hopeful change from the demand of South Carolina for our imprisonment to the struggle of to-day. It is a noble army that goes South-
<c02>
ward, embracing in its ranks all nationalities and all colors but one—the negro's. It is going to add that color also, and to realize the great idea of this people as embodied and expressed in the DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE.
W. L. GARRISON then reported the following resolution:—
21. Resolved, That we leave to their betrayed constituents those Massachusetts Representatives, who, through cowardice or lack of principle, defeated by their votes the bill for the confiscation of the slave property of the rebels; and doubt not that those constituents will be certain to send them into a dishonored retirement, to be succeeded by others worthy to represent the cause of freedom according to its needs in the trial-hour.
The series of resolutions reported by the Business Committee was then adopted by unanimous rote, and the Convention adjourned sine die.
EDMUND QUINCY, President. 
SAMUEL MAY, JR., 
CHARLES K. WHIPPLE, Secretaries. 
WENDELL P. GARRISON,

LETTER FROM REV.JEHIEL CLAFLIN.
WEST BROOKFIELD, (Vt.) May 24, 1862.
DEAR GARRISON— It would afford me unmingled satisfaction, as in times past, to be present with you, and the true and tried friends of uncompromising Abolitionism, in Convention assembled, in your city, on the 28th and 29th instant, there to utter "thoughts that breathe and words that burn," in regard to the present momentous crisis.
I fear that, through the unusual pressure of business at this busy season of the year with our good people of Vermont, together with the "hard times," Vermont may not be represented in the New England Convention.
I, therefore, send you this brief letter, for the purpose of assuring you, and through you, the Convention, that our cause in this State is meeting with hearty favor among the most intelligent and best portion of the people. This fearful crisis, through which this nation is passing, is a great revealer of hearts. 
While many now see, and readily and frankly avow, that abolition is our only safety, there are others, even in Vermont, whose sympathies are with the Southern rebels in arms; but I am happy to say that this class is but a small minority in this State. I find many who are now ready for abolition. Events are mighty forces to change popular opinion; so much so, that I think your Convention will be in no danger of being broken up by a mob, with the approbation of city officials!
These are "perilous times" indeed; for the just judgments of God are filling the land with lamentations and woe, because of the oppression in our midst, and the abominations done in the land.
It has taken this nation a long time to learn this truth, that "whatsoever a man sows, that shall he also reap"—which is also true of nations. That "covenant with death, and agreement with hell," which our fathers made for a consideration, is about to be "Annulled."
This is a most fearful ordeal through which we are passing, a terrible chastisement for our heinous sins in the enslavement of our brother, "and the end is not yet."
How much longer will this nation think to circumvent God, by refusing to proclaim "liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof"!
Praying that your Convention may be harmonious, animated, and eminently successful, I remain,
Yours, faithfully, to the end of the conflict, 
JEHIEL CLAFLIN.

PUBLIC OPINION IN OHIO-INCIDENT IN A RAILROAD CAR.
CLEVELAND, Ohio, May 28, 1862.
FRIEND GARRISON,—It has been my work to lecture a good part of the time this last winter; and going from village to village, meeting new assemblies of people, every day or two, one cannot well keep their eyes blind or their ears deaf to public opinion. It is true, one part (and perhaps the larger part) of the people will not come out to hear a woman lecture, unless patronized at the rate of fifty dollars a night by the literary associations of the town; but from those that will, one gathers the feelings, or at least the utterances of these conservatives. And it is a hopeful sign of the times when you hear, with rare exception, but one opinion on the leading topics of the day.
"What is our Government about?" is the question of the blunt, honest, straightforward old farmer. "Why don't they emancipate? One year ago, I would have said, cut off my right hand first. But they have got both my right hand and my left, now,—my two brave boys,—and I, that thought my hard work was done, have turned into the field and meadow—to feed and tend, chop and plow, that they may work for freedom and the country; and it arouses all my old Puritan blood, when I think of those rebels, who can go away to war and leave their human chattels to take care of things at home. I tell you, Madam, these things open our eyes. It wouldn't have done last year, but it will now. We must emancipate."
"My husband, two sons, and a nephew that I raised, are now standing before Corinth," said the most worthy and influential lady of another town. "My heart is lonely and our home seems desolate. Ah! it has laugh! me to think of the poor black mothers, who have had children and husbands torn away, through all these fearful years of slavery, while we have slept, nor thought of raising our voice against the 'sum of all villanies.' I can bear to have mine all slain, if need be, so that the slave-chain is broken. But oh! God of mercy! to think that al this bloodshed, this fearful agony must be, and yet no blow struck at the real cause!" This was said in the rooms of the soldiers' aid, within hearing of dozens of the zealous workers for the sufferers; and every eye moistened with tears, and every look said "Amen." These women will lead the sentiment of the town.
A Presbyterian minister, who acknowledged that he had ever been an advocate of the doctrine of non interference, boldly says to his church, We have been deceived: we have done wrong. The New York Observer and its ilk have done more to bring on this barbarous war, than all the Abolitionists in the world They have taught the South that the North was weak, and that there was no latent power among the people to be called out, to resist secession. And the South believed, and their strong Sampson has pulled down the pillars of their temple upon their own heads.
North and south, east and west, in Ohio, the public feeling is far ahead of the rulers. The strongest and most ultra utterance I could make in my lectures for emancipation,—absolute, unconditional and immediate,—was received with the most earnest demonstration of approbation. Now and then, you hear some old stager in the Democratic line, or some office-seeker under Republican rule, asserting that "if slavery is meddled with, half our army will throw down their arms."
Let them! The valiant and true—they that love liberty and hate war, yet are willing, if need so requires, to take up the sword—would soon fill the places of such half-way patriots, who only fight for flags and for pay!
Let them! Such a procedure would startle some glorious Deborah from her dream of "woman's sphere," to lead our halting Baraks to victory.
Some Jael shall smite the tyrant, when men prove recreant to duty. We seem to have no Joans of Arc, no Charlotte Cordays, just now, who, with the enthusiasm of a great purpose, are inspiring the warriors upon the battle-field.
But a mightier work is being done in those charmed circles, where the bandage and the lint, and the compress and pillow, for the wounded, preach sermons to loving hearts day by day.

<c03>
In every county, neighborhood, village, town and city do these circles meet, and slavery and war is the burthen of every thought and feeling, as with busy, unselfish fingers they labor for those they love. Their Deliverances will spread far and wide, and sink deeper into the great soul of society, than even that of the honorable Dr. Breckinridge, just issued from the Representative Hall, of Ohio, backed up with two hundred and one of the learned divines of this land. When the wives and mothers of a nation are terribly in earnest, politicians and office-holders will have to move.
A good joke is told of a Kentuckian, who went to hear Oliver Wendell Phillips lecture in Cleveland. Two gentlemen in the cars, the next morning after the lecture, were heard holding the following colloquy:—
"Did you hear Phillips, last night, sir?"
"I did."
"How did you like him?"
"Like him! I think him the most perfect specimen of an orator and man that I ever saw."
"But what of his notions?"
"Just the doctrine, sir. I wish every man in the nation could hear him. But what a pity it is that so many people have mistaken the name, and got him mixed up with that harum-scarum, perverting Garrisonian-woman-rights-abolitionist of Boston."
"Why, sir, he's the very man." 
"Not at all, sir; not at all. The names are similar, but the men are two different persons."
Yours, truly, F. D. GAGE.
P. S. The response to the call from Washington, in the State of Ohio, is wonderful,—more than equal to the first day's gathering of troops in April of 1861.
*The posters for Phillips's lecture in Cleveland, notified the public that Oliver Wendell Phillips was to lecture,—so little did the Association really know of this apostle of liberty.

THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY for June is received. Contents: 1.The Constitution and Slavery, Rev. C. E. Lord. 2. A Story of Mexican Life. 8. The Red, White, and Blue. 4. Maccaroni and Canvas. 5. En Avant. 6. Desperation and Colonization, Charles G. Leland. 7. The Education to Be, Levi Reuben, M. D. 8. Travel-Pictures, Henry T. Lee. 9. The Huguenots of Staten Island, Hon. G. P. Dissosway. 10. Recollections of Washington Irving, By one of his early Friends. 11. New England's Advance, Augustus C. Kimball. 12. Was He Successful? Richard B. Kimball. 13. Monroe to Farragut, Charles G. Leland. 14. Among the Pines, Edmund Kirke. 15. Literary Notices. 16. Editor's Table. Published by J. R. Gilmore, 532 Broadway, New York, and 110 Tremont street, Boston.

EVACUATION OF CORINTH.
CORINTH. May 31, via Cairo June 1. [Special dispatch to New York Tribune]. Yesterday morning our reserve divisions were brought up and our entire front moved forward, the men having two days rations in their haversacks. During the day we kept up a tremendous cannonading, shelling the woods furiously. The rebels hardly showed themselves, but replied feebly with a few shots. Last night we threw up breastworks along the entire front, and slept on our arms within 1000 yards of the enemy's breastworks.
At 6 o'clock this morning Gen. Pope entered Corinth without the slightest resistance and took possession. At the same time the Mayor, who had come out on a different road, met Gen. Nelson and surrendered the town to him. There were no inhabitants remaining except women, children, and old men.
The rebels succeeded in carrying away everything except a few provisions, which, with the warehouses and railroad depot, were burned before we arrived. They took every invalid from the hospital and every letter from the post office. They did not leave a single gun, and had been moving away troops more than six days, and stores, two weeks. The most of the troops have gone toward Grand Junction.
The rebel rear guard, under, Bragg, 10,000 strong, marched southward at midnight. The citizens assert positively that Beauregard was there in person and, left with it. All concur in saying that never more than 60,000 troops were there at once, and usually a much less number.
The rebel <illegible> miles long from the Memphis and Charleston to the Mobile and Ohio Railroad, but were much weaker than we supposed. They could have been carried by storm at any time. 
The few prisoners we have are deserters from the rebel rear guard. There is a feeling of great mortification in our army. I have these details from one who was there in person.

HEADQUARTERS, CAMP NEAR CORINTH. 
To Hon. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
The enemy's position and works in front of Corinth were exceedingly strong.
He cannot occupy a stronger position in his flight. This morning he destroyed an immense amount of public and private property, stores, provisions, wagons, tents, &c.
For miles from the town the roads are filled with arms, haversacks, &c., thrown away by his fleeing troops. A large number of prisoners and deserters have been captured, estimated by Gen. Pope at 2000.
Gen. Beauregard evidently distrusts his army, or he would have defended so strong a position. His troops generally are much discouraged and demoralized.
In all the engagements for the last few days their resistance has been weak.
H. W. HALLECK, Major General.
CORINTH, June 1. Col. Elliott and command have returned after destroying the railroad in several places, burning a large amount of stores, capturing three places of artillery, 30 mounted prisoners, and about 600 infantry, with little loss. He found 2,500 sick and wounded rebels at Booneville.
Memphis refugees report that all the newspaper establishments have been removed to Grenada, Miss.
Gen. Pope congratulates Col. Elliott on the brilliant success of his expedition.

GREAT BATTLE NEAR RICHMOND.
WASHINGTON, June 1. The following Despatch was received at the War Department this afternoon:
"FIELD OF BATTLE, June 1—12 M. 
We have had a desperate battle, in which the corps of Generals Sumner, Heintzelman and Keyes have been engaged against greatly superior numbers. Yesterday at 1 o'clock the enemy, taking advantage of a terrible storm, which has flooded the valley of the Chickahominy, attacked our troops on the right flank. Gen. Casey's division, which was in the first line, gave way unaccountably and disunitedly. This caused a confusion, during which the guns and baggage were lost, but Generals Heintzelman and Kearny most gallantly brought up their troops, which checked the enemy. At the same time, how-ever, we succeeded by great exertions in bringing across Generals Sedgwick-and Richardson's divisions, who drove back the enemy at the point of the bayonet, covering the ground with his dead. This morning the enemy attempted to renew the conflict, but was everywhere repulsed. We have taken many prisoners, among whom is General Pettigrew and Colonel Long. Our loss is heavy, but that of the enemy must be enormous. With the exception of General Casey's division, the men behaved splendidly. Several fine bayonet charges have been made. The 2d Excelsior regiment made two to-day.
(Signed) GEORGE B. MCCLELLAN,
Major General Commanding."
WASHINGTON, June 1. During the whole of the battle this morning Professor Lowe's balloon was overlooking the terrible scene from an altitude of about 2000 feet. Telegraphic communication from the balloon to Gen. McClellan and in direct connection with the military wires was successfully maintained, Mr. Park Spring of Philadelphia acting as operator.
Every movement of the enemy was obvious and instantly reported. This is believed to be the first time that a balloon reconnoissance has been successfully made during a battle, and certainly the first time in which a telegraph station has been established in the air to report the movements of the enemy and the progress of a battle. The advantage to Gen. McClellan must have been immense.
WASHINGTON, June 3. Some five hundred prisoners were taken by us in the late battle on the Chickahominy, among them several officers. Our loss in the two days' engagement is estimated at 3000, of whom a large proportion are thought to be missing and likely to return. The enemy left 1200 dead on the field. All the troops left Richmond and marched out in the direction of the battle-ground. The railroad was of great help to us in forwarding supplies of ammunition during the fight Col. Briggs of the 10th Massachusetts, is among the wounded.
The bill recognizing the Governments of Hayti and Liberia, and establishing diplomatic relations with them, passed the House on Tuesday—86 against 37— and only awaits the signature of the President to become a law. Our diplomatic representatives of these Governments will rank as Consuls-General, their salaries being $4,000 per annum.
<c04>
THE BETREAT OF GENERAL BANKS.
A correspondent of the Philadelphia Inquirer, writing from Hagerstown, (Md.,) 29th, says:—
"When the refugees from beyond Winchester were passing through that hot-bed of secession, they were fired upon from the windows, and many fell to the ground—some dead and others wounded.
As I passed along the turnpike, this morning, I met vehicles of all descriptions, from the quaint-looking carriage of Virginia to a half-wagon, filled with women, children, and their household effects. To enumerate the 'contrabands,' of both sexes and all ages, who accompanied our army across, would be impossible. Their name is legion. Many of the men had been acting as teamsters, and dreaded hanging if they remained.
As General Banks was passing through Winchester, and murderous volleys were being fired from windows and house-tops, a rebel standing in a doorway sighted a double-barreled gun at him. The act was observed by a private in the Forty-sixth, named John Clark, who, hastily 'drawing a bead,' killed the assassin, and saved the General's life. The General subsequently asked his name, and thanked-him."
A correspondent of the Philadelphia Press, who was with the Maryland regiment, says:—
"After the fall of Colonel Kenley the retreat of our troops became a perfect rout, every man looking out for No. 1. The rebel cavalry rode in among them, cutting down whoever fell into their way.
Passing through Winchester our soldiers were the objects of all kinds of abuse and ridicule from the Secesh people of that town, especially the women. They refused to give our soldiers anything, but instead derided them, and showed their joy that our forces were cut up. They taunted our soldiers with such remarks as, 'Ah! you Yankee hirelings, you have got fixed by Jackson and Ashby!' 'You d—d Hessians have got served right!' and plenty of other expressions, more forcible than neat.
Of the force belonging to the second section of Knapp's battery, only two remain, the rest having either been captured or wounded. The 1st Maryland regiment (1,100 men in all) is nearly all either killed or captured.
As soon as the 46th Pennsylvania regiment entered Winchester, the street re-echoed with the shots discharged from the windows of the dwellings. The destined attack upon our troops was evidently well known by the people of Winchester, since no sooner had the battle commenced than the windows bristled with guns and pistols. Wherever a Union soldier was seen, there a shot was fired. Not men only, but women, used with effect the deadly weapons. Accurate aim was not only taken by these female fiends, but large hand grenades were thrown by them from windows, which, as they burst, proved destructive to the lives and limbs of many of our gallant men.
When it was ascertained that retreat was inevitable, the convalescents in the hospitals at Winchester were notified, and all who could, hastily left; some who had been suffering for weeks with rheumatism and other diseases, finding themselves suddenly made whole. A shell was fired by the rebels into the Court House, used by our troops as a hospital; and it is positively asserted that not only were our sick and wounded bayonet and sabred, but one building in which they were was burned."
The correspondent of the Boston Journal, in General Banks's army, gives the following on the flight from Winchester:—
"A great deal of firing came from the houses. Citizens shot down our men. Women, too—demons in petticoats—stood deliberately and fired upon us. One shot dead a private in Company C. His comrade fired upon her, and she fell a corpse. Swift and merited retribution! On, on we passed out of town, over the roads and fields in such solid columns that they did not dare to follow us closely, but rained their shells on us but too surely. Many fell out from hunger and fatigue. The wounded and sick—all who could not go at double quick—were left behind; and the saddest story of all is, in this age, and not among Hottentots, that these unfortunates were all left—probably to be butchered! The cavalry of the rear guard nearly all tell the same story—that men were constantly overtaken, and when ordered to surrender, and threw down their arms, had their heads cut off."
The correspondent of the Boston Traveller writes a similar story as follows:—
'Then came the march through Winchester. It was a savage one. The 2nd Massachusetts regiment were the rear, but all fared much alike. Citizens shot from windows, threw hand-grenades, struck at our men with clubs—citizens! WOMEN did it; women shot wounded men; women threw hot water on them; women killed prisoners. At last, forbearance ceased. Volleys were poured into houses; rooms were entered and assassins bayonetted; any public property was fired, and streets were swept by the conflagration; ordnance exploded; cavalry rode down stragglers; but the 2nd, then the rear guard, never wavered—not a company broke—not a gap was to be seen. 'Steady— steady;' and the discipline of this brave and noble set of soldiers then told."
The Pittsburg Chronicle puts the loss of stores at two million dollars. Its correspondent says:—
"There has been an immense loss, but it will not do to put it on paper. A portion of the supply train was cut off, wagons burnt up on the road, large quantities of stores and forage destroyed, and in crossing here (Williamsport) one hundred mules were drowned, and there was great loss of stores."
Front Royal was retaken by the Federal troops on Friday. A brigade, preceded by four companies of R. 1. Cavalry under Major Nelson, entered the place at 11 o'clock and drove out the enemy, consisting of the 8th Louisiana, four companies of the 12th Georgia, and a body of cavalry. They captured six officers and six privates, and recovered thirteen of our men taken a week ago, among whom were Major Collins of the Vermont Cavalry and some New York and Maryland officers; also a large amount of transportation, including two engines and eleven cars. Our loss was eight killed, five wounded, and one missing—all of the R.I. Cavalry.
Gen. Banks telegraphs that the N. J. Cavalry entered Martinsburg on Saturday morning and passed several miles beyond, where they encountered the enemy's cavalry, an l captured several prisoners, a wagon of muskets, ammunition and an American flag.
FREMONT'S HEADQUARTERS, NEAR STRASBURG, June 1. General Fremont with a strong column left Franklin last Sunday, and by rapid forced marches-has crossed the Shenandoah mountain ranges, marching nearly 100 miles over difficult roads, with little means of transportation and no supplies in the country. This morning, five miles from Strasburg, he overtook General Jackson in full retreat with his whole force on the road from Winchester to Strasburg.
Colonel Cluserut, commanding the advance brigade, came upon the enemy strongly posted with artillery, which opened as soon as the head of his column approached. General Fremont rapidly brought his main column up and formed in line of battle. Gen Jackson declined to fight, and while holding Cluserut in check, with a portion of his troops, withdrew his main forces and continued his retreat.

SWORD, REVOLVER AND BELT PRESENTATION TO CAPT. JOHN BROWN, JR.
To speak about the " horrors of war," I think there was hardly ever a more touching scene witnessed than yesterday, near the Fort, in Company K, 7th Kansas (Jennison's) Regiment Capt. John Brown, Jr., who brought the above company out here from Ohio, but has for a long time by sickness been prevented from acting in this capacity in the company, and had therefore sometime since resigned, took his last farewell of the company. The company on this occasion presented John Brown, Jr., as a token of their estimation of him, through Lieut., now Capt. Hoyt, with a beautiful sword, belt and revolver. Capt. Hoyt made a few appropriate remarks, to which John Brown, Jr., tried to answer, but could not speak any, being moved too much. His silence was the best speech ever made in any military camp. There their old Captain sat, not being able to walk, in his buggy, tears in his eyes, the whole company in rank and file, without arms, but tears in their eyes; and a multitude from other companies silently around the above scene with tears in their eyes.
A man who is in such a manner beloved by his company and the whole regiment, would have made a good officer if spared for further service. But it was otherwise decreed. All we can say now is, fare thee well, thou noble son of a noble father!

ONE FOR MANY OF JENNISON'S JAYHAWKERS. —Leavenworth (Kansas) Conservative.
Capt. John Brown, Jr., has resigned on account of ill-health, and Lieut George H. Hoyt has been promoted to that position. Both are representative men, and Capt. Brown could not have a successor who represents him more fully in thoughts and purpose Ibid.
The matter of Colonel Jennison has been arranged, the President having satisfied himself that the charges made against him have been groundless, and he has ordered that he be restored to his rank and position as Colonel of the Seventh Kansas Volunteers. It is understood that Colonel Jennison will be put immediately in command of a brigade, to operate in Western Arkansas and the Indian Territory—one special duty being to restore to their homes the loyal Indians driven oat by Pike last winter, and to give them protection against their enemies.
<c05>
THE, CONFISCATION BILL.
The bill provides that all the estate, property and moneys, stocks, credit and effects of the person or persons hereinafter named, are declared forfeited to the government of the United States, and declared lawful subjects of seizure, and of prize and capture wherever found, for the indemnity of the United States, against the expenses for suppressing the present rebellion—that is to say:
First—Of any person hereafter acting as an officer n the army or navy of the rebels, now or hereafter, in arms against the government of the United States.
Secondly—Any person hereafter acting as President, Vice President, member of Congress, Judge of any Court, Cabinet officer, Foreign Minister, Commissioner or Consul of the so called Confederate States.
Thirdly.—Any person acting as Governor of a State, member of a convention or legislature, or Judge of any Court of the so-called Confederate States.
Fourthly.—Any person who, having held an office of honor, trust or profit in the United States, shall hereafter hold an office in the so-called Confederate States.
Fifthly.—Any person hereafter holding any office or agency under the so-called Confederate States, or under any of the several States of said Confederacy, or laws thereof, whether such office or agency be national, State or municipal in its name or character.
Sixthly.—Any person who, having property in any loyal State or Territory of the United States, or in the District of Columbia, shall hereafter assist and give aid and comfort to such rebellion, the said estate, property and moneys, stocks, credits and effects of these persons are declared lawful subjects of capture wherever found; and the President of the United States shall cause-the same to be seized, to the end that they may be confiscated and condemned to the use of the United States; and all sales, transfers or conveyances shall be null and void; and it shall be a sufficient bar to any suit brought by such person for the possession, and for the use of such property, or any of it, to allege and prove he is one of the persons descibed in this section.
The second section provides that if any person within any State or Terrritory of the United States other than those already specified shall not, within sixty days after public warning and proclamation by the President, cease to aid, countenance and abet such rebellion, and return to their allegiance, their property shall in like manner be forfeited for the use of the United States, all sales, transfers or conveyances of any such property, after the expiration of the said sixty days from the date of the warning shall be null and void.
The third section provides that to secure the possession, condemnation and sale of such property, situate and being in any State or territory of the United States, proceedings in <illegible> shall be instituted in the name of the United States in any District Court or territorial Court, or in the United States District Court, for the District of Columbia, within which the property may be found, or into which the same if movable may be first brought, which proceedings shall conform as nearly as may be to proceedings in prize cases, or to cases of forfeiture, arising under the revenue laws; and the property so seized and condemned, whether real or personal, shall be sold under the decree of the Court having cognizance of the case, and the proceeds deposited in the Treasury of the United States, for their use and benefit.
The remainder of the sections provide the necessary machinery for carrying the act into effect. 
Provided, That the persons thirdly and fifthly described, shall have accepted their election and appointments to office since the date of the pretended ordinance of secession of such State, or shill have taken the oath of allegiance to the so-called Confederate States.
The bill was passed by a vote of 82 yeas against 68 nays.

THE EMANCIPATION BILL.
The Emancipation Bill which was lost in the House by a majority of four is as follows.
If any person or persons within the United States shall, after the passage of this act, wilfully engage in armed rebellion against the Government of the United States, or shall wilfully aid or abet such rebellion, or adhere to those already engaged in such rebellion, giving them aid and comfort, every such person shall thereby forfeit all claim to the service or-labor of any persons commonly known as slaves, and all such slaves are hereby declared free and forever discharged from servitude, anything in the laws of the United States or of any other State to the contrary notwithstanding; and whenever thereafter any person claiming the labor or service of any such slave shall seek to enforce his claim, it shall be sufficient defence thereto that the claimant was engaged in said rebellion or aided or abetted the same contrary to the provisions of this act. Whenever any person claiming to be entitled to service or labor of any other person, shall seek to enforce such claim, he shall, in the first instance, and before any order shall be made for the surrender of the person whose service or labor la claimed, establish not only his claim to such service or labor, but also that such claimant has not, in any way, aided, assisted, or countenanced the existing rebellion against the Government of the United States.
The bill was rejected—yeas 74, nays 78.
New York, June 4. Advices from Newbern report great excitement in that place, owing to the rescue by Massachusetts troops of a fugitive slave remanded by Gov. Stanley. A perfect panic prevails among the fugitives in our lines. All vessels going North are first searched for slaves. Gov. Stanley has already closed the schools of the freed persons of color, in conformity with the Black Code of North Carolina. Secretary Stanton has assured Sen. Sumner that such were not his instructions, and that no part of the Code shall be executed.

COLLECTIONS,
For Expenses of New England Anti-Slavery Convention, 
by Finance Committee, May, 1862.
Edmund Quincy,	 5.00 E. Trask, 1.00
Bourne Spooner,	 1.00 A. T. Draper, 1.00
Amasa Walker, 1.00 	G. C. Hickok, 	1.00
Elijah Hobart, 	1.00 	Samuel Barrett,	1.00
A. Stanwood, 	1.00 	W. W. Dutcher, 	1.00
Alvan Ward,		1.00 	M. A. Dutcher, 	1.00
-----Weston, 	1.00 	Good,	 25
L. Hurd, 	1.00 	J. J. Locke, 	 50
LucindaiL. Jameson, 	1.00 	P. B. Cogswell, 	1.00
H. L. Sherman, 	1.00 	Leonard Chase, 	1.00
William Boynton, 	1.00 	M. B. Whiting, 50
Alexander Foster, 1.00	Bunker Hill, 25
Mrs. J. C. Nichols, 1.00 	L. M. Hess, 25
Henry Abbott, 50 	T. B. Rice, 	1.00
H. H. Brigham, 	 50 	Geo. W. Simonds, 	1.00
Benjamin H. West, 	1.00 	C. W. Estabrook, 25
Paul D. Wallis, 	1.00 	H. W. Carter, 	 25
Alexander Wilson, 	1.00 	R. H. Ober, 	1.00
A. H. Howard, 	1.00 	E. J. Sherman, 	1.00
C. F. F			1.00 	N.T.Allen,		1.00
W. J. C., 50 	H. C. Hordon, 50
J. M. C., 	1.00 	Anna Logan, 	1.00
Stephen Clapp, 	1.00 	William H. Logan, 	1.00
S. May Jr., 	1.00 	B. H. Smith, 	 50
J. T. Everett, 	1.00 	H. Kimball, 25
E & E. H. Richards, 	2.00 	Nathan Page, Jr., 1.00
William Ashby, 	1.00 	William Bartlett, 50
Mr. Allen, 	1.00 	Esther Kendall, 25
John T. Sargent, 	1.00 	Mrs. Foss, 25
A. M. Chase, 	1.00 	Lizzie N. Elwell, 50
A. T. Foss, 50 	Mrs. Loud, 	1.00
M. M. Brooks, 1.00 	R. H. Morrill, 	1.00
Lydia O. Le Favre, 25 	E. W. Easte, 	1.00
AbbyNewhall, 	 50 	Mary Brigham, 	1.00
S. Beans and wife, 1.00 	Mrs. D. Thaxter, 	1.00
Miss Poole, 50 	M. B. Clapp, 	1.00
A. B. B., 	1.00 	Mrs. Richardson, 1.00
Mary Clapp, 	1.00 	Abby A. Bennett, 	1.00
A.M. Newell, 	1.00 	Frances Wason, 	1.00
B. F. Hutchinson, 	1.00 	Rufus Bates, 	1.00
A. S. Folsom, 	1.00 	Robert R. Crosby, 1.00 
Elizabeth B. Chase, 	1.00 	E. A. Kittredge, 	1.00
B. R. Downes, 50 	J. W. Spaulding, 50 
Benjamin Chase, 	1.00 	S. H. Cowing, 	1.00 
Amos Chase, 	1.00 	Lydia Smith, 50 
Asa Fairbanks, 	1.00 	C. E. H. 50 
Mary May, 	2.00 	M. Halliburton, 	1.00 
G. W. Stacy, 50 	E. C. Hodges, 50 
Daniel Mann, 	1.00 	H. Damon, . 	1.00 
Dr. E.B., 50 	Helen E. Garrison, 	1.00 
Samuel G. Gilmore, 50 	N. B. Hill, 	1.00 
S. A. F., 	 25 	S. G., 50 
Clarissa G. Olds, 50 	Mary L. Richmond, 	1.00
C. B. Mclntire, 	1.00 	A. M. McPhail, Jr., 	1.00 
L. G. J., 60 	Mary E. Peirce, 	1.00 
Mary Willey, 	1.00 	George W. Gilmore, 50 
Eliza Wellington, 	1.00 	C.Wellington, 	1.00 
Caroline Wellington, 	1.00 	J. G. Dodge, 	1.00 
G. W. Flanders, 	1.00 	E. Sprague, 	1.00 
Anna Southwick, 	1.00 	Pocahontas, 	1.00 
T. W. Hartshorn, 50 	Mr. Collins, 25 
E.F.Eddy, 	1.00 	S. U., 	1.00 
H. M. Ireson, 	1.00 	William Jenkins, 50 
J. Purinton, Jr., 	1.00 	Jonah H. 	1.00 
E. D. Draper, 	1.00 	F. C. M. Houston, 	1.00 
Josiah Hay ward, 	1.00 	Grace Jackson, 3
Elizabeth Mendum, 	1.00 	N. N., 	1.00 
C. K. Whipple, 	1.00 	E. F. Mclntire, 	1.00 
Paulina Gerry, 	1.00 	M. Richards, 50 
S.J. Nowell, 	1.00 	Samner Cheney, 50 
E.G.Richardson, 50 	Zenas Jenkins, 	1.00 
M. B. Goodrich,, 	1.00 	Sarah Marston, 	1.00 
Joseph Merrill, 	1.00 	Dan Hill, 	1.00
E. H. Merrill, 	1.00 	Philander Shaw,	1.00 
M.C. Wilson, 	1.00 	J. Jones, 1.00 
L. S. Putnam, 50 	John Bailey, 	1.00
Edward B.Perkins,	1.00 	Parker Pillsbury, 	1.00
A. Wooldridge, 	? 	Edwin Thompson	1.00
H Damon, 	1.00 	John T. Page, 	1.00
M.B. Johnson,	1.00 	M. W. Chapman, 	2.00

<c06>
Ruth <illegible>, 	1.00 	I. Sargent. 	1.00
W. Bassett, Jr., 1.00 	MarftG, Chapman, 	1.00
S. Sbaw, 1.00 	H. Sargent	 1.00
Caroline R. Putnam, 	1.00 	George Adams	1.00
M. G. Thomas, 50 	W. L. Garrison, 	1.00
John T. Hilton, 50 	"Friends" and cash,
J.B. Pierce, 	1.00 in various sums, 	89.92
B. Snow, Jr., 	1.00

DONATIONS
To the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society at New Eng*
land Anti-blaitty Convention, May, 1862.
James N. Buffuro, Lynn, $25.00
William Ashby, Newburyport, 	10.00
Samuel Barrett, Concord, 	 	10.00
Anna E. Dickinson, Philadelphia, 	10.00
Perley King, Danvers, 	5.00
Atkinson Stanwood, Newburyport, 	5.00
A friend, 	5.00
Martha Clapp, 	5.00
Samuel May, Jr., 	5.00
S. and E. Hobart, 	5.00
Mary G. Chapman, • 	5.00
E. H. Magill, 	5.00
N. White, Concord, N. H., 	5.00
Anne Atherton, 	3.00
S. S. Heminway, Boston, 	3.00
Georgina Otis, " 	3.00
David Thayer, " 	3.00
C. C McLauthlin, Watertown, 	3.00
Charles Follen, Brookline, 3.00
Richanl Plumer. Jr., Newburyport, 3.00
Wm. Perry, N. Bridgewater, 	3.00
A. A. Bent, South Gardner, 2.00
Samuel L. Hill, Florence, 2.00
"Death to Slavery," 2.00
Sarah E. Wall, Worcester, 2.00
P. B. Cogswell, Concord, N. H., 2.00
E. G. Lucas, Boston, 2.00
Stephen Barker, $2, A. B. Francis, $2, 4.00
George S. Flint, Rutland. 2.00
Harriot Richardson, $2, Austin Bearse, $2 4.00
Mr. and Mrs. J. Hay ward, Salem, 2.00
Jonathan Buffuni, Lynn, 2.00
Wendell P. Garrison, 2.00
Mrs. Ernestine L. Rose, Henry W. Carter, 
S. J. Nowell, John T. Sargent, $1 each. 	4.00

PLEDGES 
To Mass. Anti-Slavery Society, at N. E. Convention,
May, 1862.
Wendell Phillips, $	100.00
Mary May, 	100.00
E. D. and Anna T. Draper, 	100.00
George W. Simonds, Boston, 	 28.00
W. W. Duteher, Hopedale, 	 25.00
M. A. Duteher, " 	 25.00
Caroline R. Putnam, Salem, 	 10.00
Reuben H. Ober, Boston, 10.00
Elijah Hobart, South Hingham, 5.00
I. Adams, Dorchester, 6.00
A. Newhall, 5.00
Lemuel Page, 5.00
E. B. Chase, 6.00
Daniel Mann, 5.00
S. J. Nowell,					 5.00
Miss E. H. Day, Lewiston, Me., 5.00
Rev. W. J. Potter, 5.00
Alden Sampson, 5.00
John C. Haynes, 5.00
Joshua T. Everett, 3.00
George W. Flanders, 2.00
A. A. Roberts, 2.00
Jarvis Lewis, 2.00
A. Blanchard, 2.00
R. R. Crosby, Mary C. Sawyer, J. T.
Hewes, T. Mundrucu, Emily Horn, G. L.
Turner, Adams Twitchell, H. E.Lunt, Abby
Harris, Mary A. Gardner, $1 each, 	10.00
G. L. Hall, 0.50

ESSEX COUNTY
The Annual Meeting of the Essex County Anti-Slavery Society will be held on Sunday, June 15th, at ESSEX, in Century Chapel; commencing at half-past l0 o' clock, A.M.
Andrew T. Foss, PARKER PILLSBURY, and other speakers, are expected to attend.
It is earnestly hoped and desired that the 'members of the Society will take more than usual pains to be present. The times demand the earnest and united voices of all the friends of freedom and of their country.
CHARLES L. REMOND, President.
GARDNER, MASS.—An Anti-Slavery Meeting will be held in Gardner and South Gardner, on Sunday, June 8th, to commence at half-past, 10 o'clock, A. M. Friends of liberty and of their country are, one and all, invited to attend.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., PARKER PILLSBURY and other speakers are expected to be present.

HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in the Town Hall, Gloucester Harbor, on Sunday next, June 8, at 2 and 6 o'clock, P. M. Subjects: Liberty and Slavery eternal Antagonisms. A War of Bullets and Bayonets as a means of Protection to Life and liberty.

NOTICE.—Members of the American, Pennsylvania, Western, or Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, contributing annually to the funds of either of these Societies, can receive a copy of the last very valuable Report of the American Society, entitled The Anti-Slavery History of the John Brown Year, by sending a request to that effect to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston, and enclosing stamps sufficient to pay the postage, viz., fourteen cents.

THE REJECTED STONE.—The new edition of his book, by Rev. M. D. CONWAY, is now ready.
Copies may be obtained for gratuitous distribution as low as twenty cents & copy, in cloth, provided ten or more copies are taken at once. Those who wish the book, for this purpose, should apply, in person or by letter, to HENRY G. DENNY, Esq., 42 Court Street, Boston.
The attention of our friends everywhere is earnestly called to this great opportunity of promoting the abolitito of United States slavery.
DIED—In this city, May 29, CHARLES F. COOK, aged 40 years and 11 months.
At her residence in Hudson, (N. Y.) on Sunday morning, May 25th, MARIA MARRIOTT, aged 76 years.
For two years past, the health of our beloved friend has been gradually failing, and the change which has now taken place she has looked forward to with sweet serenity of spirit, and remarkable cheerfulness. During the last few weeks of her illness she suffered much, both in body and mind, until finally the quiet translation occurred as a most welcome release.
Since the early inauguration of the Anti-Slavery movement, when the Liberator, with its motto of " Immediate, unconditional emancipation," was first sent forth upon its important mission, our friend has been among the most faithful and devoted of the slaves' truest friends. By great fidelity, and valuable testimonies in the social circle, by constant distribution of Anti-Slavery publications in the sphere of her acquaintance, by generous hospitality, and liberal donations to the American Anti-Slavery Society, has she accomplished much in behalf of the oppressed.
She was the last surviving sister of the late Charles Marriott. Though a member of the Society of Friends, she had for many years withheld her active co-operation because of the Society's painful indifference to the Anti-Slavery cause. Deploring the unhallowed influences which ever follow in the wake of the horrible, bloody demon of war, she looked forward, though not without apprehension, to universal emancipation as the final end of the present national contest.
She was a most thoughtful, benevolent friend of the colored people, the poor and friendless, the orphans of the city, by whom she will be greatly missed.
She accepted with a lively faith the doctrine of continued, individual, conscious immortality of the spirit, and the view that the change called death does not wholly sever the delicate links by which we are all most closely bound together, both in the present and the hereafter.
Precious to many will be her memory, and blessed the influence she will continue to exert upon such as were nearest her in the sphere of loving companionship.
A. M. P.

Representative Women.
Lucretia Mott, Maria Weston Chapman.
Abby Kelley Foster, Lydia Maria Child, 
Harriet Beecher Stowe, <illegible> 
Antoinette L. Brown.
THOSE friends who have so long been desiring copies of the above group,—executed in Groxelier's best style,— can now be supplied, by sending their orders, enclosing one dollar for each copy, which will ensure their being promptly mailed, and in perfect condition.
An early application is necessary, as the edition is very limited.
WILLIAM C. NELL,
Anti-Slavery Rooms, 221 Washington St, Boston. June 6.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
"THE GLORIOUS FOURTH."
Extracted from a neatly printed and truly graphic Poem,-worthy of a wide circulation for its intrinsic merit,-entitled "OUR FLAG"-in Four Cantos-by T. H. Underwood-published by Carleton, 413 Broadway, New York.
Ring out, O bells! the Nation's Sabbath-day!
The glorious FOURTH! Ye people, clap your hands!
Hang up your banners! (hide the chains away!)
Let "Freedom" sound o'er all these goodly lands!
What matter if our gallant ensign waves
Above the fetters of four million slaves!
Drums, beat your rataplans! shrill-screaming fife,
shriek "Hail Columbia!" with relentless air!
Let shouts and bonfires mix in friendly strife
With anthems loud and patriotic prayer!
Hoarse-throated cannon call unto the sea!
Four million slaves may answer "Jubilee!"
Our nation's ensign bravely cuts the sky-
Its stars are flashing from their lofty height!
Down, busy devil-your suggestive lie
Expediency will cover from the sight:
Hint not of "slaves," but shout the "Glorious cause!"
The "Constitution!" "Declaration!" "Laws!"
Ha! here is one who in his fetters stands-
The truth will out-he standeth here a SLAVE!
Strong ropes are knotted on his neck and hands;
"Tis said he dies the death that knows no grave-
The death of deaths-appalling death of fire!
His feet are planted on his funeral pyre.
The staff that lifts our banner to the sky
Is now his stake-his arms are pinioned there,
Above his head, and painfully too high-
(The scorners say, "an attitude of prayer.")
Chains round the staff and round his body twine,
And to the "sacred pole" his limbs confine.
Here are three men, whose manhood is unknown
In Heaven's court, three men of vulgar speech,
And faces hard, by evil passions grown
To vulpine hideousness. They're holding each
A pine-wood torch; in readiness they stand
To vindicate the honor of their land!
The ruffian mob in thousands gather round-
The wolfish pack who dragged him through the street:
They torture him with many a grievous wound-
His body flay, and burn his bands and feet.
Sublimely silent, he awaits his death
With brow serene and even-tenured breath.
A "man of God," (the blasphemy I write
To show what brute-depravity has done
To sacred things,) in ministerial white,
Is standing here. How glib his tongue doth run
With libels on his country and his time!
He calls on GOD to sanctify this crime!
Repeats the standard falsehoods of his class;
Is flush in Bible saws and legal lore;
Is rich in sophistry of sounding brass,
In reasons blatant. With a pious roar
He deals anathemas on seed, of Ham,
And curses Canaan with an unctuous damn.
This priest of Baal by the victim stands,
Parades his learning, and his lust as well:
In holy horror, and with lifted hands,
Consigns all Abolitionists to hell-
Belabors Freedom with the Holy Writ,
Then goes his way, pedantic of his wit.
The torchmen then apply their ready match,
And soon the blaze assails the victim's feet:
Wild laughter rises, as the faggots catch,
In approbation. From each lane and street
The human tide rolls onward in its ire
To swell the horrid carnival of fire.
The pitchy pine the native instinct shows
For negro flesh to feed its appetite:
In flaming fury now it leaps and glows,
And closing round him, shuts him from the sight:
A laugh of triumph is the only sound
Right over this baptismal font of fire
Most haughtily the nation's colors wave!
The shoutings of the mob reach high-but higher
The upward-leaping laughter of the slave-
A laugh of joy! the soul's loud jubilee,
As it goes up, through flames, to Heaven FREE!
Now upward springing from its human feast,
The unabating, angry blaze assaults
The towering staff, and like a growling beast
Climbs up the wood, and on the banner vaults;
Its fiery fangs the shiv'ring ensign clasp,
And-crisp and curl it in their envious grasp!
They clutch it close, and hold it shriv'ling there;
They fiercely pluck each glittering star away!
Ah, God! a flag of fire floats on the air,
Grows red, then black, and parting from its stay,
An instant waves a pirate rag, and, lo!
It falls to ashes on the mob below!
'Tis emblematic of a nation's thrall,
And of the doom that His good time will bide;
In blood and fire shall her red fetters fall,
And she arise, redeemed and purified:
The conquering Right will leave to after time
The giant CINDER of a giant CRIME.

THE SOLDIER'S NURSE.
[The other day, Col. Howe was conducting Prof. Hitchcock, of the Union Theological Seminary, through the Relief Rooms on Broadway, when they found an accomplished young lady, belonging to a distinguished family in this city, reading the Scriptures to a sick and wounded soldier.]
Our sweet-faced Florence Nightingale,
Who watches till the stars grow pale,
Sits like a guardian angel near,
To bind the wound and dry the tear.
On pillows where her shadow falls
Are soft wings from the starry walls,
And there the wounded soldier seems
Near angels that come down in dreams.
Her voice is low, and soft, and sweet,
Her step is light with silent feet,
Her heart with pity overflows,
Her tears are dew-drops on a rose.
The noblest man in all the land
Would kneel to kiss the gentle hand
With which she smoothes the hero's brow,
Or wipes the grateful tears that flow.
Who would not wounds and bruises bear,
To win a smile from one so fair?
N. Y. Tribune. G. W. BUNGAT.

From the Delaware County, (Pa.) Republican.
HUNTER'S PROCLAMATION
BY RICHARD COE.
God's law of compensation worketh sure,
So we may know the right shall aye endure!
"Forever free!" God! how the pulse doth bound
At the high, glorious, Heaven-prompted sound
That greets our ears from carolina's shore!
"Forever free!" and slavery is no more!
Ere time the hunter followed up the slave;
But now, a Hunter, noble, true and brave,
Proclaims the right to each who draws a breath,
To life himself from out a living death,
And plant his feet on Freedom's happy soil,
Content to take her wages for his toil,
And look to God, the author of his days,
For food and raiment-sounding forth His praise.

BE TRUE.
Thou must be true to thyself,
If thou the truth wouldst teach;
Thy soul must overflow, if thou
Another's soul would reach.
It needs the overflow of heart
To give the lips full speech.
Think truly, and thy thoughts
Shall the world's famine feed:
Speak truly, and each work of thine
Shall be a fruitful need:
Live truly, and thy life shall be
A great and noble creed.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The Annual New England Anti-Slavery Convention commenced its sessions at the Melodeon, in Boston, on Wednesday, May 28th. 
At 10 ¼ o'clock, the Convention was called to order by EDMUND QUINCY, President of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society.
The Committee of Arrangements proposed, through Samuel May, Jr., the following as Officers of the Convention:-
For President-EDMUND QUINCY, of Dedham.
Vice Presidents-William Ashby, of Newburyport; John Bailey, Lynn; Bourne Spooner, Plymouth; Andrew T. Foss, Manchester, N. H.; Leonard Chase, Milford, N. H.; Benjamin Snow, Jr., Fitch; burg; Albert M. Chase, Canton; John T. Sargent, Boston; William I. Bowditch, Brookline; Elias Richards, Weymouth; Ellis Allen, Medfield; Joshua T. Everett, Princeton; Elizabeth B. Chase, Valley Falls, R. I.
Secretaries-Samuel May, Jr., Charles K. Whipple, Wendell P. Garrison.
Business Committee-Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Parker Pillsbury, William H. Fish, E. H. Heywood, Wm. Wells Brown, Charles Follen, Geo. W. Stacy, Aaron M. Powell, Mrs. Ernestine L. Rose, Miss Susan B. Anthony, Mrs. Abby Kelley Foster.
Finance Committee-E. D. Draper, Hopedale; James N. Buffum, Lynn; Maria S. Page, Boston; Elbridge Sprague, Abington; Reuben H. Ober, Boston; Anna B. Powell, Ghent, N. Y.
The Convention accepted the officers thus nominated.
EDMUND QUINCY, in taking the Chair, addressed the Convention. He-thanked the Convention for the honor conferred upon him, in electing him to preside over its deliberations. He explained the grounds upon which the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society had decided not to call together the New England Convention last year. He reviewed briefly the political anti-slavery history of the country during the two years past, showing how the will and purpose of the Northern people had triumphed over the conspiracy of the South and the more miserable cabals of their Northern sympathizers, in their purpose to elevate slavery to be the supreme power of the land. He pointed out and enforced the duties of the Abolitionists in this critical and momentous hour. He referred to the general satisfaction felt throughout the North-at the Proclamation of Gen. David Hunter, and his remarks were warmly applauded. He expressed the disappointment and pain so generally felt when President Lincoln interposed his veto upon that great act of emancipation; but added his conviction that the President would himself exercise that great power whenever he saw the life of the Nation to be depending upon the proclamation of liberty to all. He thought we were never in so great danger of foreign intervention as at this moment; and that the President's late proclamation had, however differently meant, done more to complicate our foreign relations than any other thing which has happened. When, added to this, we consider the late enforcement of the Fugitive Slave Law at Washington, it is easy to see that that large middle class of the British nation, which has hitherto held back their Government from intervention in our national affairs, will be very likely to lose all interest in our war, and all hope that it will prove a war for freedom, and even to call on their Government to interpose their power with an anti-slavery purpose. He again exhorted the anti-slavery people of the North to stand firm, and hoped that their labors might make it unnecessary ever again to hold a New England Anti-Slavery Convention.
Mr. GARRISON, from the Committee of Business, reported the following resolutions, the reading of which was frequently interrupted by applause:-
1. Resolved, That, first of all, we congratulate the true friends of their country every where,-and especially those who have toiled so long and untiringly in the Anti-Slavery field,-upon the immediate abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia by act of Congress-an act whereby the Seat of Government has, after seventy years of shame and opprobrium, been rescued from the accursed influences and manifold horrors of the presence of that barbarous system, and henceforth consecrated to freedom and free institutions.
2. Resolved, That the glory of this deed is dimmed by the fact, that it was carried through both houses of Congress by a strict party vote-the Republican members, to their lasting historic honor, voting in the affirmative, and the Democratic members, to their enduring infamy, recording their votes against it; nevertheless, a deed sanctioned and demanded alike by the Constitution of the United States, by the popular voice, and by all the claims of humanity and justice,-the consequences of which cannot fail to have a vital and overmastering influence in the future in shaping national legislation, to be in all respects blessed and beneficent, and to lead the way to the extinction of slavery in every part of the land.
3. Resolved, That the thanks of this Convention be proffered to the Hon. Charles Sumner and the Hon. Henry Wilson in special, and to those other members of Congress in general, through whose persistent efforts and eloquent words this long-deferred deed of mercy and righteousness was at last consummated.
4. Resolved, That, since the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia has occurred, the frightful paradox has been presented of slave-hunters from Maryland and Virginia swarming the Capital in quest of their fugitive slaves, and in various instances recovering them both by military and civil process; so that with the songs of jubilee have been mingled the shrieks and wailings of despair, and scenes the most joyous and the most distressing have been strangely blended in the same hour, within the same limits, and under the same governmental authority.
5. Resolved, That whatever constitutional obligation may have existed for the rendition of fugitive slaves in any of the States, there is and has been none in relation to the District of Columbia; and Congress, therefore, should lose no time in declaring freedom to every person found within the limits of the Capital, against any and every slaveholding claimant whatever.
6. Resolved, That special credit is to be awarded to the Government, for having at this juncture made a treaty with England, whereby the right of search is equitably provided for in relation to the suppression of the foreign slave trade; so that the ocean slave traffickers may no longer find shelter or protection, as they have hitherto done, under the American flag.
7. Resolved, That it will ever redound to the military sagacity, noble patriotism, and considerate humanity of Gen. Fremont, that, in August last, he decreed the liberation of all the slaves owned by the rebels in the State of Missouri, then a portion of his military district; and the enthusiastic manner in which it was universally applauded throughout the North was demonstrative proof of the popular feeling in regard to the most effective method for suppressing the rebellious movement of the South.
8. Resolved, That a still more effective blow, one on a wider scale, was recently struck at the rebellion by Gen. Hunter, in decreeing that "the persons in Georgia, Florida and South Carolina, heretofore held as slaves, are forever free," (these States comprising the Military Department of the South over which he is placed in command,) on the ground that "slavery and martial law in a free country are altogether incompatible."
9. Resolved, That in swiftly revoking these decrees of Gen. Fremont and Gen. Hunter, President Lincoln has twice officially interposed, with whatever "honesty" of purpose, in the most direct manner, so as to give fresh zeal and encouragement to the traitors who are banded together for the overthrow of the govern-
<c03>
ment-to disgust and dishearten the uncompromising friends of free institutions-to needlessly prolong a bloody fratricidal war, at an enormous cost of money and sacrifice of human life-and to render more certain the recognition of the independence of the Southern Confederacy, at no distant day, by the governments of Europe.
10. Resolved, That the eagerness with which President Lincoln stands ready to guard slavery as a system from essential injury, even in those States where there is no evidence of a spark of loyalty remaining in any bosom, is manifested by his indecent haste to revoke the truly patriotic emancipation decree of Gen. Hunter, on mere newspaper authority, without waiting to hear from Gen. Hunter, whether he had really issued any such decree; and, if so, the reasons for so doing; thus, prejudging the case, and condemning before hearing the man to whom he had entrusted plenary powers as a military commander in his special district.
11. Resolved, That as, in his recent message, the President has withdrawn ail right and power from the various commanders in the field to emancipate the slaves even of rebel masters, as a military necessity, or in any emergency however essential to the success of the army, and intimates that he alone is to decide when such act of emancipation may be properly proclaimed,-and as slavery and rebellion are synonymous terms,-the only atonement he can make to the country and the world for such disastrous interference is at once to make the decree of Gen. Hunter cover every slave State, instead of Georgia, Florida and South Carolina, and so to "proclaim liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof"-thus securing the blessing of God, a glorious and speedy victory, and a permanent Union based upon universal freedom and equal rights, without regard to complexion or race.
12. Resolved, That we recognize SLAVERY, and SLAVERY only, as the real root of the rebellion which now seeks to ruin or to rule our nation, and as the sole cause of the war which has been forced upon us by the leading slaveholders of the South; that every fact in the inception and prosecution of the rebellion shows it to have been a deep-laid scheme, of unparalleled iniquity, to establish slavery forever, and to reduce to a subservient and dependent position all the interests of freedom; that we cannot fail to see, in SLAVERY, an enemy of our government and free institutions, implacable, insidious, and incessant in treason and plot so long AS it shall live; and, seeing these things, we, assembled in the name of Freedom, and in behalf of the sacred and inalienable rights of Man, demand that this, accursed thing be brought to an end; and we do hereby call upon our government to use the power, put in their hands by the slaveholders themselves,-a power which may now be constitutionally as well as most righteously exercised,-to terminate the War and the Rebellion together by abolishing their cause,-a cause which, if suffered to continue, will never cease to threaten the peace, prosperity, and very existence of the Nation. 
13. Resolved, That though, for Freedom's sake, we might justly, as a nation, risk our prosperity and our existence, it will be only a deed of the utmost shame and disgrace, if, for base Slavery's sake, we continue longer to imperil all that our fathers gained, all that we enjoy, and all the vast promise of the future for our children.
14. Resolved, That the President and Congress, by not making the necessary use of their power for the abolition of slavery and the confiscation of the rebel property, neglect in an inexcusable manner the interests of the people of the North and the safety of the republic; that they unnecessarily prolong the war, unnecessarily risk the lives of thousands, unnecessarily impose upon the people a daily sacrifice of millions of dollars, and unnecessarily tax posterity to pay for the crimes of slaveholders, and the faults of those who conduct the war against them.
15. Resolved, That we declare that it is the right and the duty of the people to insist that the war shall be no longer carried on in the interest of slavery, and that the President and Congress be held responsible for all the blood and money which are sacrificed rather for the preservation of slavery and consideration towards the rebels, than for the establishment of freedom and the benefit of the people.
HON. FRANCIS W. BIRD, of Walpole, was introduced to the meeting. He described the state of bitter and malignant feeling prevailing in Norfolk, Virginia,-which he had lately visited,-towards the people of the North. He described also the condition of the escaped slaves, (or "contrabands,") at Fortress Monroe,-the friendly and successful labors of Mr. Wilder (of Boston) in their behalf,-the honorable course of Gen. Wool towards them,-but the injustice and ill-treatment they have suffered, and are still suffering, at the hands of many of the United States army officers. He spoke of their schools, so-called, and of the great pains they took to learn, under many most discouraging circumstances.
WENDELL PHILLIPS was warmly applauded as he took the floor. He thought the facts which Mr. Bird had given us were the key to the whole subject. They showed the prevalent feeling of the country towards the colored man, and indicated that the country is not ready to settle the question, as alone it can be settled, by doing justice to the enslaved and oppressed portion of the land. Mr. Phillips recounted many other facts which point to the same conclusion. He said that at London, of all the ministers there representing other nations, Mr. Adams, the United States Minister, is the only one who refuses to recognize the Republic of Hayti, and who holds no intercourse with the Haytian Minister. He spoke of the far more pregnant fact that President Lincoln had so hastily annulled Gen. Hunter's act of emancipation, as one which had taken twenty-five per cent, at least from the prospect of restoring any union of the States. He referred to the very many and most important services rendered to our army and the Union cause by black men and slaves. He spoke of the recent votes of five Massachusetts Representatives AGAINST the bill to set free the slaves of rebels, by which votes the bill was defeated,-Dawes, Delano, Rice, Train, Thomas, treading to the ground this great emancipation proposal which had been brought before the House. The Cabinet of the President, by their delays,-McClellan by his delay, and by permitting his enemy again and again to escape him,-the President, by allowing Mercier, the representative of a foreign government, to go in his official capacity to the heart of the rebel camp,-are all essentially traitorous to the Union, whatever their aim and disposition be. The President is the only man who ever dared to thrust back a million of freed men into slavery again. Now, I rejoice, in this month of May, to say that we want every Governor of every Northern State to take the same position which Gov. Andrew of Massachusetts has taken in his late letter to Secretary Stanton. (Immense cheering.) We want every Senator and every Representative in Congress to take the stand of Senator Grimes, of Iowa, who refuses to vote to the Administration another man or another dollar, until he knows what is to be done with them. Our duty now is, if we would maintain the Union and save the country, to call upon Congress to address the President, by memorial, to remove the present Commander-in-Chief, and to put Sigel, or Fremont, or some person ready to fight the battles of the Union, in his place. "I move, sir, that this Convention request the President to remove Gen. McClellan, and put Gen. Sigel in his place." (Loud applause.)
Adjourned to ¼ before 3.
AFTERNOON. Met according to adjournment, the President in the chair. On motion, several persons were added to the officers of the Convention.
ANDREW T. FOSS, of New Hampshire, thought that no Society in history bad ever been better vindicated in its purposes and principles than this. Only to-day were these beginning to be understood and recognized. The simple axioms of truth and liberty had hitherto been regarded by the community as dangerous and fanatical. It had been the province of this Society to proclaim the moral laws of God's universe,
<c04>
and that they can no more be violated than the physical laws. As legislation to the contrary, in the latter case, would be senseless and futile, so all legislation against the moral law-the higher law-has met and most ever meet the same fate. Our infidelity consists in denying the superiority of human statutes to the divine. When Mr. Seward broached this doctrine, the whole land rose in derision. To-day, the general belief is on our side. So this Society has ever declared the right way to be the safe way, and conversely, that wrong-doing is always unsafe. Events to-day are sustaining us. This war results from the transgression of our fathers-from their compromise with evil. Nor does it matter with what motives they acted; the mischief has been produced all the same. This Society never asked for emancipation by the sword-by blood. It only appealed to the American people to use God's weapons of reason and argument, but they would not. They had the power, but they squandered it. The clergy alone might have abolished slavery and saved the country. To their infidelity is due the bloodshed of the hour. What if now they are crying for the Union, and becoming anti-slavery? Foe thirty years they have been appealed to in vain.
Mr. Phillips's portrayal of the character of the war this morning was just and truthful. There has been no desire to touch the cause of the rebellion. The Government proposes to return, after the war, to the old condition of things, and to the old barbarities of the slaveholders' rule. Hence the lack of energy in prosecuting the war. Gen. Scott was not in earnest-he wanted reconciliation. Amid all the (necessary) violations of the Constitution, the one thing sacred is and has been slavery. Mr. F. believed the President would (only give him time enough) be driven to emancipation. But he feared he would make up his mind just five minutes too late. The action of the Government resembles that of the old man who pelted the boy in his apple-tree with grass to bring him down. It takes stones to do it; but when Fremont or Hunter tries to fling them, the President holds his arm.
The history of the Society is all clear-in principles and measures. Now for our duty, in the future. Take Illinois, and consider her black code, her exclusion of the colored race from her soil and privileges. We need agents there and throughout all the Northwestern States. Prejudice against the blacks is everywhere exhibited. In the army, the slaves that give information are restored to their masters, to be flogged to death. All the meritorious deeds of the blacks in the war have not been rewarded and recognized as if done by white men.
The work of the Society is in a good condition, but unfinished. Our agents should be maintained and multiplied. Mr. F. was hopeful that he should live to see slavery abolished.
Hon. AMASA WALKER, of North Brookfield, was next introduced. He said, he revisited this platform after an absence of fifteen years-caused by the assumption here of the disunion doctrine. He could not see then how slavery could be peacefully abolished by those means. But to-day he felt himself invited by the call of the meeting, and that duty urged him to attend. He came to advocate the right, duty and necessity of immediate emancipation under the war power. Though separated so long from his old friends, he had never ceased to respect and admire them. The slaveholders themselves had taken slavery out of the Union, and now he was ready to say that they should not bring it back again. They saw, from the increase in the production of cotton with an astonishing increase in its price, how widely its consumption was spreading. They saw, too, that they had not sufficient slaves to keep pace with the demand. Moreover, white foreign immigrants were engaging in the cotton cultivation. This was one great cause of the rebellion, and of their forcible removal of slavery from the Union. Let it never be restored! Separation or emancipation must take place. A restoration of the old Union is an absurdity-an impossibility. We must subjugate the South, but we cannot do it while the <illegible> battles is not to subjugate a people. The British found it so in '76. We have had no war yet, and yet we have lost 50,000 men. We have been striking the South with the one hand, and propping up slavery with the other; therefore, said Mr. W., I am going to cry-Give us Emancipation, or give us peace! There is, too, a lack of public sentiment. We are like England in the Crimean war. We think everything is progressing well. There is no criticism volunteered or offered. We complain that the President and Congress do not emancipate; they are but servants; where is the public command for them to obey?
[A VOICE.-In the case of Fremont, the public uttered its voice for freedom.]
For a moment possibly, but how quickly the chief presses and the popular enthusiasm succumbed! Hunter's proclamation-is that sustained? Is Governor Andrew's letter sustained? No. Between emancipation and separation there must be a choice-and mine (said Mr. W.) is for the former. Now a word as to colonization. This is a delusion that will tickle the conservatives till emancipation; after that, as in Jamaica, they will want all the blacks they have, and more too. The South is a desert without labor. Never fear it will abandon its workers. The current will set Southward, not Northward.
STEPHEN S. FOSTER introduced the following resolutions, saying he thought those from the Business Committee, reported this morning, hardly up to the demands of the hour:-
Resolved, That although the rebellion is without the shadow of justification or excuse on the part of its authors, and is characterized by atrocities rarely equalled in modern warfare, it is, nevertheless, but the legitimate fruit of our base and wicked treatment of our colored fellow-countrymen; and we are free to declare that we have no desire to sec it suppressed, and peace restored to our distracted country, till the last fetter shall be broken, and the government established upon the broad and comprehensive principles of impartial justice.
Resolved, That as the events of the past year have made no essential change in the spirit or action of our national government-the infamous Fugitive Slave Law being still in full force, and the national arm still uplifted to suppress slave insurrections-our position towards it is unchanged, and we renew the avowal of our purpose to have no lot or part in a Union which tolerates the presence of a single slave.
Resolved, That the dogged perseverance of our national government in holding four millions of our loyal countrymen in slavery, while their masters are engaged in a bloody and atrocious rebellion, challenges the scorn and detestation of the civilized world, and invites, if it does not justify, the interference of foreign nations, in the settlement of a controversy to which we as a nation have shown ourselves utterly incompetent.
He did not believe (as other speakers seemed to) that in the past twenty-four months any great and gratifying change had occurred in relation to the colored people. Church and government are alike at fault, with rare exceptions. Who does not see that slavery is the cause and the weak point of the rebellion? Yet who demands abolition? We sacrifice our sons rather than strike off the chains of the slave. This is no hopeful moment. Never was ardent warfare more needed. Slavery remaining the same as for the past eighty years, our course and duty are the same, or should be. He could not see that slavery had lost a particle of its attractiveness among the people of the North. Parson Brownlow is everywhere received, though asking for the execution of ourselves and associates. Where are the clergy this day? Only in Union meetings, not on this platform. Union means slavery,-and the war is for that. Therefore he (Mr. F.) had no desire to see the war end till every slave is free. He would neither enlist in the war nor encourage others to enlist, till the government should adopt the abolition policy. The sons of this Society have been set to the infamous work of capturing fugitive slaves. There are no obstacles to emancipation.
<c05>
The slaves have shown since the beginning of the war their capacity for freedom. One of two things is certain: either the war is no war for freedom, or be who tolerates slavery for one moment is a traitor. We have never heard the war proclaimed to be for freedom; on the contrary, it is declared to be for Union and restoration. When emancipation is used as a dernier resort, there will be no virtue in it. Yet this is all the government hints at. Abraham Lincoln is as truly a slaveholder as Jefferson Davis. He cannot even contemplate emancipation without colonization. Slavery is not abolished in the District. No one is free there without his free papers.
He (Mr. F.) wished to protest against all putting off the harness and slackening from the warfare. That popular heat which effervesced in August, 1861, cooled in forty-eight hours. What was it worth? The people don't want liberty, except for themselves. This Society should warn all young men to withhold their support from this government until it declares itself for emancipation.
J. B. SWASEY said: In all great public questions, we should all have patience. If we see clearly the end or the result, we must wait for a slow arrival there-we must not expect a jump or a leap to it. He (Mr. S.) saw a vast difference between to-day and two years ago, and that difference justified him in sustaining the Government against Jefferson Davis, while still being a disunion abolitionist? Was the late proclamation of the President nothing? Did it not clearly enough portend emancipation? It was a point from which to date-a line of demarcation, and the tendency is toward liberty. Is abolition in the District of Colombia no proof of sincerity and progress in our rulers? We have begun to march on the road to universal emancipation. Mr. Foster, while as ready to support Jefferson Davis as the Federal Government, admitted unawares that the South had hoped to subjugate the North. The war, then, is a war of self-defence: who can help siding with the North?
J. N. BUFFUM, of Lynn, rose to endorse the speech of Mr. Swasey, and say "ditto to Mr. Burke." He had learned that there were degrees in wrong, and when it came to choosing between Jeff. Davis and Abraham Lincoln, he had no hesitation in supporting the latter. The changes in the President have been real and cheering, if slow. We must be patient. Other changes in other directions are equally gratifying. The wealthy classes are learning the cause and the cure of the rebellion. There is no comparison between the leaders South and North. The former go for unlimited despotism. Mr. Lincoln would emancipate, if the people would sustain him. Mr. Foster had discouraged the young men from going to the war, but he (Mr. B.) would encourage them, and go himself when needed. Nor are the clergy as they used to be. They have ceased to preach pro-slavery. (A Voice: "They preach for a salary.") Well, thank God that they preach right for a salary, instead of preaching wrong! No more licences to sell human beings in the District of Columbia! Even the London Times is converted. Therefore, let us not fail to recognize and help on the progress of events. Let us send out agents, and act as agents ourselves wherever we go.
Dr. DANIEL MANN wished to explain his interruption of Mr. Walker, in regard to the popular voice about Fremont. His purpose was to take away this excuse from the President, that he was waiting for public sentiment. He endorsed Mr. Foster's sentiments. He read a resolution, as follows:-
Resolved, That, so long as our National Government neglects to announce a war policy consistent with the high principles of justice and universal liberty asserted by our forefathers, and demanded by every principle of Christianity, honor and wise policy, we hold ourselves, and all true patriots, as bound to stand aloof from the present contest. We accept the reproach of "conditional patriotism," and vindicate it as the only patriotism worthy of rational and responsible beings; and we announce, as the essential condition of our support, that the Government shall show itself worthy the support of the friends of equal justice to all men. 
Adjourned to the evening, 7¼ o'clock.
EVENING. The President in the chair.
The following Anti-Slavery Hymn, written for the occasion by George W. Stacy, of Milford, was sung by the Convention:-
Tune-Lenox.
O, Father, from above,
Send thy good spirit here;
The spirit of thy love,
That "casteth out all fear."
O may we stand,
By truth set free.
A noble band
For Liberty!
Why should we halt and wait?
Our work so well begun;
And know we not our fate,
If work is left undone?
O give us heart,
To run the race:
Nor may we part
With heavenly grace.
Ah. what an hour is this!
How pregnant with our fate!
Say, is it woe or bliss,
For which the millions wait?
Who long have borne
The galling chain,
With flesh all torn
'Mid sweat and pain!
The night is near at hand,
And what a night 'twill be,
If God's divine command,
To set his people free,
Shall still remain
Unheard and blank,
And every chain
Our death-knell clank!
No! by the help of God,
We'll set the captive free;
We must obey the word,-
That word is LIBERTY!
A word of right
For every soul
That sees the light,
Or feels earth's roll.
Still ONWARD! is the cry-
The battle must be woo!
Raise, raise the standard high,
Unfurl it to the sun!
Shout, shout and sing,
Nor cease the voice,
Till earth shall ring,
And man rejoice!
A very interesting letter in this day's New York Tribune, from the army near Fredericksburg, Virginia, describing many important services rendered to the Union army by loyal black slaves in that neighborhood, was read to the Convention, which manifested a great interest in its details.
WM. WELLS BROWN Was then introduced, and made an able and forcible speech in vindication of the negro race, against the malicious aspersions of those whose object it is to eternize slavery on this continent. [A full report of this speech will be given in the Liberator.]
ANNA E. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia, was then introduced. She said: It is said we can conquer without emancipation. The rebellion is almost crushed-our armies are pressing southward-the end approaches, when all things will be restored as of old. The South, having been deceived in regard to Mr. Lincoln and the aims of the Republican party, went to war to protect slavery. Now, perhaps, they are beginning to see that Mr. Lincoln is not so far from a slave-catcher, after all. The loyalty of the South is a myth. It will of course grow, as our armies advance, because between hanging and loyalty the advocates of a sinking cause can have but one choice. Yet where is the Unionism of New Orleans! Citizens shot down for cheering the American flag; the Mayor submitting as the conquered to conquerors. So in Norfolk: the Mayor dares to call us enemies to our faces, and to refer to his friends the rebels! The same story every where. We may beat their armies everywhere, take every city and seaport: what then? Subjugated, are they subdued? They would rise in sixty days again, should the military arm be withdrawn. Success cannot gild our banners while the shadow of the blacks obscures it. Two thousand of our army have died monthly in the border States of disease in the cold weather: figure the number under the heat of summer in the Gulf States! Since these things are so, when Gen. Hunter, considering besides that there are no loyal whites in his department, as his predecessor had found, resolved to increase his forces by the blacks whose loyalty he had put to the
<c06>
proof, and declared them freemen forever,-he, <illegible> in 1858 declared that this Government could not exist half slave and half free, annulled the proclamation from the White House! Kentucky, which furnished the halter for liberty in the person of John Brown, has strangled her again, through her representative in the Presidential chair!
In the field, Gen. Mitchell rejects the bondmen who flee to him for protection. Everywhere those who bring us the most important intelligence are liable to be thrust back into slavery, there to be whipped, for turned, burned to death.
How do the brave young hearts return to us from the war? How many go from us, and never return! And we have nothing to do with slavery! What are our sufferings to those of the slave girl, or the slave mother, lashed from the embrace of her children! Has your purity no feeling for purity outraged?-your parental affections no sympathy for the lacerated love of the slaves? Can you hesitate to speak the word-Be free? God has put slavery into our hands to choke it. He alone should be able to take it out again alive. Let us storm the slave system, <illegible> Smith took Fort Donelson. If the President will not give us the order, let us go ourselves.
E. H. Heywood them addressed the Convention. The key-note of the hour has been struck in the two preceding speeches: recognition of the humanity and manhood of the negro. The present struggle is the old conflict between the conscientious thought of the humble and the might of monarchs. This is not Democracy on trial, but in grappled with the Slave Oligarchy, and the choice of the people is, abolish the slaveholders or be abolished! May it be the fortune of Abraham Lincoln to surpass the Father of his country, by tearing out that bloody stripe of the Constitution which Washington fixed there! We have had successes, we have an honest, a humane government, as the world goes; but this is not enough. We yet have the black code in Illinois, the Fugitive Slave Law in the District of Columbia, and four millions slaves at the South. This is no time, then, for the Anti-Slavery Society to cease from work; nor does it. It will go on as heretofore, surmounting every obstacle in Church and State, till it touches emancipation.
In the army to-day, officers are cashiered for their love of freedom, not for that of slavery. If the nation abolish slavery only from military necessity, to save itself, it is disgraced thereby. The nation which would abolish slavery simply to save itself, would establish it for the same reason. If slavery be (as Vice President Stephens says) the corner-stone of the rebellion, then to destroy it is to knock the bottom out of the Confederacy.
Adjourned to Thursday, 10 o'clock, A. M.
For Thursday's proceedings of the convention, see the second page of this number of the liberator.

$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its Construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Slaves Room, 188 Washington street.
Geo. E. LEONARD, Agent,
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice.
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judges of the last Fair of the Massachusetts
Charitable Mechanic Association.
"FOUR PARKER'S MACHINES. This Machine is so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the <illegible> patents owned and used by Elias Howe, Jr., Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, for which these parties contribute. There together with Parker's improvement make it a beautiful Machine. They are sold from 40 & 120 each. They are very perfect in their mechanism being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such manner that they cannot get deranged. The feed, which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is simple, positive and complete. The apparatus for guaging the length of stitch is very simple and effective. The tension, as well as other parts, is well arranged. There is another feature which strikes your committee favorably, viz.: there is no wheel below the table between the standards, to come is contact with the dress of the operator, and therefore no danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the <illegible> look-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge upon the back quite flat and smooth, doing away, in a great measure, with the objection sometimes urged on that so count."
PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES have many qualities that recommend them to use in families. The several parts are pinned together, so that it is always adjusted and ready for work, and not liable to get out of repair. It is the best finished, and most firmly and substantially made machine in the Fair. Its motions are all positive, its tension easily adjusted, and it leaves no ridge on the back of the work. It will hem, fell, stitch, run, bind and gather, and the work cannot be ripped, except designedly. It sews from common spools, with silk, linen or cotton, with equal facility. The stitch made upon this machine was recently awarded the first prize at the Tennessee State Fair, for its superiority.-Boston Traveller.
We would call the attention of our readers to the advertisement, in another column, of the Parker Sewing Machine. This is a licensed machine, being a combination of the various patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, with those of the Parker sewing Machine Company: Consequently. it has the advantage of such machines-first, in being a licensed machine; second, from the fact that it embraces all of the most important improvements which have hereto fore been made in sewing machines; third, it requires no readjustment, all the various parts being made right and pinned together, instead it being adjusted by screws, thus avoiding all liability of getting out of order without actually breaking them; and is the necessity of the purchaser learning, as with others, how to regulate all the various motions to the machine. The favor with which the Parker Sewing Machined has already been received by the public warrants us in the belief that it is by far the best machined now in market South Reading gazette, Nov.24, 1860
THE PARKER SEWING MACHINE is taking the lead is the market. For beauty and finish of its workmanship, it can not be excelled. It is well and strongly made-strength and utility combined-and is emphatically the cheapest and best machine now made. The ladies are delighted with it, and when consulted, invariably give Parker's machine the preference over all others. We are pleased to learn that the gentlemanly Agent, GEORGE E. LEONARD, 188 Washington street, Boston, has a large number of orders for these machines and sells them as fast as they can be man these machines, and sells them as fact as they can be manufactured, notwithstanding the dullness of the times, and while other manufacturers have almost wholly suspended operations. This fact, of itself, speaks more strongly if its rivals. What we tell you is no fiction; but go and buy one of them, and you will say that "half of its good qualities had never been told you." Every man who regards the health and happiness of his wife should buy one of these machines to assist her in lessening life's <illegible> task.-Marlboro' Gazette, July 13, 1861.
Just Published.-Price 2s. -6d.
Audi Alteram Partem.
LETTERS TO HIS FORMER CONSTITUENTS, from 8th March, 1860, to 12th September, 1861.-By the Author of the "Catechism on the Corn Laws." Vol. III. Second edition, revised and corrected; to which are assed the "Catechism on the Currency," and "Catechism on the Ballot," with additions.
EFFINGHAM WILSON,
Royal Exchange, LONDON.
London, March 25, 1862.
