THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be cent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, AND WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. NO. 10. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1779.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
<c01>
Selections.
LETTER FROM”BROOKLYN HEIGHTS.”
The Writer at Baltimore—Maryland and Emancipation—Negro Education in Baltimore-Washington and the Peace Excitement—Aspect of the People—The President—Richmond and Davis—Mr. Lincoln’s Attitude Toward Peace—Southern Journals—Mr. Seward’s Letter—Conclusion.
I meant to have written from Washington. But let no man calculate beforehand what he will do in Washington. There have been more sad disparities than mine between what one intends and what he does.
Called to Baltimore for a speech, I made the first discourse of my life in what was, till recently, a slave State. But no one would have dreamed it. The Maryland Institute, a hall of large dimensions, was filled with an audience as intelligent, and to the full as enthusiasric for liberty as any that ever gathered in Boston. It is true that men of the old opinions would withhold their presence from any such assembly; and that only they would come, for the most part, who already were in sympathy with anti-slavery views. Nevertheless, such an audience in Baltimore, zealous for human rights, elated with the great deed of emancipation just accomplished in their own State, and most enthusiastic at the very points which, five years ago, would have brought an explosion of wrath, is a fact that, at any other time than this, when great events crowd and jostle each other, would have been remarkable enough.
Emancipation in Maryland was not the result of moral principle, but of political feeling. On that account the next steps are all the more difficult. There is in Maryland a population of 700,000. Of these 160,000 are blacks, and 50,000 of these are in Baltimore city. The black people are well behaved, seldom charged with crimes, never creating police disturbances, and rarely becoming paupers. Judge H.L. Bond, of the City Criminal Court, has been at pains to collect the facts on these points, and they are highly favorable to this people. From this gentlemen I received also some striking illustrations of the effect of slavery in excluding emigrants from the counties.
In seven counties where so few slaves exist that they are called free counties, there were, at the last census, over 74,000 persons not born in the counties, and so, mostly from other States; while in fourteen slave counties there are but a few over 3,000 not born there! Emigrants refuse to go where slaves are the chief laborers.
Great credit is due to the gentlemen in Baltimore who are earnestly pressing forward the education of the blacks. Large schools are in operation night and day, and great progress is made in learning to read. I visited several rooms, and saw all ages, from the girl and giggling boy to the greyhaired old men and women with spectacles, eagerly conning their books or responding to the questions. Most excellent teachers have been secured, and those who have this matter in hand seem determined to spare neither pains no expense in educating the blacks. It is hoped that the Legislature, now in session, will make ample provision of common schools for both white and black children throughout the State.
I am very sorry to learn that little help or sympathy is derived from the churches of Baltimore. One or two noble exceptions there are, but I fear that were our Savior again on earth He would turn from houses and temples bearing His name, to the poor and despised. Is it not painful that the accredited Christianity of a city should betray Christ? But a faithful band of men and women are working heroically, and great hopes may be entertained that Maryland will not only be a free State, but a State of free schools and truly Christian churches.
I reached Washington on Wednesday, and the city was yet rocking with the enthusiasm of the great event of the previous day,-the passage of an Act for the Amendment of the Constitution. Everybody was narrating the enthusiasm of the day before, and I was commisserated by every one, that I was absent from an occasion and experience so memorable. When you have lost a dinner, it is so pleasant to have all the dishes described to your angry hunger! So I felt by the time the fortieth man said, “O, you ought to have been here yesterday. You will not see such another scene in your life time!” But Washington is like the sea. An event there, is like dropping an anchor from a ship into the ocean. There is a splash, a moment’s foam and <illegible> and then the water settles back as if nothing had ever ruffled it.
The President seems well and in good spirits. His face is more wrinkled, and if possible, drier than ever. But he seems tough and elastic, and far more likely to live a hundred years than two years ago he was to live ten. Seldom has any man gone through four such years of burdens immeasurable and cares the most scorching. He has made the country his own. Were it a child lying sick, he could not devote himself to it more continuously and faithfully.
His last achievement will scarcely be appreciated as it deserves. Few will suspect, from the exceedingly business-like message that he sent to Congress, made up of a string of letters and despatches, how thoroughly he has over-matched and mastered Davis, in this pretended solicitation of peace. It is quite certain that Richmond did not wish such a peace as was attainable. But it began to be doubtful there whether war could be carried on. Should the spring campaign be unfortunate, the South must accept peace on the terms of the government. We may suppose, therefore, that Davis would desire to defeat the passage of the Amendment Act, inasmuch as, were that passed, negotiations, in case of defeat of Southern armies, would be of the most narrow and uncomfortable character. This might be attempted by placing the President in a position where he should seem not to wish peace, and so turn Northern Democratic statesmen against him. Should Davis’s Commissioners reach Washington, long conferences, instead, with busy members who are disaffected with their own government and in sympathy with Davis might batch all sorts of complications and difficulties.
Mr. Lincoln has, by his unexpected condecension in going to Fortress Monroe, taken away all sense of discourtesy in not permitting the Southern Peace Commissioners to come to Washington and spin webs there, and by the same act he has shown himself far more in earnest to secure peace than Davis himself, white by the clear and sensible conditions upon which he insisted, he vindicated the government and justified the long war which has been waged. “Gentlemen, we have declared to the world that this nation is one and indivisible; that secession is an atrocious heresy and a mortal treason. We shall not seek peace by yielding up every question for which we have waged war. You can have peace as soon as you cease to rebel and submit to 
<c02>
that government which holds and will hold every State in this Union subject to its proper authority.” The rage of Southern journals and of Davis’s speech show, that to military disaster is now added the mortifications of being outwitted and baffled in cunning diplomacy.
You did not fail to notice in Mr. Seward’s letter which accompanied the President’s Message, allusion is made to some proposals of an extrinsic character. People are puzzling their heads to determine what that can mean. We will give our own guess. What if Davis, through Blair and Hunter, should say,” We will not submit to lay down our arms; but the same results would be gained, if—upon an agreement to unite our armies, purge Mexico of intruders and vindicate the Munroe doctrine—an armistice should be agreed upon.” This might seem to one less astute than the President, a way of wooing the South into submission. And if agreed to, might secure a breathing-spell to Southern armies and resources, prevent the pressure of a winter’s campaign, and then, if deemed expedient, in the spring, arms might upon some easy pretence be resumed in early summer, while Mr. Benjamin would exultingly exclaim to foreign courts, “See what Mr. Lincoln is willing to do! How empty and insincere have been his professions of friendship!
All night long spiders toil, weaving from blade to blade an ingenious web, fine and finished. In the morning the sturdy farmer starts across the fields, and with one sweep of his foot every vestige of the night’s work disappears, and the spider is glad to escape into his hole to prepare for new meshes.
But enough. Some other things I propose saying of men in Washington, but must wait another time.
HENRY WARD BEECHER.
Brooklyn, February 13, 1865.

THE BRISTOL EMANCIPATION SOCIETY’S ADDRESS TO PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
Yesterday the address of congratulation to President Lincoln on his re-election, adopted by the Bristol Emancipation Society, was delivered at the American Consulate, in Queen Square, to Mr. Z. Eastman, the American Consul, for presentation to the President of the United States. There were present, Mr. H. Cossham, Mr. J. Wethered, Rev. Dr. Grosvenor, Rev. J. Edwards, Messrs. J. Sollis, W. S. Mathews, T. Mathews, J. Shipperly, John Harris, John Howe (Baptist College,) J. Moss, and George Powell.
Mr. Cossham said he had the honor of being entrusted with the presentation of an address to Mr. Lincoln through Mr. Eastman, as the representative of the American nation in this city. He then read the address—which was embellished on vellum by T. Mathews—as follows:-
We, the officers and members of Committee of the Bristol Emancipation Society, in the name of a large number of our fellow-citizens, who, in meeting assembled, on several occasions, and invariably by a large majority of votes, have adopted resolutions in agreement with the tenor of this address, desire most cordially to express to your Excellency our congratulations on your re-election to the Presidency of the United States by the popular vote of your freedom-loving fellow-countrymen. 
We rejoice in this result, regarding it as evincing the will and design of the American people to sustain you in the anti-slavery policy inaugurated under your Administration by the Federa “Government—a policy which, while rapidly making your country as free in fact as it has been heretofore by profession, will, for the future, identify your Administration with the liberation of the enslaved.
We believe that in issuing your Emancipation Proclamation, freeing all persons held as slaves by citizens who were in arms against the United States Government after 1863; and your corresponding recommendation to purchase, for emancipation, the slaves of loyal persons in States not in rebellion; and your signing the law excluding slavery from all the lands of the United States at present under a territorial form of Government, together with the anti-slavery policy marking many of your acts, you have commended your course to the approval of all true philanthropists.
Disclaiming any desire to mingle with the mere civil and political questions of the day, in which among Americans there exists a diversity of opinion, we feel that the policy of your Administration, to which we have referred, affects the great interests of humanity—by it we are reminded afresh of the acts of our own Government in abolishing the slave trade and slavery; and in venturing to send to you our congratulations we would express it as our conviction that such deeds, while in harmony with the highest laws of morality, tend of their own nature to draw nearer to each other the two great Protestant nations—leading to their alliance and cooperation, and placing them in a position to influence, by their united example, the civilized world.
In the long struggle which has passed, and in the conflict which may yet be continued, we see the chastisement of a great and erring people for the crime of slaveholding, and for glaring departure from high principles and professions; and we believe that, whenever the nation shall have purged away the crime of slavery, peace and prosperity will speedily be restored.
The following names were appended to the address:-Handel Cossham, Hill House; George Thomas, Brislington; Henry Naish, Ashley Hill; Algernon A. Warren, Great George Street; Joseph Wethered, Kingsdown; James Geo. Davey, M.D., Northwood: Rev. John Burder, M.A., Clifton; Rev. James Edwards, Kindsdown; Rev. Richard Morris, Redland; John Harris, Tenby Villa; John Wesley Willis; Robert Nott, Portland Square; Geo. Powell, Thomas Mathews, John Bond, &c., &c., W.S. Mathews and J. Shipperly, honorable Secretaries.
Mr. Cossham stated that he had taken a deep interest in the struggle now taking place in America, because he saw there were issues in it involving not only the welfare of that great branch of the Anglo-Saxon race on the other side of the Atlantic, in which we took an interest, but also involving the interests and happiness of the world. He believed that, ere long, would be realized the extinction and downfall of that evil—slavery, which was injurious to any country in which it existed. They rejoiced in the re-election of Mr. Lincoln, because they saw in it an indication on the part of the American people of the growth of anti-slavery principles. He had noticed in Mr. Lincoln’s career that he had a desire to carry out the anti-slavery policy. There had been times, it was true, in the history of the struggle when they had felt a little fearful of timidity on the part of the President in carrying out the anti-slavery policy, but every step that he had taken had been in the right direction; and, if he had not gone so fast as they sometimes might have wished, they had recognized the great difficulties with which he had contended, and he (Mr. Cossham) was sure that those present would rejoice that in all those difficulties he had been divinely guided, and that he had so manfully, consistently, nobly and courageous-
<c03>
ly continued to advocate a policy which he believed would be the greatest blessing to the American nation, and the greatest happiness to the world. It was their desire that the two great branches of the Anglo-Saxon race should be always united in feelings of good-will. They had felt no sympathy whatever for those slanders and misrepresentations of the consul’s country which had existed for some time, and had been rather popular in this country. He (Mr. Cossham) wished the Consul not to over-rate that feeling. He believed that those in the country who sympathized with the South were a minority; and that the great body of the people sympathized with the North. Mr. Cossham adduced arguments in support of a sympathy with the North, and said that if—as many persons in this country wished—there were a separation of the South from the North, they would have what had been the curse of Europe—a number of little armed States—so that instead of America being a non-aggressive country, she would be compelled to maintain standing armies, and instead of raw materials coming from America comparatively untaxed, they would be taxed, to the injury of the whole world. Mr. Cossham next expressed some feelings of good-will towards America, and a hope that the struggle would soon cease and the country be restored to a state of prosperity. Referring to the address, he said it was signed by many well-known and some of the most influential men in the city. He mentioned the names of Mr. George Thomas—who was known all over the world as one of the leading men in all that was liberal and noble—Mr. Naish, Mr. Warren; and said they had intended to present the address by a popular vote of a popular meeting, but the Consul was probably aware that some fifty or sixty drunken men were turned into the meeting to prevent the address being carried by a large majority; and thus the speakers were prevented from being heard. There was the same sort of policy to contend against in America. They could bully, but they could not argue. After further reference to the meeting, Mr. Cossham presented the address.—Bristol Press, Jan. 27.
[Z. Eastman, Esq., the American Consul, then made an elaborate and eloquent speech pertinent to the occasion, which the Bristol Press reports at some length, but for which we cannot find room.]

MR. LYULPH STANLEY ON THE AMERICAN WAR.
Yesterday evening, a crowded meeting of the supporters of the Freedmen’s Aid Society was held in the Assembly Room of the Free-trade Hall, on the occasion of an address to be delivered by the Hon. E. L. Stanley, founded upon the impressions and information acquired during his recent visit to America, concerning the war in the United States, and its effect on the free and slave population. The chair was taken by Mr. F. Taylor. There were also present Mr.J.H.Estcourt, the Rev. G. W. Conder, the Rev. A. Steinthal, the Rev. J. Clark, Mr. F. R. Wilkinson, Mr. J. Galloway, Mr. Councellor Booth, Mr. E. O. Greening, Mr. E. Hooson, Mr. J. E. Nelson, &c. A large number of ladies attended.
After a few introductory words from the Chairman,
The Hon. Mr. STANLEY, who was warmly received, said that few would deny that the objects of the Freedmen’s Aid Society were deserving of support. Whatever the views of the people might be of the merits of the combatants in the American war, at any rate the negroes should have the good wishes of all Englishmen, and any efforts which might be made to improve their condition should win our approval, if they did not move our substantial assistance. And yet the efforts of the Society had been much impeded by doubts and imputations cast on the objects of its care, and a mass of floating prejudices, which would not take any substantial form, but which shifted from one vague argument and suggestion to another, had to be combatted. He knew that the cause of the negroes could not be separated in theory from the cause of the two parties in this great conflict; but it was pretty well known in effect that very few persons who took the side of the South would sympathise with the objects of the Society. Indeed, a conviction forced itself upon the mind of the most unwilling, that it would be mockery to say that we were in favor of emancipation and at the same time to set our faces against that party who, both by their profession and practice, had identified their cause with the freedom of the negro. (Applause) In speaking thus he knew he was treading upon dangerous ground. For the last four years in England we have been fighting over this American war with almost as much excitement and determination as the Americans themselves. Everybody has taken sides in the most distinct manner, and although there were a great many persons in this country who were ignorant of the facts of the struggle, there were very few who had not made up their minds as to its merits. (Laughter.) It was always hard to convince a person who began by strong opposition. He sometimes was inclined to give up in despair any attempt to convince people upon the American war; but as he felt very strongly upon its right and wrong, he should be sorry to leave any stone unturned that would assist in presenting the thing in its right light. (Applause.) His apology for urging his opinions against those who differed from him was that he had had special opportunities of studying the question. Ever since the war begun he had been deeply interested in its progress; had watched its every phase; and last year he spent six months in America, observing for himself. At the outset the important question presented itself—was slavery right or wrong? Was it foolish to believe that freedom was a boon to the negro. These questions must not be set aside as unreasonable, for the Freedmen’s Aid Society existed on the assumption that freedom was good for the negro—(applause)-and that in obtaining freedom, the negro was passing from a lower to a higher condition. If we believed, with Mr. Stephens, the Vice-President of the Confederacy, that slavery, meaning subordination to the white man, was the natural and moral condition of the negro, the Society was engaged in a foolish, mischievous, and wicked task. (Applause.) Often now-a-days, newspapers, in spite of some general repudiation of slavery for respectability’s sake, used arguments which extenuated its horrors, and were inevitably pointing to the conclusion that, after all, slavery had nothing in it necessarily wrong. Some newspapers and persons held the anti-slavery faith as a matter of inheritance, because their forefathers held it; but they held it coldly as a dead faith without works. (Applause.) Then there were plausible people getting up Southern Independence and Southern Recognition Associations, telling the world a great many things about the happy negro and the amiable master. (Loud laughter.) And with all these diversities of opinion it was necessary for every man to convince himself. (Applause.) There were some people who were all for emancipation, if it could only be gradual; and that kind of people, if their leg were mortified, would pro-
<c04>
pably ask the doctor to cut it off little bits at a time. (Laughter) These people were dreadfully shocked when President Lincoln brought out his emancipation proclamation, because they said he was going to let loose a horde of savages upon the country without any preparation. He (Mr. Stanley,) so far from undervaluing the importance of some training or preparation, should be very glad if it were possible to see everything done to bridge over the passage from slavery to freedom. But it must be preparation of the right sort. (Applause.) As a transitional measure there was a great deal of wisdom and true philanthropy in some of General Banks’s measures for the organization of labor in Louisiana, notwithstanding what some said. The employment of negroes as soldiers in the Northern army, at which these “gradual emancipationists” were so shocked, would be a great means of fitting them for the duties of freedmen. But it was argued that when we freed our negroes in the West Indies, we introduced a system of apprenticeship, and that President Lincoln should have adopted a similar plan. He (Mr. Stanley) objected entirely to any such proposal. (Applause.) The apprenticeship referred to was not in the interests of the blacks at all; it was really a prolongation of slavery, and a mere sop to the masters in addition to the £20,000,000 they received. All sort of apprenticeship in such cases were utterly wrong and bad. The only way for a man to learn to be free was to be free (applause); otherwise one might as well teach a man to swim by not telling him to go into the water. (Laughter.) The sort of gradualism he desired was in the shape of schools, teachers, aid such as that given by the Freedmen’s Aid Society, agricultural implements, and facilities to procure land and books. (Applause.) He had no sympathy whatever with that gradual emancipation which clung lovingly to the shadow of slavery while the substance was passing away. (Applause.) There might be suffering amongst the negroes at first, just as children had many falls before they could walk. Things must be taken as they were, and whatever was done, it must be remembered, had to be done in a time of war. The Americans neglected the question of slavery when they might have dealt with it, and now they had to settle it, not as they liked, perhaps, but as they must. It would be false to deny that there had been much suffering among the freed negroes, and in the early part of the war suffering was caused by the unremoved prejudices of some of the Northern officers-a kind of prejudice which was still too strong in the free States, but which was the result of the old slave domination. But these sufferings, which it was the aim of the Society to alleviate, were as nothing compared to the slavery from which the negroes had escaped. The whole generation of Israelites who escaped from the house of bondage perished in the wilderness; but what Jew would count the sufferings of the generation that died against the freedom of the whole race? These sufferings of the negroes now were brought into one focus, and could be plainly seen, even had they not been magnified for party purposes. But no one saw the anguish of these four millions of negroes, or heard their cry when, year by year, in every solitary plantation, in the rice swamps of South Carolina, or on the sugar plantations of Louisiana, they toiled on without any hope of release but death.
Some felt indignant with the North because negroes had been put by force into the army; but an army that gave freedom and dignity to the men themselves, and would win freedom for their wives and children. But how great was the proportion of negroes torn from their families to be put into the army, compared with the annual partings which took place in Kentucky and Virginia, when the slaveholder collected his batch of negroes for the year’s venture, and started with his cargo to Louisiana or Mississippi? (Applause.) This trade in human beings was so notorious, that Macaulay, in the House of Commons, compared it to the trade of pigs from Ireland, or coals from Newcastle.
Some men were so enthusiastic for abolition that they reproached the North with being too slow. No doubt there had been some wavering in the North, but they would have been superhuman if they could at one stride have passed from the subservience to slavery of Buchanan’s administration to the uncompromising attitude of Wendell Phillips. But if emancipation had been slow, it had been continuous. It was rather those who had a lurking suspicion of emancipation altogether, and distrusted the competency of the negro, who were apathetic as to the result of the war; and, naturally enough, those who could not see any moral principle at stake, but looked upon the struggle as a mere fight of gladiators and prizefighters, could not help being carried away by the bravery shown on the weaker side. If these persons really felt how unfounded was the idea of negro unfitness for freedom, they would shrink from the advocacy of a cause which rested upon human slavery. No man, whether white or black, could show either energy, industry, self-respect, or any other manly virtue while he was enslaved. (Applause)
The present Lord Derby, when he was secretary for the colonies, in advocating the cause of emancipation in the West Indies, said, when speaking of the planters, “Those gentlemen make this great and palpable mistake—that they attribute to the physical character of the negro those faults which are the necessary results of the moral condition of the slave.” (Applause.) The truth was too often forgotten in the present day, and it was well to be reminded of it in the words of one who would not be suspected of partiality on this particular question. Men talked of the brutality, licentiousness, and indolence of the negro; but every such proof only made him (Mr. Stanley) the more anxious to stop the great cause of all these moral diseases. (Applause.) The success of the South would be the success of a social system based on the most cruel injustice, and therefore he most earnestly hoped the South might be subjugated, and be saved in their own despite from the triumph they had sought, but which must at length have brought round their utter destruction. (Loud applause.) On the other hand, let not the mistake be made of exaggerating the contrast in case the North should succeed. In all revolutions we should strike a balance between the good and evil, and take the side which would be best in the long run for humanity. But there would always be a great deal of evil mixed with the good, and there might be much good mixed with the evil. There had rarely been a cause so absolutely bad as that for which the South took up arms. (Loud applause.) Yet there had been much heroism and self-devotion on the part of the men of the South. The motives of the North were more mixed than those of the South, but yet the cause of the North was a noble one. But the greatness of a cause did not necessarily ennoble the men in whose keeping it was entrusted.-Manchester Examiner, Feb.11.
It is estimated that the capture of Charleston and Fort Anderson, together with the certain capture of Mobile before two week more, will liberate at least twenty-five thousand men from the navy, who can be organized into corps for offensive operations on land.
<c05>
LETTER FROM JOHN G. WHITTIER UPON EDWARD EVERETT.
At the late special meeting of the Massachusetts Historical Society commemorative of Edward Everett, the Rev. R.S. Waterston read the following interesting communication from Mr. Whittier, who only a few weeks previous, had been associated as college with Mr. Everett in the Electoral College of this State. Mr. Waterston introduced the letter with the words of Dr. Channing, who said of Mr. Whittier more than a quarter of a century ago, “His poetry bursts from the soul with the fire and energy of an ancient prophet, and his noble simplicity of character is the delight of all who know him.”

“AMESBURY, 27TH 1ST Month, 1865.
MY DEAR FRIEND:
I acknowledge through thee, the invitation of the standing committee of the Massachusetts Historical Society to be present at a special meeting of the Society for the purpose of paying a tribute to the memory of our late illustrious associate, Edward Everett.
It is a matter of deep regret to me that the state of my health will not permit me to be with you on an occasion of so much interest.
It is most fitting that the members of the Historical Society of Massachusetts should add their tribute to those which have been already offered by all sects, parties and associations to the name and fame of their late associate. He was himself a maker of history, and part and parcel of all the noble charities and humanizing influences of his State and time.
When the grave closed over him who added new luster to the old and honored name of Quincy, all eyes instinctively turned to Edward Everett as the last of that venerated class of patriotic civilians who, outliving all dissent and jealousy and party prejudice, held their reputation by the secure tenure of the universal appreciation of its worth as a common treasure of the republic. It is not for me to pronounce his eulogy. Others, better qualified by their intimate acquaintance with him, have done and will do justice to his learning, eloquence, veried culture and social virtues. My secluded country life has afforded me few opportunities of personal intercourse with him, while my pronounced radicalism, on the great question which has divided popular feeling, rendered our political paths widely divergent. Both of us early saw the danger which threatened the country. In the language of the prophet, we ‘saw the sword coming upon the land,’ but while he believed in the possibility of averting it by concession and compromise, I on the contrary, as firmly believed that such a course could only strengthen and confirm what I regarded as a gigantic conspiracy against the rights and liberties, the union and the life, of the nation.
Recent events have certainly not tended to change this belief on my part; but in looking over the past, while I see little or nothing to retract in the matter of opinion, I am saddened by the reflection, that through the very intensity of my convictions I may have done injustice to the motives of those with whom I differed. As respect Edward Everett, it seems to me that only within the last four years I have truly known him.
In that brief period, crowded as it is with a whole life-work of consecration to the union, freedom and glory of his country, he not only commanded respect and reverence, but concentrated upon himself in a most remarkable degree the love of all loyal and generous hearts. We have seen, in these years of trial, very great sacrifices offered upon the altar of patriotism, wealth, ease, home-love, life itself. But Edward Everett did more than this; he laid on that altar not only his time, talents and culture, but his personal and political predilections and prejudices, his constitutional fastidiousness of conservatism, and the carefully elaborated symmetry of his public reputation. With a rare and noble magnanimity, he met, without hesitation, the demand of the great occasion. Breaking away from all the besetments of custom and association, he forgot the things that are behind, and, with an eye single to present duty, pressed forward towards the mark of the high calling of Divine Providence in the events of our time All honor to him! If we mourn that he is now beyond the reach of our poor human praise, let us reverently trust that he has received that higher plaudit: ‘Well done, thou good and faithful servant!’
When I last met him, as my colleague in the Electoral College of Massachusetts, his look of health and vigor seemed to promise us many years of his wisdom and usefulness. On greeting him I felt impelled to express my admiration and grateful appreciation of his patriotic labors, and I shall never forget how readily and gracefully he turned attention from himself to the great cause in which we had a common interest, and expressed his thankfulness that he had still a country to serve.
To keep green the memory of such a man is at once a privilege and a duty. That stainless life of seventy years is a priceless legacy. His hands were pure. The shadow of suspicion never fell on him. If he erred in his opinions (and that he did so, he had the Christian grace and courage to own), no selfish interest weighed in the scale of his judgment against truth.
As our thoughts follow him to his last resting place, we are sadly reminded of his own touching lines, written many years ago at Florence. The name he has left behind is none the less ‘pure’ that instead of being ‘humble’ as he then anticipated, it is on the lips of grateful millions, and written ineffaceably on the record of his country’s trial and triumph:-
‘Yet not for me when I shall fall asleep
Shall Santa Croce’s lamps their vigils keep.
Beyond the main, in Auburn’s quiet shade,
With those I loved and love my couch be made;
Spring’s pendent branches o’er the hillock wave,
And morning’s dewdrops glisten on my grave,
And Heaven’s great arch shall rise above my bed
When Santa Croce’s crumbles on her dead—
Unknown to erring or to suffering fame,
So I may leave a pure though humble name.’
Congratulating the society on the prospect of the speedy consummation of the great objects of our associate’s labors-the peace and permanent union of our country-
I am, very truly, thy friend,
JOHN G. WHITTIER.
ROBERT C. WATERSTON, Boston.
The Wilmington correspondent of the New York Herald says a large number of Union prisoners were relieved by the capture of the place. They were confined in Camp Lamb, about one mile from the city. Their treatment was of the most brutal character, and for three days preceding the evacuation, they had not received a mouthful to eat. The citizens had endeavored to feed them, but the food was taken away by the officer in charge. They presented a most sickening spectacle, many of them having been rendered idiotic, and forgotten their own names.
<c06>
LETTERS FROM “CARLETON.”
SAVANNAH, Feb. 13, 1865.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
Society in the South and especially in this city, has undergone and is still undergoing a great change. I have had an opportunity to observe it in all its phases. The extremes were wide apart before the war, they were very widely separated the night before Sherman marched into the city, but the next morning there was a convulsion, a disruption, a breaking up of the crust, an upheaval, and also a shaking down, which has had no parallel during the war. The tread of that army of the West as it marched into the city with drums beating and banners waving, singing of John Brown’s body, produced an earthquake which sent aristocratic pride, privilege and power, reeling into the dust. Old houses, with foundations laid deep and strong in the past centuries, fortified by wealth, name and influence, went down in an instant. At the same moment there was an upheaval from beneath which has produced a common level to all. A change of the poles of the earth would scarcely produce a greater convulsion in the physical world than that brought about in the social condition of the people of this city.
On the night before Sherman entered the place there were hundreds of citizens who could enumerate their wealth by hundreds of thousands of dollars, who at sunrise the next morning were not worth a dime. Their property was all in cotton, negroes, houses, land, Confederate bonds and currency, railroad, and bank stocks.
Their cotton was seized by the Government; their lands have been given to the negroes; their negroes are free; their houses are occupied by the Government: their Confederate bonds are waste paper; their railroads are torn up; their banks are gone out of existence.
The time may come, undoubtedly will, when something will be realized; but at present they are absolutely penniless. But it is not in wealth alone that they feel the convulsion. The greatest shock of all has come in the loss of privilege and power, which never can be regained. It is this which cuts deepest and sorest.
“ I never will live in a city where I have got to mix with free niggers,” said one of the former wealthy sons of the city.
“Very well, you can go out of it, I suppose,” was all the comfort he received in a reply.
“It is hard to have to lay our loved ones in the grave—to have them fall by thousands on the battle-field—to be stripped of everything; but the hardest of all is nigger equality, and I won’t submit to it,” was the remark of a lady who was intensely bitter in her feelings towards the North.
“What will you do?” I asked.
“Leave the country—go to Canada, or Europe, or Cuba,” was the reply, accompanied with tears.
The people are not able to see yet that society always has made itself into classes. Free society is not totally democratic, nor can it be. There always has been, probably always will be aristocracy of intellect, or wealth or blood. Men can and do select their associates. So long as the negro was compelled to enter their parlor as a servant, it was well, but freedom implies the possibility of his living there not as a servant, but as an equal by the laws and customs of society; that is intolerable. The rich rebels of Savannah, those who were rich, are thinking now not how they shall repair their shattered fortunes here—how adapt themselves to the new order of things, but are looking forward to the time when they can leave the city, shaking off the dust of their feet against the Yankees who are swarming in, and especially against the negro, and seek a home in other lands. There are some men of wealth not to be included in this assertion, men who will adapt themselves to the new order of things.
I have visited the houses of the rich and sat down in the humble homes of the negroes, and the equally mean houses of the poor whites, and have endeavored to ascertain the feeling of all. The poor whites here, as everywhere in the South, are inert and lifeless. Nothing stirs their ambition. They hover under the sunny sides of the buildings, visiting the city supply-stand, to receive the contributions sent from New York and Boston. The war has taken out the best blood of that class. The bone and muscle of this element in society is decaying beneath the soil of Virginia, and what is left is the dregs of society. It never has been a controlling power, but has always been controlled by the aristocratic class, now deprived of its ancient power, and thinking not how to regain it, but how to get out of the way of the colored man.
In a former letter I gave an account of a meeting held last week which was addressed by General Saxton, who has charge of the colonization of the islands under the order of Gen. Sherman. That order was written by the Secretary of War, or if not written by him, was read by him, while he was here, and before it was issued. It is, therefore, a government measure, and not emanating from Gen. Sherman. A New York paper attacks it editorially because it prohibits white men from dwelling on the islands. This prohibition was not designed to perpetuate caste, but to protect negroes from the rapacity of unprincipled men.
This brings me to speak of the real bone and muscle of the South and of its rising brain power. 
Last Friday, a party with Rev. Mr. Houston, pastor of the Third African Baptist Church, went down to Skidaway Island to select their future homes. Mr. Houston has always been a slave. He is now forty-one years old. In this early years he was a nurse in the marine hospital. He had an earnest desire to learn to read, and by his kind attention to the sailors was able to do so.
He hired his time, paying his master fifty dollars a month, and established himself as a butcher. He went to Augusta and Macon, and all over eastern Georgia, purchasing cattle, but, employing all his spare hours learning to read, studying the Bible and theology. He was ordained to preach by the Baptist Association of white ministers three years ago. 
He and his fellow-colonists selected their lots, laid out a village, numbered the lots, put the numbers into a hat, and draw them out. In was Plymouth colony repeating itself. They agreed that if any others came to join them they should have equal privileges. So blooms the May-flower on the islands of the South Atlantic coast.
“We shall build our cabins, and organize our town government for the maintenance of order and the settlement of all difficulties,” said Mr. Houston. He has four hundred hides, his own property, “I want to turn them into money and purchase a portable saw-mill to cut our lumber for our houses.”
In one day, five thousand acres were assigned to the colonists, who were eager to till them. A large party went down this morning with what provisions they could carry. They go out to commence life as citizens. I have no doubt of their success, provided they are not hindered by arbitrary authority stirred up by old prejudices and hate.
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”—J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Yesterday there was a meeting of these at the old slave market. The room was crowded. I sat on the platform where thousands of their fellow-men had been sold, where women had stood stripped of their clothing, bearing the rude jests, the indecent remarks, the insulting examinations made by a b, licentious crowd; where mothers had heard for the last time the cries of their little ones; where heart-strings had been torn asunder; where the image of God was bruised and crushed; where unimaginable horrors had been witnessed-I sat there, and  the men, some of them as white as myself, talk of their future. They came together to hear remarks from Rev. Mr. French and Lieut. Ketchum, to ask questions and consult with each other.
They wanted to know what title they would have to their land-what assurance they could have that it would be theirs, after they had improved it. Their questions were plain, straight-forward, and showed a shrewdness which I had not looked for.
Rev. Mr. French said "I beard a white man ridicule the project, who said one white rebel going among you will come down five of you. Is that so?
"Let him try it!" "We'll fight!" were the responses.
A tall middle-aged man, black as anthracite coal, rose and said, calmly, deliberately, but with a tone of voice which revealed determination not to be trifled with:
"They may talk about white man scaring five negroes, but he can't scare one. It has been the power of which has cowed us, but that power is gone. They can't scare us now!”
Mr. French said that the freedmen at Beaufort, although not so intelligent as they were, had become independent in thought and feeling upon the subject of their personal freedom.
"What would you do if your old master should come to take you into slavery again ? he asked of an old woman who was hoeing her cotton. "I would hoe him down, sir! That is what I would do."
There were intelligent men in the audience-men who have hired their time, paying fifty dollars a month to their masters, supporting themselves and their families. It is idle talk to say that they will not take care of themselves. They are the bone and muscle of the South, and they have already shown that they have no mean brain power. "The negroes of Tennessee have shown a greater capacity than the poor whites to rise above the chaos of the times," was the remark of an officer who holds a high position in Gen. Sherman's military family, and who has had great opportunity to make observations. In this same old slave market, where the iron gratings are still standing in the windows,  hundreds of colored children, learning the rudiments of language, taught by teachers of their own color.
Sitting on the auctioneer's platform, where the wailings of despair have rent the air, I listened to recitations as correctly given as by children of their own years in the graded schools of Boston. They sang the songs of liberty with a sweetness such as I never heard from an Anglo-Saxon choir of youthful voices. Yesterday those hundreds of dark visaged men, led by Lieut. Ketchum, rolled out in grand chorus the song sung by the colored soldiers around their camp fires, and on the march into battle at Honey Hill-
"We will fight for Liberty,"
closing with Old Hundred, not sung by a half-dozen, by every person present.
Such is a brief review of the original elements of society in Savannah. Another element is here-the restless, energetic Yankee. Stores are multiplying, but they are kept by men from Boston and New York, who have not come for a day or a week, but who intend to make Savannah their future home; who will be its citizens, who intend to build the city anew.
Great has been the convulsion. The lofty and the proud have been shaken down, and the poor and the lowly shaken up. There is the beginning of a new order of things. Great hardships, trials, sufferings and struggles are before all classes-before the colonists who go upon the islands to begin life, with nothing but their hands-before the poor whites who have been ground down by a moneyed and privileged class-and before that class, deprived of its power-reduced to poverty-humbled in spirit-defeated in its plans-and conscious in some degree that its retribution is deserved. Some persons demand our sympathy, others need our contributions, and there are those who should receive only strict, inflexible, impartial justice. 

THE B0MBARDMENT OF CHARLESTON
CHARLESTON, Feb. 23, 1865.
To the Editor of The Boston Journal:
I have passed three days in this city, conversing freely with all classes of people to obtain accurate information. I have already given an account of the evacuation and occupation of the place, the conduct of the colored soldiers, also an account of the visit to Sumter. In this letter I shall endeavor to give a picture of Charleston as it was, and also as it is.
CHARLESTON AS IT WAS.
Four years ago, Charleston was rich, powerful, aristocratic, arrogant and dictatorial. She was the proudest city in the world. She was the great cotton mart of the South Atlantic States. She had lines of steamers to Boston and New York. Her wharves were piled with bales of cotton and tierces of rice, to be sent outward to Europe and the North, or with goods from the warehouses and manufactories of New England and Great Britain. With the network of railroads in the interior, she had become the great commercial centre. She had a dozen stone marts. Next to New Orleans, she was the most populous city in the South, having by the census of forty-eight thousand inhabitants. Her banks, insurance offices and moneyed institutions were as stable as those of State or Wall street.
She was powerful in her ideas of political economy. She was the exponent of the doctrine of State Rights. She was conscious of her influence. She aspired to be the commercial emporium of the South. She proclaimed cotton king-not of America, but of the world, and in her pride and arrogance believed that all kings, emperors and nations would be compelled to do her homage. In her ambition to rule, she became callous to the claims of justice and of human rights, and brought herself to believe that right was wrong, and that wrong was right.
She called the people of South Carolina into council. The Charleston Mercury-the able but wicked advocate of secession-threw out from its windows this motto: "One voice and millions of strong arms to uphold the honor of South Carolina!" Not the honor of the nation or of the people, but of South Carolina-the Mephistopheles of the Confederacy, the seducer of States. With soft and honeyed words, and with well-timed flattery she detached State after State from the Union.
In the address of the South Carolina Convention which lies before us, are these words to the slave-holding States:
"Whilst constituting a portion of the United States, it has been your statesmanship which has guided it in its mighty strides to power and expansion. In the field and in the cabinet, you have led the way to renown and grandeur."
The ministers of her churches were first and foremost in helping on the rebellion. Church and State, minister and statesman, merchant and planter-all, from high to low, brought themselves to believe that their influence was world-wide, through King Cotton and his Prime Minister, African Slavery. Hence the self-confidence and arrogance, the dictatorial attitude, the fierceness, intolerance, hate and madness which has its only prototype in the rebellion of the devil and his angels against beneficent goodness.
BOMBARDMENT OF THE CITY.
The shells were fired at a great elevation, and were therefore plunging shots-striking a house on the roof, and down from the attic to the chambers, lower stories, ground floor and basement. Some exploded in the attics, some in the cellars, some in the chambers, others in the walls. The effect has been a complete riddling of the houses. Brick walls have been blown into millions of fragments, roofs have been torn to pieces rafters, beams, braces, scantlings have been broken and splintered into jack-straws. Churches, hotels, stores, dwellings, public buildings, all have been shattered. There are great holes in the ground where cart-loads of earth have bean excavated in a twinkling.
To present a lively picture of the place, I must incorporate personal adventures into my account.
SILMORE'S TOWN.
The lower half of the city is called Gilmore's town by the have made a thorough exploration of town, also of that part of the city still inhabited.
We visited the old office of the Mercury, in Broad street. A messenger sent by "Marsh Angel" had preceded us, entering the roof, passing into the
<c02>
chimney, and exploding within, dumping several cart-loads of brickbats, mortar and soot into the editorial room, smashing all the windows, splintering the doors. It was the room where secession had its incubation. The leading rebellions spirits once set there in their arm-chairs and enthroned King Cotton, and demanded homage to his majesty from all nations. The first shell sent the Mercury up town to a safer locality; but when Sherman began his march into the interior, the Mercury fled into the country to Cheraw, it is said, right into Sherman's line of advance! If so, Amen!
The Courier office, in Bay street, had not escaped damage. A shell entered through the roof, went tearing down through the floors, ripping up the boards, breaking the timbers, jarring the plaster from the walls, exploding in the second story, rattling all the tiles from the roof, bursting out the windows, smashing the imposing stone, opening the whole building to the sunlight. Another shell had dashed the sidewalk to pieces, and blown a passage into the cellar, wide enough to admit a six-horse wagon. Near the Courier office were the Union Bank and Charleston Bank. They were costly buildings, fitted up with marble mantels, floors of terra cotta tiles, counters elaborate in carved work, and with gorgeous frescoing on the walls. There, five years ago, the merchants of the city, the planters of the country, the slave traders, assembled on exchange, talked treason, and indulged in extravagant day dreams of the future glory of Charleston.
The rooms are silent now. The oaken doors splintered, the frescoing washed from the walls by the rains which drip from the shattered roof, the desks are kindling wood, the highly wrought cornice-work has dropped from the ceiling to the ground, the tiles are plowed up, the marble mantels shivered, the beautiful plate-glass of the windows lies in a million fragments upon the floor. In short, the banks have broke! They helped on the rebellion-contributed of their funds to inaugurate it, and invested largely in the State stock to place the State on a war footing. By a document which has fallen into my and which lies before me, I notice that the three banks already named held on January 6, 1865, six hundred and ten thousand dollars' worth of the seven per cent. State stock, issued under the act of December, 1861. They would sell it dog cheap now.
Passing from the banks to the hotel, I found a like scene of destruction. The door of the Mills house was open. The windows had lost their glazing, and were boarded up. Sixteen shots have struck the building. The rooms where secession had been rampant in the beginning, where bottles of wine had been drunk over the fall of Sumter, echoed only to our footstep. The Charleston hotel has several great holes in the walls.
The churches have not escaped. St. Michael's, the oldest of all, has been repeatedly struck. The pavement is thick with broken glass which has been rattled from the windows by the explosions of the shells. All the churches in the lower portion of the city are wrecks. The preachers were early imbued with the spirit of revolt. Episcopalian, Presbyterian and Baptist-all preached secession.
Rev. Dr. Porter was pastor of the Church of the Holy Communion. He was especially bitter against the Yankees. He called upon his people to fight to the bitter end, till the streets ran with blood-to perish in the last ditch. But he left Charleston very suddenly last week, going to Cheraw, probably in search of it. Perhaps be will find it, for Sherman is in that vicinity. He turned over his house to the care of an English lady where we obtained lodgings. In the morning, I found the old negro cook very jubilant at something. She was dancing in great glee, laughing, holding her sides, and making extravagant demonstrations of joy.
"What pleases you, aunty?" I asked.
"O, massa; I'se tickled to link dat Massa Dr. Porter, who said dat no Yankee eber would set his foot in yere city, had to cut for his life, and dat a Yankee slept in his bed last night! Bless de Lord for dat!"
The old woman went off into another fit of ecstacy.
Warehouses, stores, dwellings, alike are shaken to pieces. The family residences overlooking the bay or battery, as it is called, are windowless, some even without doors. The elaborate centre pieces of stucco work in the drawing-rooms have crumbled ; the marbles are defaced ; rooms bedrooms are filled with bricks; the white marble steps and mahogany balusters are shattered; owls and bats can build their nests in the coming spring-time undisturbed in the desolate mansions; the esplanade of the battery, the pleasure ground of the Charlestonians, their delight and pride, is dug into defensive trenches; there is a breastwork in King street. There are masked batteries along the shore, which show that the determination was fierce for holding the city, even if the iron clads had succeeded in passing Moultrie.
In 1861, the heart of the city was burned out by a great fire, which swept from the Cooper to the Ashley rivers. Since then there has been no sound of saw or hammer, except in the ship-yards where the gunboats were under construction. Those, like everything else, have been lost labor. Last Saturday they too were burned.
It is an indescribable scene of desolation and ruin, of roofless, doorless, windowless houses, crumbling walls, upheaved pavements and grass-grown streets -silent to all sounds of business, and voiceless only to the woe-begone, poverty-stricken, haggard people, who wander up and down, amid the ruins, looking to a jubilant past, a disappointed present, and a hopeless future. They are in rags, and their boots are out at the toes, their shoes down at the hoel. There is no longer a manifestation of arrogance, lordly insolence and conscious superiority over the Yankees on the part of the whites.
I cannot well analyze the feelings of the people. They touched their hats to me, and spoke respectfully. They were reticent except when questioned. Once they asked questions of What is your occupation? What brought you to the South? What are you doing here? I believe you are a- Abolitionist, and the quicker you get out of this town the better." Such was formerly their language. So they talked to Col. in 1860, of whom more in another letter. So they talked to many other men.
"We are here, and we have come to stay, I am a Yankee and an abolitionist," I said to a citizen. He made no reply-did not even look daggers. It is the most completely subjugated community I ever saw. There is mortification, disappointment, hopelessness in their countenances. I have given utterance to my most radical sentiments to try their temper, and have not even succeeded in making any one threaten me by word, look or gesture. William Lloyd Garrison or Wendell Phillips or Henry Ward Beecher can speak their minds in the open air, upon the parade in front of the citadel, without fear of molestation, and with a certainty of hearty cheers from one portion of their audience. The bayonets of a thousand colored soldiers are flashing in the sunlight, and there are other thousands who have suddenly felt the shackles drop from their limbs, who are ready to shoulder a musket and fight for the Union.
There are a few Union men in the city, mostly Germans. I have seen a list of their names. Some of them have been true and staunch friends to our officers and soldiers who have been prisoners in the city; but so terrible has been this tyranny, so sharp-eyed that these men are shy and cautious. They talk softly, and look behind the doors to see if there is not a listener. Not so the colored people. They dance and shout and sing, and bless the Lord in open day. They are the true Union people of Charleston. I shall say much more about them in another letter.
COLORED SOLDIERS.
The hardest thing to the Charlestonians is the presence of negro soldiers. They are the provost guard of the city, with their headquarters in the citadel. Whoever desires protection papers or passes, whoever has business with the Marshal or the General commanding the city, rich or poor, high-born or low born, white or black, man or woman, must meet a colored sentinel face to face, and obtain from a colored sergeant permission to enter the gate. They were the first in the city, and it is their privilege to guard it, their duty to maintain law and order.
It gave me great satisfaction to see a major in rebel uniform marched off to the guard-house by these colored soldiers. It was galling to his pride; he marched with downcast eyes and a sorry countenance. It gave me pleasure also to see the citizens and women of the city who came to obtain protection from the General wait at the gate, obedient to the will of the courteous sergeant, who treated them fairly, giving each their turn, and showing no distinction on account of color.
Many of the colored troops were formerly residents of Charleston, and now they are at home. They are the lions of the hour. When off duty,
<c03>
they chat with their old friends. It will be easy to raise a colored regiment in Charleston.
The 55th Massachusetts, which is in Gen. Potter's brigade, entered the city last night singing the John Brown song, and making Charleston ring with cheers for Abraham Lincoln and John A. Andrews! Think of it! all this in the city of Charleston!
Last evening, while passing through the city, I inquired my way of a white woman, and improved the opportunity to ascertain her opinion of the Yankees.
"How do the Yankees behave? "I asked.
"O, they behave well enough, but the nigger troops dreadful sassy." (She spells nigger with two gs.)
"They have not insulted you, I hope." 
"O, no, they haven't insulted me, but they have other folks. They don't out when we meet them; they smoke cigars, and they go right up to a gentleman, and ask him for a light."
"Dear me, that is very bad, but we shall have to put up with it," I said.
"I suppose so," was the reply of the lady, who, I think, never mistrusted that she was talking to one of the terrible vandal horde of Yankees.
The citadel in which Gen. Schimmeltennig has his headquarters was originally a tobacco inspection office, but when South Carolina began to set up a nationality for herself in 1830, she made it a citadel and established a military school therein, which has been kept as such to the present time. There the proud old State fanned the flame which is now consuming her.
POPULATION AND MEANS OF LIVING.
In 1860 the population of the city was 48,409- 26,969 whites, 17,655 slaves and 3785 colored. The first flight from the city was in Dec. 1861, when Port Royal fell into our  but when it was found that the opportunity afforded at that time for an advance upon the city was not improved, most of those who had moved away returned. The attack of DuPont upon Sumter sent them flying once more; but not till the messengers of Angels" dropped among them did the inhabitants think seriously of leaving. Some went to Augusta, others to Columbia, and others to Cheraw. Many wealthy men bought homes in the country. The upper part of the city was crowded. Men of wealth who had lived in princely style, were compelled to put up with a single room. The fire of 1861 made thousands homeless. Desolation has been on apace. The city has grown old rapidly within the last twelve months, and is now the ruin on the continent. I judge that there are from ten to fifteen thousand people still remaining in the city, two thirds of whom are colored.
There is a large amount of rice in the city. Cattle can be obtained from the country. There is no danger of starvation. The poor people are greatly in want, but they will receive rations from the city, the rice having been turned over to the authorities for that purpose. Three citizens have been appointed to distribute it, one of whom is <illegible> I hear various opinions as to his Unionism, out this much is certain, be has taken no part in public affairs since the beginning of the rebellion.
There is some gold and silver in the city. There have been two classes of speculators in the South- those who have invested in cotton, and those who have invested in gold. There are very few, however, who have an abundance of means. The poor are very poor. When gathered in a crowd, it is a grand rag-pickers' fair.
THE CHANGE.
Neither the white nor the colored people comprehend the change which has taken place in their fortunes. The whites forget that they are no longer slave drivers. Passing down Rutledge street one morning, I saw a crowd around the door of a building. A friend who was there in advance of me said that he heard an outcry, looked in, and found a white man whipping a colored woman. Her outcries brought a colored sergeant of the provost guard and a squad of men, who quietly entered, marched the woman away, told her to go where she pleased, and informed the man that that sort of thing was "played out." Two white women were passing at that time. "O my God! To think that we should ever come to this!" was the exclamation of one. "madam, you have come to it, and will have to come to a good deal more, was the reply of my friend.
PROPERTY CAPTURED.
The military property captured in the forts is immensely large, consisting of cannon and ammunition. The cannon were all spiked, but the spikes can be removed without difficulty. The number of guns captured is reported at four hundred and seventy. Five locomotives and several cars were left in the city. The locomotives are much worn, but can be made serviceable. There is considerable resin and turpentine, and a few small lots of cotton-that is all. Speculators and traders may stay at home. The military policy, I think, for the present, will be to let Charleston alone. "All we ask is to be let alone," was their cry. The time has come to heed it. Let the gunboats protect the harbor, let the colored troops protect the town, let the school-houses be thrown open to the colored children, let the city remain a closed port till the last rebel has laid down his arms and sued for peace.
THE GAME.
The game which the rebels have played is about over. It has been characterized by lying, and by a barbarism which in the future will astound the world. It was their intention to destroy the city, and the people who remained behind. I am informed that the guns of the iron-clads were double-shotted, and turned upon the city purposely, and that the shells fell far up-town, but fortunately no one was injured. In the beginning, the rebels gave themselves over to work iniquity, and they have continued to the present time. One hundred millions of dollars will scarcely make good the property destroyed. The city is a ruin. The tall rank weeds of last year's growth, dry and withered now, rattle in every passing breeze in the very heart of that city which, five years ago, was so proud and lofty in spirit. Lean and hungry dogs skulk amid the tenantless houses. Cats which once purred by pleasant firesides run from their old haunts at our approach. The rats have deserted the wharves, and moved up town. The buzzards which once picked up the garbage of the streets have disappeared. They are starved out. A rook cawed to us, perched on the vane of the Court House steeple. Spiders spin their webs in counting-houses. Such is the lower half of Charleston to-day. Like the Babylon of Revelation, her merchants were the great men of the earth; for by their sorceries were all nations deceived. And in her was found the blood of prophets and of the saints."
As that great Babylon shall fall, so has Charleston fallen. As the seer beheld the apocalyptic vision, and heard a great voice of much people in heaven, so from millions of men on earth there is now the psalm of praise- Alleluia! Salvation and glory, and honor and power unto the Lord our God, for true and righteous are His judgments; for He bath judged the great whore, which did corrupt the earth with her fornication, and bath avenged the blood of His servants at her hands!" CARLETON.

THE TERRITORIES ON THE AMENDMENT.
Mr. Bennett, of Colorado, asked the unanimous consent of the House of Representatives, a few days since, to spread the following paper upon the Journal of that body :-
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, WASHINGTON, Feb. 1, 1865.
Representing Territories which must soon become States, as Delegates deprived of the inestimable privilege of voting in this House, and feeling a deep interest in the proposition to amend the Federal Constitution, forever prohibiting slavery within the jurisdiction of the United States, demanded alike by the exigencies of the times and the voices of the loyal people, and by our efforts in the field to suppress a rebellion inaugurated and sustained for the purpose of perpetuating slavery, we cannot do less than state that the measure meets our unqualified approbation.
H. H. BENNET. Colorado.
J. F. FINNEY, Utah.
S. G. DAILY, Nebraska.
CHARLES D. POSTON, Arizona.
J. B. S TODD, Dacotah.
W. H. WALLACE. Idaho.
FRANCISCO PEREA, New Mexico.
MONTREAL, C. E. Feb. 22. At a concert given by the New England Society last night, Mr. George Thompson made a speech on the present and future of America. He said although the war was necessary, yet all the stars would appear again upon the American flag, and that it would again be the beacon-light of liberty kindled to the skies. America and Great Britain, mother and daughter, would go hand in hand, one in union and progress. He said there were erroneous opinions as to English sentiment, and painted a glorious future when all mankind would be free.
<c04>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1865.
I REPEAT THE DECLARATION MADE A YEAR AGO, THAT WHILE I REMAIN IN MY POSITION, I SHALL. NOT ATTMMPT TO RETRACT OF MODIFY THE EMACIPATION PROCLAMATIOS, NOR SHALL I RETURN TO SLAVERY ANY PERSON WHO IS FREE BY THE TERMS OF THAT PROCLAMATION, OR BY ANY OF THE, ACTS OF CONGRESS. IF THE PEOPLE SHOULD, BY WHATEVER MODE OR MEANS, MAKE IT AN EXECUTIVE DUTY TO REENSLAVE SUCH PERSONS, ANOTHER, AND NOT I, MUST BE THE INSTRUMENT TO PERFORM IT.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

THE INAUGURAL ADDRESS.
The following is the Inaugural Address delivered by President Lincoln at Washington, on the 4th of March. It is without a parallel for brevity, and also for the contrite spirit and reverent recognition of the chastising hand of Divine Providence for our great national sin of slavery. It will inspire fresh confidence in the integrity and firmness of the President touching that hateful system, and deepen the popular feeling as to the duty and necessity of utterly abolishing it in the present struggle:-
Fellow-Countrymen:
At this second appearing to take the oath of the Presidential office, there is less occasion for an extended address than there was at the first. Then a statement somewhat in detail of a course to be pursued seemed very fitting and proper. Now, at the expiration of four years, during which public declarations have constantly been called forth on every point and phase of the great contest which still absorbs the attention and engrosses the energies of the nation, little that is new could be presented.
The progress of our arms, upon which all else chiefly depends, is as well known to the public as to myself; and it is, I trust, reasonably satisfactory and encouraging to all.
With high hope for the future, no prediction in regard to it is ventured. On the occasion corresponding to this, four years ago, all thoughts were anxiously directed to an impending civil war. All dreaded it, all sought to avoid it.
While the inaugural address was being delivered from this place, devoted altogether to saving the Union without war, insurgent agents were in the city seeking to destroy it without war, seeking to dissolve the Union and divide the effects by negotiation.
Both parties deprecated war, but one of them would make war rather than let the nation survive, and the other would accept war rather than let it perish, and the war came.
One-eighth of the whole population were colored slaves, not distributed generally over the Union, but located in the Southern part of it. These slaves contributed a peculiar and powerful interest. All knew that this interest was somehow the cause of the war. To strengthen, perpetuate and extend this interest was the object for which the insurgents would rend the Union by war, while Government claimed no right to do more than to restrict the territorial enlargement of it. Neither party expected the magnitude or the duration which it has already attained. Neither anticipated that the cause of the conflict might cease, or even before the conflict itself should cease. Each looked for an easier triumph, and a result less fundamental and astounding. Both read the same Bible and pray to the same God, and each invokes His aid against the other. It may seem strange that any man should dare to ask a just God's assistance in wringing their bread from the sweat of other men's faces. But let us judge not, that we be not judged. The prayer of both should not be answered. That of neither has been answered fully. The Almighty has His own purposes. "Woe unto the world because of offences, for it must needs be that offences come, but woe to that man by whom the offence cometh." If we shall suppose that American slavery is one of these offences which, in the providence of God, must needs come, but which having continued through His appointed time. He now wills to remove, and that He gives to both North and South this terrible war as the woe due to those by whom the offence came, shall we discern there is any departure from those divine attributes which the believers in a living God always ascribe to him? Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray, that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away.
Yet, if God wills that it continue until all the wealth piled by the bondmen in 250 years of unrequited toil shall be sunk, and until every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword-as was said three thousand years ago, so still it must be said, that the judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether.
With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right, as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in, to bind up the nation's wounds, to care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphans; to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and a lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations.
GENERAL SAXTON. At the late annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society in this city, General Saxton was denounced by Dr. T. P. Knox as a "coward and scoundrel," and by other opprobrious epithets; and all the benevolent efforts made, in the vicinity of Port Royal, for the relief and elevation of the freedmen, were scouted in the same spirit of detraction. We felt very reluctant to publish such wholesale condemnation; but it constituted a part of the official report of the proceedings, and we let it stand; satisfied, of course, that it would injuriously affect only the one who uttered it.
In the Liberator of the 24th ult. we published an excellent letter from Gilbert Pillsbury, Esq., (brother of Parker,) at Hilton Head, in vindication of General Saxton, and in rebuke of his assailant. In our present number we give Dr. Knox's reply, in which he repeats his very offensive charges, and seeks to find his justification in an assumed jealousy for the rights and interests of the people, and in his arrest and imprisonment by order of Gen. Saxton. Such sweeping, denunciatory language can do no harm either to the kind hearted General, or to the National Freedmen's Association or its agents.
We also publish a letter from a most radical abolitionist, chaplain J. H. Fowler, at Beaufort, in which he repels as baseless all Dr. Knox's allegations, and represents him as a mischief maker, and something worse, who ought to have been expelled from the Department at a much earlier period. Mr. Fowler speaks the more confidently from his personal acquaintance with Dr. Knox in this city.
Now, we do not intend to allow in our columns a protracted discussion on this subject. Of General Saxton, as a true friend and benefactor of the freed people under his supervision, we have the highest opinion; and that opinion, we believe, is held by the abolitionists, with scarcely a dissenting voice.
SERFDOM. In consequence of the charge of "serfdom" having been brought against General Banks's system of plantation labor in Louisiana, a correspondent in another portion of our paper refutes the charge, and furnishes a very interesting communication on the subject, in which European serfdom is closely analyzed, and shown to be wholly unlike the temporary arrangements made by General Banks, in time of peril, for the welfare of all parties.
GIVE THE DOCTOR A HEARTY WELCOME. The London correspondent of the N. Y. Independent says:
"Dr. Frederick Tomkins and Mr. Levi Coffin, of Cincinnati, have left for America. Dr. Tomkins has rendered inestimable service to the Anti-Slavery cause as one of the honorary Secretaries of the Freedman's Aid Society. He intends to visit in succession the various plantations occupied by the emancipated negroes; but as he is first of all bound for Boston and New York, I take the liberty of asking for him in those cities the cordial reception to which he is entitled. I have every confidence that his mission will be eminently beneficial to both countries; and that on his return he will be able to stimulate anew the old spirit of British philanthropy. From the beginning, he has ardently taken the right side in the great American controversy."
HARPER'S MAGAZINE, March 1865. The illustrated papers in this number are a Tour through Arizona, a territory now exciting much interest, The Siege and Capture of Port Hudson, by J. T. Headley, and Sugar making in Cuba, containing a full descriptions of the processes of Sugar manufacture. In. the way of stories we have another installment of the Mutual Friend, and Armadale, with some shorter tales, poetry, and the editorial matter, making up an interesting number. For sale by A. Williams & Co.
<c05>
SERFDOM.
The most recent and authoritative definition of SERFDOM  contained in the decree of Alexander, Emperor of Russia, proclaiming the prospective emancipation of the serfs of the empire, published (19th February,) March 3, 1861, (new style) Serfs are described as "peasants attached to the soil;" thus designated because either from ancient laws or from custom they have been hereditarily subjected to the authority of the proprietors, on whom it was incumbent at the same time to provide for their welfare. The rights of the proprietors have been hitherto very extended, and very imperfectly defined by the law which has been supplied by tradition, custom, and the good pleasure of the proprietors. [See Annual Register for 1861, for a copy of the decree.] The limitations of power embodied in these "laws, traditions and customs" restrict the power of the master in cases affecting the life or limb of the serf, or the safety of the reigning family and the Government. The Government and the serf have only the partial power of self-protection. The exclusive right of possession and control is in the master. The same idea is embodied in the representations of the best writers upon the condition of villeins and serfs-between villeins or free men, and serfs or slaves. The word "villeins" is used as synonymous of the Roman" Ducourge says that the lord has not full power over the villeins; the latter was not a slave-a thing which the master might dispose of at his pleasure." (Guizot's History of Civilization, vol. 4, p. 54.) Pierre de Fortune, in his treatise on the ancient jurisprudence of the French, cited in Guizot, says, " that which is said, that all things which the villein has are his lord's it is well to guard against; for if they were his lord's, there would be no difference between serf and "The serfs, their persons and property, were given up to the absolute power of their masters, which had no limit except public executions." (De Gerebetzoff, Civilization in Russia, vol. II. p. 79. Paris, 1858.)
The serf cannot be compelled to commit crimes against the law.
He cannot be restrained from giving evidence in cases of conspiracy against the Government.
He cannot be sold apart from the land on which he lives.
With these general exceptions, the law of serfdom is expressed in the sovereign will and good pleasure of the proprietor."
His degradation is not the accident of his condition, as from capture in war, but attaches to the blood of race. Servitude is the law, and freedom the exception. It he purchases freedom, or gains it by military service, his children remain serfs.
The right of self-defence is denied him.
His servitude is for life.
He cannot change his master, or leave him without his consent.
He cannot volunteer in the army. His military service is the contribution of the matter to the support of the Government.*
If killed by accident, the damages are paid to his master.
He is bought and sold with the land on which he lives.
He cannot give evidence against his master, except in cases affecting the safety of the realm.
He can enter into no contract, except with the consent of his master.
He is subject to police regulations declared solely by the interests of the master.
His children remain serfs, though born of a free mother.
If he escapes from service, he is returned to his master at any time within ten years.
He is subject to unmerciful and daily corporal punishment.
He is hired out to service at the will of the master.
His master is supreme judge in all civil matters.
He is liable at his will to Siberian exile, or to imprisonment in any penitentiary.
He can travel only upon the passport of the master.
He cannot marry, except by his consent.
He is an "hereditary bondman"; his servitude and the rights of his master being alike subject to the law of inheritance.
He is deprived of the benefit or protection of any provisions of law which tend to the social, moral or intellectual advancement of his race.
There is nothing that distinguishes the condition of the serf from the worst form of chattel slavery, except that he cannot be sold from the land on which he is born. If he is the recipient of better treatment, it is because the proprietors are of a higher order of men than slaveholders, or that the race of serfs is superior to the race of slaves. The spirit of the laws, traditions and customs, as well as of the principle upon which they are founded, is a denial of the rights of the Government and the serf, except in cases affecting their existence, and the assertion of an irresponsible and absolute right of possession and control within this limit on the part of the proprietor of the soil and the serf. [General reference to Russia as it is," by A. Gurowski.]
The emancipated labor of Louisiana stands upon an opposite and higher The interests of the Government are recognized as first and paramount; the rights and necessities of the laborer of equal public importance, subordinate only as a matter of right to that of the Government. No absolute right is recognized in the owner of land, except the fee of title, even when he is loyal to the Government. He has not been permitted to allow his land to lie waste. The planter suspected of indifference to the Government, and willing to defeat its policy by contributing to the disorder which would necessarily follow the suspension of all ordinary business, has been notified that, if he did not, others would cultivate the land. Assuming the culture of the soil to be a public necessity, and the proper employment of laborers essential to their welfare, there has been no interference with the rights of the negro considered as a free man, except in the matter of wages, and that imposed from the necessity of supplying, for his benefit, some equitable standard of compensation in a community without courts of justice, or recognized statute or local law. The suppression of vagrancy, and the employment of idle persons, is universally recognized as an indispensable condition of civilized government. There is no other basis for the statute law of public or private contracts than the right- which the Government has to enforce industry. Assuming that people must labor, the Government has the right to establish the terms and conditions; and in every civilized country, the foundation of industry is the law of compulsion. The right of private contract does not confer the privilege of subverting, but it is substituting something not inconsistent with the right or interest of Government.
In addition to the necessities imposed upon all Government to provide for the employment of the people, Louisiana had an additional incentive in the fact, that the industry of the year depended upon the employment or indolence of the first two months of the year. The time was as imperative as the necessities of the case, and allowed no opportunity for arrangements between employer and laborer; neither parties, from the tenor of their lives, being either willing or competent to effect such an arrangement, if the condition of things permitted it. A governmental stipulation was, therefore, indispensable to give character and effect to the industry of the State for a year. All its arrangements were in the nature of police regulations, intended to secure public peace and the general welfare of the people, as distinguished from the recognition of the right of one class to oppress or to appropriate the labor of another class of citizens.
There is no affinity or resemblance whatever between the condition of the free laborers of Louisiana and that of the serfs of other countries.
Gurowski's Russia, p. 90. Each owner of serfs selects absolutely by his will the number to be delivered by him. All other peasants are entitled to boards elected from among themselves, to govern the selections of recruits.
<c06>
The free laborer is absolutely independent of the will of his employer, and subject only to the interests of his Government, of which his own individual interest is a component and essential part. This is the first and highest condition of his worldly position. It gives to him a special and independent character of his own.
His condition, in contrast with that of the serf, is seen in the fact, that a complete census or register of his people was established, so that a soldier or laborer was able to ascertain the location of parent or child, relative or friend, by inquiry of the Government.
He cannot be restrained from giving evidence against his employer in any court or in any case.
He cannot be sold with or without the land.
He does not transmit to his children any degradation which may fall to his lot from misfortune, incapacity or crime. The law of his situation is the full measure of human freedom. Any limitation of it is temporary suspension of his recognized and declared rights, incident to his situation.
The limited service due to his employer, from his own choice and for an equitable compensation, is regulated by his Government, whose interests are identical with his own, until he shall obtain capacity and power to manage his own affairs.
He has all the rights of self-defence enjoyed by other men.
He can change his master, or leave him for different employment, at his pleasure, within the limits of the conditions to which he has assented.
He may volunteer in the army at his pleasure; and the service he renders, or the honor he acquires, elevates his condition and his name, as in the case of other free men.
If he suffers from accident or design, whatever damages may accrue in consequence of the loss are paid to his family, and not to his master.
He is free to contract with anybody upon any subject, for the use or purchase of land, or for his employment in any that does not interface with the temporary arrangement he has made for the crop. If he leaves the service in which he is employed, there is no law compelling him to return. He is not subject to corporal, or other cruel or un usual punishment. He cannot be transferred to other labor or employment, by his consent. He cannot be separated from his family, nor can he be punished in any for, either by exile or imprisonment, at the pleasure of his employer. He moves from place by permission and under the general protection of the government. His marriage is authorized and recognized by the Government, and subject to the will of the master; the sanctity of his domestic relations has been enforced by the dismissal of officers from public employment. When interfering with his rights. The unity of his family, their support in sickness and in health, and education of his children, are secured to him by the Government.
There is no assistance which a beneficent government can wisely offer to an oppressed race that he does not social, moral, intellectual, political and religious elevation of himself or his children is limited only by their capacity and ambition.
There is nothing in the condition of the emancipated laborer of Louisiana which distinguishes him from any class of laborers in any civilized community, that does not flow from the condition of war, and the absence of all civil law, equally restricting, in different ways, the rights of all classes of citizens. The spirit of the regulations which they are founded, is a denial of all claims of proprietor or master; and an assertion of the freedom of the laborer, except so far as it is restrained by the general condition and necessities of the people and the Government. Thus in every respect, his condition not only differs from that of the serf, but it is founded upon principles directly opposite, and produces entirely different results.
The Roman people having gained the right to bear arms, won for themselves in sucession in the contests of a century and a half civil liberty, political and religious freedom, and equality of rights before the judiciary and the law.[Vide Drury Hist. Romaine,57.]
Serfdom was partially abolished in France by the Decree of Louis the Gros, A.D.1118, who declared that “serfs of the of the Holy Church should have full and entire license to give evidence and to combat against all men, free as well as serfs, in all cases, pleadings and business." It was extirpated from the soil of France by the Decree of Louis 1 failed of its full effect only because personal liberty was not fully appreciated, and was unsupported by the institutions of modern civilization, which render it secure.
Serfdom was abolished in England by the stature of Edward III. (dated A. D. 1351,) (Rees's Encyclopedia, Wages, and Pickney's Statutes at 31, v. 6th, 51,) which provided simply for the payment of wages. Equitable compensation for labor has been rendered as the equivalent of freedom in English legislation for more than five centuries.
In the emancipation of serfs, proclaimed by the Emperor of Russia in 1861, it was proposed, in order to relieve the attached to the soil" from disabilities of serfdom, to invest them, within the term of two years from the publication of the imperial manifest, "all the rights of free cultivators. We leave it to the proprietors to come to amicable terms with the peasants, and to conclude transactions relative to the extent of the territorial allotment, and to the rental to be fixed in consequence, observing at the same time the established rules to guarantee the inviolability of such agreements".
The proprietors, it is declared, to be deprived of rights legally acquired, except for a fit and sufficient industry, or by a voluntary concession on their part; and that it would be contrary to all equity to accept this enjoyment of the lands, conceded by the proprietors, without accepting also towards them equivalent charges. The "free cultivators" like the coloni of Roman History, the of England, had the right to rent land.
Emancipation is thus made to depend upon the will of the proprietor of the soil. The imperial decree asserts the power of the Government, and provides for the prospective elevation of the serf; but both the power of the Government and the freedom of the serf are made to depend upon the "good pleasure" of the proprietor and his equitable compensation, at his own estimate, by the serf, for any losses sustained by the proprietor, or any advantages gained by the peasant, or any advantages gained by the peasant in the change of conditions, or the transfer or acquisition of land. The allotment of land is limited to the homestead occupied by the serf. The compensation required of the serf, when estimated by his master, will include the value of the land and the services of the emancipated laborer. In Russia as in the American slave States, the value of land is only in the number of hands that can be applied to its cultivation. The serf, knowing that it is his labor that gives the soil value, regards it as his own. The proprietor, following the terms of the imperial decree of emancipation, enjoys the fee of the land, the control of the laborer, and the right to determine upon what terms the transfer shall be made. Until this is agreed upon, the condition of all the parties is unchanged by the terms of the decree. In this view of the condition of things, it is not surprising that the terms offered by the proprietor are rejected by the serf, and that, emancipation is deferred, though not defeated.
The right to rent or own land, to give evidence, and of self-defence-the payment of wages, and the liberty to dispose of one's capacity and time for his own personal benefit, subject to the necessities and the common interests of all-are the distinctive characteristics of all the emancipated races of men. There is not one of these that the negro laborer of Louisiana does not enjoy. He has, in addition, that principle of <illegible>
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
erty which is the foundation of all human governments, and of the power of all the ruling classes of the earth, whether of aristocratic, monarchic or democratic origin.  He is master in his own home. He has the privilege of education, of enrolment in the militia, and the right to bear arms. He has the assurance, by constitutional law, that upon the performance of just and reasonable conditions easily within his power, he shall enjoy the highest privilege of citizenship:-that of choosing rulers, and making laws for himself and others. This provision gives him a vested right in the privileges of citizenship, when he has complied with the conditions annexed thereto; and upon this compliance, the privilege of the Legislature to confer the right of suffrage becomes a duty imposed and commanded by the Constitution. Then, ambition and capacity alone are the limits of his power.
“The world is all before him where to choose, 
And Providence his guide.”
English writers, upon the general admission that a rose by any other name will smell as sweet, assume that personal liberty, under another name, must be valueless and oppressive. They call free, compensated labor serfdom. They might as well call it atheism or consumption. There is no analogy between European serfs and the emancipated free men of Louisiana.
Human history does not afford a parallel instance of elevation and progress in an enslaved race like that exhibited in Louisiana, between the 1st of January, 1863, and the 24th of January, 1865, when they celebrated in New Orleans the emancipation of their brethren in Missouri and Louisiana.

THE “WHITE.” PROVISO IN RECONSTRUGTION.
MR. GARRISON:
DEAR SIR,—That Nevada, or any or all of the Free States, should have been admitted into the Union with the word “white” in their respective Constitutions, is, I submit, a very poor reason for admitting Louisiana on the same footing.  It is objected that, to reject Louisiana, after having so lately admitted Nevada, would be treating the Southern State with “partiality,” and “inconsistent” on the part of Congressmen, whose own States still adhere to the mean distinction. It is surely no part of the work of Abolitionists to concern themselves for the consistency of time-serving politicians, but to drive them into inconsistency with their former wicked ways as quickly as possible, and bless Louisiana by the “partiality” of rebuilding her new institutions on justice. Under the Old Mosaic dispensation, no greater prophet had arisen than John the Baptist, yet the least under the New dispensation opened by Christ should be greater than he. And it is not too much to expect or demand, that the least of the new-formed States in late rebeldom shall be greater and better than the best of the Free State, under the old order of things. Anti-Slavery could have nothing but protest in the case of Nevada; and, surely, as a practical measure, the case of Louisiana is vastly more urgent, where the dark skinned are so much more numerous, and indigenous, and loyal, while the whites are disloyal. Either this question is of great importance, or it is not; if it is of importance, if the devil of slavery clings to this “white” proviso as a respite from his home in hell, all the more need that Anti-Slavery should be inexorable in its demands for justice, for fair play for the late victims of slavery.  If it is not of much importance, if the ex-slaveholders should be indifferent, then what excuse for putting off, to any more convenient season, this obvious piece of simple justice? Mr. Douglass lately used the fitting figure as to the opportunity and the duty, “Strike while the iron is hot.” Louisiana is in the fire; the workmen are around the anvil, preparing to fashion and form her for the future; if the North and the cause of freedom are strong enough to dictate, then strike while the iron is hot, but strike only for justice; if the strength of the North is doubtful, then more inexcusable the folly that would confer power on her enemies, alienate her friends.
The resolution No. 7, which you added to those presented by Mr. Phillips at the late meeting in Boston, I understood to be NAY to this proposition, to strike while the iron is hot, unless every bar in the smithy can be heated at the same time, for the sake of “consistency,” and to avoid “partiality”!
It is fitting that Abolitionists should be thankful and rejoice, that they are seeing so much of triumph after their long fought battles; but eternal vigilance is the price of liberty. Those who build the walls of Jerusalem will need to keep their weapons in one hand, while they work with the other. We need to be jealous of this glorification of Emancipation Proclamations and Constitutional amendments; innocent and sincere on the lips of the true-hearted, but a lip service only with others, the shirkers of the work yet to be done, which they will be most ready to join in. Heretofore, the key-note to Fourth of July orations has been, “Union and Independence”; hereafter will be incorporated “Emancipation,” by the same race of hollow, windy, demagogues.
There need to be no ungenerous criticism of men in power. So infamous a piece of work as re- enslaving the negroes set free by the war, Abraham Lincoln will not do.  Give him credit for that, and thank the Lord; yet, let it not be forgotten that, not long ago, he was a party to the mean and wicked proposition to banish the freed blacks from the country—a project abandoned now, as you once excusingly observed, but abandoned why? From penitence for the attempted crime, or only because it would have proved a “bigger job” even than putting down the rebellion? On the more charitable supposition that such a project is given up because of its wickedness as well as its folly, yet such recent and superficial converts need to be looked after, and are not fit to be implicitly relied on.  I do hope that the line of policy so earnestly and ably advocated by Mr. Phillips will be promptly responded to by all who would not have the good cause betrayed by the short sighted and the time-serving. The present popularity to which anti-slavery has attained will most certainly be followed by a reaction. The antislavery to be relied on is not of yesterday. In morals as in vegetable and animal growths, growths are valuable in the ratio of the time taken to produce them. Mushroom growths have their value, but let them be estimated according to their value. Some progress in educating the conscience and intellect of the nation has been made during these four years, of war; a little, not much. That is all that wise reformers will look for; the higher the good to be accomplished, the slower the process. Those pro-slavery mobs, and churches, and mammon servers, of not very long ago, may be, we may hope, a little changed for the better; that is all. Let us be thankful for what has been done, but lay out our plans for the future, adapted to what will be the facts of the future, and not our hopes or fancies.
With much respect, 
Yours, truly, 
GEO. SUNTER.
Bradford, Canada West, Feb.28, 1865.
“Far fetched and dear-bought” is not always proof of value. The medical world is becoming alive to the fact, that our common Dock Root of the fields is an important remedial agent, and one of the most effectual alternatives known. It has always been a favorite medicine with the wise mothers of the country, for ulcers and sores, and for purifying the blood. This root which grows so abundantly around us everywhere is now known to be one of the ingredients of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, which is attracting public attention by its extraordinary cures of coetaneous and ulcerous diseases. Each country produces the antidotes for its own disorders, as was said of old-“and upon the banks thereof shall grow all trees for meat, whose flower shall not fade, and the fruit thereof shall be for meat, and the leaf thereof for medicine.”-[Northfield,, (Vt)  Herald.]
The President has commissioned as Surgeon of volunteers, with the rank of Major, Dr. Delany, a black man. He will be ordered to report to Gen. flaxen, to organize the medical department of the colored recruits.
<c02>
REPLY TO GILBERT PILLSRURY.
BOSTON, March 2, 1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
In honorable self-defence, allow me to enlighten the writer of the article signed "G. Pillsbury," in the Liberator of February 24th. Mr. Pillsbury writes that he “does not know the precise causes which resulted in my expulsion." In all kindness, I will inform him. First, I told the colored people, in public and in private, that all of the second-hand clothing was given by the Northern people to be given to them; therefore, the agents had no right to sell it. Second, I told the people, at all times and in all places, that they ought to receive the same pay for labor that white men and women received. I told them they had a right to vote, and elect their delegates to Baltimore, because the convention to be held in Beaufort was called without distinction of color. I told them they ought not to support a minister who would not grant them equal rights in the church. The utterance of these sentiments, and making them practical, was the sum total of my offending. Would Mr. Pillsbury be gratified to see my head shorn, followed by expulsion to the tune of the “Rogue’s March,” for this? For these first two offences, Saxton removed me. Soon after he ordered me to his office, and said, "What is the trouble you are making?” “I know not," I replied,” of what I am accused, or the parties." He answered, "I know the parties, and will have them up, and allow you to confront them.” That is all I ask,” I replied. Several days intervened; I then called at Saxton's house five consecutive days to see him. He refused each day to see me. Any man, after this pledge, to utterly condemn another without a hearing is a “coward."
The third reason is, Saxton arrested me, and threw me into a rebel prison at Hilton Head, subjecting me to insults and abuse—robbing me of my sacred rights as a loyal citizen for no cause other than that of personal hatred. For this inhuman treatment I call him "a scoundrel."
If Mr. Pillsbury, or any other man in that department, should utter these sentiments, and make them practical, he will, at the hands of Saxton, if in his power, receive the same persecution; therefore, I repeat, that Saxton is the ringleader of the slaveholders at Port Royal and Beaufort I challenge Mr. Pillsbury to find in that community anything but slaveholders and slaves.
Mr. Pillsbury says, “by some irresponsible Shylock, it may have been done." I assert, fearless of contradiction, that it has been and is now being done by all the Northern Shylocks; that they, unlike Shakspeare's Shylock, demand the whole body, instead of the one pound of flesh. The fact is, they are all John Mitchells, sighing and conspiring for a plantation well-stocked with negroes. To accomplish this nefarious work the more speedily, they are treading the soil of ‘South Carolina with muzzles on, well secured.
Again, Mr. Pillsbury remarks, “I presume I shall not be charged with lack of sympathy for the downtrodden wherever I am known." A muzzled sympathy for the downtrodden is one of the most contemptible things on God's green earth.  Hence the bitter hatred of the South for the North. To this cause is to be attributed this fearful bloodshed. The South has far more respect for the ashes of John Brown than for this inexpressible meanness of the North.
This foul ulcer needs probing until it discharges its inhuman virus.
I hope Mr. Pillsbury will throw off the muzzle, and walk in the footsteps of his illustrious brother, and assist us in the vindication of the great doctrine of human rights.
Mr. Pillsbury does not attempt to vindicate the National Freedman’s Association, but says it is direct from heaven. If so, its ejectment is like that of a certain character we read of. I say this Association is for self-aggrandizement, fraught with negro hatred. This secures position—fills their pockets—builds houses—monopolizes the land that is virtually the blacks; and to promote these ends, this Association dares to get goods under false pretences, begging the North “to give for these poor freedmen,” and then compelling these poor freedmen to buy every thread they got with the few cents they receive from their masters for their day’s work. By this means they are prevented from receiving better pay from their masters. This class of slaveholders enable the planting class to say, “You are fed and clothed, and that is all that slaves need." So the Union slaves are, by their toil, supporting and enriching two classes of slaveholders, all from the “Puritanic North."
God has established that man shall have the fruits of his labor for the advantage of himself and family; but the whole combined systems of Banks, Sherman Saxton, and the N. F. R. Association, are attempts to controvert this principle, and overrule the order of nature as established by the Divine Being.
THOMAS P. KNOX.
59 Anderson Street.

LETTER FROM CHAPLAIN J. H. FOWLER.
BEAUFORT, (S. C.) Feb. 27, 1865.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON—I should long ago have written a public note about THOMAS P. Knox, of Boston, had I supposed it in his power to injure General Saxton, or any other good person engaged in the same excellent work. Once I had a good deal of confidence in and a good deal of sympathy for the said Knox; now I have none of either. It was through my efforts that a friend of mine, a surgeon in a colored regiment, recommended him to Gen. Saxton as a Contract Surgeon, and a pass was forwarded to him. I had known him by several meetings since the Burns' affair in Boston, and several times had eaten at his house. I knew him to be a tyrant in his family, and told him so. I knew, also, that he neglected to provide for his family; neglected to collect his bills or to pay them; but supposed all these things to be simply his peculiar eccentricities. I thought him, spite of all this, a true friend of the negro, and of all justice. I knew he was stubborn to the last degree, but supposed his stubbornness had some considerable moral conviction behind it. His family was in want; he was very needy; he had long practised among the colored people of Boston; and I supposed it would not only help him and his family, but serve a good cause, for him to come here as a contract surgeon among the freed people.
I was a prisoner when he came and went. On my release, I was told, while in Washington, that Knox had been sent out of the Department. I at once said, “It is his fault; he had a good place, and might have done well." I still thought it grew out of his inordinate wilfulness and lack of sound discretion. But when I arrived at home, another phase of his character was presented to me.
[Mr. Fowler here mentions some vulgar manifestations in his own house by Dr. Knox, and expresses his conviction of the impurity of his conduct while he was in that section of the country. Mr. Fowler then says:—]
While here, he showed this character in a most remarkable manner even for this place. This was one cause of his being ordered out of the department. Another was, his mischief-making. He was continually getting up disturbances by falsehoods and misrepresentations, especially against those who are the proved friends of the negro; and, first of all, against General Saxton, whose heart is as pure as any man's in the army, and whose conduct towards the colored people here has proved him, beyond all possible cavil or envy, their true friend. He has their entire confidence. Every day, almost scores of them go to him personally for advice and instruction. What he says, they are always satisfied is right, he has proved himself in so many ways their true friend. Every one, of whatever views or feelings, except a few such miserable creatures as Knox,—who ought to have been sent away long before they were,—gives General
<c03>
Saxton the credit of being the tree friend of the freedman. But he has been subjected to the severest embarrassments. Frequently the commanders of the department have been unfriendly to the cause, and have sought to oppose him. Frequently he has had in his employ men to carry out his plans and orders, who had no faith or heart in the work. The last of these difficulties he has, in a great measure, got rid of. The first he has been subjected to till within a few days, and even now there is much opposition in some departments.
Most respectfully, with the highest esteem, 
Yours, truly, J. H. FOWLER,
Chaplain 33d S. C. Reg't.

LETTER FROM MR. MAY.
LEICESTER, March 6, 1865.
DEAR MR. GARRISON: —I do not quite understand, from Mr. Pillsbury's letter in the last week’s Liberator, whether he means to say that his “remarks” (at the late Annual Meeting), or the Secretaries’ “report of his remarks," do “great injustice to Gen. Saxton." If the former, of course I have nothing to say. I thought so at the time, and was wholly at a loss to account for those remarks. But if Mr. Pillsbury means to say, as it would appear, that the report of his remarks does the “injustice," I must protest against any such conclusion. As one of the Secretaries of that meeting, I testify that the greatest pains were taken to have the report correct; and I respectfully but distinctly affirm of that part of it, which relates to the remarks about Port Royal and Gen. Saxton, that it is correct in every particular, and is in all essential points verbatim.
Let me briefly recall the circumstances. It will be remembered that Dr. Knox, in course of some excited remarks, denouncing the existing condition of things at Port Royal, declared that the freed people there were only slaves under another name, and were bought and sold with the plantations, and concluded with calling Gen. Saxton “head-overseer of slaves there." Strong dissent was expressed by many hearers.  When, subsequently, Mr. Pillsbury spoke, he referred to Dr. Knox, and said, with emphasis, that “every one of Dr. Knox’s statements could be substantiated by witnesses whom none could impeach." I immediately asked Mr. Pillsbury (sitting within a few feet of him) “if he said that of Dr. Knox's statement about Gen. Saxton, namely, that he was but head overseer of slaves.” Mr. Pillsbury, answered, “Well, perhaps not exactly that.” He did not then say that he had heard no allusion to Gen. Saxton by Dr. Knox; but when I distinctly spoke of Dr. Knox's aspersion of Gen Saxton, and quoted his words, Mr. Pillsbury replied as above. I am rejoiced that Mr. Pillsbury wholly refuses to sustain or endorse Dr. Knox, in his attack upon Gen. Saxton; but I again affirm the correctness of the “report.”
May I add, that I was greatly gratified to see Mr. Gilbert Pillsbury’s defence of Gen. Saxton, (in Liberator of Feb. 24,) and his rebuke of Dr. Knox, whose remarks at our late meeting were calculated to mislead strangers. I wish that all might be ready to render credit where it is due, and refrain from needless censure and aspersion.
Very truly, yours,
SAMUEL MAY, JR.

REMARKS OF CHIEF JUSTICE CHASE,
On taking the chair at the annual meeting of the National Freedmen’s Relief Association, held in the hall of the House of Representatives, at Washington City, February 26, 1865:
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: It has been my duty, and I certainly esteem it as a great honor, to call this meeting to order.
An accident just now dims the light in this noble room; but every effort is being made to repair it; and we hope that this halt will soon be filled with its wonted illumination.  Meanwhile we must be patient.  I have seen the time when the great cause of freedom was in dimmer light than this; and I thank God that I have lived to see it made all glorious by the double illumination of popular favor and Divine approval.
This war, now waged for national unity, is marked by peculiar characteristics. The praise of our brave army and navy is upon all lips. The endurance and patriotism of the heroic people, which has never faltered in its resolve to maintain, at whatever cost, the integrity of the American Republic, furnish to this, and will furnish to all after- coming generations, objects of wonder and topics of eulogy. The vast energies and the vast resources which have been called into action puzzle the statesmen and economists of the old world, and astonish our own.
But these, I think, will not hereafter be regarded as the most peculiar characteristics of this war. Men of thought, and especially men who recognize the providence of God in the affairs of men, cannot fail to observe that it is distinguished by great charities even more than by great achievements.
What age before this age, and what country besides our country, ever witnessed such an organization as hat of the Sanitary Commission? What needs have seen supplied; what wants relieved; what wounds healed; what evils averted, by the activity, wisdom, and unflagging zeal of this admirable organization, fostered and sustained by the people, and recognized and aided by the Government!
And what shall be said of the Christian Commission? Who can do justice to the zeal and energy, sustained by religious faith, and blessed by a nation’s benedictions following constantly the march of our armies, relieving present distress, giving tender and faithful counsels, aiding correspondence with loved ones at homes, alleviating physical and mental suffering, and cheering dying moments by immortal hopes?
Nor can that later organization be forgotten—the Union Commission—whose noble work it is to care for Union refugees for homes in rebellious States, and make them feel that among the loyal people, every loyal man or woman is and will be at home, until a righteous and honorable peace shall restore to them the blessings of which rebellion has robbed them.
And here to-night the Freedmen’s Commission holds its third anniversary.  Organized to meet a demand upon judicious sympathy and prudent benevolence created by the war, it has addressed itself to the help of those who have long had no helper—of the bondmen, whose bonds have been broken by the thunderbolts of war.  Like the other organizations I have named, it knows neither party nor sect.  It invites the co-operation of all who feel, and it labors wherever there are freedmen to be relieved, instructed in duty, and prepared for usefulness to themselves and society By some its work may be thought the humblest of all; but I, believing that the poor are God’s especial care, venture to call it noblest of all.
Nothing more amazing marks the history of this war than its action upon slavery, by which the work of this association is prepared.
Few at first thought of emancipation as one of the fruits of war; but the people soon saw its justice and wisdom, and, after a time, that great act of emancipation was promulgated, which has made the name of Abraham Lincoln forever memorable.
Then necessarily arose the question, whether black men should be called to take part in the war for union, now become, also, a war for freedom.  The intuitions of the people answered this question also in advance of the authorities; but the authorities followed, and now we have some two hundred thousand black men under arms, and no man longer doubts that they are soldiers.
And now comes another question. Shall the loyal blacks of rebel States be permitted to protect themselves, and protect white loyalists also by their votes, from new oppressions by amnestied but still vindictive rebels? I cannot doubt what a just and magnanimous people will determine. They will say, “Let ballots go with ballots; let freedom be defended by suffrage,” and again legislation and administration will bow to the majesty of the people.
To prepare freedmen for the new duties and responsibilities which have already come upon them, and are yet to come, is the special work of this association. Immediate relief for immediate wants is indeed its first care; but its larger and higher duty and purpose is to enable them to provide for themselves, and make them useful and worthy citizens.
It is part of the vast work of amelioration and education by which our whole nation is to be advanced to higher and better national life, and prepared for the grand future which is to make all its glorious past dim by comparison. He who doubts its final success, must doubt the goodness of God toward man.
I will no longer detain you by these reflections; but proceed at once to the discharge of the other duties assigned to me.
CAIRO, March 6. The Memphis and Vicksburg packet James Watson, laden with freight, a large number of passengers and 86 soldiers, sunk twelve miles below Napoleon on the morning of the 2d inst. Over thirty lives were lost, including Adams' Express messenger, twenty soldiers, and several ladies and children. The officers of the boat were mostly saved. The steamer and cargo are a total loss.
Nine buildings were burned last night, involving as estimated, less of $150,000.
<c04>
SENATE DEBATE ON THE LOUISIANA QUESTION.
The struggle on this question in the Senate, last Saturday, was the most exciting which has been witnessed this session. In the course of the day, Mr. Sumner offered a series of seven resolution directed against the principle of admitting Louisiana in the manner proposed, and speeches were made by Mr. Howard of Michigan in opposition to the admission, and by Mr. Johnson of Maryland in favor.
In the evening session, Mr. Sumner offered an amendment to the resolution of the Judiciary Committee, as follows:
Provided that this shall not take effect upon the fundamental condition, that within the State there shall be no denial of the elective franchise or of any other rights on account of color or race, but all persons shall be equal before the law; and the Legislature of the State, by a solemn public act, shall declare the assent of the State to this fundamental condition, and shall transmit to the President of the United States an authentic copy of such assent whenever the same shall be adopted; upon the receipt whereof he shall, by proclamation, announce the fact, whereupon, and without any further proceedings on the part of Congress, this joint resolution shall take effect.
Mr. Henderson of Missouri moved to amend this by inserting after the word “race,” the words “or sex.” Remarks followed by Messrs. Pomeroy, Saulsbury, Johnson, Carlile and Lane. Mr. Wade moved to postpone the subject till the first Monday in December, which was negatived by a vote of 17 to 12. Mr. Howard moved to lay it on the table—refused by 18 to 12. Mr. Sumner said he would regard the passage of the resolution of the Judiciary Commitee as the Bull Run of the administration. He moved that he Senate adjourn.
Mr. Trumbull accused Mr. Sumner of attempting to browbeat and defeat the purpose of a majority of he Senate by dilatory motions. Mr. Sumner replied hat he did not wish to browbeat the majority, but he should employ all Parliamentary expedients to defeat he measure. Mr. Sumner's motion was rejected by 18 to 12. Subsequently he renewed his motion, which was lost. Other motions followed, and failed. Mr. Saulsbury said he had been accused of cooperating with Mr. Sumner and the radicals on this question. It was true, because he believed that the radicals were right. He was cooperating with them to defeat this measure.
Mr. Doolittle of Wisconsin then wished that the whole country could witness the scene in the Senate to-night. Five of its members who usually supported he administration were uniting with the opposition to defeat the will of eighteen who had always voted with the administration. This was an act of usurpation. The Senate then, at 11, 45 P. M., adjourned.
The following are the Senators who appear to have voted in favor of staving off action on the measure— the administration men being in italics:
Messrs. Brown, Buckalew, Carlile, Chandler, Davis, Hendricks, Howard, Powell, Riddle, Sumner, Wade, and Wright.

THE INAUGURATION.
WASHINGTON, March 4, 1865.
At twelve o’clock, the official existence of the Congress was ended, Vice President Hamlin making a brief valedictory address.
 Vice President Johnson, on taking his seat, made a few appropriate remarks. The President was announced, and ABRAHAM LINCOLN entered, escorted by a brilliant cortege of marshals.
Mrs. Lincoln occupied a seat in the diplomatic gallery.
In a few moments a procession was formed, and the distinguished assemblage moved to the platform at the east front of the Capitol, where the President delivered his brief inaugural in the presence of the assembled multitude. The weather was cloudy, but no rain fell.
The procession reached the Capitol about a quarter to twelve, escorting the President elect. At a subsequent period the President and Vice President, together with the Justices of the Supreme Court, members of Congress, foreign ministers and other persons of distinction, assembled in the Senate Chamber.
Here the Vice President elect took the oath of office, preceding it by an address. Chief Justice Chase administered the oath of office on the eastern portico, where the President delivered his inaugural address.
THE PRESIDENT'S INAUGURAL. Prolixity would be manifestly out of place in commenting upon a document so distinguished by brevity as the President’s Inaugural Address. Short as it is, however, it may be divided into two parts—what it does not say, and what it does. Unexpectedly to many, it presents no new scheme of peace, and seeks to give no other basis to the war than that upon which it is now being fought out. Considering the conferences through which the President has recently gone, and the pressure which has been brought to bear upon him to make new announcements of a conciliatory character, this is a great and significant fact. It proves the President to be convinced that the leaders of the rebellion are so fixed and desperate in their guilty course that nothing but the continued application of the force of arms can restore the Union. What the President does say, then, is simply to sketch, in wonderfully clear and powerful outlines, this mighty contest as it now stands, and the whole duty of the people with regard to it. In language of touching simplicity and beauty, and with a reverential spirit that finds a response in every Christian heart, he acknowledges the hand of God in this civil war, and, what now is so apparent, His purpose to make it the means of uprooting slavery. Upon this point the inaugural address will sound like the gospel of deliverance to the millions in bondage, soon to be free, themselves and their posterity, forevermore. Surely, it is not the least of the grand providences of the time that Abraham Lincoln is continued in the Presidential chair,—Boston Journal.

CAPTURE OF CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA., BY GEN. SHERIDAN.
WAR DEPARTMENT, Washington, March 5.
Major General Dix:
The following despatches in relation to the reported defeat and capture of Gen. Early by Sheridan, and the capture of Charlottesville, have been received by this Department. Gen. Sheridan and his force commenced their movement last Monday, and were at Staunton when last heard from. Major-Gen. Hancock was placed in charge of the Middle Military Division during the absence of Gen. Sheridan, headquarters at Winchester.
E. M. STANTON, Secretary of War.
CITY POINT, Va., March 5—11 A. M.
Hon. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
Deserters in this morning report that Sheridan had routed Early and captured Charlottesville. They report four regiments having gone from here (Richmond) to reinforce Early.
(Signed) U. S. GRANT.
CITY POINT, Va., March 5—2 P. M. 
Hon. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
Deserters from every point of the enemy's line confirm the capture of Charlottesville by Gen. Sheridan. They say he captured Gen. Early and nearly his entire force, consisting of eighteen hundred men. Four brigades were reported as being sent to Lynchburg to get there before Sheridan, if possible.
U. S. GRANT, Lieut. General.
CITY POINT, Va., March 5—4 P. M.
Hon. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
Refugees confirm the statement of deserters as to the capture of Gen. Early and nearly his entire force. They say it took place on Thursday last between Staunton and Charlottesville, and that the defeat was total.
U. S. GRANT, Lieut. General.
NEW YORK, March 2. The Herald’s dispatches from Charleston 26th, by the Arago last evening, say we have just received the official intelligence of the burning of Columbia, S. C., on the 24th inst. After the town had been taken possession of by Slocum's corps, some of our troops were fired on from the houses, and some seventeen were killed, on account of which Gen. Sherman ordered the burning of the city, which was carried out to the letter.
The World says, Augusta was evacuated on the approach of our troops.  It is said a large amount of rebel property was left in our possession, and that General Sherman left sufficient force to garrison the city, and proceeded northward. Also that Sherman was probably proceeding to Florence and Charlotte in force, and had captured a large amount of supplies on the route.
PHILADELPHIA, March 6. The U. S. transport Massachusetts has arrived here, and reports that our naval forces have captured Fort White. It is a splendid work, mounting seventeen heavy guns, and situated just below Georgetown, S. C. The sailors and marines then landed, and captured Georgetown The rebel cavalry made a charge off them in the streets, but were gallantly repulsed with the loss of several killed, wounded prisoners. Our loss was one man.
Admiral Dahlgren’s flagship Harvest Moon, on her way down, was sunk by a torpedo. All hands were saved, excepting the steward.
Mrs. Caroline Gilman, author of those well known works, “Recollections of a New England Housekeeper,” and “Recollections of a Southern Matron," though a native of Boston, is now a rebel sympathizer. She left Charleston about two years since, and has since resided in the interior of South Carolina.
<c05>
REMARKABLR SCENE IN CHARLESTON. THE correspondent of the New York Tribune gives the following account of the entree into Charleston of the Massachusetts fifty-fifth, and a few of the subsequent scenes that occurred:—
On Tuesday evening, about seven o’clock, we heard prolonged and hearty cheering in a neighboring street. I ran in the direction indicated by the shouts, and found that the Massachusetts Fifty-fifth (colored) regiment had just landed in the city:
John Brown’s body lies mouldering in the grave, 
John Brown’s body lies mouldering in the grave, 
John Brown’s body lies mouldering in the grave,
His soul is marching on! 
Glory! Glory! Hallelujah! 
Glory! Glory! Hallelujah! 
Glory! Glory! Hallelujah!
We go marching on!
Imagine, if you can, this stirring song chanted with the most rapturous, most exultant emphasis, by a regiment of negro troops, who had been lying in sight of Charleston for nearly two years—as they trod with tumultuous delight along the streets of this pro-slavery city, whose soil they had just touched for the first time—imagine them, in the dim twilight at the evening, seeing on every side groups of their own race—men, women, maidens and little children, who greeted them with a joy that knew no bounds save that of physical inability to express itself fully—imagine them, as they finished their song of triumph, unite with equal ecstasy in joining in that other thrilling melody:
“Down with the traitor!
Up with the flag!”
Imagine them cheer, as only triumphant troops can cheer in honor of the “stars and stripes,” and “Massachusetts,” and “Governor Andrew,” and you may conceive (albeit very faintly,) the sublime and unequalled scene that I had the privilege of witnessing on Tuesday night in Charleston.
I heard a Lieutenant of the 55th, in command of company I, give the order—”Shoulder ARMS,” and in a minute afterwards shook hands with him, for he was an old acquaintance. Who do yon think he was? The son of William Lloyd Garrison!
Buildings formerly used for the prosecution of the trade in human flesh were broken into, and over one slave trader's desk were inscribed these texts:
TEXTS FOR THE DAY.
“I am am abolitionist; I glory in the name.”
[Win. Lloyd Garrison.
“Proclaim liberty throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof.” [Isaiah.
“Put a pike in the bands of a slave, and you make a man of him.” [John Brown.
“On to Richmond!“ [New York Tribune.
FEB. 22, 1865.
HON. LYULPH STANLEY, son of Lord STANLEY, of Alderly, delivered an interesting lecture in Macclesfield, on the subject of the civil war in America. The honorable gentleman has recently returned from a tour in the United States, and his lecture was based on observations and facts which came before him during his sojourn of several months in various parts of the Republic. If the North triumphed, (he said,) there would be danger of the continuance of slavery. There was that danger previous to the reelection of Mr. Lincoln; but, by his reelection, they have expressed their determination to prosecute the war with the utmost vigor, their main object being the restoration of the Union, but side by side with that, the freedom of the slave throughout the whole of their dominions. The honorable gentleman then ably expatiated on the immense power and natural resources of the United States, and the unanimity of feeling on the part of the people to put down the rebellion and emancipate the slaves. The lecturer considered that the arming of the negroes by the Federal Government was a great step towards the accomplishment of their object; and that, should the Southerners carry out their avowed intention of making soldiers of their slaves, the end of the war and the emancipation of the negro race will be greatly accelerated.—London Inquirer.
How THE NEW YORK SHIP WAS RECEIVED AT SAVANNAH.  In view of the differences of opinion in retard to the loyalty and good feeling of the people of savannah, the following account of the reception by them of the New York relief ship is interesting. We copy from the New York Post:
“The news that the movement of our merchants was in progress, and that the relief vessel might soon be expected to arrive, reached Savannah three or four days before the steamer sailed up to the wharf of the city. Five or six persons, including the committee of the Common Council, were waiting to receive her. There was, however, no excitement; and no interest whatever was manifested by the citizens in the fact of her arrival. When it was proposed to unload the provisions, the inhabitants did not come forward to assist, and the work was finally done by the aid of the commissary department of General Sherman's army. One or two persons in citizens’ dress were present luring part of the time, and gave advice. When the steamer took her departure for New York, ten days afterwards, a few men were on the dock; and idlers observed her at a distance. No cheers, were given, and the vessel went as she came, almost without notice, and without a demonstration of any kind.
Senator Trumbull and Representatives Wilson and Dawson, last week, waited upon the President, and informed him of his reelection. To this be responded:
“Having served four years in the depths of a great and yet unended national peril, I can view this call to a second term in no wise more flattering to myself than as an expression of the public judgment that I may better finish a difficult work, in which I have labored from the first, than could any one less severely schooled to the task. In this view, and with increased reliance on that Almighty Ruler, who has so graciously sustained us thus far, and with increased gratitude to the generous people for their continued confidence, I accept the renewed trust with its yet onerous and perplexing duties and responsibilities.”
THE END OF THE WAR NOT FAR OFF—THE VALLEY OF HUMILIATION REACHED. The Richmond Enquirer of the 18th says: “The question of negro soldiers we consider settled. Public opinion has definitely declared in favor of arming the negroes.” The stoutest rebel hearts are exclaiming,” Help us, Julius Caesar, Hannibal, or we sink!” Great preparations are accordingly going forward to get the negroes ready for the field. This, and the fall of Charleston, must fill the rebel cup nearly full.
NEW YORK, Feb. 25. The Commercial’s Washington correspondent animadverts strongly upon the release of Roger A Pryor, and his appearance in the streets of Washington, where he was five years ago most active in fomenting the present rebellion. The Commercial editorially says the tortured victims of Andersonville cry out against this misplaced philanthropy. [Pryor is now in Richmond.]
THE GREAT CELEBRATION IN NEW YORK. New York, March 6. The procession to-day was of great length. The military display was fine, and the firemen made an excellent appearance. Other portions of the procession, including the wounded veterans in carriages, and the trades, excited much interest. The procession was about three hours in passing a given point. The meeting in Union square was largely attended. The crowd in the streets was probably the largest ever seen in New York.
The taking of Columbia is a severer blow than the loss of Charleston. The rebel railroad communications are all destroyed and their supplies are becoming exhausted.
The spoils of war captured at Charleston were immense, including over four hundred guns, with thousands of tons of shot, shell, &c., &c.
A dispatch from Mobile 14th, says the largest meeting ever held in that city took place on the 13th, at which resolutions were adopted with “Victory or death” “as the watchword.
Carpenter’s picture of the scene in Mr. Lincoln's Cabinet when the emancipation proclamation was under discussion, has been placed over the northern door of the rotunda of the Capitol at Washington.
The three States, Delaware, Kentucky, and New Jersey, that voted for McClellan, have voted against the Constitutional amendment abolishing slavery.
CAIRO, March 7. An extra session of the Arkansas Legislature has been called for the first Monday in April, to consider the constitutional amendment to abolish slavery.
NEW YORK, March 7. The Richmond Examiner of the 4th denounces the execution of Beall, the guerilla and spy, and says threats were made in the streets of Richmond to hang any Yankee officer on parole, and who might be found at large.
PHILADELPHIA, March 1. Governor Cannon, of Delaware, died this morning, after a short illness.
About thirty negro soldiers that were captured at the explosion of the Petersburg wine were exchanged by the rebels last week.
GOV. Randall of Wisconsin, in his message of 1861, said: “This war began where Charleston is, it should end where Charleston was!”
Henry S. Foote, member from Tennessee of the rebel House of Representatives, was on Monday last expelled from that body by a unanimous vote.
The friends of General Butler at Washington urge the President to put him at the head of the new Freedmen’s Bureau, but it is said that he will not accept the position.  Better send him to Charleston.
<c06>
THIRD EDITION.
THE TRIBUNE ALMANAC FOR 1865.
The third edition of this popular Annual now ready. 
In addition to the usual CALENDAR AND ASTRONOMICAL CALCULATIONS, it contains:
United States Government, Ministers, &c.
Senators and Representatives of XXXVIIIth Congress.
XXXIX th CONGRESS, so far as chosen.
Laws passed at the last Session of Congress.
Public Resolutions and Proclamations.
Party Platforms of 1864, (Baltimore and Chicago.)
The Rebel Government, Congressmen, &c.
Slaveholders’ Rebellion, or Chronicle of War Events.
Native States of the American-born People.
Election Return, for President, Governors, Congressman, 
&c., in 1864, compared with the Presidential Vote in 1860.
State Capitals, Governors, Salaries, Time Legislators meet, Time of State Elections.
Territorial Capitals and Governors.
Popular vote by States in 1854, 1860, and 1864.
Vote of 1860 elaborately analyzed and compared, by Population, Free and Slave, with percentage, &c.
PRICE 20 CENTS. SEVEN COPIES FOR ONE DOLLAR.
Orders (enclosing cash) should be addressed:
THE TRIBUNE,
JAN. 27.New York.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON will lecture in Roger Williams Hall, at Providence, Friday evening, March 10th—being the second of an Independent Course of Lectures.

OBITUARY.
Died, at Central City, Colorado, Dec. 27, MARY JANE, wife of CHARLES STEARNS, of that place, and daughter of Thomas Carter, of Cumberland county, Ky.
A Kentuckian by birth, Mrs. Stearns married a Yankee Abolitionist, at a time when this involved much sacrifice of personal comfort and social position. She followed her husband to New-England, sharing all his hardships, and patiently enduring the toil, privation and poverty consequent upon his adherence to his principles. For twenty years she has been a faithful and devoted wife, exemplary in all her duties, and decided and active in the cause of Anti-Slavery; saying to her pro-slavery acquaintances that no one could throw cotton dust into her eyes; they had been well washed out ones, and were not easily filled again.
They were among the early pioneers to Kansas, that rock of freedom, finding not even a house to shelter their heads on their arrival. They steadfastly advocated the right side through all that great contest between Freedom and Slavery, never flinching nor faltering. Their house was ever a home for the panting fugitive: one room, bearing the name of “Uncle Tom’s room,” was seldom unoccupied 
In the days of the Kansas famine, the pressure of circumstances induced them to remove to Colorado. During most of her residence there, Mrs. S. has been an invalid, and a great sufferer. She has now gone to her reward; and though we would have wished her to live to see Kentucky free, and to rejoice with us in the last grand triumph, yet we are glad she was permitted to witness the dawn of the day-star of freedom now hovering over our beloved land. The manner of her death was an appropriate close to her beautiful and consistent life. About sunset, she fell into a peaceful slumber, from which she never waked, but, without a struggle or a groan, her spirit passed away from earth to heaven.
She leaves one little girl two and a half years of age, (all her other children having gone before her,) and a deeply afflicted husband, to mourn their loss, which is her unspeakable gain. R. W. S. 

CLEANSE THE BLOOD.
WITH corrupt, disordered or vitiated blood, you are sick all over. It may burst out in pimples, or sores, or in some active disease, or it may merely keep you listless, depressed, and good for nothing. But you cannot have good health while your blood is impure AYER’S SARSAPARILLA purges out these impurities, and stimulates the organs of life into vigorous action, restoring the health and expelling disease. Hence it rapidly cures a variety of complaints which are caused by impurity of the blood, such as Scrofula, or King’s Evil, Tumors, Ulcers, Sores, Eruptions, Pimples, Blotches, Boils, St. Anthony’s Fire, Rose or Erysipelas, Tetter or Salt Rheum, Scalt Head, Ringworm, Cancer or Cancerous Tumors, Sore Eyes, Female Diseases, such as Retention, Irregularity, Suppression, Whites, Sterility; also, Syphilis or Venereal Diseases, Liver Complaints, and Heart Diseases. Try AYER’S SARSAPARILLA, and see for yourself the surprising activity with which it cleanses the blood and cures these disorders.
During late years, the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick; for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound “Sarsaparilla,” and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. We think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. We can only insure the sick that we offer them the best alterative which we know how to produce, and we have reason to believe it is by far the most effectual purifier of the blood yet discovered by anybody.
AYER’S CHERRY PECTORAL is so universally known to surpass every other remedy for the cure of Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Hoarseness, Croup, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and for the relief of Consumptive patients in advanced stages of the disease, that it is useless here to recount the evidence of its virtues; the world knows them.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
March 15. 2m.

Medical Notice-The New Cure.
DR. W. W. BROWN,
DERMAPATHIC AND PRACTICAL PHYSICIAN
FOR ALL CHRONIC DISEASES.
Office 140 Court St., Boston.
[Late 34 Winter St.]
CONSULTATION FREE
THE DERMAPATHIC REMEDY 
Is not a patent medicine, nor is it a pill, a powder, or a Syrup, but 
A NEW TREATMENT OF DISEASES.
DERMAPATHY–WHAT IS IT? Nature is always striving to throw off disease, and the Dermapathic treatment steps in to her assistance. Its curative power is without a parallel. Its influence is felt over the entire system. It changes the secretions, purifies the blood, gives strength to the different organs, and is continually aiding in such where medical knowledge remains helpless at the turning point of its art.
The Feeble, the Languid, the Despairing, the Old!
SHOULD GIVE THIS NEW DISCOVERY A TRIAL.
Office hours, from 9, A. M., to 4, P. M. 
March 3. tf 

“A THING OF BEAUTY IS A JOY FOREVER,”
AND nothing is so beautiful as A FINE HEAD OF HAIR. All preparations for the hair are injurious. By using Professor Wilson’s process, you can have beautiful, lively, curly hair in four weeks; costs but a few cents. Warranted to give satisfaction.  Try it, Enclose 50 cents to Wilson & Co., P. O. Box, 2821, Philadelphia.
March 3.

LOST,
ON Wednesday afternoon, 8th inst. in Worcester depot, Boston, a calfskin Wallet, containing about $70 in green backs, and seven or eight wheat receipts, dated Battle Creek, Michigan; also, a bill of sale of wheat, and several other papers; a draft in favor of Anthony Burton. All said papers are of value to me, and cannot be of any value to the finder, who will confer a favor by enclosing said papers to me by mail to Battle Creek, Michigan, and as much of the money as they may wish, after retaining ample pay for their trouble. H. WILLIS.
Battle Creek, Michigan, Feb. 18.

MR. GARRISON’S PORTRAIT.
THE Portrait of Mr. Garrison, the publication of which has been delayed in consequence of the severe and protracted illness of the artist engaged is transferring it to stone, is now ready, and will be furnished to subscribers immediately. Orders may be addressed to R. F. WALLCUT, Heq., Liberator
office, or to the Publisher Price $1.50 per copy. 
It is a portrait which, as a work of art and as a likeness, gives great satisfaction .
C. H. BRAINARD, Publisher.
Boston, Dec 20. 1864.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
IN NEW ENGLAND.
BY K. C. 
Smile down thy crystal deeps on me, 
O blue New England sky;
Smile warmly down, and melt my soul 
In floods of ecstacy!
And you; ye hills, right royally 
In purple glory rise;—
How my heart rises with your tops 
To Him who made the skies!
And glory, glory to His name, 
From my soul’s depths I cry;
His love and power alone could build 
The mountains and the sky!
And you, sweet sweet New England homes,
Low nestled in the dells—
How blest the child whose mother’s song 
Chimes with your village bells!
Thou iron steed of fiery breath, 
Wilt thou not wait with me, 
Where the broad, bright stream the poet loves
Flows to the welcoming sea? 
For “the world I’d give, if the world were mine,”
For but one moment sweet 
To twine his mountain laurel there, 
And cast it at his feet.
To bathe my lips in that river’s flood,
To kneel where I fain would die, 
And to bear the memory away with me 
Of the glance of the Poet’s eye!
Land of the Pilgrims! Motherland!
Has not thy first glance smiled 
A smile of welcoming love to me, 
Thy poor adopted child?
Now clasp me thy great, true heart, 
Close, close—and hold me still,—
And though thy first breath on my cheek 
Be somewhat harsh and chill,
Is’t not the same sweet air that filled 
Eloquence’ richest tone;
That moved dear lips for Freedom’s sake, 
Whose words were music’s own!
Flow brightly on, ye classic streams!
And rise, ye mountains, grand!
Who would not die ten thousand deaths 
For such a glorious land?
What marvel that, for such as she, 
So many braves have poured 
“Their last breath on the battle-storm,”
“Their young blood on the sward”
the snow lies in the hollows here,
where violets oft were nursed,—
The Bay State, queen of the North, must wear 
The winter’s ermine first!
It well becomes her;—pine-clad hills, 
And cliffs with laurel green, 
And this fair mantle’s downy folds 
Hiding the dells between!
Now, ”Pilgrim City,” here with thee 
My wild heart seeks its rest;
The home of minds that sway the land, 
The Athens of the West.—
What grand old names, to History dear, 
Are written on thy walls!
What voices, echoed through the world, 
Are sounding in thy halls!
What feet that oft, for freedom’s sake, 
In thorny paths have bled, 
Still daily press thy pavement-stones, 
Made sacred by their tread!
O HILLS OF NEWBURY, far away, 
I feel your gales blow free;
And, nearer, golden lips have spoke 
Kind works of cheer to me 
Boston, Mass., Dec.9, 1864.

For the Liberator.
SONG 
THE LAND THAT FREEDOM CHEERS.
All hail the land that Freedom cheers, 
The land of equal rights, 
Where Justice rules, and Plenty rears 
Her garden of delights!
The land where noble Warren bled, 
The land of Washington, 
Where lie the ever honored dead, 
Who Freedom’s battles won!
The land where despots vainly strove 
To rule with iron rod;
Forgetful that there dwells above 
A just and righteous God.
All hail the men who would not bend
Beneath the tyrant’s stroke, 
But bravely dared their rights defend, 
And spurned the traitor’s yoke!
Brave, ransomed land, forevermore 
To bear the starry sign 
That evermore from shore to shore 
Sweet LIBERTY is thine!
In vain would tyrants fix their throne 
Where dwell the just and brave—
One blast upon thy bugle blown 
Should rouse a world to save.
Freedom has built her palace here.
And, ’neath its mighty dome, 
With shouts of joy and songs of cheer, 
Her ransomed children come.
Hosanna to the mighty one, 
Who gave the great decree,—
COLUMBIA, LAND OF WASHINGTON, 
FOREVERMORE BE FREE!
F. M. ADLINGTON, Weymouth.

AMEERICA’S FREE
AMERICA’FREE! America’s Free!
Glory to God, America’s Free!
Flash it with lightnings from sea to sea!
Chime it and ring it, O bells!
Ring Slavery’s dirges and knells!
Till every breeze that swells 
Over the continent, tells 
From wild Atlantic’s jubilant roar, 
Valley and prairie and mountain o’er, 
To vast Pacific’s unmeasured shore,
America’s free forevermore!
America’s Free! America’s Free!
Glory and blessing, O Father, to Thee!
Shout, happy nations, the jubilee!
Cannon bellow and blaze!
Carol, O Birds, with your lays!
Oceans and thunders, praise!
All glad voices of Heaven and Earth 
Aid us, for words are of little worth!
Mingle and struggle in mighty mirth!
To praise JEHOVAH at LABZRTY’S birth!
AMERICA’S FREE! American’s free!
Millions of myriads yet to be 
Shall weep and sing at the GREAT DECHES 
Forged in anguish and fears!
Written in blood and tears!
Breed for both hemispheres!
Strong for eternal years!
From ocean to ocean its crystal span, 
From nation to nation, from clan to clan, 
Shall flame like the fire-cloud in Israel’s van, 
The law of Jehovath, the watchword of man!
GRO.LANSING TAYLOR.
JANUARY SIAT, 18651—
N. Y. Tribune.
<c02>
The Liberator.
GERRIT SMITH TO WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
The Theologies the great Enemies of Religion—The Theologies the great Hinderances to Justice and Reform—The Theologies the great Curse of Mankind.
PETERBORO’, February 22, 1865.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, Boston:
MY DEAR FRIEND, —I see in the newspapers a Bill of Sale of “two negro slaves, which slaves were lately the proper goods of the said Jonathan Edwards deceased.” It is subscribed by Timothy Dwight, Jr. and Timothy Edwards, the Executors. This Jonathan Edwards was the celebrated elder President Edwards, and this Timothy Edwards was his son.
Of the President’s purchase and treatment of the black boy, Titus, you have doubtless often heard. Mrs. Mason Whiting, of Binghampton, daughter of the aforesaid Timothy, has twice told me the particulars. The last time, only sixteen months ago, I wrote them as they came from her lips. This excellent lady, although eighty-five years old, is still blest with a healthy body and a healthy brain.
Titus was eight years old when the President bought him, and fifteen when the President died, and left him still in slavery. The President allowed him no education. Mrs. Whiting’s father, who inherited him, allowed him none. Although he lived to old age, poor Titus could never read. He was, however, remarkable for his good sense and integrity.
Now, how can it be explained that President Edwards was a slaveholder? —was this unqualified, unmitigated, unrelenting slaveholder?
1st. It was not because he was a man of weak intellect. A stronger one there was not, perhaps, in all America.
2d. It was not because he was ignorant man— for he abounded in learning.
3d. It was not because his conscience was dull. No man had a more wakeful or tender one.
4th. It was not because he had a shallow sense of justice. Who had a deeper?
For none of these reasons was it that he stood in this guilty relation. He stood in it solely because his theology called for or permitted the relation, and because with him the claims of theology were paramount to all other claims. Had his theology forbidden slavery, he would have been an intensely earnest abolitionist. I, of course, speak of his theology as he and not as others, viewed his teachings at this point. His son, the younger President Edwards, was such an abolitionist. But he would have been as pro-slavery as was his father, had he interpreted his theology to be pro-slavery. For the son, like the father, set theological above natural obligations, and was devoted to theological rather than to natural justice. Both of them, like the great mass of religionists, confounding theology with religion, made it the supreme work o life to wrest nature into conformity with religion, instead of letting religion grow into conformity with nature. Or rather, I might say, instead of being intent on that true religion which is obedience to nature, they were intent on one, which, like every other false religion, is antaganistic to her.
Edwards’ theology was his justification for being a slaveholder. The curse upon Canaan, or the permission to buy bondmen and bondmaids, or something else in his theology, he construed into such justification. Calvin’s theology was his justification for consenting to the burning of Servetus. His theology made it the duty of the Church to condemn Galileo. It was their theology that prompted the managers o the Inquisition to kill scores of thousands, and torture hundreds of thousands. Earnest and conscientious and sublime souls were Edwards and Calvin, and also many of these managers. I cannot join with those who pass upon them an unqualified and sweeping condemnation. Their errors, although so horrible were, nevertheless, far more of the head than of the heart. They were educated to set theology above nature, and to enforce theological justice at whatever expense to natural justice; and, alas! they were but too faithful to their education. Thus kindly, too, would I judge my neighbors, my countrymen, and, in short, the people of both Christendom and Heathendom— for the vast majorities of them have been taught the supreme obligation of their theologies. Their belief in miracles shows that they set their theologies above nature—for miracles are the greatest possible outrage upon nature. Drownings in the Ganges and crushings under the wheels of Juggernaut come of theologies which war upon nature. So, too, do the denying of equal rights to woman, and the allowing of polygomy and slavery. And emphatically unnatural is the doctrine, that another can relieve us of the penalty of our own transgressions; —the obvious doctrine of nature at this point being: “The soul that sinneth, it shall die.” Others may suffer for the sinner; but he too must suffer.
Within the last few weeks, there have been in the adjoining county of Onedia a couple of very lamentable instances of the subordination, or rather sacrifice, of nature to theology, of natural right to conventional right. A State Temperance Meeting was asked to set its face against all use of alcoholic liquor as a drink, such use doing more than everything else to drench all Christendom in tears, if not indeed in blood also. But it failed to do so. Theology pleaded for its continued use at the Lord’s Supper—for its continued use there, where the sacredness of the occasion makes the practise of the occasion a sacred ant powerful example. Theology pleaded successfully, however silently. In a word, theology triumphed and nature and temperance and truth went to the wall. The other instance to which I refer is connected with a libel suit. A very poor man in that county has, for many years, employed himself in writing books, hoping that he might in this wise both serve the cause of truth and add to his scanty means for supporting his very large and helpless family. Although alt his books are on religion, and although he is not only a very learned but a very pure and pious man, an influential sectarian newspaper of the city of New York held up one of them, and in that one virtually all of them, as “composed entirely of balderdash and twaddle,” and its author as a “renegade infidel.” The reckless and atrocious libeller was prosecuted. But, inasmuch as it was proved on the trial that the book, though written in the kind, candid, truth-loving, Christian spirit of the author, is, nevertheless, at disagreement with some of the dogmas of the current theology, it was held that he was not entitled to a verdict. The law of natural justice, which the libeller had not at all, and which the libeller had grossly violated, called for a very heavy verdict. But, as the law of theological and artificial justice was paramount with the jury, so the author, having studied to conform his books to claims of natural and real justice, was left to pay the costs of the suit. The doctrine prevailed that a man, in expressing his doubts of any of the dogmas in question, does thereby make himself an outlaw. You may, with entire impunity, vilify and belie, to whatever extent yon please, the books in which he expresses such doubts. You may, as did the libeller in this case, hold up the books as marked with lunacy; and you may, as did his eminent counsel, help along the libel at this point by putting in open court the cruelly offensive question to the libelled, whether he did not think himself to be a lunatic. Nay, yon may blacken the libelled with the worst epithets you can find in the dictionary. The shield of law is no longer over his head—but the condemnation of a theology. The trial in this case was nominally the trial of the libeller by the laws of the land, which are the laws of natural justice; but really it was the trial of the libelled by the laws of theology—laws which not only do not harmonize with, but are at utter war with, the laws of natural justice.
Oh, ye well-meaning but misled jurors, what a pity it is that when it was argued before you, that it is no more than established usage to call the doubters of
<c03>
these dogmas “infidels” and “renegades,” and no more than recognized liberty to call their writings “balderdash and twaddle”—what a pity it is that you had not been manly enough to resolve that you would do what you could, by your verdict, to put an end to such an absurd usage, and to such a wicked liberty! Alas, that you, too, should, however undesignedly, have helped to dishearten this poor, toil-worn, good and noble man, and to encourage this unjust and cruel man who was crushing him!
By the way, has it never occurred to you that the theologies are largely responsible for the currency and success which attend tale-bearing, slanders, libels and lies? Receiving a theology without proof, (and all the popular theologies are destitute of proof,) prepares the way for receiving other things without proof. If, in the important matter of embracing a theology, we can ignore the laws of evidence, how natural that we should make but too little account of them in inferior matters! Why should I wonder, when I hear that the people believe I have been guilty of oppression here, and fraud there, and falsehood elsewhere? For that I have been guilty of all this, or you have been guilty of the thousand things said against yourself, is not a millionth part as improbable as the fish story and some other theological stories which people believe. As long as the theologies obtain, you and I must not wonder at the popular credulity in regard to any stories about ourselves or others, be they however big or however false. What the people of every land need is to be lifted up out of their superstitious credulity into a healthy skepticism—out of the habit of believing without adequate evidence into the habit of exacting such evidence. This better habit created and they would laugh at the baseless theologies, and be as slow as they are now quick to open their ears to scandal.
I may be thought unfair for having spoken in the same connection of the wrongs to which theology prompts in our day, and of those far greater ones o which Calvin and others were guilty in former days. But why is it that the theological wrongs of our day are less heinous? It is mainly because of that outside pressure and restraint upon the Church which has come of a more general enlightenment and of a higher civilization. Is it said that the Church has reformed herself? I answer, that no moral reforms are to be looked for at the hand of the Church until she is rid of the incubus of theologies. The theologies being the work of the past, necessarily keep the face of the Church toward the past. Her very life being in the past and in the preservation of the past she is intensely conservative. Change is the dread o Protestantism as well as Catholicism; and will be the death of both.
The Church, in her branches which retain their theological stiffness, is as intolerant to-day as she ever was toward departures from her theology; and holds to as severe a punishment for them as she ever did. For instance, she still holds that doubts of the popular view of the Atonement or of the Divinity of Christ deserve a never-ending damnation. Formerly, when she had earthly sway, her own bloody hands would add to the punishment; would add punishment in this life to that in the life to come; would add a temporal hell to the eternal hell. I am willing to admit that now, when she has for so long a time lost the power to make this addition, she has quite naturally lost much of her disposition to make it. But the Pope’s late Encyclical is only one of innumerable evidences that the disposition would revive with the power. The Pope, by the way, is the mouth-piece as well of Protestantism as of Catholicism. Both, it is true, are anxious to draw a line of separation between themselves. Nevertheless, they are essentially one, and must continue to be, so long as they continue to be ruled by theologies which are essentially one.
What can prevent the recurrence of these theological wrongs? Nothing but the throwing away of the theologies. These wrongs, now greater, now less restrained in one age and breaking through all restraints in another, are the necessary fruit of the theologies. Safe from these wrongs none will be, so long as men are held amenable to theologies. Safe, indeed from no wrongs will men be, so long as they shall be judged by any other standard than reason and nature. The libelled man, in the case I have referred to, was judged by the theological standard; and was therefore sent forth to get along as well as a heretic without property and with a libel-blasted reputation can get along in a theology-bound world. The Temperance Reformation, too, must do the best it can under the calamity of having theology stop the wheels of that beneficent and blessed Reformation at the very point where they should turn the swiftest. So, also astronomers and geologists must lay their account with the disadvantage of having their discoveries come into collision with an infallible and inexorable theology.
But it will be asked—“What shall we do for religion if we throw away the theologies?” I answer that they never were religion, nor any part of it; and that they never stood in any other relation to it than that of its greatest hinderance and mightiest enemy. Were the theologies of the whole world cast aside, the religion of reason and nature would quickly bless the whole world. Were the historical and traditional religion cast aside, and were there in its place the religion of a present consciousness—the religion of the present voice of God to the soul, and of the present voice of the soul to itself—men would not need to go from earth to find heaven.
I have often thought of your great change in these things. You were brought up in a strict Calvinistic theology. You have lost your theology, but your religion remains. God, and His Spirit, and Jesus, and prayer, and the Bible, and the law of goodness, am the hope of immortality are certainly no less dear to you than they were when you dwelt in your theological prison, and assumed that you must dwell in it a your days. But, though you have not lost your religion, there is, judging from my own experience, one thing you have lost. This one thing is the certainty of the objects of your faith. Once we could say wit the orthodox: “I know whom I have believed,” &c. “By two immutable things,” &c. “We have also a more sure word of prophecy,” &c. But now we find ourselves remitted to all the conscious uncertainty o human reasonings. Nevertheless, we would not, if we could, buy back this lost certainty. The price would be too great. It would be no less than ignoring the revelations of science and the laws of evidence, an turning our backs upon reason and nature, and again picking up and prizing the bundle of fictions and fancies and follies, which our convictions had compelled us to throw away.
For one, however great the comfort which may proceed from this certainty, I deny the right of any man to the comfort, because I deny the right of any man to the certainty. Such certainty is begotton of ignorance and superstition; and only the ignorant and superstitious have it. God does not give it to men. But He gives them powers, in the constant exercise of which they may be constantly travelling toward such certainty. Instead of telling men what is truth, he leaves them to learn for themselves what is truth. Instead of treating them as machines, he treats them as free agents. The machine runs its round of necessity. The beaver and the bee do their work unerringly, because instinctively, and from the necessity of their nature. But man is left to choose his course, and to reason out his duty and his destiny; and this implies the grandeur and responsibility of his nature, and his infinite superiority to the other orders of earthly creation.
That God makes these direct revelations, which theology claims He does, is contrary to all analogy. In order to know and supply the wants of the body and the brain, we must be ever studying and toiling; and so must we to know and supply the wants of the soul.
Alas, that men should so generally cling to this cheap way of getting religious knowledge and advancing in the religious life! Alas, that they should so generally believe that God has prepared to the
<c04>
hands what He has but given them hands to prepare for themselves!
These preachers of the assumed certainties of a religion of miracles and magic remind one of the quack doctors who, with their specific and panaceas, promise to cure the patient by a single dose. Empiricism is as much out of place in religious an in medical science.
I spoke of the loss of our certainty in regard to the objects of religious faith. And yet I am slow to believe that this entire certainty, which there are no reasons to justify, can afford as much comfort to its possessor as the measure of certainty which is built up on reasons. Moreover, might we not rightly expect that, if men would throw away the things which have come down from the superstition of the ages to their own superstition—such as the remarkably accommodating disposition of the sun and moon toward a band of slaughterers, the transmutation of Mrs. Lot into a pillar of salt, and God’s hating an unborn child—and would set themselves, in the exercise of their reason, to learn more and more of Him and of their relations to time and eternity—I say, might we not then rightly expect that they would thereby rapidly accumulate a fund of knowledge which would fall but little, if any, short of absolute certainty? And, for our encouragement in this connection, we must remember that his dear Spirit, that never works with superstition, does ever work with reason.
With great regard, your friend,
GERRIT SMITH.

CHURCH AND STATE.
I find in the Pittsburgh Commercial of the 11th ult. a sermon preached at New Castle, Pa., by Rev. A. B. Bradford, upon the following subject, namely: —”Would it be right to incorporate Religious Dogmas into the Constitution of the United States?” The occasion which called forth this sermon was the circulation, among the people of Pennsylvania, of the following Memorial to Congress: —
To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representative, in Congress assembled:
We, citizens of the United States, respectfully ask your honorable bodies to adopt measures for amending the Constitution of the United States so as to read, in substance, as follows: —
“We, citizens of the United States, humbly acknowledging Almighty God as the source of all authority ant power in civil government, the Lord Jesus Christ as the Ruler among the nations, and his revealed will as of supreme authority, in order to constitute a Christian Government, and in order to form a more perfect union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquillity provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the inalienable rights and blessings of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness to ourselves, our posterity, and all the inhabitants of our land, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America.
And we further ask that such changes be introduced into the body of the Constitution as may be necessary to give effect to these amendments in the preamble.”
This memorial was manufactured, adopted, and put in circulation for signatures, by a Convention of Presbyterians recently held in Philadelphia. A Convention of the same sort, and for the same purpose, had previously been held in the city of Allegheny, in the Western part of the same State. The alleged object of the movement is to effect a change in the Constitution of the United States, with the view of making that instrument “Christian” in character, and thus giving to the people of the United States a better title to call themselves a Christian nation. The author of the sermon, though a Presbyterian minister, takes a different view of the matter, and gives his reasons in the interesting and able discourse above mentioned.
He traces the idea that gave birth to this movement to the traditional acceptance, by a portion of these Presbyterians, of the old Westminster Confession of Faith, which teaches (Ch. xxiii., sec. 3,) that the civil magistrate has authority, and is bound in duty, to take order “that unity and peace be preserved in the church, that the truth of God be kept pure and entire, that all blasphemies and heresies be suppressed, all corruptions and abuses in worship and discipline prevented or reformed, and all the ordinances of God duly settled, administered and observed.” He then proceeds to give reasons for disapproving and opposing the movement.
After making the preliminary statement that we, o the present generation, understand the genius of Christianity, its doctrines and requirements, far better than those who lived in the first century of the Christian era, or any other century intervening between that and this, and therefore that we have no need to seek theological or religious instruction from the Westminster Assembly, Mr. Bradford proceeds to notice the three propositions which the Memorial proposes to insert in the preamble to the Constitution.
As to the first—“That Almighty God is the source of all authority and power in civil government”—he shows that the variety of meaning which may be put upon this formula would be sure to make it a bone of contention, and that for this, if for no other reason, it should be denied admission.
As to the second—“That the Lord Jesus is the ruler among the nations”—he suggests that there are certain classes of our citizens who do not hold this belief, and that, by the adoption of this article, their religious opinions (to which they have as much right as we to ours) would be subjected to constitutional censure, and that they themselves would be rendered incapable of holding any one of those offices which require an oath to support the Constitution.”
As to the third—the demand that the Constitution shall declare “the revealed will of God to be the supreme law of the land”—Mr. Bradford shows, by striking illustrations, what an apple of discord, what a Pandora’s box this addition would be, introducing rancorous and endless dissensions among the administrators of the Government. Considering the many doubts (increasing with the progress of intelligence in this and other countries) where “”the revealed will of God” is recorded, and how the record of it is to be interpreted, if such a clause were admitted into the Constitution, we should immediately have the wrangles of sects added to the wrangles of politician in the administration of State and National affairs. What shall be decided in regard to Sabbatism and Polygamy, two matters in which the Old and New Testaments teach contrary doctrines? What shall be decided about Slavery, which a majority of all the clergy of all the principal sects have considered to be upheld by both Old and New Testaments? Who shall settle the multitude of differences of opinion and principle? What shall be the ultimate court of appeal? And what will happen if there shall be as many opinions as there are judges?
As to the further request of the Memorial—“That such changes be introduced into the body of the Constitution as may be necessary to give effect to these amendments in the preamble”—this would open door for most dangerous innovations, and might be interpreted to warrant the institution of an Established Church, to cooperate with the civil magistrate in carrying out the changes in question.
Mr. Bradford proceeds to set forth, ably and well, that God is honored infinitely more by the Government when it attends religiously to its own specific business of protecting the persons and property of men, than when it intermeddles with matters with which, in the vary nature of the case, it has nothing in the world to do. He shows that God alone is Lord of the conscience, and that he made both conscience and intellect to be free. He shows that there is no man, nor set of men, nor no church, great nor small, that can be trusted with absolute dominion over the human conscience; that the gigantic folly of the proposal to amend the Constitution by incorporating religious dogmas with it consists in this, that in the matter of religion and religious doctrines there is, and can be, no umpire on earth to decide what is truth and what is error; that under our frame of government the Church, for the first time in the history of the world is free, and the State, for the first time, attend to its appropriate duties without arrogating to itself the
<c05>
business of expounding, propagating and enforcing religious doctrine; and that our Constitution is preeminently Christian by the very omission of the maters in question, honoring God as the Christian man honors Him, by doing the work which God has appointed it to do, and thus accomplishing the end of its being. It attends to its own business, namely, regulating the things that are Caesar’s, and it leaves to God the things that are God’s.
For a Presbyterian clergyman to preach such a sermon as this is to set a noble example to his brother preachers, and to fulfil his duty alike as a citizen and a minister. There ought to be a wide circulation of this discourse in Pennsylvania, as well in those Western States where Presbyterian ideas and traditions prevail. The clergy and members of those churches, and the people who are accustomed to hear Presbyterian preaching, are in special need of the truths hero set forth.
The manufacture and advocacy of this Memorial are only one more illustration of a vicious habit belonging to most of our religions sects, that of substituting profession for the performance of duty, pretence for obedience, lip-service for practical righteousness. The devotees of sectarism who conceived this idea are now teasing the nation, just as they tease the attendants on their preaching and praying, to make a profession of religion; as if they would become more religious, or be likely to grow more acceptable to God, by that method! The highest and loudest, and most minute professions of religious character, far from bearing corresponding fruit, bear less fruits of righteousness, other things being equal, than others. Monks and nuns do not lead more Christian lives than the fathers and mothers of Catholic families. Deacons and church-members are not more prompt or thorough than others in really good works. Schemes and enterprises for the practical benefit of mankind, or of communities, larger or smaller, originate oftener and are sustained better out of the churches than in them. Common people put their duties into their daily lives—church people put their duties into the making and manifesting of a profession. The severest denunciations of Jesus were levelled against the Jewish professors of religion—the class most nearly corresponding to our orthodox church-members. It was the Pharisees, not the Sadducees—the Pharisees, not the Samaritans—the Pharisees, not the publicans and harlots—that excited his greatest indignation. They were, preeminently, the men of profession; and the men of profession in our day are the very persons whom he would again most strongly censure if he should re appear on earth.
Moreover, profession being easier than practice, is open to the worst men in the community as much as to the best, and is certain to be used by them in proportion as it is popularly esteemed to indicate a good character. Let those who wish to distinguish themselves as better men lead better lives, instead of merely making proclamation, by sound of trumpet, that they are better. What folly would it be for public document and deeds of contract to be prefaced by pious sentences, with the assumption that these would give them a Christian character! We might as well return to the Jewish custom of wearing phylacteries as evidence of our devoutness.
One of the most wicked associations that ever was formed—a compact between three European sovereigns to suffocate popular liberty wherever it should raise its standard, and, by forcible intervention, to overthrow the independence of all inferior States, called itself the Holy Alliance! Did that make it holy? Its Proclamation was prefaced by the formula—“In the name of the most holy Trinity.” Did that make it Christian, religious, good, or even tolerable, in any manner or degree? Did these forms of speech prevent it from being utterly villanous and abominable, from beginning to end, a disgrace to the contracting parties, and a curse to the people over whom they ruled?
An instance of no less instructive character exists in the history of our own country. Where have the hypocrisy of profession, the quintessence of cant, the superlative degree of sanctimonious wickedness, been more thoroughly displayed than in the defence of slavery by ministers, church-members, and ecclesiastical bodies, in these United States? The piety of Southern clergymen who were slaveholders and defenders of slavery, the frequency of revivals and the respect for religious ordinances in the Southern country, were always presented as evidence of the rightfulness of slavery. No people in the land professed piety more conspicuously than the Southern Presbyterians, Methodists, Baptists and Episcopalians. Could their peculiar institution be a vicious institution? It was customary to answer this question in the negative, as a matter of course; but those who so answered it committed two follies at once, assuming profession to be valid evidence of character, and disregarding the abundant proof that slaveholding was a heinous sin, as well as an enormous evil. Just as certainly as counterfeit coin tries to assume the appearance of real, just so certainly will pious professions and devout language be used by evil men for evil purposes when the use of them is popularly received as proof of good character. The object of the Constitution of the United States is not to decide or affirm ideas respecting God, or to dogmatize about Him in any manner, but to state what method of human government shall be used by this nation. Let it keep to its appropriate work. —C. K. W.

BARNUM AND JOANNES.
The libel suit of the “Count Joannes” against Horace Greeley came to a close in New York on Friday. It will be remembered that the case turned in part upon an announcement made by the plaintiff previous to his “benefit” in New York, which was so drawn as to lead the public to suppose that Miss Avonla Jones and Mr. Edwin Booth would appear on that occasion, and which the defendant’s newspaper bad contradicted. Mr. P. T. Barnum was called by the defence to testily respecting this announcement: —
Mr. Williams called P. T. Barnum.
The Count—Oh, ah, Mr. Barnum; what, the great Barnum of the Museum—Good gracious!
The audience was on the qui vive.
Mr. Williams proceeded with the examination.
Q. Have you in the course of your life—of course yon have, but I ask the question—have you had it within your line of duties to issue programmes and announcements of theatrical performances? A. Yes, sir.
Q. For how long? A. Twenty-five years.
Q. During that period, has it been with you a matter of some considerable study—this matter of play-bills, &c.? [Laughter.] A. A great deal, sir.
Q. It is a matter that requires considerable ingenuity? A. I think it is, sir.
Q. It is a matter on which great ability is undoubtedly displayed? A. Undoubtedly, sir.
[The advertisement of the Count’s benefit, as published by himself, shown.]
I have read this. Under ordinary circumstances I should have thought from this that Mr. Booth and Miss Jones were to appear, but as it was, I did not suppose that they would, because I knew the reputation of the Count Joannes. [Laughter.]
Mr. Barnum was so imperturbably serious during his whole testimony that the audience burst into laughter at nearly every reply he made.
He continued—But for that 1 should have believed they were to appear. In any extent of my management I never went so far myself as to humbug people by advertising anything that I did not expect to exhibit. [Laughter.] This is undoubtedly an announcement that these two persons would appear.
The Count rose to cross-examine.
Q. That was your opinion, was it, Mr. Barnum? A. What was?
Q. It was your opinion that I intended to announce that they would appear? A. (emphatically) My opinion was that you intended to make the public believe they would appear when you knew they would not. [Loud laughter]
The Count—Well, Mr. Barnum, if there was a photographist here to take your photograph now, it would attract for a week in your museum. Mr. Barnum, I think yow have an old grudge against me. A. I never saw you before.
<c06>
Q then, sir, you are gratified in that respect now, I suppose? A. (Very emphatically.) Not much.
Q Have you ever acted on the stage, sir? A. A. trifle.
Q Very trifling? A. Very.
Q I presume, sir, you know you are in a count of justice, A. I believe I am, sir. 
Q Ah! I presume you feel that you should speak with all dignity in refernce to this court? A I am disposed to speak the truth, sir.
Q Now, Mr. Barnum, is there not an old grudge on your part against me? I’ll remind you of it, sir or indirectly, to do with you; I never saw you before to-day; I certainly have no more gruel against you than a child unborn.
Q Now, sir, when in England in 1842, did von not make an application to purchase the house where Shakspeare was born, to pull it down and bring it to America? A. I never did.
Q Have you not publicly, in your book, stated that you intended to do it, and that a committee prevented you? A I do not know any such facts.
Q You know very well, sir, that I was the man who prevented that desecration, and called a public meeting to prevent it, and that is now one of the honorable things connected with my humble name. Witness—I have only known you as a moustrosity.
The Count, somewhat wilted—I think I may properly appeal to the court against this; I think I ask the indulgence of the court.
Witness—I deal and am an expert in moustrosities. [Loud laughter.]
The Count—Then I have no doubt you will offer me a splendid engagement to-morrow? A.I don’t think I could go any further than the ”What-is it.”[Loud laughter.]
The Count—This is a court, sir, not a show-shop; have done, sir; I have done.
Redirect by Mr. Williams—
What would be the effect of an announcement of this character at a theatre where Miss Jones was in fact under an engagement? A. The effect would be to draw a large number to the theatre where she was announced to appear.
Q If she had allowed this to go uncontradicted, do you think it would injure the winter Garden, where she was to play? A. Undoubtedly, sir.
Q Look at that paragraph (the alleged libel shown); do you think that denial legitimate? A I think it is a little milder than I should have written it; such a denial would be absolutely necessary for the protection of winter Garden; the effect upon the future success of the actress in making engagements, if she had allowed it to go uncontradicted, would be injurious.
Q Did you ever hear of the Count in England? A. I did.
Q what was his reputation there?
The Count—Reputation for what—to make love to women, or to get drunk, or what?
A. So far as my knowledge is concerned, sir—so far as I read or heard the speech of the people, his reputation was that of an impostor; that was about 1842.
The Count—In what branch of life you hear that I was an impostor? A I believe I saw a publication in Punch, a copy of a letter or lithograph of a letter issued by the editors, which they said they had sent to various courts and other places in Europe, to show that that was your handwriting, and that you had denied it. That gave me an impression, which I have never had occasion to change, that you are an impostor. [Loud laughter.]
The Count—There is a phrase with which the artists here are familiar—“Praise from Sir Hubert Stanley is praise indeed.” I take it that blame from Mr. Barnum is complimentary.
The Count—You have quoted from Punch; whether or not that is a satirical and comic paper.
A it is a very excellent and common-sense paper, though it is satirical. It is founded in justice, and I think it does a great deal of good.
Q Have you ever had the honor to be in it, sir? A I have, frequently.
The Count—I am content to be in your company.
Mr. Barnum—I am not. [Loud laughter.]
Mr. Barnum, on leaving the stand, bowed very courteously to the Count, and left the room amid much laughter 
The jury after an absence of twenty minutes returned a verdict for the defendants. It is stated that the plaintiff appeared greatly surprised and even staggered by this result. The Tribune says:—
“We regret to state that the Count was unable in poll the jury, and to save him from arrest and confinement, Mr. Williams, counsel for the defence, paid the jury fees for him.”
The fees were said to be about one hundred and twenty dollars.
ARMING THE SLAVER. A friend who has an intimate knowledge of Negro character, and has lived in a slave region for many years, insists that the talk is rebeldom about arming the slaves is all for effect. It is “making up faces” to frighten the North, and at the same time throwing dust in the eyes of European sympathizers. He insists that no black regiments will ever be trusted with arms. If any are organized, it will be merely for fatigue duty, and they will be a source of weakness rather than of strength.
There is such in the aspect of the question, as discussed at the South, to confirm this view. The proposition comes, not from the people, but from the authorities. It has been coldly received by the press, except those who reflect the views of the military dictators at Richmond. The rebel Congress has once declared against the measure, and now we have a report that the new bill has been indefinitely postponed by the Senate. The futility—nay, the absolute peril—of the movement are well understood, and even an assurance that the slaves will only be used for fatigue duty cannot dispel the very natural dread of the effects of organizing those who have heretofore been down-trodden and oppressed.
The sympathies of the slaves of the South are everywhere and invariably with the National Government. Ask any one of the thousands of our soldiers who have escaped from rebel prison, and he will tell you that wherever he saw a black face, there he found a friend—one in whom he could trust implicitly. Out soldiers, fleeing for life and liberty from rebel dungeons, have often been betrayed by mean white men-never, so far as we have ever seen or heard, by a black. Is it probable—is it possible—that these loyal and sympathizing blacks can be disciplined into fighting against those whom they recognize as the friends of their race? Will the temptation of freedom to themselves induce them to fight for the continued <illegible> slavement of their kindred? They understand that the success of the North is the downfall of slavery, and their master know the peril of the step which they are asked to take. The people of the North may and do look with perfect equanimity upon the desperate scheme of the rebel leaders to arm the slavers, even if it is seriously entertained and should be practically carried out. Its adoption would only hasten the end of the rebellion, and give liberty to every slave.—Boston Journal.
RICH COLORED MEN. Ciprian Risaud is worth over a million dollars, and is the richest colored was in the United State. The colored men in New York have many rich men, among them Peter Vandyke who owns about $3,000,000 in property, real estate and otherwise. In Philadelphia, there are out of four thousand families, nearly three hundred living it their own houses. Among the rich men are Vidall, Frosser, White, and Stephen Smith, the latter said to be worth over $500,000.
GENERAL BEAUREGARD CHANGES HIS MISSED. When the war began, Beauregard asserted that he would die in the last ditch. The other day, in <illegible>he notified the people of the city that “he intended to fight to the bitter end—and that if he failed he could beg a passage to some foreign country.”
Those who best knew this pestiferous braggart always said that his “last ditch” devotion would not hold out, and that when matters came to that pass, he would run away, as he now confesses he will.
THE ANTI-SLAVERY AMENDENT IN MATNE. The Maine Legislature has ordered to be prepared a suitable copy of the proposed Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, abolishing slavery, which will be signed by the members of both branches who voted for and against it. It will then be suitably framed and hung up in some public place in the Stare House.
Rebel papers are very indignant at the failure of the bill to put slave into the army, and the gut States are charged with abandoning the cause.
Letters from Charleston, S. C., state that the Mercury of that city will be immediately revived, which James Redpath, of John Brown memory, as edict Mr. Redpath is now in Charleston.
The rebel debt proves to be four hundred million dollars more than was expected. It don’t mate any difference. Add four thousand millions, and it would not reduce its value in the least.
