THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM NO;6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS- Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General AGENT.
Agent. Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents- one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Finance Committee. but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:— FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMEND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON. Editor
Our country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, printers.
VOL. XXX. No. 36. BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1550.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION. 
<C01>
From the Boston Courier.
THE PERSONAL LIBERTY LAW.
No man will undertake to deny that the Constitution of the United States requires fugitives from service to be returned to the States from which they may have escaped; that from the days of Washington to our own, it has been held to be within the proper province of Congress to legislate for the execution of the clause in the Constitution which requires this surrender; that in our own time, both the Supreme Court of the United States, and our own Supreme Court, have deliberately re-examined this question, have affirmed that it is the duty of Congress to provide the means for effecting the surrender of fugitives, have declared that the States cannot legislate on the subject, and have pronounced that the Act of Congress, passed for this purpose in 1850 is constitutional and binding.
We design to show that the Republican Legislature of Massachusetts has placed a law upon its statute book, which the magistrates of the State cannot attempt to execute, without violating their oaths of office; which, at the first attempt to take a step towards its execution, must produce a conflict of process and a struggle of force between the executive officers of the two governments; and which, if the attempt should be successful, would violently overthrow the authority of the Federal Government.
The act of Congress passed in 1850, and usually called the Fugitive Slave Law, covered the whole field of legislation in respect to the rendition of fugitives from service. It directed a certain magistrate, called a Commissioner, and appointed under the authority of the United States, to issue a warrant for the arrest of the supposed fugitive, which warrant was to be served by the Marshal of the United States; and after hearing the prescribed proofs, it directed the Commissioner to grant a certificate to the claimant, which certificate was made conclusive authority for the removal of the fugitive from the State; and in this removal the Marshal was to act, under the authority of the certificate, as an executive officer of the United States, if required. It will be observed, here, that everything which can in any way be involved in the extradition of a fugitive was provided for, to be transacted in a tribunal of the United States, upon such proofs and in such a form of proceeding as Congress saw fit to prescribe, and to be executed, or carried into complete performance, by the executive officer of the United States.
In 1855, the Legislature of Massachusetts passed the notorious Personal Liberty Law, for the purpose of obstructing and prevention the execution of the Act of Congress. We shall say nothing of the details of that law, because we do not wish to have the attention of the reader diverted from what is now upon the Statute book. Whatever excuse may be given for the original enactment, on account of popular excitement, or want of time for proper examination, no such excuse can be set up now to cover what has been deliberately re-enacted in the late revision of the Statutes. The Republican party of Massachusetts has how been in power, under Governor Banks, for years; and if it has any elements of conservatism, moderation, and regard for the Constitutional rights of the Southern States, those elements ought to have made themselves felt, in the last Legislature, by preventing the re-enactment of the whole of the provisions of the Personal Liberty Law, or, at least, of its unconstitutional features.
To have done this, would have afforded some proof that when the Republican party, thought its leaders or its organs, professes to have no purpose but to prevent the further extension of slavery, it is to be trusted as a sincere and honest party. To have failed to do it affords conclusive proof that the party is not fit to be trusted, either because those who are responsible for its conduct are not sincere, or because they cannot resist the fanatical and violent tendencies of those who drive them into measures subversive of the Constitution.
It is no excuse for such a proceeding to say that citizens of the State are in danger of being carried off as alleged fugitives, under the operation of the act of Congress, and that these provisions of the State law are made to protect the personal liberty of our own citizens. If a State can thus interfere with the action of one tribunal of the United States, under the plea of protecting personal liberty, it may in the same way nullify the action of every other Federal tribunal under the same or some other plea. Whatever the Federal Constitution has committed to the Federal authority to do, cannot be interfered with by a State, either to protect personal liberty, or for any other purpose. If it could, the Federal Constitution and the laws of the United States passed in pursuance thereof would not be, as they are, the supreme law of the land. We have now said enough to show that no State magistrate can undertake to execute this Personal Liberty Law, unless he is prepared to disregard his oath to support the Constitution of the United States; for he is required to send an officer forcibly to interrupt and put an end to a proceeding in a tribunal of the United States, which is going on under an act of Congress; and it is the declared law of the Commonwealth, incapable of being touched by its Legislature, that this 	Act of Congress was passed in pursuance of the Federal Constitution, and is therefore the supreme law of the land, on the subject to which it relates. We have also said enough to show that this State law, if ever attempted to be executed, must produce an armed collision between the Federal and State executive officers; for the attempt to do what cannot be done according to legal and constitutional principles, is nothing more and nothing less than the use of mere unlawful force. It matters not by what high-sounding name the unlawful process is called, or under what pretext of liberty or of anything else it is to be issued. It will be in vain for any who undertakes to defend this legislation, to suggest that Congress has failed to provide a trail by jury for the fugitive, and that the State law has merely supplied this deficiency. Congress has provided such a mode of trial as it thought proper. Whether it regarded a trial by jury as unnecessary, or inexpedient, Congress was the exclusive judge upon that, as upon every other part of the subject; and having legislated as it thought proper, no State can assume that there is a deficiency in its legislation, or undertake to correct it.
 We now put it gravely and in all good faith to the conductors of the Advertiser, to show what confidence the Republican party is entitled to claim from men who regard their constitutional obligations, after such legislation as this. We put it to them, as a matter which they have to answer at the bar of public opinion, whether the professions of a party are to be taken in the face of such acts as these. We put it to them to say whether the slaveholding States can possibly have a constitutional right, more solemnly guarantied to them by the Constitution, than this of the extradition of their fugitive slaves; whether they can have a right about which they ought to be more jealous; and whether, if the Republican party should obtain possession of every part of the government, and should proceed. 
<c02>
to attack slavery in the States, they could do a greater constitutional wrong, than they have already done in this and in several other Northern States, in obedience to the demands and behests of the fanatical and disorganizing portion of their adherents. What is it but an attack on slavery, when you attack the constitutional guaranties by which the right of the masters is secured and upheld?

From the Boston Courier. 
THE JOHN BROWN PARTY.
In this city, on the 19th of November last, a meeting was held, ostensibly to raise money  for Mrs. John Brown, whose husband was to hanged on the 2d of December following, for the crimes of murder and treason. Mr. John A. Andrew presided at that meeting. The Rev. Dr. Neale thanked God’ for the noble spirit of generosity, and of fidelity, and of bravery, which John Brown had manifested, and his deep sympathy with the oppressed. Mr. Andrew said, ‘I pause not now to consider, because it is wholly outside of the duty or thought of this assembly to-night, whether the enterprise of John Brown and his associates in Virginia was wise or foolish, right or wrong. I only know that whether the enterprise itself was one or the other, JOHN BROWN HIMSELF IS RIGHT.' What does our conservative representative, Mr. Alexander H. Rice, say to this atrocious sentiment? Does he think that ’John Brown himself was right'? Does the Daily Advertiser think that John Brown, who entered Harper's Ferry at the dead of night, and murdered men as they approached him—the Mayor of the city among the number—does the Daily think ‘John Brown himself was right'? Do the commercial men of Boston think ’John Brown was right'? Men of Massachusetts, what say you, was John Brown, the murderer, RIGHT? Soldiers of Massachusetts, what say you? Clergymen of Massachusetts, what say you? Women of Massachusetts, what say you? Whigs, Democrats, Douglas men, Breckinridge men, Bell men, what say you? Was John Brown, the murderer, right? Lincoln men, what have you to say to this?
GENTLEMEN REPUBLICANS, WHAT SAY YOU? Do you go to John Brown doctrine? Do you go for eulogists of John Brown? Business men, manufacturers, white men of America, answer, was John Brown right On the 19th of November last, at the John Brown meeting in this city, Mr. John A. Andrew—standing in the presence of a large audience, and surrounded by Phillips and Emerson and the Abolition chiefs—said:’ We are tonight in the presence of a great and an awful sorrow, which has fallen upon many  families whose, hearts fail, whose affections are lacerated, and whose hopes are crushed—[no sympathy for the wives and children of the murdered men of Harper's Ferry]—’ all of hope left on earth destroyed by an event which, under the Providence of God, I pray will be overruled for that good which was contemplated and intended by John Brown himself. 'What say you, gentlemen of the Republican party, are these your sentiments? Will you endorse their author? Does the Journal think John Brown was right?—Ib.
'JOHN BROWN HIMSELF IS RIGHT.' We want the supporters of Mr. Abraham Lincoln in the States of Indiana, Illinois, Ohio and Pennsylvania to inform us if they, like the Republican candidate for Governor of Massachusetts, think John Brown, who committed murder at Harper's Ferry, was right? Mr. John A. Andrew tells us he was right; and said in this city, Nov. 19, 1859, ‘I sympathize with the man, I sympathize with the idea, because; I sympathize with and believe in the eternal right.' Does the New York Tribune think John Brown was’ right?—lb.
Mr. Andrew, the Republican candidate for Governor of Massachusetts, is now in Maine,’ stumping’ for Lincoln and Hamlin.  We put it to the old Whigs of Maine, whether they are willing to take counsel of a man who says John Brown was right, and who styles his midnight murder’ the battle at Harper's Ferry.'—lb.
'GOD'S WORK.'—There are those who characterize John Brown's murders at Harper's Ferry as ’God's work.' Mr. John A. Andrew and Mr. Dwight Foster, we dare say, think there was something divine in the bloody deeds done in that unsuspecting Virginia village, on that Sabbath morning, October 16. 1859. Have our readers forgotten the’ work' of John Brown; his imprisonment of Col. Washington and other citizens; the killing of the colored man who refused to join his hand; the shooting down of the faithful railroad watchman: the deliberate murder of Mr. Beckham, the Mayor, and of Mr. Boerly, the grocer, who, upon seeing his neighbor fall, hurried to his relief; and of the murder, too, of Capt. Turner, an aged citizen, beloved for his goodness?  Here we have a record of five men murdered at Harper's Ferry, by John Brown; and Mr. John A. Andrew, the Republican candidate for Governor, tells you the murderer was right. Do the men of Middlesex county think so? Does the Hon. Charles R. Train think so? We demand an answer to this question.—lb.
Mr. John A. Andrew, in his speech of the 19th of November, meant all that he said, and probably a little more. It is no use, therefore, for the Republican papers to waste their strength in efforts to relieve him from the imputation of having endorsed the crimes of John Brown. There is no ambiguity in the endorsement.—lb
MR. SUMNER'S SPEECH.—It is enough to say of this performance, in general, that it is a mere anti-slavery harangue. Mr. Sumner is an Abolitionist of the most virulent type, and his speech, to a Convention of men, calling themselves for convenience sake Republicans, is another of his unqualified assaults upon slavery, with the aim of effecting its abolition,—in open hostility to the opinions, wishes, and supposed interests of fifteen States of the Union —in plain defiance of the unquestionable provisions of the Constitution and the laws founded upon it— and in utter antagonism to every principle upon which this Union can be maintained. Mr. Sumner, about whose opinions and feelings no possible mistake can be entertained, was an accredited delegate of his party to this Convention—arrangements were made beforehand for the delivery of a prepared speech by him to the Convention—he was formally invited to speak, and made the only formal speech delivered in it, and is thus the mouth-piece of that body, as it was fitting be should be. Mr. Andrew, its nominee for Governor, accords with all the views of Mr. Sumner, of whom he is a well-known confederate, and is, to the utmost point, as decided and thorough-going an Abolitionist and come-outer as himself; for both of them owe all that makes them especially conspicuous, to their marked departure  from  those generally acknowledged principles of  morality and common sense by which the ordinary business of life, whether in politics or out of it, is always has been, and always must be, conducted—Ibid.
<CO3>
SELECTIONS.
CHARLES SUMNER ON STEPHEN ARNOLD DOUGLAS. 
Extract from a Speech, delivered at the Republican State Convention, held at Worcester, August 29th, by Hon. CHARLES SUMNER:—
Search the Congressional Globe for the month of February, 1854, and you will see with what sincerity Mr. Douglas guarded the much-vaunted rights of the people. Mr. Chase moved to allow the people to elect their Governor and other officers. On the vote by ayes and noes, the champion of popular sovereignty voted No. Mr. Chase, whose effort to unmask this hypocrisy was indefatigable, made a further motion, which put Mr. Douglas still more to the test. After the words of alleged popular sovereignty in the bill, he moved to add,’ under which the people of the Territory may, through their representatives, exclude slavery, if they choose. 'Here was a plain proposition. On the vote by ayes and noes, Mr. Douglas and his associates again voted No. His recent excuse, put forth in his single peripatetic speech, is that the proposition was not in the alternate—that is, that it gave power only to exclude, and not to admit. But if he really favored it in that form, why not move to amend it by adding the power to admit instead of voting against the whole proposition? It is clear that such an open and unequivocal declaration was not congenial with the game that was to be played. 
The bill was passed; and then came other opportunities to test the sincerity of the present knight errant of popular sovereignty. Under its provisions commenced at once a race of emigration into the new Territories, and there free labor and slave labor grappled. Lovers of freedom from the North were encountered by the partisans of slavery from the South, organized by Blue Lodges in Missouri, and stimulated from every part of the land of slavery, The officials of a Government established under pretended safeguards of popular sovereignty, all ranged themselves on the side of slavery, or, if their allegiance became doubtful—as in the case of Governor Reeder—they were dismissed, and more available tools sent instead. I spare details. You cannot forget that winter and spring preceding the Presidential election of 1856, when we were alternately startled and stunned at the tidings from Kansas; when a body of strangers from Missouri entering by hundreds, seized by force the polls, and, by pretended forms of law, set up a usurpation, which proceeded by formal legislation to establish slavery there, and to surround it by a code of death. The atrocity of Philip II, when by violence and through a ’Council of Blood' he sought to fasten the Inquisition upon Holland, was renewed. Outrage, arson, rapine, rape, invasion, murder, the scalping-knife, were the agents now employed; and to crown this prostration of popular rights, Lawrence, home of New England settlers and microcosm of New England life, was burnt to the ground by a company of profane and drunken ruffians, stimulated from Washington. What then was the course of the champion of popular sovereignty? Did he thunder and lighten?  Did he come forward to defend those settlers who had gone to Kansas under the pretended safeguards of his bill?  Oh, no! But he openly ranged himself in the Senate on the side of their oppressors—mocked at their calamities—denounced them as’ insurgents'—insulted their agents, and told them they must submit—while the distant Emigrant Aid Society in Massachusetts was made the butt of his most opprobrious assaults. All this I saw and heard myself. 
Then came another scene, with which, owing to my own absence from the Senate, as an invalid, I have less personal familiarity; but it is known to all of you.  The Senatorial election in Illinois was at hand, and Mr. Douglas then suddenly discovered that popular sovereignty was something more than a name.  He opposed the Lecompton Constitution; but my distinguished colleague will tell you that even there, he was kept from the most bare-faced apostacy only by the stern will and indomitable principle of the lamented Broderick. 
Then came stump speeches and Senate speeches without number, and a magazine article, all to explain popular sovereignty.  But this simple principle, which, in the light of the Declaration of Independence and also in the light of reason, is plain enough, has been so twisted, turned and befogged,—now explained away and then explained back, now enlarged and then limited, now acknowledged and then denied, that I challenge any person to say with any certainty in what it really consists, according to Mr. Douglas. 
At one time we find him declaring that ’slavery is the creature of local law, and not of the Constitution of the United States.' Good! Let him follow this to its natural conclusion, and no Republican could ask more.
Then, at New Orleans, after his election to the Senate was secured, he says: ‘The Democracy of Illinois accept the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in the case of Dred Scott as an authoritative interpretation of the Constitution. In accordance with that decision we hold that slaves are property, and hence on an equality with all other kinds of property, and that the owner of a slave has the same right to move into a Territory, and carry his slave property with him, as the owner of any other property has to go there and carry his property.'  Here is the extreme dogma of slavery in full force.  Let him follow this to its natural conclusion, and no Breckinridge man could ask more. 
At another time we find him declaring that’ Soveign States have the right to make their own constitutions and establish their own governments; but that he has never claimed these powers for the Territories, nor has he ever failed to resist such claims when set up by others.' How, then, under this theory, can popular sovereignty have any foothold in the Territories? It is clear that all Territorial legislation against slavery must be invalid. 
And then, again, in another place, by round-about language, he admits that, according to the Dred Scott decision, which he declares that he’ approves,' the people of a Territory cannot, by any legislation, confiscate slave property or impair the’ constitutional right' of the master to this property in the Territory. With this limitation, pray where, again, is popular sovereignty? 
But elsewhere, as if to furnish something for the other side, he intimates a policy of inaction, by the Territorial Legislature with regard to slavery, and asks,’ Would not the inaction of the local Legislature, its refusal to provide a slave code, or to punish offences against that species of property, exclude slavery just as effectually as a Constitutional prohibition?' And here is the end of the matter. Changing forms as often as Proteus, we find that he admits first, that slavery goes into the Territories under the Constitution; secondly, that the right of property in a slave cannot be destroyed by the Territorial Legislature. And all that this Legislature can do, by way of opposition, is to fold its hands and to seal its tongue in inaction. What, then, is this wonderful doctrine?  So far as it means anything, it is simply this: that the people of a Territory have a right to introduce slavery, but not to
<CO4>
prohibit it. And this is popular sovereignty! Verily, between this and the Breckinridge dogma, there is about the same difference as between the much vexed doctrines of transubstantiation and consubstantiation where there was only the difference of a single syllable, and both signified the same thing.
Nor is this all. The Convention at Baltimore which nominated Mr. Douglas has declared by formal resolution, ‘that the measure of restriction, whatever it may be, imposed by the Federal Constitution or the power of the Territorial Legislature over the subject of domestic relations, as the same has been or shall hereafter be finally determined by the Supreme Court of the United States, should be respected by all good citizens, and enforced with promptness and fidelity by every branch of the General Government.' And Mr. Douglas, in accepting his nomination, has expressly recognized this doctrine, thus in advance delivering over his bantling popular sovereignty to the tender mercies of the Supreme Court. 
How different is the position of Mr. Lincoln, who has openly said, in his debate with Mr. Douglas (page 20): ‘If I were in Congress, and a vote should come up on a question whether slavery should be prohibited in a new Territory, in spite of the Dred Scott decision, I would vote that it should. That is what I would do. 'And allow me to add, that this doctrine of Mr. Lincoln is the doctrine of the Republican party. Any doctrine short of this runs into the trick of Mr. Douglas. 
The tree is known by its fruits, and if anything further were needed to expose this trick of popular sovereignty, it might be found in its fruits as boasted by Mr. Douglas. A slave code, most revolting in character, had been adopted by the Territorial Legislature of New Mexico, not only establishing slavery there, including the serfdom of the whites, but prohibiting emancipation. Through the generous activity of the Republicans, and in the exercise of a just Congressional intervention, a bill passed the House of Representatives annulling this slave code. While this bill was on the table of the Senate, attesting at once the disposition of the House of Representatives to interfere against slavery, and also the signal necessity of such interference, Mr. Douglas took occasion to make his boasts.  Surrounded by the chiefs of the pro-slavery Democracy, the juggler of popular sovereignty thus showed what the trick had done for slavery. Here are his words:—
'It is part of the history of the country, that under this doctrine of non-intervention, this doctrine that you delight to call squatter sovereignty, the people of New Mexico have introduced and protected slavery in the whole of that Territory. Under this doctrine, they have converted a tract of free territory into slave territory more than five times the size of the State of New York.  Under this doctrine, slavery has been extended from the Rio Grande to the Gulf of California, and from the time of the Republic of Mexico, not only up to 36 deg. 30 min., but up to 38 deg.;  giving you a degree and a half more slave territory than you ever claimed.'
As the tree is known by its fruits, so also is the man known by the company he keeps. At first associated with Mr. Douglas on the same ticket, as candidate for the Vice Presidency, was Mr. Fitzpatrick, of Alabama, belonging to the school of slave propagandists, and fresh from voting in the Senate against popular sovereignty; and when he declined, his place was supplied by Mr. Johnson, of Georgia, also belonging to the school of slave propagandists, who from the beginning has denounced popular sovereignty, and insisted that’ it is the right of the South to demand and the duty of Congress to extend protection to slavery in the Territories during the territorial state,' and who, at Philadelphia, in public speech, did not hesitate to insult the mechanics and working men of the country by the insolent declaration that ’capital must own labor.'  Such is the associate of Mr. Douglas, with whom he is so united as candidate that you cannot vote for one without voting for the other. They are the Siamese Twins of popular sovereignty, and you cannot cast your vote for Chang without casting a vote also for Eng. And one of his earnest supporters in the Convention at Baltimore, Mr. Gaulden, of Georgia, pressed the opening of the slave trade with Africa on the very grounds of popular sovereignty and non-intervention. After declaring that’ if it be right to go to Virginia and buy a negro, and pay $2000 for him, it is equally right to go to Africa, where we can get them for $50,' he said that’ if the Southern men had got the spunk and spirit to come right up and face the North, he believed the Northern Democracy, at least, would come to the true doctrine of popular sovereignty and non-intervention.' And this barbarous utterance was received by the Douglas Convention with’ laughter and applause. 'And such are the men with whom this candidate is associated. 
If you follow Mr. Douglas in his various speeches, you cannot fail to be shocked by the heartlessness of his language. Never in history has any public man insulted human nature so boldly. At the North he announces himself as’ always for the white man against the nigger;' but at the South he is’ for the nigger against the crocodile.' It was natural that such a man, who thus mocked at a portion of God's creation, made in the Divine image, should say,’ Vote slavery up or vote it down.' He knew well that under his device the settlers could only vote slavery up, and that they were not allowed to vote it down. But this speech attests his brazen insensibility to human rights Not so spoke the Fathers of the Republic, who taught us all never to miss an opportunity to vote slavery down. Not so spoke Washington, who declared that to the abolition of slavery’ his suffrage should never be wanting.' And such is the whole political philosophy of this Presidential candidate, except that a man who is thus indifferent to the rights of a whole race, is naturally indifferent to other things which make for justice and peace. 
Again he cries out, that the slavery question is in the way of public business, and that it must be removed from Congress. But who has thrust it there so incessantly as himself?  Nay, who so largely as himself has been the occasion of its discussion? But his complaint illustrates anew the old fable. It was the wolf above that troubled the waters, and not the lamb below. It is the slave propagandists—among whom the champion of popular sovereignty must find a place—who from the Missouri Compromise in 1820, through all the different stages of the discussion, down to the rejection of Kansas as a free State at the recent session, have rendered it impossible to avoid the slavery question.  By their new-fangled, audacious theories of slavery, both morally and constitutionally, they have aroused a natural opposition, and put all who truly love their country on the defensive.  Yes, it is in defence of the Constitution perverted, of reason insulted, and of humanity disowned, that we have been obliged to speak. 
True, the country needs repose; but it is the repose of Liberty, and not the repose of Despotism. And believe me, that glad day can never come until the mad assumptions for slavery are all rejected, and the government is once more brought back to the spirit of its founders.  It was clearly understood at the beginning that Congress could not touch slavery in the States, and this is the doctrine of the Repub-
<CO5> 
lican party now. But it was also clearly understood at the beginning that slavery everywhere else was within the jurisdiction of Congress, and this also is the doctrine of the Republican party now. With the practical acceptance of these two correlative principles, the slavery question will cease to agitate Congress and to divide political parties. Transferred to the more tranquil domain of morals, religion, economy and philanthropy, it must continue to occupy the attention of the good and the humane; but it will no longer be the stumbling-block of politicians. Not until then is it permitted to expect that Sabbath of repose so much longed for.

From the Houston Telegraph, August 16. 
THE TEXAS  FRIGHT. 
In Tyler county we learn that the utmost excitement prevailed on election day, and that comparatively few persons were at the polls. The Jasper Clarion learns that ten negroes were arrested who confessed to being parties to a plot having murder, robbery, and arson for its object. They implicated two white men who were not suspected, but who, it has since been observed, left immediately on the breaking out of the excitement.  The Livingston Rising Sun mentions a report there to pretty much the same effect concerning Tyler county. The Cameron Sentinel says that the patrol in that town have, up to this time, discovered in the hands of negroes two double-barreled shot-guns, one single-barreled shot-gun, one Mississippi rifle, one pistol, one dirk-knife, powder, shot, &c. It does not certainly appear that the negroes had these arms for any bad purpose. They have been taken from them. A plot was discovered in Hopkins county on the 4th instant, to burn the town of Sulphur Springs, in that county, on election day or the day after. Some negroes confessed the plot, and at latest dates it was undergoing investigation, amid no little excitement. The reported burning of Dangerfield, in Titus county, adds another to the list. On Saturday before the election, a discovery was made in Rusk, Cherokee county, of a design upon that town, the particulars of which we have not yet received. We are informed by a gentleman just down from Waxahachie, that it was reported there that Tyler, in Smith county, and McKinney, in Collin county, had been burned. We have before given our readers accounts of the attempts on both these places. We fear the reports are true. At Moscow, Polk county, the Livingston Sun learns there was great excitement last week. A Mexican, named Sanchez, was run off. These are all the new reports received by the last mail. In view of them, let us ask what is to be done? To be sure, the County Committees are all doing their duty well, and ferreting out the plots wherever they have appeared. But it seems that as fast as the fire is put out in one town, it is kindled in another, and no day passes but that the flames are rising in some portion of the State, kindled by the torches of Abolitionism.  Ought not some action to be had by the State at large? Apropos of this course is a letter from a distinguished citizen of Washington county, suggesting a State Convention.  We are inclined to favor the suggestion, and ask from the press and people some public expression in relation to it. It is obvious that while the action being taken in the several counties is checking the troubles in those localities, yet that the deliberations and decisions of single counties will have no general effect beyond our borders. It is desirable, in order to prevent these things in future, that the people of the whole country, North and South, should understand that any efforts towards abolitionism, or insurrections in Texas, will constitute the shortest possible road to the gallows for those who engage in them. Should such a Convention be called, it should be made up of the best citizens of the State, without distinction of party, who should come together solely to consult for the common good. What say the people? 
A writer in the News, from Centerville, Leon county, says:— 
'I understand that two or three negroes, living four or five miles from here, told their master, a few days ago, that they were as free as he was, and walked away from their work, telling him to shoot, if he thought proper; whereupon he did so, but did not happen to kill any of them. A negro was whipped, three or four miles from here last week, for some bad conduct, who confessed that he (the negro) and several others were to fire Messrs. Barkley and Barnes's houses to-night, and kill all the whites they could. And on being asked who told them to do such atrocious acts, they answered that white men told them to do so, and by these means they would gain their freedom. There is no doubt but we have had Abolition emissaries to poison the minds of the negroes of our county. Recent investigations, made here and elsewhere in this county, fully prove the truth of what I say.' 
The Waco Democrat, until recently opposed to the organized Democracy of Texas, says:— 
'THE UNION!! —We are its friend and supporter; but it must be a Union of political brothers.  Here is how the Northern brethren are working in Texas. They must do better than this, or we will want to divide. We hardly think it right for our Northern brothers to burn up our homes after this fashion! We may be wrong, but we don't think they have any good cause, or any right, to burn us out of the South ; and we modestly and timidly venture the opinion that they ought to be very nicely, quietly and cosily HUNG to any convenient post oak when found !’ 
From the Houston Telegraph, 18th inst. 
We have at last full particulars of the destruction of the flourishing town of Henderson, in Rusk county. From the Tyler Reporter, we learn that the fire broke out in three or four different places simultaneously, on Sunday night, the 5th inst., between sundown and dark, and in a few minutes the whole town was in a blaze. The patrol had just left the square for their supper when the flames broke out. A letter from Henderson to the Marshall Republican says that the town was fired at 8 o'clock, in the evening, while the people were at church. A Vigilance Committee had (on the 7th) been formed, and several arrests made. A letter, dated Henderson, 7th, has the following:—
'All, from McDonough's Hotel to Smither's office, taking that entire block, and from Redwine's store to Likens's corner, running back to the Presbyterian church, (which was saved,) is a scene of ruin and devastation. Ten stores, two drug-stores, eight or ten law offices, two family groceries, &c., were consumed. There was a still south wind blowing at the time, and in two hours, at most, every house which had caught burned down.
Owing to the failure of crops, such a misfortune never could have found us so illy prepared to meet it, in a pecuniary point of view. And when we consider it has not been the result of accident, but that it was fired beyond may sort of question by some fiend in human shape, who had only acted the part allotted him, in all probability, in a common purpose, to set on fire our towns and perhaps murder or poison our citizens, it has driven us to a state 
<c06>
of desperation which can scarcely be conceived by one who has not witnessed it. All is alarm and excitement with our women and children. Our men are in arms. The most vigilant investigation is being had. The plot was so well conceived, the time of the night, a little excitement between two gentlemen had just occurred which attracted the crowd just as our citizens were assembling, at church, and before the guard started out, the fire was put in some shape into an old shop where there had been none for months. It was burning in every part of the house at once, and in less than five minutes it was on fire all over. As yet, we have not been able to find out who it was that did it—whether white or black. No traces have been discovered. My own opinion is, that the negroes had but little to do with it.' 
The Jefferson Herald says:— 
'We learn, by a gentleman who left Marshall on Thursday morning, that the incendiaries who fired the town of Henderson on the 5th inst. have been overhauled and summarily punished. The facts, as related to us, are briefly these: Three persons left Henderson, immediately after the conflagration, under very suspicious circumstances. They were followed by a committee of the citizens, and overtaken on the road to Marshall. Perceiving themselves pursued, they turned to fight, when one of them was shot dead from his horse, and the other two were taken and hung forthwith.' 
The Tyler Reporter of the 7th, says that a report has just reached there that Belleview, in Rusk county, was burned on the night of the 4th inst.  The same paper says that Dangerfield, in Titus county, is burnt. At Athens, Henderson county, a well was discovered to be poisoned on Sunday night, the 5th inst., and over one hundred bottles of strychnine were found in possession of negroes. On examination, the plot was brought to light, which was, to poison as many as possible, and then the knife and the pistol, with which they were well supplied, were to do the remainder of the work. 
All the old women and young children were to be murdered, and the young women were to be taken as wives by the hell-hounds.  A patrol of one hundred men is on duty every night in Tyler, and this has thus far saved that town. 
A negro belonging to Mr. Barren, at Science Hill, Henderson county, was hung on the 3d inst., strychnine having been found in his possession, and he having confessed to having had a hand in the insurrection. 
A gentleman writing from Rusk, Cherokee county, 4th inst., gives an account of a plot to poison the whole community on election day. Poison was found in the possession of several of the negroes, and confessions are elicited of a determination to poison and murder the whole people.  Similar plots have been discovered in Anderson and Henderson counties. 
From the New Orleans Delta. 
The fire-brand of the incendiary is still busily applied to the habitations of the people in the northern part of the State. A letter from Dallas, of the 11th, says: —
'I saw a letter, received last night by a gentleman of this town from a friend at Athens, stating that an attempt had been made at that place to fire the town ; that two white men had been hung, some negroes shot, and others hung. All sorts of rumors are afloat, and most of them partake of the horrible. One fact is ascertained beyond doubt, except in the minds of those who are wilfully skeptical on the subject, that every negro who has been implicated in this plot, even more than a hundred miles off, has testified to the same facts, the same dates, names and circumstances that were detailed here at Dallas.  Such men as those who pronounce these things a ridiculous farce, are men whose affinities and proclivities lead them most naturally to such a conclusion.' 
The Galveston News, speaking of the Henderson fire, say: ’The doubt entertained by many as to the destruction by fire of the flourishing town of Henderson, Rusk county, is dispelled by news from various quarters, which renders the calamity only too certain.' 
The Civilian, of yesterday has full information of the disaster from Mr. E. Pillsbury, a well-known New Orleans merchant, who is direct from Henderson.  The principal hotel and all but one of the business houses were destroyed. The loss is estimated at from $175,000 to $259,000. $50,000 worth of goods was burned in the street after removal from the stores. All the supplies of groceries, $c., for the town and neighborhood were burned, leaving many families reduced to want. A negro woman belonging to a man named Herndon, a small tavern-keeper, confessed to having started the fire. The master and his brother are under arrest as being concerned in the affair. Herndon was already accused of having dealt with slaves for stolen goods. The committee were investigating the affair, and many negroes confessed to a knowledge of a general plot for incendiarism and murder.  It was believed this conflagration was part of the plot. The news is further confirmed by a letter from Mr. J. H. Inglehart, of Palestine, to his father in Fairfield. 
We find the following in our exchanges: ‘In Lamar county, several persons have been suspected of Abolitionism, and Samuel Tyson and his son, believed to be pretty strongly tinctured, have been ordered to leave the country within thirty days.' 
The Gilmer Tribune of the 4th says:’ We learn from a private letter written to a gentleman in Gilmer, from Fort Worth, that there was a plan on foot to burn the town by negroes, led on by a Abolitionist from Minnesota, which was fortunately discovered in time to prevent its execution.  He was arrested, and on the following morning was found dead, swinging to a limb in the river bottom, a short distance from the town.' 
The Bastrap Advertiser of the 11th says: ’The woods around Bastrap seem to be alive with runaway slaves.  Not less than six bucks have been confined in our county jail within the past week or ten days. Some of them hail from a long way off, and declare their intention was to enter Mexican territory, where they expected to be free after their arrival there. One boy states that he has made two attempts to reach Mexico, but has been thwarted in his plans both times, by being caught while enroute.' 
We gather the following from various Texas papers:— 
We learn that a preacher by the name of Buley was hung at Veal's Station last week, for being an active abolitionist. A majority of three hundred men condemned him. This is decidedly an unhealthy climate for all such, and we would advise all of that kind to remove instanter.—Fort Worth Chief. 
Mr. Teague, a printer in our office, has just arrived from Tennessee Colony, Anderson county, and brings the news that he witnessed the hanging of two white men in that place, on Sunday, the 5th inst., who were proven to be guilty of inciting insurrection among slaves of that neighborhood. 
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS. 
The United States Constitution is’ a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.' 
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery.  We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other State in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THIS RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing.  To this conviction the free States are tending.'  —WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING. 
142 THE LIBERATOR. SEPTEMBER 7.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Their names were Antney Wyrick and his cousin, Alfred Cable.-Fairfield Pioneer.
An abolitionist was caught at Fort Worth, who had just distributed fifty guns and fifty six shooters among the negroes. Another man was arrested in Parker County for a similar act. Both villains were hung-Nevarro Express.
A negro with a knife in bund and a bundle was bailed on Monday by the patrol, when he refused to make himself known, and started off on a run. The patrol fired upon him twice without effect. He escaped.-Austin State Gazette.
A few days since, several negroes were arrested on Mill Creek, in this county, who acknowledged to their having poison, given them by white men for the purpose of poisoning their owners and families, and that the day of election was the that fixed for a general insurrection. They also implicated some negroes about town as being concerned in the murderous plot Brenham Ranger.
We understand that several abolitionists have been quietly hung in Northern Texas-the object being not to spread such facts until they secure many others, whose names have been revealed to the appropriate committees. We devoutly trust every one of the midnight incendiaries may be secured and hung Bolton Democrat.
We quote from a Galveston paper of the 14th, as follows:-
We continue to give all the news we can obtain on this subject. Especially so, that it appears that even in New Orleans, many of the citizens-merchants and other men of sense-seem to think the whole affair was gotten up by the Texans for political effect-as if any slaveholder would hang his negroes or any householder burn his residence or store for such a cause!
The Houston Telegraph learn that in Montgomery county, there is considerable excitement about negroes.
A white man by the name of Simmons was arrested on the 2d, and put in jail. He was implicated by several negroes as being their agent to furnish them with arms.
We learn by word of mouth that Col. Shannon of that county observing something wrong in the deportment of his negroes Saturday night, had them taken up and separately examined. They all concur in saying that they had formed a plot to burn his premises, and murder him and his family, and then escape.
A man by the name of Williamson, who had been suspected of tampering with negroes at the Navasota City depot, was arrested there on Saturday. On being brought to trial, none but negro evidence appeared against him, inconsequence of which he was not convicted, thought it was perfectly evident that he had received stolen property from the negroes for months, and that the negroes by his instigation were to have set fire to the town, and make their escape on Sunday night. It was decided to send him out of the State.
At a public meeting of the citizens of Gay Hall, Washing county, a committee of safety was appointed, patrol organized, a rifle company recommended to be raised, cessation of assemblies of negroes for religious worship recommended, unless on the premises of owners and under their supervision, liquor-selling to slaves to be stopped peremptorily, and dealers therein strictly watched, no one of in temperature habits to be on the patrol or committee.
G.W. Flournoy, Democratic candidate for Attorney-General, passed through Belton a fortnight ago, on his way to Austin from northern and eastern Texas. The Democrat understands he reported the hanging of two more abolition incendiaries in Tarrant County.
The people of Tarrant county have appointed a vigilance committee, Hon. Isaac Parker chairman, with power to examine suspicious strangers, and take such other action as they may deem proper in case of emergency.
A vigilance committee has been appointed at Belleville, Austin county. Separate slave congregations for religious worship were advised to be stopped, patrol appointed.
The citizens of Cameron met on the 1st inst., appointed a special patrol, warned all abolition favorers away, and organized a vigilance committee. Arms have been found in the negroesï¿½ hands.
After the meeting, a school teacher who had been privately warned, concluded to leave suddenly.
The Sentinel says: A negro woman, belonging to Gray, who resides some four miles from town, voluntarily confessed to her master, that all the negroes around were in possession of the news relative to the intended revolt on election day; that they had been freely discussing the matter, and for him to be on the alert.
W. O. Campbell, Post Master at Travis, writes to the Belleville (Austin county) Countryman:-
ï¿½It is no trivial matter to find, in the post office, a paper published by Black Republicans, and bearing upon its first page the names of Abraham Lincoln and Hannibal Hamlin. Such a paper I find in the office at this place, published at St. Louis, Missouri, in the Bohemian language, with no less than three agents in Austin county and one in Colorado. The paper is taken by one Gobri, in this neighborhood.ï¿½
There was much excitement at Industry on account of this.
The Austin State Gazette says: ï¿½The detraction of Dr. Renfroï¿½s residence was attempted by an incendiary, but fortunately the fire was discovered and arrested before doing any mischief. The residence of Mr. Bennett has been twice fired, and discovered in time to arrest the flames before doing any injury. In this case the man was seen applying the light, but escaped before he could be apprehended. On Wednesday last, the Mayor ordered an examination of the quarters and chests of the negroes. It resulted in finding pistols, knives, bullets, muskets and a keg half full of powder, also a bottle of powder. A negro was hung near Science Hill. Henderson county, on the 5th inst.ï¿½
The Colorado Citizen says: ï¿½We understand that a negro man was shot and killed last week, by Mr. Alex. Dunlavy, living on the Barnard, in this county. The negro was near Mr. Dunlavy, armed, and was hailed and told to stop, when he started to run, and while running was shot by Mr. Dunlavy. He lived a short time, and stated that there wore some dozen armed negroes together in the Barnard bottom, but he said nothing of their plans or intentions. To whom he belonged is unknown, though it is said he belonged to come gentleman in Galveston.ï¿½
The Henderson Times, of the 11th says: ï¿½We have seen a note, written from near Danville, by Col. Dunnï¿½s overseer, to his son, Charles Dunn, which said that a negro boy, Aller., formerly belonging to Mr. Dunn, had confessed his connection with this insurrectionary movement, and was to have been long yesterday.ï¿½
The citizens of Wood county were to hold a public meeting on the 20th, to consider the condition of the country, and devise means for protecting life and property.
The citizens of Milville, Rusk county, held a public meeting on the 6th, to examine the character of suspicious persons, and to organize patrols. Sundry individuals were ordered to leave the county.
The Quitman Herald of the 15th says: ï¿½A gentleman from Little Elm, in Denton county. on Saturday last, informed us that the citizens of Denton are as much excited its elsewhere in the State. A negro has been arrested in that county, in whose possession twenty-four bottles of strychnine were found.ï¿½
A meeting of the citizens of Hockley, Austin county, took place on the 5th. A vigilance committee and patrol were appointed, and resolutions adopted expressing sympathy with the citizens of the northern counties in their distress, agreeing to co-operate with similar committees in other places and counties, and to stand ready as minute men to render any assistance in their power, &c.
Friederman and Rotenburg, two German Jew peddlers, have been arrested and examined by the Rusk Vigilance Committee. The former was released, nothing being proved against him. Rotenburg was accused by several negroes of inciting them to insurrection. His case was finally to insurrection. His case was finally submitted to a jury of fifty men, from various parts of the county, and the accused was allowed counsel. After a patient examination of the evidence, a vote was taken on the question of hanging him, and it stood eighteen for and thirty-two against-the latter believing him guilty of very improper conduct toward the negroes, but that the evidence did not warrant the death punishment. The jury were unanimous in ordering the accused to leave the county within forty-eight hours and the State in four days, Rotenburgï¿½s family reside in New York.
<c02>
The Rusk Enquirer learns that a Yankee abolition school-master was bung on the 16th in Anderson county. He was convicted of inciting the negroes to insurrection.
The Houston Telegraph of the 23d ult. says:-
 ï¿½From Mr. Townsend, who arrived in this city from Robertson county yesterday evening, we learn that two men named Boardwright were hung in that county, on Sunday evening last, near the Falls county line. Richard Boardwright has been for some years notorious as a horse thief, and has been tampering with slaves. The other was a nephew of Richard Boardwright. The two men were tried before the Vigilance Committee, and, on the most satisfactory evidence, condemned. Mr. Townsend reports the negroes in that county, though having full knowledge of the contemplated revolt, do Dot appear to have participated, to any considerable extent, in the preparations, though small quantities of arms and ammunition had been found in their possession.ï¿½
The Navarro Express of the 11th says: ï¿½Monroe Black, formerly of Grimes county, was killed a few days since by Mr. Barnes, while confined in Hill county jail. He was arrested in Grayson county for some misdemeanor, and while in duress confessed that he had killed four or five persons in this State. Among the persons mentioned was a Mr. Barnes, in Hill county. The persons who had him in custody, upon hearing thin, at once determined to bring him to Hill county and deliver him to the Sheriff, where he was killed a few days since by Mr. Barnes, the father of him whom he had killed about six years since. He was passing under the assumed name of Mr. Moore when arrested.ï¿½
The Galveston Civilian of the 16th inst, says that in Lamar county several persons have been suspected of abolitionism, and Samuel Tyson and son, believed to be pretty strongly tinctured, have been ordered to leave the county within thirty days. 
The people are driving from the upper counties of the State every individual in the least suspected of Abolitionism.
The town of Mount Vernon has been destroyed by incendiaries, one of whom was caught and hung.
A white man named Taylor, who had made negroes his only companions, had been ordered to get his traveling card immediately, or be hanged. 
An attempt was made to burn Indianola, but it was discovered in time to prevent serious loss.
The Crockett Argus gays that considerable excitement exists in that and the adjourning county of Anderson. Several barns and one dwelling had been burned. These acts of incendiarism were directly traced to negroes.
A white man implicated with negroes had been hung near Iowa.
A plot to burn and destroy had been discovered among the negroes in Tyler Prairie. 
Various persons had been ordered to leave the State.
Vigilance Committees were continually forming. 
ANOTHER SOUTHERN OUTRAGE-THREE MAINE MECHANICS DRIVEN OUT or TEXAS.-If more evidence were wanting to prove the essential barbarism of slavery, three of our Belfast mechanics who have just arrived at the North from Texas, having barely escaped with their lives, can give the testimony. One of them has just arrived here, and the others are on their way. They were at work at Chapel Hill, Texas, at house carpenter work, pursuing their business peaceably and quietly, avoiding all possible occasions for giving offence either by word or deed to the slaveholders. While at work one day a few weeks since, shingling a building, they were interrupted by several armed ruffians, who told them they were wanted up town. They dropped their tools and obeyed, and were taken to a grog-shop where a large number were assembled. Here they were kept from nine oï¿½clock in the morning till four in the afternoon. A meeting had been held in the meantime and a committee chosen, who told them they must leave the State forthwith. They demanded to know the charges against them, protesting that they had never interfered with slavery or slaves. But they were told they were Northerners, and their presence would not He tolerated in the State. They then pleaded for time to settle up their business, alleging that one of their employers was absent, and no settlement could be had till his return. The committee allowed them just four days to pack up and get off, notifying them that they would be mobbed if they were found in the State after that time had expired. They waited four days, and their employer did not return. He was in debt to them $800, and but one of them had a single dollar in the world to got home with. On the night of the fourth day, while they were in bed, a mob surrounded the house. They got up and went out, and were taken into custody amidst threats and execrations. Fortunately, a gentleman living near, for whom they had previously done a small job of work, hearing the tumult, came down, and after much persuasion succeeded in procuring their release. He advised them to leave immediately that night, which they did, leaving their wages and all their effects behind. One of them had a small sum of money, and with this they succeeded in getting out of the State.-Belfast Age.
A BATH MAN HUNG IN TEXAS ON SUSPICION OF BEING AN ABOUTIONIST. Information was received here on Monday, stating that Mr. William Crawford, son of Capt. William Crawford, of Ireland district, in this city, had been hung by Texans on the suspicion of being an abolitionist. No special particulars are given other than that the villainous act was committed on the 17th day of July last. Mr. Crawford went from Bath to Minnesota some five or six years ago, and from thence removed to Texas, arriving here last Christians. He had taken up a farm in the vicinity of Fort Worth, and intended to make his home there. He was a quiet person, not much disposed to take part in public affairs: but the Texans knowing him to come from the North, concluded he was an abolitionist, of whom they seem to have an inveterate abhorrence, and they took his life. It was an outrage which will recoil upon the perpetrators. Mr. C. was about 39 years of age. He leaves a wife and family in Texas.-Bath Sentinel.
PREACHER HUNG Is TEXAS. Rev. A. Bewley, Methodist superintendent and missionary in Texas, was hung by a mob a short time since, on the charge of being an abolitionist. The New York Christian Advocate says he was a devoutly pious and inoffensive man. How long will such outrages be permitted in a civilized land? The ï¿½barbarism of slaveryï¿½ is truly fearful.

From the Milwaukee Free Democrat.
LETTER FROM. S. M. BOOTH.
RIPON, August 6th, 1860.
I propose to give you a brief history of affairs since I left the city, last Wednesday. We took the cars at the Schwartzburgh Station, six and a hall miles from the city. Deputy Garlick was aboard the down train which stopped there, and was informed that I was on the train opposite, that I had been rescued and was on my way to the country, but made no attempt to arrest me. At Horicon, Sat. Clark came aboard the train, shook hands with me, and said he had ï¿½received a telegraph from the Marshal, requesting him to arrest me, and offering him one hundred dollars for the arrest. He said to me that he wasnï¿½t in that business, that he was not a Deputy Marshal; if he was, he should fightï¿½. I learned, afterward, that, on receiving the dispatch, he had tried to raise a force to arrest me, but no one would volunteer to aid in kidnapping me, but on coming into the cars and seeing the complexion of things, he tried to turn the affair into a joke.
On arriving at Waupun, I went directly to my Fatherï¿½s, found he was out of town, and would not be back till the next day. I then made a visit to Major Heg, State Prison Commissioner, and Martin Mitchell-old friends-and was invited to spend the night with them. In the evening, I was down through the village to the Railroad Depot, with but one friend, to see the Wide Awakes who were drilling on the Common near by, and on their invitation, I addressed them briefly, giving them a history of the rescue. The next day, Thursday, I went about the village, and at my Fatherï¿½s, having learned that Deputy Marshal Garlick was at the Carrington House, and that the proprietor, Mr. Laithe, had offered to take me for one thousand dollars, I went there accompanied with two friends, got an introduction to him, and told him that I was the man he had volunteered to take, and that now was the time to do it. He replied that he did make the offer, but that he was only gassing. I inquired for Garlick, and he said he had not seen him since dinner. In the morning I was down town again, but did not get sight of the kidnappers. Friday morning, Garlick called on me, and invited me to go back with him alone to Milwaukee. I told him I had not fin-
<c03>
ished my visit in this region, and did not recognize the right of any one to control my movements. He paid he should arrest me, if he had an opportunity. I told him this was the time, and Major Heg told him he had full liberty to do it then and there, without interference on his part. But he left without attempting it.
In the evening, I addressed a large meeting at Dodgeï¿½s Hall, and the response of the audience was strong and emphatic against the kidnappers. There were four Deputy Marshals in town, out they did not make their appearance at the meeting. After the meeting, I rod to Ripon, fifteen miles, where I had an appointment to speak the next (Saturday) evening. I visited during the afternoon, and spoke to a large audience in the evening. While speaking, an attempt was made to arrest me by Deputy Marshal McCarty, of Fond du Lac, who sprung in upon me from behind, through a back door on the platform, saying he was a Deputy United States Marshal, and had a warrant for my arrest, und taking bold of me, we had a quick clinch. I threw him off, and while drawing my revolver, a man rushed between us, and he was seized and hustled out of the room, and kicked down stairs, and striking on the stone pavement, his face was somewhat bruised, but he quickly got on his feet and ran for his life to the Mapes House, old Capt. Mapes standing in the door with a revolver in each hand protecting his retreat. He was encouraged to this audacious attempt by the assurance of Democrats and a few false Republicans, that I would be taken out of the meeting without the least resistance. Nothing but the accident of my pistol being entangled with my pocket-handkerchief prevented me from shooting him. He has since sworn, as has Garlick, to take me dead or alive. After his summary ejection, I finished my speech; the people passed strong resolutions to protect me at all hazards, and enrolled over one hundred men, which on Sunday was increased to three hundred to act as a safety committee. The excitement was very great, the meeting adjourned to meet at Masonï¿½s Grove at 3 P. M., Sunday. A large body of men, including the Ripon Wide Awakes under the command of Col. Crane, escorted me home. The American flag was planted at the gate, and twenty-five armed men kept watch around Prof. Danielsï¿½ house all night. 
Sunday forenoon the people from the country and adjacent towns began to gather with loaded muskets and rifles, and marching in procession to the grove, of where I addressed a great army of live men and women in behalf of humanity and liberty. It seemed like old Revolutionary times, when men were obliged to worship. God on the Sabbath with arms in their hands. The strongest resolutions were passed, the men and women all voting with uplifted hands, pledging themselves to stand by the doctrine of State Rights as proclaimed by our Supreme Court, unto death. You will doubtless receive the resolutions, and therefore I need not state their substance. They express the sentiment of the people of this region, and are a warning to all kidnappers. The people are ready to fight, and have made up their minds to do it manfully. They will wait no longer for Courts or State authorities, but will protect their own rights and liberties by the strong arm. 
After the meeting, the men to the number of several hundred marched to the City Hall, appointed a committee of twelve to wait on the kidnappers, and direct them to leave town, and no longer disturb the peace of this community. The committee performed their duty, and received for answer, that they were here to arrest S. M. Booth, that as soon as they had accomplished their mission, they would return. After the report of the committee, the members of the meeting subscribed to a pledge, and made a solemn oath to Almighty God to protect me, and all engaged with me in resisting the execution of the Fugitive Slave Act in Wisconsin, at the hazard of their lives, and at a momentï¿½s warning to forsake all other business and shoulder arms for God and Liberty. An organization is being perfected, such as they had in Kansas, and if the Federal hounds continued pursue and harass free citizens, and threaten, as they have done, to kill them if they resist, they will be shot down in the highways and byways like mad dogs. That is now the settled purpose of the people to an almost incredible extent. It is not the resolve of wild, reckless men, but of peaceable, staid, sober, religious men, including officers of the church and ministers of the Gospel. It is very clear if that we have yet to fight for our liberties here in Wisconsin. But woe to the kidnappers, when once they have begun to shed the blood of our free citizens!
S. M. BOOTH.
SECOND ATTEMPT TO ARREST BOOTH-Booth Protected by an Armed Force of Sixty-Two Men, who Threaten the Lives of the Officers.-On Sunday evening last, about seven oï¿½clock, Deputy Marshal McCarty was informed that Booth was secreted at the house of J. G. Pickett, about seven miles from the city of Oshkosh. He immediately obtained a posse of six men, and started in the night for the place designated, to avoid suspicion, and arrived there about daylight on the morning of Monday. Their arrangements had been agreed upon before reaching their place of destination, and upon arriving there the house was surrounded, and one of the Deputy Marshals stepped to the door and knocked for admittance. It was replied to by a man who came to the door arrayed in his shirt and pantaloons only, and upon his opening the door, the officer politely bade him ï¿½good morning,ï¿½ and stepped over on the threshold. Although he was unknown to the man of the house, he had no sooner advanced than that individual struck at him a violent blow with his fist, which was parried by the officer, and the other making a second effort to strike him, they clenched each other, when McCarty and one or two of the other officers stepped forward, and held him back.
Mr. McCarty then asked the man his name, but instead of replying, he made another effort to strike the officer, who suddenly caught him and held him of fast. McCarty then again demanded his name, and asked him why he endeavored to assail his visitor without provocation. He replied that his name was Pickett. The Marshal then asked him if Booth was secreted in his house, and informed him that he had a warrant for his arrest. Pickett replied that he had been there, but had gone away. At this time Pickett shouted ï¿½help, for Godï¿½s sake,ï¿½ when a terrible commotion began to be heard in the house, and thirteen other men, armed with guns, pistols, and pitchforks came from the interior of the dwelling, and surrounding the officers, threatened their lives if they did not leave the premises. 

These demonstrations aroused the suspicion of the officers, who now began to doubt the truth of Pickettï¿½s assertion that Booth had left the house. The officers were about proceeding to search the house, when Pickett desired that he might be permitted to put on some more clothing, and upon being released, seized a horn hanging near, and gave one blast upon it. It was immediately taken from him, but was answered in a dozen different directions, and men were seen coming from all quarters, armed with guns und pitchforks. They immediately added themselves to the force already collected, and commenced threatening the lives of the officers, and aiming their guns at their breasts.
Very soon alter, armed men began to arrive in wagons, and in the short space of one hour and a with half, sixty-two men had gathered together, thus the outnumbering the officers nearly twelve to one! Some twenty-five men then ranged themselves in order, and pointing their guns at McCarty and his men, ordered him to leave.
They then demanded of McCarty what he intended to do? He boldly and emphatically replied that he came there to take Booth, and that it he could get sight of him, he should accomplish his purpose or die in the attempt. That the men who were with him were determined men, and if violence was offered, it must be done at their peril.ï¿½ Mr. McCarty then asked them their purpose. They replied that Booth should never be taken except over their bodies. That they defied the government, and that no power on earth could get him from them. Again they demanded that the Marshal should depart, but he coolly informed them that he was not yet ready, and asked their names. A large number immediately stepped up and gave them, together with their places of residence, coupled with the assertion that they would ï¿½lynch, shoot and quarterï¿½ every government officer who attempted to accomplish Boothï¿½s arrest. McCarty did not deem it advisable to risk the lives of six against twelve times that number, and not knowing that Booth was in the house, did not desire to peril their lives against such fearful odds, or render himself liable it the fugitive was not there secreted. He sent to Ripon for reinforcements, but informed the crowd that if Booth was seen or they would admit his whereabouts, he would take him or perish. He waited until after eleven oï¿½clock, having been there in the face of loaded rifles and desperate men some seven hours, when, assistance not arriving, himself and men quietly departed.-Milwaukee News, August 29th.
<c04>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, SEPTEMBER 7. 1860.
THE REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE FOR GOVERNOR AND THE BOSTON COURIER. 
Standing divorced from every political organization in the land, we have no party ties to bind us, but occupy a position favorable to a just estimate of them all. We have long since declined exercising our conceded right of suffrage, as a matter of conscience, and, therefore, take no part in the political excitement of the times, whether it be of a local or national character. And yet, we are not indifferent to the straggle going on for the possession of the reins of governmental power; for in the various phases of that struggle, we recognize either an approximation to, or receding from, the standard of equal justice and impartial freedom which we have so long advocated, and thus note the moral status of the people.
In this Commonwealth, the nomination by the Republican State Convention, as its candidate for Governor, of JOHN A. ANDREW, Esq., is a cheering sign of the times, not only because of his exemplary character and great moral worth, but particularly because he represents the highest phase of political anti-slavery feeling as yet developed; thus showing that Massachusetts ï¿½takes no step backwards,ï¿½ but is, on the contrary, steadily advancing in the cause of humanity and freedom, Yet Mr. Andrew is in no just sense an ï¿½ultraistï¿½ or a ï¿½radical,ï¿½ but tempers his zeal with circumspection, and to charge him with ï¿½Garrisonianismï¿½ is utterly false. In his support of the Constitution, and his adhesion to the Union, he differs in nothing from any of the political candidates in the field; but his generous sentiments and feelings on the subject of slavery are of such a nature as to array against him the entire body of hunkers and conservatives, whose sympathies are on the side of the slave-breeders and slave-mongers of the South, and who, consequently, are exceedingly malevolent toward the Anti-Slavery movement; and this, certainly, is to his credit.
Of course, his nomination causes much chagrin, anger and consternation in the quarter we have designated, as may be seen by the assaults daily made upon him by the Boston Courier. We occupy a considerable portion of the ï¿½Refuge of Oppression,ï¿½ this week, with various extracts from the Courier, indicative of its hateful spirit and villanous purpose in this particular. That such a paper is tolerated on Pilgrim soil, in view of its habitual Southern tone and object, its contempt of Northern rights and institutions, its recreancy to all that makes Massachusetts, historically great and glorious, indicates wonderful patience and forbearance; for any Southern newspaper, that should venture to connive at freedom, as the Courier does at slavery, would be instantly suppressed, and its types thrown into the street. The Courier I exhausts the vocabulary of falsehood and vituperation in outraging the moral sentiments, humane tendencies, and freedom-loving desires of the people of Massachusetts; and this it does with impunity. Take a single example. It says of Mr. Andrew and Mr. Sumner-ï¿½ Both of them owe all that makes them especially conspicuous to their marked departure from those generally acknowledged principles of morality and common sense (!!) by which the ordinary business of life, whether in politics or out of it, is, always has been, and always must be conducted.ï¿½ The meaning of this sweeping impeachment of their intelligence and moral characterï¿½s, that, for having earnestly and fearlessly endeavored to put an end alike to the extension of slavery and the outrageous aggressions of the Slave Power upon the rights and liberties of the people of the North, one of them fills a Senatorial position at Washington, and the other is soon to be placed in the Gubernatorial chair of Massachusetts, by an immense majority. This is true:-the impeachment, therefore, is intended as much to include the people of this State, as it does the gentlemen especially named. And yet the Courier fancies that it can make political capital, and secure the popular vote for its proslavery nominees, by ringing the changes upon the anti-slavery sentiments and deeds of Mr. Andrew and Mr. Sumner: whereas, the more it compliments them in this manner, the more does it make ï¿½their calling and election sureï¿½! It prates about ï¿½moralityï¿½ and ï¿½common senseï¿½: its morality is that of rape, concubinage, unbounded licentiousness, as seen in the abrogation of the marriage relation among four millions of slaves at the South, by a combination of debauchees with whom the Courier is in closest affiliation: its common sense is the repudiation of the principles of justice and humanity, and the supremacy of the devil for the reign of God. Its editorial articles are saturated with the distilled venom of unmitigated scoundrelism, having for their special object the blackening of the character of those who evince any regard for liberty, any restiveness under the dominion of a godless slave oligarchy, any appreciation of the value of free institutions over those of a soul-crushing despotism. In short, it is wholly Southern in its tone, scope, object and influence; and that is to be wholly and monstrously demoralized.
The Courier is endeaving to make itself hoarse with the outcry against Mr. Andrew, that, at a meeting held in Tremont Temple, on the 19th of November last, (and who that was present at that grand demonstration will ever forget it?) to raise money for the bereaved families of John Brown and his associates, he not only presided, but in the course of his remarks said, ï¿½I only know that, whether the enterprise in Virginia was right or wrong, John Brown himself is right.ï¿½ Stigmatizing the dead hero as ï¿½John Brown, the murderer,ï¿½ the Courier asks, with affected horror of mind, whatï¿½ the men,ï¿½ï¿½ the soldiers,ï¿½ the clergymen, ï¿½the womenï¿½ of Massachusetts-ï¿½ Whigs, Democrats, Douglas men, Breckinridge men, Bell menï¿½-have to say about it? Our own answer is ready:-
John Brown was right, because he faithfullyï¿½ remembered those in bonds as bound with them,ï¿½ and did for them what he would have had them do for him in like circumstances.
John Brown was right, because he abhorred the practice of reducing to chains and slavery those whom God createdï¿½ but a little lower than the angels.ï¿½
John Brown was right, because he denied the validity of unrighteous and tyrannical enactments, and maintained the supremacy and binding obligation of the ï¿½Higher Law.ï¿½
John Brown was right in all that he did-in his spirit and object, in his measures and warlike instruments, in taking the Arsenal and capturing Col. Washington, in killing ï¿½Mr. Beckham, the Mayor, and Mr. Boerly, the grocerï¿½-if Washington and Hancock and Warren were right-if Putnam, and Prescott, and the soldiers under them, on Bunker Hill, were right-if the Revolutionary struggle was right-if Wallace, and Tell, and Wrinkelreid. and Leonidas were right, in resisting tyranny unto blood! Only John Brown was before them all, and nobler than any of them, inasmuch as he gave his life to free others of a different race from a horrible bondage, with a spirit more than patriotic, because deeply religious and profoundly reverent toward God.
The Courier is politically foolish and morally demented in supposing that any party capital is to be made in the old Bay State, or out of it, in stabbing the memory and insulting the grave of John Brown, whom Christendom has already apotheosised as one of the bravest and noblest of those who have fallen martyrs to a great idea. It may rave and rant, give its sympathies to the traffickers in human flesh, and advocate the right to hunt slaves on Massachusetts soil, but it cannot stop the march of Freedom.
<c05>
RADICAL ABOLITION CONVENTION. 
The Radical Abolitionists held a Convention at Syracuse on Wednesday, 29th ult., and nominated Gerrit Smith for President, Samuel McFarland of Pennsylvania for Vice President, William Goodell for Governor of New York, Sidney A. Beers for Lieutenant-Governor, Zenas Brocket of Herkimer for Canal Commissioner, Elias Clisbee of Montgomery for State Prison Inspector, and Frederick Douglass and Charles A. Hammond for Electors at large. Rev. T. B. McCormick, of Ohio, presided in the Convention. Gerrit Smith sent $50 to aid in defraying expenses. Delegates are said to have been present from Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Michigan, Illinois, Ohio, Kentucky, Massachusetts and New York, but no roll was made, and the gathering was very small.
Mr. C. A. Hammond, from the Business Committee, submitted a series of resolutions, which were discussed seriatim, somewhat amended, and finally adopted. We have room for the following:-
Whereas, the sole legitimate end of all true government is the protection of human rights, the execution of equal and exact justice between a man and his neighbor;-and whereas, the parties whose nominations are already before the people do not even profess this as their great object, but, on the contrary, are forward to assure slaveholders, who trample on all human rights, that they will protect them in so doing,-therefore.
Resolved, That the friends of Government, as opposed to disorder, violence and outrage, have no other alternative but to make a new nomination for President and Vice President of these United States.
Resolved, That while we regard with unmitigated abhorrence the dogma of the Breckinridge party, that slaves are, by natural law, the property of their masters, and hence to be protected as property in the territories-still, we are sensible that this position is the only one which any can consistently take who refuse to hoist the flag of Radical Abolition; and that we shall expect to see all who now occupy the compromise position of the Douglas and Republican parties, or the non-committal platform of the Bell party, to ultimately range themselves under the piratical flag of the universality of the rights of slavery, or the only righteous one of the entire extinction of the monster.
Resolved, That for Abolitionists to vote for a candidate like Abraham Lincoln, who stands ready to execute the accursed Fugitive Slave Law, to suppress insurrections among slaves, to admit new slave States, and to support the ostracism, socially and politically, of the black man of the North, is to give the lie to their professions, to expose their hypocrisy to the world, and to do what they can to put far off the day of the slaveï¿½s deliverance.
Resolved, That the almost infinitesimal amount of anti-slavery professions made by the Republican party are inadequate to cover or excuse the Heaven-defying effrontery with which it proclaims its intention to ï¿½quiet agitationï¿½ upon the subject of the slaveï¿½s rights to liberty.
While we respect the motives and aims of those who attended this gathering-a mere bakerï¿½s dozen-we must pronounce the act of making the nominations aforesaid extremely farcical.
SYMPATHY. A young colored man called, a day or two since, upon one of our leading citizens for the purpose of obtaining money to purchase the freedom of his mother and sister, who were now in slavery. He was asked why he did not call on those who professed a deeper interest in the welfare of the colored race, such as Mr. Garrison and the like. His reply was, that they gave no money, but plenty of SYMPATHY.-Cambridge Chronicle.
This counterfeit coin, fresh from the pro-slavery mint, will doubtless obtain a ready circulation in its appropriate channels. Of the particular case referred to, me know nothing; but we have no doubt it is one of imposture, and that this ï¿½young colored manï¿½ makes use of this talk for swindling purposes. There are strong inducements, in the growing sympathy at the North for those pining in bondage at the South, for unprincipled colored persons to roam from State to State, falsely pretending to be seeking the release of some near and dear relative, and thus fraudulently abusing the generosity and kindness of anti-slavery men and women; and as many an impostor of this kind has had to be exposed in the past, so many more may be looked for in the future. This shows the need of the utmost caution, on the part of the humane, in examining, and especially in authenticating the documents in the possession of those asking for assistance to redeem father or mother, husband or wife, parent or child, from bondage.
To the charge, that ï¿½Mr. Garrison and the likeï¿½ give no money, but only ï¿½plenty of sympathy,ï¿½ in the cases described, we reply-
1. It does not follow that every one, pretending to be seekingï¿½ the freedom of his mother and sisters,ï¿½ is worthy of credit or aid; and of this we claim to be as competent to judge, as those who lose no opportunity to impeach the sincerity and libel the character of Abolitionists. 
We have refused giving our ï¿½money,ï¿½ and also our ï¿½sympathy,ï¿½ in various instances, where we saw nothing to inspire confidence, either in the person soliciting, or in the object professedly aimed at; and we shall do so again, even at the risk of being sneered at as hypocritical in our anti-slavery profession.
2. It is not true. ï¿½Mr. Garrison and the likeï¿½ have not only responded to multitudes of cases of this kind, but they have often allowed their sympathy to carry them too far in that direction, to the crippling of their pecuniary ability to aid the anti-slavery cause, which aims to overturn the entire slave system, and liberate four millions of slaves at a blow. 
3. The object ofï¿½ Mr. Garrison and the likeï¿½ is not the buying up of the Southern slave population, either in the mass or in detail. We deny the right of the slaveholder to any compensation whatever. As a matter of consistency, it is for those who recognize that right, and who pretend to be the friends of the colored race, to give liberally to applicants, seeking the means to redeem themselves or others from bondage; but they seldom do any thing of the kind.
4. The purchase of individual slaves does nothing towards abolishing slavery. It is a serious question, whether it does not tend to prune the poison-tree, to invigorate the foul system, and thereby retard the cause of emancipation; especially at the present time, when the foreign slave traffic is in full operation, and importations are daily increasing at the South. A slaveholder who sells one slave at the North for a thousand or fifteen hundred dollars, has thereby the means put into his hands, and will be very likely to use them, to purchase half a dozen newly imported victims from Africa!
5. If the hundreds of thousands of dollars that have been contributed at the North to ransom individual slaves, had been given directly in aid of the great moral struggle going on for the utter extinction of the slave system, the number of slaves redeemed would have been incomparably greater, and that system would now be just ready to fall.
THE FRATERNITY LECTURES. The usual course of lectures will be given this season, before the Fraternity of the 28th Congregational Society, (late Theodore Parkerï¿½s,) commencing on Monday evening, Oct. 1st. The course will consist of thirteen lectures, all but three of which will be on Tuesday evenings. The opening lecture will be by Hon. Charles Summer, end the following well known popular speakers will follow, in the order in which they are named: Rev. James Freeman Clarke, Rev. Thos. W. Higginson, Caroline H. Dall, Rev. William. R. Alger. Wendell Phillips, H. Ford Douglass, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, Sarah Jane Lippincott, Carl Schurz, Rev. Edwin H. Chapin, George William Curtis. This is a brilliant and an attractive list, and the tickets for the course will be in great demand.
<c06>
LETTER FROM GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ
8, CLAYTON PLACE, Kennington Road. London. August 17. 1860.
MY DEAR GARISSON-Before this reaches you, you will have gathered from the papers which have been sent to the Standard and Liberator, the particulars relative to the celebration of the First of August by the London Emancipation Committee of which I am Chairman.
After the arrangements for our public meeting had been made, we were advised of the approach towards our shores of the Rev. Dr. Cheever, and at once decided that we could not make a better use of the anniversary of our brightest and best national achievement than by devoting it to the suitable reception, in the British metropolis, of one who had stood so nobly forth in assertion of the freedom of the pulpit, the anti-slavery teaching of the Bible, and the cause of the slave. We therefore resolved to present Dr. Cheever with an Address: to invites large number of clergymen and laymen to be present on the occasion: and to afford our visitor the largest opportunity he might desire of declaring his anti-slavery views before a London audience.
I need not say my own heart leaped to meet the Doctor on his arrival. Was he not one of the very few who stood by my side in the city of Salem in that year, never to be forgotten by either of us-the year 1835-when you where the victim of mob violence in Boston, and I with my wife and infants resided under the roof of my tried and much beloved friend, the modest but cultivated, courageous and uncompromising friend of the slave, Thomas Spencer. Had he not been my guest in Edinburgh in 1836, and had I not marked his course from 1855 down to May last, when I saw him in his right place, on the platform of the American Anti-Slavery Society? He had, withal, been persecuted for righteousnessï¿½ sake; persecuted in his own church-persecuted on the outside of it-defamed by the Herald, reviled in the Observer, and misrepresented in the Independent. Had he not also, in company with Wendell Phillips, faced the storm of a Democratic mob when rendering justice to the memory of the hero-saint, John Brown?. He came to us, therefore, and to me especially, with credentials unimpeachable, and claims to our hospitality and love the most abundant. Well, we did our best to prove to him how deep was our respect and gratitude towards him for his intrepid devotion to a cause which has been basely betrayed by the great majority of the order to which he belongs.
The presentation of the Address was a most interesting scene. My own heart was too full for utterance-so also was Dr. Cheeverï¿½s; but there was that which passeth words amongst us. I believe all present felt themselves more deeply baptized into the spirit of Him who is the great Deliverer, and whose <illegible> gospel is summed up in the one word-liberty.
We held our public meeting in a large octagonal edifice-a recreant D. D. in your city knows it well-the Spa Fields Tabernacle, whose walls have often echoed the matchless tones of George Whitefield. The assembly gathered on the occasion was an inspiring one. About twenty ministers, Independent, Baptist, Episcopalian and Methodist, were present. A resolution welcoming Dr. Cheever was passed with resounding acclamations, and the Doctor then delivered a masterly oration, profound in thought, rich in imagery, convincing in argument, pungent in <illegible>, terrible in denunciation, and subduing in pathos. It will be long remembered by those whose privilege it was to heart it. His withering rebuke of those in the United States who brand men, like yourself, as Infidels was <illegible> generous as it was eloquent. As it listened to Dr. Cheever, I could adopt and apply to him the words of our Laureate, Tennyson:-
ï¿½My heart and hope are with thee! Thou wilt be
A latter Luther and a soldier priest
To scare church-harpies from the Masterï¿½s feast!
Our dusted velvets have much need of thee!
Thou art no Sabbath-drawler of old saws,
Distilled from some worm-cankered homily;
But spurred at heart with fiercest energy,
To embattle and to wall about thy cause
With iron-worded proof, hating to hark
The humming of the drowsy pulpit drone
Half Godï¿½s good Sabbath while the worn-out clerk
Brow-beats his desk below. Thou from a throne
Mounted in heaven will shoot into the dark
Arrows of lightning: I will stand and mark.ï¿½
Dr. and Mrs. Cheever, with Mr. and Mrs. Wellborn, of Worcester, Mass., are now on the Continent. On the Doctorï¿½s return, I hope he will remain some time in this country, where he may render an essential service to the Anti-Slavery cause. I would have him extend his stay over the anniversaries of May, 1861, and attend the meetings of our Bible. Tract, Missionary and Sunday School Societies-and, in the interval, all meetings of Orthodox Synods, Associations, and Conferences.
It is now two years since I returned from India, utterly prostrated in health. I have ever since been slowly recovering, and am now tolerably re-established. Within the last six months, I have been able to deliver forty or fifty Anti-Slavery lecturers. I shall continue, as I have opportunity, to enlighten the public of Great Britain on the great question with special reference to the movement in the United States. 
By the next mail, I shall send you some <illegible> of a discussion we have recently had on the negro pew question, and the result of it, to the present time.
Always, affectionately yours,
GEO. THOMPSON.
We are unspeakably gratified in receiving this letter from our gifted and un<illegible> <illegible> in his own handwriting, showing his complete recovery from a long and paralyzing illness, and revealing an extraordinary amount of labor performed in the lecturing field within short time. May his days be ï¿½long in the landï¿½!
Respecting the gratifying public reception given to Dr. Cheever in London, to which Mr. Thompson alludes, a London correspondent of the Boston <illegible> Recorder makes the following noticeable statement:-
 ï¿½I may mention that in the afternoon, before the meeting, an address, prepared by what is called <illegible> London Emancipation Committee, was presented to Dr. Cheever, at the house of <illegible> Mr. Dennis McDonnell, in the presence of some <illegible> ladies and gentlemen, who subsequently were entertained at tea. The company included several of the conductors of our most widely circulated newspapers and leading metropolitan ministers: and both Dr. Cheever and Mrs. Cheever were subdued to tears by the kind things that were said of them, and the promises of support made.
The address, if think, would have been proposed for the adoption of the public meeting, had there not been indications of probable exception being taken to the commendation it contained to Mr. W. L.<illegible> The name of that gentleman as ï¿½a word of fearï¿½ to the large majority of Christian <illegible> and people of England, on consequence, I suppose of the merchant articles put forth some years ago by Dr. Campbell in the British <illegible> and Christian <illegible>.
In noticed that when Dr. Cheever, in the course of his speech, said a good word for Mr. Garrison, a cloud passed over the faces of most of the ministers on the platform, and I cannot discover that the British Standard has allowed the sentence to remain in the printed transcript of the Dr.ï¿½s manuscript, although the report in affirmed to be <illegible> and with that noticeable exception, no doubt it is. 
I mention the circumstance to show you the strength of the feeling, which was also illustrated by the total absence from the meeting of Quakers, who are the main supporters of the anti-slavery cause.
Here is a revelation of clerical malignity and <illegible> ness!-ï¿½When Dr. Cheever, in the course of his speech, said a good word for Mr. Garrison, a cloud passed over the faces for most of the ministers (not of the laity) on the platformï¿½!! Ant that ï¿½good wordï¿½ Dr. Campbell, of the British Banner, has the <illegible> to suppress, in printing a professedly <illegible> report of Dr. Cheeverï¿½s speech in his paper! It is just like him: he is a most unscrupulous man, and a slanderer of the worst stamp, as we had occasion to show the British people when we were last in England.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
WALT WHITMAN.
LEAVES OF GRASS. Boston: Thayer & Eldridge. Year 85 of The States. (1860-61.)
Ekas, ekas, este bebeloi, was the exorcism uttered by the grand mystagogue before beginning the ceremony of initiating an aspirant into the mysteries of <illegible>. Now, although we are no mystagogue, and do not profess a knowledge of Bacchic or other mysteries of that sort, we nevertheless feel inclined respectfully to request all merely pedantic, low-minded and profane persons to remove themselves out of this presence, while we speak of a man who is neither low-minded, pedantic, nor profane-Walt Whitman. 
Ruskin says we should 'go to nature in all singleness of heart, and walk with her laboriously and trustingly having no other thought but now best to penetrate her meaning; rejecting nothing, selecting <illegible> nothing.' That this man has been <illegible> thus to look upon nature in her unity and <illegible> and to permit her to speak in her own mystic and beautiful language, is the secret of the wonderful fascination of his poems. Many individuals of <illegible> species' see nothing but Walt Whitman in These poems. He—'one of the roughs, disorderly, <illegible> and sensual' —intrudes himself upon them in every sentence, and repeats 'the unquenchable <illegible> —egotism' on every page. It is undoubtedly a grave offence for an author to thrust his personality <illegible> the reader and the truth which the book is <illegible> to embody or set forth. But this is a grant poem of human nature. Man, his origin, nature and <illegible> and the grandeur of these, is the subject; and the author chooses to treat it in the first person that is all.
'I celebrate myself,
And what I assume you shall assume,
I every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you.'
This was the first sentence in the poems as original-<illegible>, and to us it was the key to everything that followed. We have been drawn irresistibly to the book, again and again, for these is a simple-minded and strong man speaking in his strength and simplicity. Walt comes to us, with his Leaves of Grass, a true child of nature—of the earth and the stars, and of what is beyond. He scornfully refuses to be judged by any ordinary, conventional standard of Art, for the, indeed, is no artist, but the born priest and hierophant of the mystic, unfathomable universe. He sees that everything is divine; that God is in all overall, and under all; that there is nothing mean, without a purpose, or out of its place. He is so full of profound reverence for the old Divine Mother that she, is return, presses him to her bosom, and showers upon him  all the wealth of her limitless love—so full of child-like playfulness, confidence and simplicity, that as he leans and loafes at his ease, observing a spear of summer grass,' all her children press round him with uproarious, sunny laughters, weaving wild flow<illegible> his hair, and kissing him with kisses that breathe the odors of heaven. To him the universe is <illegible> ingens, pregnant with profound mysteries; but he himself is also a miracle—the greatest of miracles. A soft whisper tells him that he is 'the acme of things accomplished.' All the ages have <illegible> him in solemn procession from chaos and primeval night until now.
'Rise after rise bow the phantoms behind me,
Afar down I see the huge first Nothing—I know I was even there.
Immense have been the preparations for me,
Faithful and friendly the arms that have helped me.
Cycles ferried my cradle, rowing and rowing like cheerful boatmen.
For room to me stars kept aside in their own rings,
They sent influences to look after what was to hold me.
All forces have been steadily employed to complete and delight me:
Now I stand on this spot with my Soul.
The SOUL!
For ever and forever—longer than soil is brown and solid—longer than water ebbs and flows.'
He takes the loftiest views of man, reverences all his parts, and will not have any thing omitted. He is the poet of the body and of the soul, of the passions and the organs, and of all their manifestations, <illegible> and beautiful, or otherwise. Truth, beauty, goodness, heroism, justice—these he recognizes, receives, and takes courage from them; falsehood, ugliness, depravity, cowardice and oppression—he sees these, also, with clear vision, but knows that God and order reign, not Chaos and the Devil,—therefore receives them, confident that, for a season, they to have their place.
Of the sexes and sexual relation, no previous poet has spoken so freely and so well. This opinion will doubtless astonish many who have read the book. Nor are we surprised that so many find in the ' Enfaus d' Adum' only the drunken and obscene ravings of a 'new, astonishing Phallus worship.'
'All architecture is what you do to it when you look upon it.
All music is what awakes form you, when you are reminded by the instruments.'
There is such a deep and unmitigated vulgarity and coarseness in the inner life of the people, that no direct allusion can be made to the sexual relations without exciting simpering smiles and blushes, or rude, profane mirth. What of moral elevation, simplicity and genuine purity can there be in a people that persists in speaking of the limbs of a table or chair? We are disgusted with this substitution of seeming for being, and the insufferable cant and hypocrisy to which it gives rise. Thon, friend, who hast hitherto seen nothing but the madness of phallic processions in this poem, go wash thyself, make thyself clean, then return to it and reflect. Think of what precise thing thou hast hitherto made the phallus a symbol, and with what associations—what thou hast done to it when looking upon it! and then decide where the obscurity resides.
As for us, we heartily thank Walt Whitman for the clear, distinct, manly and pure voice with which he has spoken of these things, and hail it as the dawn of a wiser and better era, in which men and women will no longer speak of the limbs of tables and chairs. Nor will any pure and ingenuous mind torture this into an endorsement of rude, low and lascivious talk, but will rather receive it as the indication of an intense desire to be at once and forever free from all such. 
We have much more to say of Walt—strong, brave lever of man, and uncompromising champion of man's rights, that he is—but must defer it to a more convenient opportunity. In the meantime, we would advise all who have escaped the dominion of the passions and the appetites, and who have any appreciation of the essential dignity of man and the grandeur of his destiny, to buy the book, and read it. T.V.
THE KANGAROO HUNTERS; or, Adventures in the Bush. By Anne Bowman, Author of 'Esperanza,' 'The Castaways,' 'The Young Exiles,' &c., &c. Boston: Crosby, Nichols, Lee & Co. 1860.
A sprightly and entertaining volume, and sure to give immense satisfaction to juvenile readers,—embodying all sorts of adventures, on sea and shore, in the city and the wilderness, and described in a pleasantly colloquial and graphic manner,—the whole furnishing a large amount of useful information respecting bird and beast, and the many wonders of creation. It has several excellent pictorial illustrations, and of its 463 pages, not a dull page is to be found. The more of such books for the family circle, the better.
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER, for September, 1860, is received, and contains the following interesting articles:—I. Paul's Argument for the Abolition of the Law. II. The Women of Thackery. III. Dr. Huntington's Introduction to Bickersteth. IV. Leslie. V. German Hymns. VI. St. Augustine at Hippo. VII. Review of Current Literature.
<C02> 
A REMARKABLE INDENTURE. 
MR. EDITOR—Please give the following Indenture, Which I have copied from the original, an insertion in the Liberator, and oblige.
JOSHUA COFFIN.
This Indenture, made and agreed upon this thirteenth day of September, Anno 1772, between Robert Pierpont of Boston, in the County of Suffolk, gentleman, of the one part, and Jack and Cato, negro servants to the said Pierpont, of said Norton, of the other part. Whereas, the said Robert Pierpont is owner of the said Jack and Cato, and by the custom of this country is entitled to their service during their lives;—and whereas, the said Robert is sensible that the love of freedom is inherent in all, and by the laws of God and Nature ought equally to be enjoyed by the whole human race,—now, therefore, these Presents Witness, that the said Robert Pierpont, in consideration of the covenants and agreements hereinafter mentioned, by and on the part of the said Jack and Cato, to be respectively observed and kept for himself, his heirs, executors and administrators, doth undertake, covenant and agree to and with the said Jack and Cato and each of them, to release, manumit  and forever discharge them, and each of them, from that service, which, by the custom of this land, he is entitled to, as aforesaid; and by virtue of these Presents he, the said Robert Pierpont, doth, from the date hereof, release to the said Jack and Cato all his right, interest or property in the said Jack and Cato, and 'doth manumit and discharge them, and each of them, from the service aforesaid. And Ruskin says we should ‘go to nature in all singleness of heart, and walk with her laboriously and lastingly, having no other thought but how best to penetrate her meaning; rejecting nothing, selecting anything, scouring nothing.’ That this man has been percent thus to look upon nature in her unity and deposit, and to permit her to speak in her own mystery and beautiful language, is the secret of the wonderful fascination of his poems. Many individuals of wonderful species’ see nothing but Walt Whitman in ease poems. He-’one of the roughs, disorderly, freshly and sensual’- intrudes himself upon them in every sentence, and repeats ‘the unquenchable eligible-egotism’ on every page. It is undoubtedly a grave offence for an author to thrust his personality between the reader and the truth which the book is intended to embody or set forth. But this is a grand poem of human nature. Man, his origin, nature and destiny, and the grandeur of these, it the subject; and the author chooses to treat it in the first person, that is all. ‘I celebrate myself, And what I assume you shall assume, For every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you’. This was the first sentence in the poems as originally published, and to us it was the key to everything that followed. We have been drawn irresistibly to the book, again and again, for there is a simple-minded and strong man speaking in his strength and simplicity. Walt comes to us, with his Leaves of Grass, a true child of nature-of the earth and the stars, and of what is beyond. He scornfully refuses to be judged by any ordinary, conventional standard of Art, for he, indeed, is no artist, but the born priest and hierophant of the mystic, unfathomable universe. He sees that everything is divine; that God is in all, over all, and under all; that there is nothing mean, without a purpose or out of its place. He is so full of profound reverence for the old Divine Mother that she, in return, presses him to her bosom, and showers upon him all the wealth of her limitless love- so full of child-like playfulness, confidence and simplicity, that, as he leans and loafes at his ease, observing a spear of summer grass,’ all her children press round him with uproarious, sunny laughter, weaving wild flowers in his hair, and kissing him with kisses that breathe the odors of heaven. To him the universe is a maracuium ingens, pregnant with profound mysteries; but he himself is also a miracle-the greatest of miracles. A soft whisper tells him that he is ‘the same of things accomplished.’ All the ages have borne him in solemn procession from chaos and primeval night until now.

Rise after rise bow the phantoms behind me, Afar down I see the huge first Nothing-I know I was even there.

Immense have been the preparations for me, Faithful and friendly the arms that have helped me.
Cycles ferried my cradle, rowing and rowing like cheerful boatmen,
For room to me stars kept aside in their own rings. They sent influences to look alter what was to hold one.

All forces have been stendily employed to complete and delight me: Now I stand on this spot with my Soul.

The SOUL!
Forever and forever-longer than soil is brown and solid-longer than water ebbs and flows,’ 

He takes the loftiest views of man, reverences all his parts, and will not have any thing omitted. He is the poet of the body and of the soul, of the passions and the organs, and of all their manifestations, normal and beautiful, or otherwise. Truth, beauty, goodness, heroism, justice-these he recognizes, receives, and takes courage from them; falsehood, ugliness, depravity, cowardice and oppression-he sees these, also, with clear vision, but knows that God and Order reign, not Chaos and the Devil,-and therefore receives them, confident that, for a season, they too have their place.

Of the sexes and sexusl relation, no previous poet
has spoken so freely and to well. This opinion will
doubtless astonish many who have read the book. Nor are we surprised that so many find in the ‘Enfaas of Adam’ only the drunken and obscene ravings of a ‘new, astonishing Phallus worship.’ 

‘All architecture is what you do to it when you look upon it.

All music is what awakes from you, when you are reminded by the instruments.’ There is such a deep and unmitigated vulganity and coarsencess in the inner life of the people, that no direct allusion can be made to the sexual relations without out exciting simpering smiles and blushes, or rude, profane mirth. What of moral elevation, simplicity and genuine purity can there be in a people that persists in speaking of the limbs of a table or chair? We are disgusted with this substitution of seeming for being, and the insufferable cant and hypocrisy to which it gives rice. Thou, friend, who hast hitherto seen nothing but the madness of phallic processions in this poem, go wash thyself, make thyself clean, then return to it and reflect. Think of what precise thing thou hast hitherto made the phallus a symbol, and with what association-what thou hast done to it when looking upon it! and then decide where the obscenity resides.

As for us, we heartily thank Walt Whitman for the clear, distinct, manly and pure voice with which he has spoken of these things and hail it as the dawn of a wiser and better era, in which men and women will no longer speak of the limbs of tables and chairs. Nor will any pure and ingenuous mind torture this into an endorsement of rude, low and lascivious talk, but will rather receive it as the indication of an intense desire to be at once and forever free from all such.

We have much more to say of Walt-strong, brave lower of man, and uncompromising champion of man’s rights, that he is-but must defer it to a more convenient opportunity. In the meantime, we would advise all who have escaped the dominion of the passions and the appetites, and who have any appreciation of the essential dignity of man and the grandeur of his destiny, to buy the book, and read it. T. V.

THE KANGAROO HUNTERS; or, Adventures in the
Bush. By Anne Bowman, Author of ‘Esperanza,’
‘The Castaways,’ ‘The Young Exiles,’ &c., &c.
Boston: Crosby, Nichols, Lee & Co. 1860.

A sprightly and entertaining volume, and sure to give immense satisfaction to juvenile readers,-embodying all sorts of adventures, on sea and shore, in the city and the wilderness, and described in a pleasantly colloquial and graphic manner,-the whole furnishing a large amount of useful information respecting bird and beast, and the many wonders of creation.
It has several excellent pictorial illustrations, and of its 463 pages, not a dull page is to be found. The more of such books for the family circle, the better.
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER, for September. 1860,

Is received, and contains the following interesting articles:-
I. Paul’s Argument for the Abolition of the
Law, II. The Women of Thackery. III. Dr. Huntington’s Introduction to Bickersteth. IV. Leslie.
V. German Hymns. VI. St. Augustine at Hippo. VII. Review of Current Literature.

<c02>
A REMARKABLE INDENTURE. 
Mr. editor-Please give the following Indenture, which I have copied from the original, an insertion in the Liberator, and oblige.
JOSHUA COFFIN.

This Indenture, made and agreed upon this thirteenth  day of September, Anno 1772, between Robert Pierpont of Boston, in the County of Suffolk, gentleman, of the one part, and Jack and Cato, negro servants to the said Pierpont, of said Boston, of the other part. Whereas, the said Robert Pierpont in owner of the said Jack and Cato, and by the custom of this country is entitled to their service during their lives;-and whereas, the said Robert is sensible that the love of freedom is inherent in all, and by the laws of God and Nature ought equally to be enjoyed by the whole human race,-now, therefore, these Presents Witness, that the said Robert Pierpont, in consideration of the covenants and agreements hereinafter mentioned, by and on the part of the said Jack and Cato, to be respectively observed and kept for himself, his heirs, executors and administrators, doth undertake, covenant and agree to and with the said Jack and Cato, and each of them, to release, manumit and forever discharge them, and each of them, from that service, which, by the custom of this land, he is entitled to, as aforesaid; and by virtue of these Presents he, the said Robert Pierpont, doth, from the date hereof, release to the said Jack and Cato all his right, interest or property in the said Jack and Cato, and doth manumit and discharge them, and each of them, from the service aforesaid. And the said Robert doth further covenant with the said Jack and Cato, that they, and each of them, shall have good right and free liberty to quit his service, and work and labor with any other person or persons who shall offer them the highest wages-provided, always, that they shall give him, the said Robert, the first refusal of their service at the wages offered them by any others. And he, the said Robert, doth further covenant to and with the said Jack and Cato, that he will pay them, severally, the sum of £17 6s. 8d. lawful money, by the year, from the date hereof until greater wages, are offered them by any other person,-£13 6s. 8d. of which to be paid in money at the expiration of the year, and £4 in clothing as necessity and convenience shall require. And the said Jack and Cato, in consideration of their manumission and freedom, above covenanted to be given them by the said Robert, do for themselves, and each for the other, undertake, covenant and agree to and with the said Robert Pierpont, his heirs, executors and administrators, that they shall not, from the date of these Presents, ever hereafter incumber or charge the estate of the said Robert Pierpont for their maintenance and support, excepting in case of some unforeseen accident or misfortune, which may render them unable to support themselves; that they are willing and content to be under the care and guardianship of Caleb Davis, merchant, and Gustavo’s Fellows, mariner, both of Boston on aforesaid, whom, by these Presents, the said Robert Pierpont both constitute and appoint to that charge; that they shall deposit in the hands of the said Davis and Fellows the several sums of money they shall from time to time receive, except so much as shall be necessary for their immediate use, till each of them shall acquire the sum of £60 lawful money, when the same shall be put to interest by the said Davis and Fellows on such security as they shall esteem good, to and for the only proper use of the said Jack and Cato and their heirs. And the said Jack and Cato do, for themselves and each for the other, further covenant and agree to and with the said Robert Pierpont, his heirs, executors and administrators, that they, or either of them, shall not, drink any strong liquors to excess; that they shall not steal, embezzle or purloin the rightful property of others; that they shall not use any oaths curses or imprecations in their conversation, or accustom themselves to any obscene or base language; that they shall not frequent any bad houses, or keep any bad company; that they shall not fight or quarrel with, or strike any person whatsoever, except in the necessary defence of their lives or limbs; that they shall not profane the Sabbath day, but keep it holy and behave themselves in all their conduct soberly, righteously, and godly, as becometh Christians.
In Witness whereof, the parties of these Presents have hereunto interchangeably set their hands and seals, the day and year first above mentioned.
ROBERT PIERPONT,
JACK, CATO.
Signed, scaled and delivered in presence of 
ROBERT SESSIONS, 
JOHN HOPKINS.

THE POPULAR RELIGION. 
The large infusion of Judaism into the system clerically represented to our people as Christianity is well represented by the fervent exhortations of the New York Observer against funerals on the Sabbath-meaning funerals on Sunday. The editor and various correspondents unite in the opinion that the burial of the dead on Sunday is altogether unjustifiable; and one of the latter, as if to clench the nail, affirms that—‘It cannot be shown that the Jews ever buried their dead on the Sabbath’; and concludes, apparently with perfect seriousness—‘Surely, burying the dead is a sin as great as that of the man gathering sticks on the Sabbath’!
Is it not amazing that people can be so besotted as to receive this sort of stuff as the preaching of Christianity, and to believe, on the same authority, that the use of Sunday to call men to the help of the slave is Infidelity?—C. K. W.

OBITUARY.
Departed this life, at Cambridge, Mass., August 26, 1860, Mrs. MARY ROOPE BOND, widow of the late Prof. BOND, of Harvard Astronomical Observatory, at the age of seventy-three years.
Descended from an ancient English family, distinguished for talents and accomplishments, literary, moral and religious, (that of Cranch, of Kingsbridge, in Devonshire, G. B.) this excellent woman was endued with a strong and well-cultivated mind, and bore all the characteristics of that solid worth and virtue which render the memory of our ancestors so estimable and venerable. Her religion, seated in the heart, and reigning in the affections, was exhibited in that love to the great Father which embraced in its wide circle all his human family. With pure and exalted piety, she had peace in believing, the rejoicing of hope, firm unto the end.
Full of years and of goodness, she died in faith of the spiritual life and heavenly world, for which (we humbly trust) she has exchanged the present (amid many blessings): it was to her latter days a scene of acute suffering, borne with saintly patience, but from which it was a joy to herself and all around her to obtain so peaceful a release. 
‘So by my woes to be 
Nearer, my God, to thee!
Nearer to thee!’ H. C. F. 
SLAVE CASE. Extract of a letter from a friend in Minneapolis, (Minnesota,) dated Aug. 20th, 1860:—
‘One week ago, yesterday, a slave was set free in this place. She is still in safe hands, and probably will not be retaken without the shedding of blood. The many slaveholders, and their base and servile panderers, who are here at this time, will, undoubtedly, make an effort to kidnap her, if they can learn her whereabouts. There is great excitement here in regard to the matter, and violence is threatened. A forcible, but unsuccessful attempt was made to kidnap the released slave the night after her freedom was decreed.'
ANOTHER OF THE BOOTH RESCUERS.-G. W. Frederick, of Milwaukee, has been arrested by the U. S. Marshal, charged with aiding in the rescue of Booth 
<c03>
DR. CHEEVER. Dr. Cheever and party left England for Switzerland on the l0th ult. We have seen a private letter from him, dated at Brussels, in which he speaks in the most encouraging terms of the state of feeling in England in regard to his mission. Lord Brougham invited him to an interview at his rooms of in the Parliament House. A private letter from London informs us that before he left that city, he met a select private company of ministers and laymen for friendly conference, to whom he gave a circumstantial narrative of the events which, during the last five years, have grown out of his persistent denunciations of slavery. There were those present who had been industriously plied with documents calculated and designed to prejudice their minds against him, and these persons closely questioned Dr. Cheever in relation to all the statements which have been promulgated to his injury. His answers, we are assured, had the effect of removing every unfavorable impression. The conference was eminently satisfactory to all parties, and its fruits will shortly be seen. Our correspondent says: ‘The Doctor’s way is now open; there is a wide field for his talent as a preacher of the truth in the midst of the Churches here, and a fair prospect of the realization of some effective pecuniary aid.’ The Doctor will be back from Switzerland shortly, when our readers will be kept posted in regard to his movements.—Anti-Slavery Standard.
ESCAPE OF SLAVES.—The St. Louis Evening News says that a few days since, five negroes belonging to Mr. Edward Bredell disappeared from their master’s farm, six miles from the city, on the Clayton road,. The runaway party consists of a woman, aged about sixty, her two sons and daughter, aged respectively seven, twelve and twenty-one years, and a young girl closely related to the family. The negro ‘lke,’ twenty-one years of age, was Mr. Bredell’s coachman, and enjoyed the most unlimited confidence of his owner. Mr. Bredell is on a visit to the East, the slaves at the time of the stampede being in charge of an overseer. The mother, it seems, devised the plan of departure from the farm, though there are circumstances which lead to the belief that the negroes had previously been tampered with by white men. The old woman having prepared her children for the journey, approached the overseer, as it was customary for her to do, with the request for permission to visit some colored neighbors. This request was promptly granted her, though the negroes had scarcely left the premises before the suspicions of the overseer were awakened. So strong indeed was his impression that all was not right, that he soon after went to the house which they pretended to visit, only to find that so far from being, or having been there during the day, their whereabouts were unknown. The conviction was then at once established that the slaves had run away. Thus far they have eluded pursuit, though we understand no very extraordinary exertions have as yet been made to capture them. The slaves had a most comfortable home-were well cared for, and well protected-and nothing, it is supposed, but the captivating stories of freedom, and life in Canada, breathed into their willing ears by some Abolitionist, could have induced them to take the step they have. Mr. Bredell, a few years since, emancipated thirty or forty slaves in Baltimore, property left him by will, and those who have now absented themselves, might possibly in the course of time have been served in the same way.-St. Louis Bulletin.
MORE KENTUCKY BARBARISM. Mr. Wm. S. Bailey has been arrested, examined, and held to bail by two Justices of Newport, Ky., in the sum of $1000, to appear before the Circuit Court to answer to the grave charge in this free Republic, of publishing an incendiary sheet in re-issuing the Free South newspaper! One of the Justices, who rejoices in the name of Hallam, took a leading part in the mob demolishment of, the Free South a few months ago. The counsel of Mr. Bailey made a motion to have the examination before some other magistrate than Hallam, but the motion was overruled by the pro-slavery Dogberries. A copy of the paper was introduced, articles were read by the prosecuting attorney to prove its incendiary character, and Mr. B, was ordered to find bail or go to jail. The bail was obtained.
The match must certainly be very nearly burned down to the powder, when such papers as the Free South are suppressed as incendiary by criminal prosecutions. The number of the Free South referred to we have examined, and the anti-slavery articles are temperate in spirit and language. Emancipation is advocated, but in no ultra, incendiary form. The writings of Jefferson, Madison, Henry Clay and other Southern statesmen on the same subject are quite as incendiary. The prosecution of Mr. Bailey, however, but illustrates the threat made in the Senate by Mr. Douglas, that abolition sedition should be put down by tines and imprisonments. Give him the power, he said in substance, and he would put a stop to slavery agitation by silencing the speech and press of the people!-Cleveland Leader.
The Free South newspaper, which was suppressed by a mob soon after the Harper's Ferry affair, has been re-established by its indefatigable proprietor, Mr. W. S. Bailey, at Newport, Ky. To rebut the imputations cast upon him by his pro-slavery enemies, he publishes the following certificate, to which are appended the names of two hundred and thirty of his neighbors:—
‘TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN. In view of the wrongs perpetrated upon Wm. S. Bailey in the destruction of his printing-office by a mob last fall, and of the evil reports against him, we (citizens of Newport) would say, that Mr. Bailey has resided in Newport some fifteen or twenty years, and has always been regarded as a peaceable, law-abiding citizen, moral and upright in his dealings. And though some of us may not agree with him in his anti-slavery sentiments, yet we denounce the cowardly and desperate action of the parties who destroyed his type and presses, and likewise the repeated threats of making him leave his State and home.'
Mr. Bailey shows extraordinary pluck in venturing to start his paper again in disregard of the threats of the enemies to freedom.-Anti-Slavery Standard.
WOULDN'T 'WITHDRAW.’-A stranger who recently arrived at Bowling Green, Caroline county, Va., was very shortly set down for an ‘Abolitionist’ by some of the citizens, who sent a deputation to him requesting him to withdraw from the place. The stranger, it is said, promised to do so, but being seen in town the next morning, another committee called on him at his hotel, and proceeded to ‘expostulate’ with him, whereupon the stranger informed them that it was a free country, and he should remain as long as he pleased;; at the same moment a door opened, and eight or ten armed men appeared, ready to defend him. The committee retired, and concluded to place the matter in the hands of the people of the county,! who at last accounts were about to hold a public meeting on the subject. The men who defended the stranger are said to be Northern laborers employed in the town.
A Savannah gentleman writes to a friend in New York of an incident which occurred on a Southern steamer, as follows:—
‘On the Augusta an election was taken, which showed Breckinridge 36, Douglas 12, Bell 12, and (mirabile dictu!) Lincoln 4! The excitement consequent thereon was considerable, and two of the obnoxious individuals-brothers, who had gone to Macon to do business-were “spotted.” It was considered a case worthy of attention; and had it been so that they could not have got out of the city at once, that night, it is very doubtful whether they would have been allowed to have gone further than Savannah. As it is, they will be looked after. The other two are not known, so that it rests upon every community in our State to consider the question, “Have we a Lincolnite among us?" '
THE U. G. R. R. We are informed, and know beyond possibility of doubt, that two agents of that philanthropic institution, the Underground R. R., who reside in Kansas, have recently brought to the free States, from Missouri, twelve slaves, or colored persons who once were slaves, but are now freemen safely located and taking care of themselves. Some of them were in Boston a few days since. Among them was a young mulatto woman, quite white, with her little child; and it is said to have been very affecting to witness her joy at the prospective future freedom of her child, seeming entirely to forget her own liberty The agents who did this work are young men, have lived some time in Kansas, and done much labor in this line, encountering many dangers.-Boston Atlas.
The Republican State Convention, which was held at Worcester yesterday, was very large, very harmonious, and very enthusiastic. It represented a hundred thousand of the one hundred and sixty thousand voters of the Commonwealth, and its nominations will be supported by the whole party, the exceptions being too insignificant for notice. The contest for Governor was sharp, but soon over. The question was settled before the delegates went to bed on Tuesday night, the opposition being borne down by the unanimity and momentum of the Andrew men. Silly Mr. Lunt and silly Mr. Curtis affect to think that they can beat him. If anything can make an impression upon their invincible egotism, it will be the vote for Mr. Andrew in November. He is as popular as they are odious, and I could not use a stronger figure of speech to express my opinion of his strength
<c04>
with the people. Mr. Andrew is in every particular the opposite of these men. He is a genial, warm-hearted, liberal, benevolent, philanthropic, progressive, hearty, good humored, honest, upright and downright man, while they are sour, malignant haters of the human race, and everybody but themselves and their own little, narrow coterie. When the people of Massachusetts prefer the latter type of character to the former, they will allow John A. Andrew to be beaten by Lunt and Curtis, and not before.-Boston Correspondent of the New York Tribune.
John A. Andrew, Esq., the Republican candidate for Governor, was the recipient of a very complimentary testimonial on Monday. His neighbors and friends, the people of Hingham, among whom he has been a summer resident for several years, turned out almost en masse, with music and other demonstrations of joy, and proceeded to his residence, where, in their behalf, a congratulatory address was delivered by Mr. T. T. Bouve. In response, Mr. Andrew spoke nearly an hour, touching upon politics but gently, however. His speech was received with much applause.
THB BARBARISM OF SLAVERY.-The Cincinnati Enquirer says:-
‘Six very fine looking children, the eldest nine years, and the youngest nine months, all girls, with the exception of a boy aged five years, were brought into court, with their mother, for the purpose of being emancipated. The mother had traces of negro blood, the children none whatever; on the contrary, they were of remarkable fair and delicate complexions, and had the hair and features of the white race. They were the slaves of Mr. Thomas Murray, of Lincoln county, Georgia, who has purchased for them a comfortable house and lot on Bar street, in this city, as a home.’
The Petersburg (Va.) Express lately told us how happy slaves’ children were provided for by their kind masters, and the parents thus relieved from all the cares and responsibilities which beset poor parents in the free States. ‘Marion,’ the Richmond (Va.) correspondent of the same Express, writing under date of August 7th, 1860, says:-
‘At a sale of slaves to-day at Dickinson & Hill’s auction mart, the following extraordinary prices were realized:-
A bright girl, aged eleven years, $1,155
A black girl, aged nine years, 970
Three brothers, the first aged 21 years, 1,395
The second aged nineteen, 1,375
The third aged seventeen, 1,380
The slaves were all purchased by Mr. John B. Davis, of a trader.’
Bill Walker, who has just turned up again, like any other bad bill that is allowed to circulate, is the source of much vexation to the Government of this country, and the cause of not a little expenditure to it. He ought to be suppressed; and as he can’t easily be killed, why don’t Government serve him as the Allies served Napoleon, seize him and shut him up? There’s no St. Helena for him, but isn’t there Sombrero Island, where he could be made serviceable in the guano trade? He could there be turned to account, both in life and in death.-Traveller.
Some barbarians in South Carolina propose burning copies of Mr. Sumner’s speech on the ‘barbarism of slavery,’ in the late Brooks’s district, and so to throw a flood of light upon the subject of the speech, by way of illustration. The auto da fe’ on the anniversary of Brooks’s attempted assassination, next year.-Ib.
These barbarians are perhaps in part incited to this proposed new illustration of the truth of the portraiture Mr. Sumner has drawn of them, by the, thorough manner in which he roasted their Chestnut.]
The late Jonathan Phillips, of Boston, left legacies to public institutions to the amount of $135,000. Among them were the following: To the city of Boston, for the Public Library, $20,000; to the same to adorn and embellish streets and public places, $10,000; to Harvard College, $20,000; Boston Society of Natural History, $10,000; Boston Marine Society, $10,000; Massachusetts General Hospital,$10,000; Amherst College, $5,000; Massachusetts Congregational Charitable Society, $5,000; Town of Phillipston, Mass., for a town library, a fund of $5,000.
It is estimated that the reception of his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales will cost the Provincial government of the Canadas no less a sum than one million dollars, independent of the vast amount spent by the different towns.
EIGHTY THOUSAND LIVES SACRIFICED. A letter in the London Times, from China, says that from 50,000 to 80,000 lives have been sacrificed during the temporary occupation of Hong Chan by the rebels.
Walker’s fight at Truxillo was more serious and bloody than at first reported. There were twelve Spaniards killed and eighteen wounded; while on the  American side, only three received slight injuries.
Is not our Democratic neighbor, the Boston Post, getting a grain too excited for dog days? He speaks of Lincoln as ‘the unscrupulous Abolitionist, whose ambition will not be satiated until he shall see a red line of human blood drawn as the dividing line between the North and the South.’ That will do for Hambleton of Georgia; but is it not a little strong for these Northern latitudes?-Providence Journal.
The Lowell Courier states that an ovarian tumor, weighing twenty-four pounds, was successfully removed from the person of a lady in that city about four weeks ago, by Dr. Kimball, assisted by Doctors Allen and Graves. The tumor was located in the region of the abdomen.
STATE TEMPERANCE CONVENTION.-The annual convention, under the auspices of the State Temperance Committee, will be held at Mechanics’ Hall, Worcester, on the 18th of September. Hon. Asahel Huntington, of Salem, will preside. The State Temperance Committee which met on Wednesday morning, in Boston, voted to forward to Mr. Gough a congratulatory letter on his safe return. They rejoice in sympathy with any efforts, whether legal or moral, in promoting the great reform, and are happy to tender to Mr. Gough a recognition of his signal abilities as a temperance advocate.
The Mobile Register (Douglas organ) says of Walker’s filibustering attempts in Central America:
‘The establishment on our southern frontier of slaveholding republics, encouraging and legalizing the importation of Africans, injures no established financial interest of our own, and gives us natural allies  who may, eventually, if deemed proper, be connected  with us by closer ties. This is the true Southern policy.’
Gen. Perry, of South Carolina, tells his fire eating neighbors:-
‘It is not, at all improbable that the South may find more favors under the Administration of Lincoln than they have under any Democratic Administration. It may be that “Old Abe” will go out of office quite a favorite with the Southern people!! At least, we should give him a trial.’
Gilbert Hunt, the negro who rescued so many persons from death, of the burning of the Richmond theatre, nearly fifty years ago, is still living, and plies his trade, which is that of a blacksmith, in Richmond, Virginia.
The examination of Wm. Stewart and Michael Weaver, charged with kidnapping the negro James Waggoner, whose release as a free man by a Kentucky court, after having been sold into slavery, we noticed a few days since, has resulted in the committal of the kidnappers to jail, in default of $2,000 bail. They will be tried at the next term of the Hamilton (Ohio) Court of Common Pleas, and richly deserve the penalty of the law.
WOMAN'S LIBRABY.-A library, exclusively for women, is to be opened in New York next month. The women have shown a dislike to visit the reading rooms of the public libraries in that city. The new library has already about 5000 volumes.
The title of Doctor of Divinity conferred upon Henry Ward Beecher by Amherst College, at the late Commencement, is rejected by Mr. Beecher, in a note addressed to the Board of Trustees, under date of ‘Peekskill, August 21st.’ He very sensibly remarks:
GENTLEMEN,-I have been duly notified that at the last meeting of the Board of Trustees, the title of Doctor of Divinity was conferred upon me.
It would certainly give me pleasure should any respectable 
institution bear such a testimony of goodwill. But that AMHERST COLLEGE, my own mother, should so kindly remember a son, is a peculiar gratification.
But all the use of such a title ends with the public expression of a wish to confer it. For the rest, it would be but an encumbrance, and furnish an address by no means agreeable to my taste. I greatly prefer the simplicity of that name which my mother uttered over me in the holy hour of infant consecration and baptism. May I be permitted, without seeming to undervalue your kindness, or disesteeming the honor meant, to return it to your hands; that I may to the end of my life be, as thus far I have been, simply,
HENRY WARD BEECHR.
<c05>
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
Collections by Parker Pillsbury. 
In West Wrentham, Mass., $3 56
Milford, Mass., 8 00
Andover, Mass., 3 50
Leominster, Mass., 9 35
By H. Ford Douglass.
In Milford, Mass., 8 00
In Natick, Mass., 7 00
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.
RECEIPTS 
Into the Treasury of the Massachusetts Anti-slavery
Society, August, 1860.
Contribution at Abington,. $89 30
Chas. L. Remond, contribution at Milford, 8 00
E. H. Heywood, contribution at Worcester, 18 00
Ira Adams, pledge Jan., 1859, 5 00
Mrs. H. C. Fifield, pledge, May, 1859. 5 00
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer. Boston, Aug. 31, 1860. 
N. E. FEMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE, SPRINGFIELD STREET, BOSTON. The Thirteenth Annual term will commence on WEDNESDAY,  NOV. 7, 1860, and continue seventeen weeks. PROPRSSORS: Enoch C. Rolfe, M. D., Theory and Practice of Medicine; John K. Palmer, M. D., Materia Medica, Therapeutics and Chemistry; Stephen Tracy, M. D., Anatomy and Surgery; Marie E. Zakrzewsks, M. D., Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children; Frances S. Cooke, M. D., Physiology and Hygiene; Mary R. Jenks, M. D., Demonstrator of Anatomy. Fees, $5 for each of the six tickets; Matriculation, $3; Graduation, $10. The Clinical Department is open daily for the practical education of the students. For State Scholarships and beneficiary aid, apply to the Secretary of the Board of Trustees, Dr. GREGORY, at the College; for admission, to the subscriber. 
ENOCH C. ROLFE. Dean of the Faculty,
563 Washington street.
Aug. 24. 3t
POLITICAL ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION IN THE CITY OF WORCESTER, MASS. 
An adjourned meeting of the Political Anti-Slavery Convention, which met in the city of Boston, on the 29th day of May last, will be held in the city of Worcester, on Wednesday and Thursday, the 19th and 20th days of September next, at 10 o'clock., A. M 
The object of this Convention is to consider the propriety of organizing a Political Party upon an Anti-Slavery interpretation of the U. S. Constitution. with the avowed purpose of abolishing slavery in the States, as well as Territories of the Union. At its former meeting, resolutions setting forth the great principles of liberty and equality which must underlie and permeate a political movement, to entitle it to the confidence and support of the friends of freedom, were introduced and discussed, but without taking action upon them, the Convention adjourned to meet in the city of Worcester, at the call of the President and Chairman of the Business Committee. 
In behalf of the Convention,
JOHN PIERPONT, President.
STEPHEN S. FOSTER, C. B. Com. 
Worcester, August 10, 1860. 

ANNIVERSARY MEETING. 
The Eighteenth Annual Meeting of the Western Anti-Slavery Society will be held at SALEM, Columbiana county, Ohio, commencing on Saturday, the 22d of September, at 2 o'clock, P. M.
The need for a full attendance of the true and tried at our annual gathering was never greater than now. In this, the year of quadrennial stultification and compromise, there comes a trumpet-call to every one who knows the Right, and knowing dares maintain it, to stand firm upon the rock of principle. Let Abolitionists manifest at least as much devotion to the cause of Humanity, as politicians do to Party. Is it unreasonable to ask of them to spend as much time, and pour forth as abundantly of their means to further the cause they profess to love, as politicians are doing in their electioneering efforts for favorite nominees?
In addition to our home speakers and home workers, we expect to have with us at our gathering Parker Pillsbury, of New Hampshire, H. Ford Douglass, of Illinois, and Abby Kelley Foster, of Massachusetts.
All interested in the great and absorbing question of the day-a question which is sundering political parties, agitating churches, and drawing a line between the friends of man and man’s oppressors-are invited to assemble with us.
By direction of the Ex. Committee, 
BENJ. S. JONES, Recording Secretary.

STATE CONVENTION.
The Fourth Annual Meeting of the Vermont Anti-Slavery Convention will be held at BRADFORD, on Wednesday and Thursday, the 17th and 18th of October next.
The enslavement of four millions in our land, the indescribable wrongs done to the oppressed, the continued refusal of political parties and of many religious sects to demand the abolition of slavery, the increase of the slave trade, the strength and daring attempts of the Slave Power in the Federal Government, and the new reign of terror in the South, as well as the persecuting spirit manifested in the North, all call for a large and enthusiastic assemblage of the friends of freedom without distinction.
Seeking the emancipation of the enslaved, and the highest good of our common country, let the earnest friends of human rights, in obedience to the voice of God, of humanity and of patriotism, come together for a full and free discussion of the great questions now before the people.
The friends of freedom in other States are invited to attend, and join in the deliberations of the Convention.
CHARLES LENOX REMOND of Salem, Mass., E. H. HEYWOOD of Boston, and H. FORD DOUGLASS of Chicago, III eloquent champions of freedom, besides others in our own State, will address the meeting.
The sessions of the Convention will open on Wednesday, at 10 o’clock, and continue through the two days and evenings.
In behalf of the State Committee,
J. M. COBURN,
JEHIEL CLAFLIN,
JAS. HUTCH1NSON, JR.,
N. R. JOHNSTON.
MEETING OF THE FRIENDS OF HUMAN PROGRESS.-The sixth Yearly Meeting of the Friends of Human Progress will be held at Hemlock Hall, in Tucker’s Grove, one mile west of Kerr’s Corners, Erie Co., N. Y., on the 7th, 8th and 9th of September, 1860, to commence on Friday, at 10 o’clock, A.M.
WALTER WOOD, JAKES A
LEVI BROWN, ALONZO M. HAWLEY,
LUCY W. HAWLEY, JOSEPH SINTON,
PRUDENCE K. SINTON, PUEBE M. VARNEY. 
CAPE COD ANNUAL MEETING.-The annual Anti-Slavery Convention for Barnstable County will be held at Harwich, on Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 22d and 23d, commencing on Saturday, at 2,P.M. WM. LLOYD GARRISON, CHARLES L. REMOND, E. H. HEYWOOD and other speakers will be present. The friends of impartial liberty and the public generally are cordially invited to attend.
Z. H. SMALL, J. H. ROBBINS, ELKANAH NICKERSON, Committee of Arrangements.
H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at the following places in the State of New York:-
Port Byron, Friday, eve’g, Sept. 7.
Rochester, Sunday, eve’g, Sept 9.
Medina, Monday, eve’g, Sept. 10.
Lockport, Tuesday, eve’g, Sept. 11.
Buffalo, Wednesday, eve’g, Sept. 12.
Also, in 
Erie, Pa., Thursday, eve’g, Sept. 13.
Barcelona, Friday, eve’g, Sept. 14.
Cleveland, O., Sunday, eve’g, Sept. 16.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will lecture on The Mission of Anti-Slavery, in the Unitarian Church, at NEPONSET, on Sunday evening next, Sept. 9th, at 7 o’clock.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON will lecture on the subject of Slavery at SHELDONVILLE, on Sunday, Sept. 15th, at half-past 10 o’clock, A. M.; and at WEST WRENTHAM, on Peace, at half-past 1 o’clock, P. M., on the same day.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture in Ellsworth, and other places in Maine, during September, and the first three Sundays in October.
Address—-Care BELA MARSH, BOSTON, Mass.
EMPLOYMENT WANTED ON A SEWING MACHINE.-A young lady, skilled in the use of Grover & Baker’s sewing machines, wishes employment either at her residence, No. 9 Columbia street, or in families in the city or vicinity where the machine is used, or taking her own with her, if desired.
MARRIED-In this city, 1st inst., Mr. John McDuffie, of Cambridgeport, to Miss Hannah E. Givens, of Boston. 
<c06>
CARPETING.
‘All the Year Round'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO,
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN 
CARPETING, 
285 WASHINGTON STREET. 
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, 
the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities),Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
—ALSO—
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES, 
For cash or approved credit. Sept 16 tf
THAYER & ELDRIDGE, PUBLISHERS 
AND
Wholesale Booksellers,
114 & 116 WASHINGTON ST.,
Mch 16 tf BOSTON, MASS.
PROUTY & MEARS'S
CELEBRATED
HOT-AIR FURNACES. 
PARLOR GRATES in great variety, embracing
more than sixty different patterns, varying in prices from three to sixty-five dollars.
PARLOR STOVES of superior designs, including the PORTABLE HOT-AIR RADIATING PARLOR GRATE, the most elegant heating apparatus for drawing-rooms and parlors ever invented.
COOKING-STOVES of the latest and most approved patterns, including the 'Clipper Improved,' 'Mount vernon,' and 'Gold Medal.'
DINING-ROOM STOVES, with ovens, including the 'Beauty,' of new and chaste design, and in its operation entirely superior to any cast iron 'Parlor Oven 'Stove’ ever introduced into this market.
-ALSO-
A large assortment of Office and Shop Stores; Castings for the PROUTY ‘MEARS'S Stoves and Furnaces, &c. &c.
AT
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,
BY
ALLEN S. WEEKS. 23. 25 and 27 New Friend Street,
(Between Union and Hanover Streets,)
BOSTON.
June 1-eoptf

TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION.
JUST published, a full Report of the proceedings of the TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION, held in the city of New York, May 10th and 11th, 1860, 100 pp. large octavo. This pamphlet contains the addresses and speeches of Mrs. E. CADY STANTON, Mrs. E. L. ROSE, Rev. Mrs.
ANTOINETTE BROWN BLACKWELL, Mrs. J. ELIZABETH JONES, WENDELL PHILLIPS Esq., Rev. SAMUEL LONGPELLOW, WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISOM, Rev. BERIAH GREEN, and others, with the resolutions, &c., making an exceedingly interesting and valuable document. But a limited number of copies have been printed, many of which have been disposed of in advance of publication. 'A word to the wise, '&c
Price, 25 cents: by mail, 30 cents.
Address ROBERT F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington street.
Boston, July 13th, 1860.

HENRY C. WRIGHT'S BOOKS.
MARRIAGE AND PARENTAGE: Fifth Edition. Price $1.00 per copy.
THE UNWELCOME CHILD; or, the crime of an undesired and unwelcome Maternity: Third Edition. Price 25 cents.
A KISS FOR A BLOW: A valuable work for children. Price 38 cents. The same work, handsomely Illustrated by Billings. Price 62 cents.
Published and for sale by BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield street.
August 24. 3teop.

THE ERRORS OF THE BIBLE
DEMONSTRATED by the Truths of Nature: or, Man's only Infallible Rule of Faith and Practice. By Henry C. Wright. [Prove all things; hold fast that which is good.—PAUL.]. Price 25cts.
For sale by BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield street.
August 24. 3teop.

HOPEDALE HOME SCHOOL.
THE next term of this Institution will commence on WEDNESDAY, SEPT.5, and continue FIFTEEN WEEKS. For Circulars, containing full information, please address either of the Principals. 
WM. S. HAYWOOD, 
ABBLE B. HAYWOOD, Principals
WANTED,.
At the above-named Institution, a MATRON to have the superintendence of the Domestic Department.
An American woman of experience, good health and competency, and especially of Reformatory Principles and unquestionable integrity of character, desired. None other need apply. Please address as above, or
J. LOWELL HEYWOOD, Steward
Hopedale, Milford, Mass.,
July 23, 1860.

WEST NEWTON
English and Classical School.
THE Fall Term will begin Wednesday, September 5th.
It is intended that, in this School, youth of both sexes shall be, not only well instructed in the branches usually taught in our best schools and academies, but they shall be trained both in the school-room and in the family, on principles strictly Physiological and Moral, where the formation of character, of habits and manners, will have equal consideration with the acquisition of literature and science. Teachers of the highest reputation are employed.
The Principal and associate teachers receive pupils into their families at $250 per annum, including board and tuition in the common branches; for those over fifteen years of age, $300.
The location is healthful and pleasant, and easy of access, on the Worcester railroad, nine miles from Boston.
References—Wm. L. Garrison; John Ayres, Esq., West Newton; Rev. George Ellis, D. D., Charlestown;
Wm. Brigham, Esq., Boston; Rev. S. J. May, Syracuse, N. Y.; Rev. James Walker, D.D., Cambridge; Mr. Richard Edwards, St. Louis, Mo.; Mr. John Prentiss, Baltimore, Md.; Prof. Louis Agassiz, Cambridge.
For further particulars, address
N. T. ALLEN, West Newton, Mass.
Aug. 17. 4w.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
From the Ladies’ Wreath.
‘HAND IN HAND WITH ANGELS.’
BY LUCY LARCOM.
Hand in hand with angels,
Through the world we go;
Brighter eyes are on us
Than we blind ones know:
Tenderer voices cheer us
Than we deaf will own;
Never, walking heavenward,
Can we walk alone.
Hand in hand with angels,
Some are out of sight,
Leading as, unknowing,
Into paths of light.
Some soft hands are covered
From our mortal clasp,
Soul in soul to hold us
With a firmer grasp.
Hand in hand with angels,
Some, alas! are prone;
Snowy wings, in falling,
All earth-stained have grown.
Help them! though polluted
And despised they lie;
Weaker is your soaring
When they cease to fly.
Hand in hand with angels,
Oft in menial guise,
By the same straight pathway
High and low must rise:
If we drop the fingers,
Toil-embrowned and worn,
Then one link from heaven
From our life is torn.
Hand in hand with angels,
In the busy street,
By the winter hearth-fires,
Everywhere we meet—
Though unpledged and songless,
Birds of Paradise,
Heaven looks on us daily
Out of human eyes.
Hand in hand with angels,
Walking every day,
How the chain may brighten.
None of us can say;
Yet it doubtless reaches
From earth’s lowest one
To the loftiest seraph
Standing near the Throne.
Hand in hand with angels,
‘Tis a twisted chain,
Winding heavenward, earthward,
Up and down again.
There’s a painful jarring.
There’s a clank of doubt,
If a heart grows heavy,
Or a heart’s left out.
Hand in hand with angels,
Blessed so to be;
Helped are all the helpers,
Who give light shall see:
He who aids another,
Blesses more than one;
Linking earth, he grapples
To the great white Throne.
Hand in hand with angels.
Ever let us go;
Clinging to the strong one,
Drawing up the slow:
One electric love-stone,
Thrilling all with fire,
Soar we through vast ages,
Higher—ever higher.

I SHALL KNOW HER AGAIN.
BY B. F. TAYLOR.
Oh, have you not seen, on some morning in June,
When the flowers were in tears, and the forests in tune.
When the billows of dawn broke bright on the air,
On the breast of the brightest some star clinging there?
Some sentinel star, not yet ready to set—
Forgetting to wane, and watching there yet?
How you gazed on that vision of beauty awhile;
How it wavered till won by the light of God’s smile;
How it passed through the portals of pearl like a bride;
How it paled as it passed, and the morning star died!
The sky was all blushes, the earth was all bliss.
And the prayer of your heart, ‘Be my ending like this!’
So my beautiful May passed away from life’s even;
So the blush of her being was blended with heaven;
So the bird of my bosom fluttered up to the dawn—
A window was open—my darling was gone!
A truant from tears, from sorrow and sin—
For the angel on watch took the wanderer in!
But when I shall hear the new song that she sings,
I shall know her again, notwithstanding her wings,
By those eyes full of heaven, by the light on her hair.
And the smile she wore here she will surely wear there!
UP, UP, AND BE STIRRING. 
Up, up, and be stirring! there’s much to be done;
There’s a fight to be fought, there’s a field to be won:
’Tis a field that is guiltless of tears or of blood,
That is fruitful of blessings, and potent for good.
So, up and be stirring!
Up, up, and be stirring!
The field it lies fallow; come, put in the seeds,
And watch them, and tend them, and pluck up the weeds;
Then, trusting to Heaven for sunshine and rain,
Your love and your labor shall not be in vain.
So, up and be stirring!
Up, up, and be stirring!
The mind is a fallow for good or for ill,
And may turn to a desert or garden at will;
It is choked with the tares and the weeds that it grows,
Or it brightens with verdure, and blooms like the rose.
Yes, up and be stirring!
Up, up, and be stirring!
Then educate! educate! now is the hour;
Just now is the seed-time of glory and power:
Oh! stay not, delay not—spread knowledge and light,
And with these teach the wisdom to use them aright.
Yes, up and be stirring!
Up, up, and be stirring!
Away with divisions! like brothers combine
In a labor so noble, a work so divine;
Give new life to the heart, with new light to the mind.
Of the morally dead, and the mentally blind.
Yes, up and be stirring,
Up, up, and be stirring!
Reclaiming, reforming, are all very well;
But the less they are needed, the better’t will tell;
'Tis right we should medicine the ills we endure,
But prevention, prevention, is better than cure!
So, up and be stirring!
Up, up, and be stirring!
Spite of failure, spite of danger.
To all doubts and fears a stranger,
Persevere!
When a noble course beginning,
Doubting, wavering, is but sinning:
If success you would be winning,
Persevere!
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
LETTER FROM HENRY C. WRIGHT.
The power of a License—a Commission or Certificate from a Human Government—Great Excitement—A Clam Bake.
ROCKY POINT, (R. I.) Friday, Aug. 3,1860.
DEAR GARRISON: At 9 o'clock this morning, a party of several thousand left Providence in steam- boats for this place, on a clam-bake pleasure excursion. Rocky Point is some twelve miles from Providence, down Narragansett Bay, in the township of Warwick. Multitudes came here from Fall River, Bristol, Warren, Newport and other places. About one hundred bushels of clams had been provided for this occasion—for chowder and baking. The place is fitted up to accommodate such parties. Here the Democrats gave Douglas a rousing clam-bake yesterday, and he made a speech here about squatter sovereignty, to get their votes to make him President.
We landed here about half-past 10, a great crowd. All proceeded directly to the place in a grove fitted up for speaking—as our first object was to meet in a kind of off-hand, extemporized Convention. Some 2000 gathered around. A woman (Mrs. Spence) called the meeting to order, and made a telling speech, that was received with deepest attention. I have seldom heard a speaker, man or woman, who has such power over a popular gathering. No Chairman or secretary was appointed, and each one did what was right in his own eyes—and, on the whole, it was an assembly of law and order.
I offered the following resolution for the consideration and adoption of the assembly:—
Whereas, man has no power to create or annul a moral obligation; therefore,
Resolved, That whatever it is right to do with a license, certificate, or commission from a human government, it is right to do without it; and whatever it is wrong to do without such a sanction, it is wrong to do with it.
I knew the wording of the resolution to be direct and unmistakable, and that the sentiment was a simple, a self-evident truth. I knew, too, that it was replete with revolution, and with treason and insurrection against much that is held most sacred among men. I knew that all governments and religions of force, of violence and blood, base their existence, solely, on the assumption of the right to reverse, at pleasure, every principle of justice and humanity—a sentiment the opposite of that enunciated in the resolution.
In sustaining the resolution, I asserted that civil, military and naval officers feel authorized to do, and do not hesitate to do, that, under the sanction of their license or commission, which they would not dare to do without it, and which they know would consign them to a dungeon or a gallows, if they did do; that privateering, done under the sanction of a letter of marque and reprisal, is counted just and honorable, but when done without such sanction, is counted piracy. Privateersmen are patriots and heroes, acting under a commission signed by the President, but, acting without this sanction, they are hung as pirates.
Slave-hunters, slave-catchers, kidnappers, slave-breeders and slaveholders, being licensed by Congress, by the Supreme Court, by the President, and by the State Legislatures and Governors, are counted good citizens and Christians, and men of law and order; but if they commit these outrages without such a license, they are condemned and punished as felons. To buy and sell men, women and children in Washington, with a license from the government, is counted an honorable and Christian calling; to do the same act on the coast of Africa and on the high seas, without such a license, is regarded and treated as piracy.
So a man and woman may live together as husband and wife, and become parents, merely because they are licensed by Church and State to do so, and have a certificate from a priest or a town-clerk; whereas, had they lived in that relation without such a sanction, they had been branded and punished as prostitutes, libertines and adulterers. However they may hate and loathe each other, no matter, they may live as husband and wife, and give existence to children, provided they have a license from a town-clerk to do so. A marriage certificate, duly signed and sealed, in behalf of the town or State, instantly converts prostitution into purity, licentiousness into loveliness, adultery into chastity! Such is the morality of society, of Church and State, respecting the relations of husband and wife, and of parent and child. 
All civil, military and naval commissions, all letters of marque and reprisal, all marriage certificates, all licenses to sell liquors and make drunkards, all laws authorizing slave-hunting and kidnapping, all declarations of war, authorizing theft, robbery and murder, all licenses to practise prostitution, to abolish marriage, and herd men and women together as brutes in concubinage, as in American Slavery—all these are based on the assumption that human governments have power to create or annul moral obligations at pleasure; and that every principle of justice and humanity may be reversed, and that what is truth to-day may be made a lie to-morrow, what is piracy to-day may be made piety to-morrow, and what is prostitution one hour may be turned into purity the next—and all this by a mere scratch of a presidential, gubernatorial, magisterial, or priestly pen!
The resolution was put, and carried by a great vote—only two voting against it. One cried out in the audience‘Are we not bound to keep our promises and compacts when once they are made?’ ‘Not for a moment,’ I said,’ if they are immoral. If you have promised to hunt, catch and return fugitive slaves, or to help slaveholders put down their slaves that have arisen to gain their liberty, you are a murderer and a kidnapper the same as if you had made no such promise. If you have sworn to execute a law or constitution in favor of slavery, it is your duty to trample them beneath your feet, the moment you see your true position.’
Here a man came upon the platform, and in a most violent and excited manner said-‘The resolution would abolish all marriage, break up all families, and pen the door to universal licentiousness, anarchy and murder.’ He begged the meeting to reconsider their vote, and not allow the resolution to go out as an expression of their views and feelings. If they did, they would all be branded as favoring the abolition of marriage The mass of the people was greatly exited.
Some questions were put to the speaker:—‘Do you old any thing is right or wrong because pronounced to be so by James Buchanan, by Judge Taney, or by Congress?’ ‘No,’ said he. ’Do you think it would be light for me to hold you or anybody as a slave, mere because I had a license from the State or nation to do so?’ ‘No,’ said he. ’Would it be right for a man and woman to live together as husband and wife and become parents, merely because they had a license from the State to do so?’ ‘No,’ said he. ’Would it be prostitution for them to live thus, without love, and merely because the State has licensed them so to live?’ ‘Yes,’ said he. ‘Is it right to practise prostitution when it is licensed by the State and sanctioned by the Church?’ ‘It is,’ said he. ‘Then you hold to legalized prostitution, do you?’ ‘Yes, I to,’ said he.  You think a man and woman had better live in legalized adultery than to separate, after they have once been covenanted together thus to live? I do (said he) think they had better live in legalized and baptized adultery, than to separate and break up their family relations by so doing.
This man but expressed the sentiments of the Church and State, and of society generally. It is admitted that it is prostitution for a man and woman to live as husband and wife, and become parents, without the sanction of conjugal love; and yet they are urged to live in that prostitution merely because it is licensed by the Church and State.

<c03>
The resolution was again put to the meeting, and carried, three to one. The resolution was written, and presented and put to the meeting without consultation with any one; and, of course, no one has any responsibility in the matter, except my-self and those who voted for it. The people of the North consent to the abolition of marriage and parentage among four millions of their fellow-beings, and consign two millions of women to prostitution, merely because they think the Constitution and Union sanction the deed! Our civil and military officers steal, rob, murder, and commit rape and rapine, without shame or remorse, merely because they are licensed by the government that employs them to commit these atrocities! How slavery, war and politics have palsied and prostituted the moral nature of the people of this nation!
The meeting adjourned, and all scattered to dine on chowder and baked clams. Every tongue was loosed, every heart stirred, to discuss the simple questions—Is it right for a man and woman to live as husband and wife, and become parents, merely because the State has licensed them to do so? Has a man a right to kidnap and enslave men, or to break a fellow-bring’s neck, or choke him to death, merely because the State has licensed him to do so? Has a man a right to commit rape, because licensed to do it by Church and State? I have seldom seen 4000 people more thoroughly excited than I have to-day, in settling the question—‘Has man power to reverse, at pleasure, all the principles of justice and morality?’ But chowder and clams suspended the excited discussion for a time. Soon we all scattered to our homes—at least those do who have homes to scatter to.
Yours, HENRY C. WRIGHT.
From the New York Independent.
LAST DAYS OF TOUSSAINT L'OUVERTURE.
BY JOHN BIGELOW.
Returning to Paris by way of Lausanne from a hurried trip to Geneva last winter, I took the somewhat unusual route over the mountains to Pontarlier. I wanted to get a view, if possible, of Mont Blanc from the hights of the Jura; to become better acquainted with the people of this department of France, whom of all the French I most admire; and, above all, to visit the famous Chateau de Joux, where Mirabeau was confined at the time he contracted his scandalous engagements with Madame de Monnier, the ‘Sophie’ of his Vincennes correspondence, and where Toussaint L'Ouverture died, a victim to the treachery of the French Government and the severity of an Alpine climate. 
Crossing the court and passing along the gloomy corridor of stone, I was next led to a door which, as my companion proceeded to unfasten, she informed me was occupied by the ‘naygre.’ It was the dungeon of Toussaint, first called’ L'Ouverture' by a French officer, because of his military prowess in opening the ranks of the English soldiers with his sword during some engagement. Though of African origin, and forty-eight years a slave, he took advantage of the revolutionary troubles in France, and subsequent hostilities between France and England, to make the blacks of St. Domingo independent, and himself President for life. Bonaparte, who approved of the lead he took in saving the colony from the English, was solicited to approve the action of the Central Assembly which made him President. Toussaint’s letter bore the following somewhat memorable but not altogether conciliatory superscription, ’The first of the blacks to the first of the whites.’ Bonaparte’s answer was taken out by Leclere, his brother-in-law, and thirty thousand of the best troops in France, who issued a proclamation apprising the islanders that the French General had been sent out as the first magistrate and captain-general of the colony. Toussaint bade him and his master defiance, set fire to the Cape, retired to the mountains, and resisted the invaders with such success that at the end of eight months, Napoleon’s brother-in-law had but three thousand effective men out of the thirty thousand that had landed with him. Finding it impossible to conquer Toussaint, Leclere invited him to a conference, under the usual pledges for his safety, and when in his power, regardless of his own honor or that of his master, or of the nation so gravely compromised by his conduct, he hustled the too confiding negro on board of a ship, and sent him to France. After a brief confinement in the Temple at Paris, Napoleon ordered him to the Fort de Joux. The room which he occupied, and to which I was now introduced, is some twenty-five or thirty feet long, by, say, twelve broad. There was a fire-place on one side near the middle, but no furniture of any kind. Its walls were all of stone, and arched with stone overhead. Near the ceiling, one end was pierced by a small window which admitted what light and air the inmates were expected to enjoy, but which seemed enough to keep the place sufficiently dry for habitation. On the mantel over the fire-place was the lower half of a skull, most of the brain-cover having been taken off, and resting on what remained, was the following avis, which my guide forbade my copying, as contrary to the orders of the comandant, and for a transcript of which, as for many other gratifying attentions, I was indebted to M. Girod, to whose archeological and historical labors I have already made allusion:—
'Toussaint L'Ouverture, who effected the enfranchisement of the negroes of his country, and in the day of his prosperity designated himself as the Bonaparte of St. Domingo, and who wrote to Napopoleon, ”The first of the blacks to the first of the whites." terminated his career in this casement of the donjon of Fort de Joux. It is pretended that he answered an aid-de-camp of the First Consul, who came to ask him where he had concealed his treasures: “Say to your master that I will die before he shall know anything from me."
The Chef de Bataillon Amiot, commandant of the Place du Fort de Joux, found him here in a corner of his fire-place struck with apoplexie foudroyante, the 17th Terminal, the year 11. Some days before his death, he declared that he had buried 15,000.000 in the mountains by slaves whom he had destroyed.’
I felt indignant at finding such a gross calumny as this upon the character of one of the bravest, and, according to his opportunities, one of the most remarkable men of his day, perpetrated by the authority of the Government; and when I was refused permission to take a copy of it, my inference was that those who placed it there knew that it was one of those lies that would not bear ventilation, and therefore kept it from the public, but left it to do what it could quietly to poison the minds of all who made the pilgrimage to his tomb. I was afterwards satisfied by M. Girod that I did the French Government injustice, at least in one respect, for he assures me that no orders to prevent copies being made of the paper on the mantle, had ever been given to the concierge.
It is a shame, however, for the government to perpetuate such an absurd scandal upon the memory of Toussaint, that he destroyed the slaves that helped him hide his treasures; for the story not only is supported by no evidence, but it lacks the first element of plausibility. That he may have said that he had treasures buried in St. Domingo, and that he may have added, for the purpose of being sent back to find them, that there were no living witnesses of their burial, is not impossible; but it is preposterous to suppose that such a man as Toussaint would have perpetrated such a gratuitous crime, or, if he did, that he would have told of it, without any apparent motive.
This story to the prejudice of’ the first of the blacks’ is as unfounded as another which has been current ever since Toussaint’s death, and which is generally credited in Hayti now; that he was poisoned by the orders of Napoleon, or at least upon the supposition that his speedy demise would gratify the Emperor. Even supposing there was some motive for getting Toussaint more completely out of the way than he was, which is hardly credible, the circumstances of his death are not matters of conjecture or suspicion, but of public record, and exempt the authorities of that day from any other responsibility for his sudden death than naturally attaches to his treacherous arrest and removal in mid-winter from the climate of the tropics, in which he was born and had lived sixty years, to a bleak Alpine region, more noted than any other in France for the severity of its winters.
The day after his death, two physicians of Pontarlier made an official examination of his remains, and certified that he died of apoplexy and pleuro-pneumonia. Their certificate, or process verbal, as it is termed, is filed among the archives of the Hotel de Ville in Pontarlier, from whence M. Girod was kind enough to procure me a copy duly authenticated,
<c04>
under the seal of the Mayoralty of Pontarlier. As this certificate has never been in print, and as it finally disposes of a very painful suspicion which is still widely credited, I give it to you entire:—
Copy of the Minutes of the Post-mortem Examination of Toussaint L'Ouverture.
We, the undersigned. Doctor in Medicine and Surgeon of the city of Pontarlier, pursuant to the invitation of citizen Amiot, Commandant of the Fort de Joux, and of Renaud, Justice of the Peace of the canton of Pontarlier, have gone to the said Fort de Joux, when, in their presence, we have proceeded to the opening and the examination of the body of the negro Toussaint L'Ouverture, prisoner, whose death yesterday we have verified. 
POST-MORTEM EXAMINATION.
A little mucus mixed with blood in the mouth and on the lips, the left lateral sinus, the vessels of the pia-mater gorged with blood, serous effusion in the lateral ventricle, same side, the choroid pleurus infiltrated and strewed with hydatides, the pleura adhering almost entirely to the substance of the lungs; sanguineous engorgement of the right lung, as well as of the pleura corresponding, but of a purulent nature in this viscera; a little fatty polypus in the right venticle of the heart, which otherwise was in a natural state; emaciation of the epiploon—pathological state of this membrane such as it presents after a long sickness. The stomach, the intestines, the liver, the spleen, the veins, the bladder, exhibited no alteration. In consequence, we declare that apoplexy, pleuro-pneumonia, are the causes of the death of Toussaint L'Ouverture.
Made, and certified to be true, at the Fort de Joux, the 18th Terminal, An. XI. of the French Republic.
(Signed,) TAVERNIER, Doctor of Medicine. 
Surgeon Major GRESSET.
Certified to conform with the original by us, the undersigned Secretary of the Mayoralty of Pontarlier.
Pontarlier, 5th December, 1859.
(Signed,) JACQUIT, etc.
Through the kindness of M. Girod, I was enabled to derive from the archives of Pontarlier some further particulars respecting Toussaint’s condition and treatment during his confinement here, which seemed worthy of exhumation. They are embodied in documents, the originals of which I inspected, and of which I enclose to you copies.
The first simply acknowledges the notice sent to the Prefecture of the Department by the Sub-Prefect, that Toussaint had arrived, and informs that functionary that the arrangements for the security of the prisoner are to be under the exclusive direction of the General in command of that division.
The second notifies the Prefect that the Minister of War had given orders that Toussaint should receive healthy and suitable food, and that he should be clothed suitably for the season, with the understanding that he must not wear a General’s uniform.
The estimation in which their prisoner was held by the French Government, and the rigor of treatment to which they deemed it necessary to subject him, are revealed in the third letter from the Prefect of the Department to the Sub-Prefect at Pontarlier. The following extract from it might have been clipped, mutatis mutandis, from one of Governor Wise’s heroic appeals to the chivalry of Virginia against John Brown:—
‘I recommend you,' he writes. ’not to lose sight of this important object. If any man imprisoned for the rest of his days, whatever the degree of his guilt, did not appeal to our humanity, I would say that this person, who is known only by his repeated perfidy, murders, pillage, incendiarism, and the most frightful cruelties, did not deserve any. But whatever be the opinion we ought to entertain of him the orders of the Minister are precise. Toussaint must not see any person, nor must he be permitted to leave the chamber in which he is confined, under any pretext whatever. The guard of the fort should be set with the greatest exactness, and without the relaxation of vigilance. The General of Division only can modify the rigor of these orders, and I know he will not do it without being authorized by the Minister. The commandant must sleep at the fort, unless specially authorized to the contrary by his superiors. The supplies of the prisoner have been prescribed. They must not be exceeded upon any pretext. Every excess will be stricken off from the account.’
The next letter, No. 4, was written immediately after receiving intelligence of Toussaint’s death. In it the Perfect says:—
‘You will also please, on the receipt of this letter, make an inventory, in the presence of the Commandant d’ Armes, of all the effects used by the prisoner, and sell them at auction to the highest bidder, after the customary notices. You will prepare a report of the sale for me, and remit the proceeds of it to the widow Benedict upon her receipt, deducting the sums due her for her supplies.’
From these documents and the other inclosed, of which I will not trouble you with an analysis, it appears, if the facts are reported faithfully—
1st. That Toussaint was guarded with unusual, if not excessive, rigor, and that the view taken of his character and career at that time by the War Department, whose agent declared that if there was an exception to the rule that pity was due to the unfortunate, Toussaint was the exception, was very different from that which is taken of him now by the world, and indeed by the French themselves, who, through the mouth of the most inspired of their modern poets, have said of him, ’Cet hommeest une nation,' and within fifty years after his cheerless death, accepted the lesson of his life by striking the chains off every slave held under a French title.
2d. They show that he was not poisoned, but that he died in all probability of a disease contracted in consequence of his involuntary removal to a colder and more intemperate climate than at his age—over sixty—his constitution, used to the warmth of the tropics, could endure.
3d. It appears that he was abundantly supplied with fuel and artificial light, for in two months these supplies cost one hundred and fifty-six franes, which, M. Girod assures me, is a very large allowance, for wood then was much cheaper, he says, than at the present day; and now several lights and two fires could be sustained six months for ordinary necessities at an expense not exceeding two hundred francs.
4th. That he had a servant for a while after his arrival; whether a negro or a Frenchman does not appear. From the general character of the instructions in reference to him, and in the absence of any special provision for the access to him of one of his own color, it is to be presumed that it was a Frenchman. 
5th. That he was allowed to write and have some luxuries, such as nutmegs, sugar, bath, &c. These, I presume, came out of the four francs a day allowed him from the first for board, washing and mending. 
6th. It is apparent, unfortunately, suggests M. Girod, that the moderate sum of I28fr. 70c., which the effects supplied by the Government brought after only seven months’ use, that his wardrobe was not probably supplied as it should have been for such a severe climate. 
7th. And finally, it appears that a woman was provided to keep his apartment in order. 
The order forbidding Toussaint to see any one not attached to the service of the garrison seems to have been unnecessarily rigorous, but it was probably aimed at Rigaud, Toussaint’s ablest and most trusted aid in St. Domingo, who was captured very soon after his Chief, and sent to the Fort de Joux, where he remained until after Toussaint’s death, when he was released. They never saw each other, though sleeping so near together, after they separated in St. Domingo.
Upon the walls of Toussaint’s apartment I was surprised to find but one inscription from the hands of visitors; that was the name of Cataline Nau, a man whom I remember to have met at Port au Prince in 1854, where he discharged the functions of an Assistant Secretary of State, in the Department of Foreign Affairs, under Soulouque, and who had the credit, which I do not doubt he deserves, of having written the telling and statesmanlike dispatches of the Haytian Government in reply to the agents sent out by Fillmore and the English and French Governments many years ago, to compel the Emperor to acknowledge the independence of the Spanish or eastern part of the island. M. Nau is probably the only Haytian who has ever made this pious pilgrimage to the prison and tomb of the most renowned of African statesmen. M. Nau, I understand, died within the last year, much regretted by his countrymen, whose interests he carefully watched and tended during his life.
Toussaint’s remains, consigned to a grave under the Chapel of the fort, were discovered by a captain of engineers in 1850. The top of his skull, which had probably been sawed off at the time of the post-mortem examination, and replaced, he deposited in the city library of Pontarlier, where it was shown me by M. Girod, and the rest of the head stands on the mantelpiece in the room where Toussaint was confined and died.
<c05>
THE VEGETARIAN WHERRYMAN.
Captain D. U. Martin, the Boston wherryman, who rowed from Boston to New York, had a grand entertainment given him, upon his arrival in the latter city on the 24th ult., by Dr. R. T. Trall, conductor of the Hygienic Institute. About fifty ladies and gentlemen sat down to a sumptuous repast, strictly on the vegetarian principles; and for the benefit of those who perhaps have never known what such a repast consists of, we give the bill of, fare:—
Boiled Corn, Stewed Tomatoes, Lima Beans, 
Mashed Potatoes, Graham Crackers, Stewed Pears,
Apples. Corn Starch Jelly, Apple Pie,
Tapioca Pudding, Rice Bread, Peaches,
Green Gage Plums, Watermelons, Ice Water, 
Sweet Potatoes.
The tables presented a very pretty appearance, with their stores of ripe, luscious plums and peaches, piled up in lavish profusion on richly cut glass dishes, and immense watermelons overlooking all the smaller articles on the tables. Ample justice was done to all the good things on the table, and not a few seemed to think that a vegetarian dinner was decidedly a good thing. 
Mr. Martin, in his remarks, said he was first induced to try the system of vegetarian living, by hearing Dr. Trall lecture upon the subject, when he was in New York three years ago, and was at that time troubled with the dyspepsia. For the last three months he had lived almost exclusively on fruit, and could do more work than any man he ever had an occasion to hire. Experience had satisfied him that it was the best food for both physical and mental effort. Nature, he considered, was the best instructor as to what was suitable for man. He had experienced great difficulty in getting fruit in its natural state, for, if he asked for berries, they were almost sure to add sugar to them, which he considered was bad. One object of his had been to demonstrate what a person could endure, living wholly on vegetable food. He said one reason why vegetarianism is so much cried down is that the followers of the system are able to show such poor specimens, because most people who try the system are driven into it by necessity. They commence to try the system with broken-down constitutions; and it is but seldom that people in perfect health practise the system. They do so not to preserve health, but to recover it. 
Mr. Martin then proceeded to give an account of his voyage, as follows:—
He left Boston on the 8th of August, at 2 o’clock, P. M., and arrived at Plymouth at midnight, having rowed a distance of about 50 miles. He landed at Gurnet Light, hauled up his boat, and slept on the beach, with his oil-skin coat for a covering. On the 9th, he started to cross the Cape, but a dense fog set in, and he deemed it prudent to return, so he landed at Monument Point, where he slept on the beach again. On the 10th, he crossed to the point of Cape Cod, about 25 miles, and, passing Race Point, through a pretty rough sea, kept on down the east side until he came to Nauset Light. It was now midnight, and the first effort to land caused his boat to be partly swept by a roller. The darkness prevented him from distinguishing the kind of shore on which he was to venture with his frail boat, but dashing through the breakers, he found himself thrown high and dry upon a sandy beach. He spent several days here, attending Camp meeting, and waiting for the fog to clear off. On the 13th, he made an experimental attempt to get through the surf; but, as he anticipated, was capsized and thrown ashore, after a smart struggle in the water. He finally left Nauset on the 16th, at 7 A. M., and pulled round Monomoy Point as far as Hyannis, where he spent the night on board of a friendly schooner, under the lee of the breakwater. On Friday he reached Wood’s Hole, stopping for a short time at Falmouth. Here he made some slight repairs, replenished his stock of berries, and started again, reaching Cuttyhunk at midnight. The sea broke fearfully along this rock-bound island, and for a time he was deterred from landing, lest his boat should be “stove” among the rocks. Pulling near the light-house, he hailed the keeper, who signaled him to a safe landing-place. Mr. Smith, the light-keeper, entertained him, and gave him a box of berries, which had been brought from New Bedford by a friend. He stopped here over Saturday, and on Sunday morning, greatly refreshed, he embarked for Newport. He concluded, however, not to go into this fashionable watering-place, as his wardrobe was not of the required cut to appear in society there, so he pushed, or rather pulled, on for Point Judith, and reached Stonington the same night, making the distance of about 60 miles,—the best day’s performance during the trip. Lodging ashore, he dined luxuriously on apples; started as good as new, on Monday morning, and reached a point near Guilford. On Tuesday, he made a short call at New Haven, where he made some pleasing acquaintances, but found some uncongenial apples, which somewhat deranged his—constitution. On Wednesday he crossed the Sound, out twenty-five miles, and hauling his boat upon the beach, covered himself with his overcoat, and slept soundly until morning. On waking, and feeling the need of a little exercise, he decided to pull as far as Sand’s Point, ten miles distance, to obtain an appetite. Here he breakfasted on apples and berries, laying in a moderate-size watermelon, and started on his last day’s row to New York, which he reached about 5 1-2 o’clock P. M. He left Boston with the following outfit: Four quarts of whortleberries, six apples, one rubber-coat, one shawl, one chart, and a catalogue of the different lights, one pocket compass, a pocket songster, to aid him in serenading the fishes, one tooth-brush, two pairs of hose, one opera-glass, and a sponge to keep the boat dry.’
At the conclusion, the following toast was proposed by Mr. G. B. Griffin:—
‘To the health of Mr. D. U. Martin, of Boston— the champion of vegetarian ocean navigation—may he ever be able to paddle his own wherry, and obtain a full supply of whortleberries and watermelons.’
Mr. Roberts, President of the Empire Regatta Club, volunteered a few remarks, directed especially to the young men, in encouragement of the noble exercise of boating, and gracefully yielding the palm of boatmanship to Mr. Martin. And that was a solid compliment, for Mr. Roberts pulls a lively oar himself, and is a popular judge at regattas. 
Mr. Martin is a young man, about thirty-two years of age; he weighs about 155 pounds, and his height is about five feet ten inches. He is much bronzed from exposure to the weather, but is evidently in the enjoyment of first-rate health. The distance from Boston to New York, as traversed by Mr. Martin, is about 400 miles, which was accomplished in 80 hours of rowing, making 5 miles an hour. Mr. Martin proposes to row to Albany, from which place he returns home by cars.
The boat is a common but neat lapstreak wherry, built of white cedar, and right white oak timbers, copper fastened. She is sharp at both ends, 21 1-2 feet long, 2 feet 4 inches wide, and 8 inches deep. There are out-riggers for the oars, 5 feet wide. She has mahogany washboards, and a covering 3 inches high around an oval opening 5 feet fore and aft. Air-tight compartments at each end are provided, capable of sustaining the boat and one man when she is full of water.
THE LIONIZING OF MARTIN, THE BOSTON OARSMAN.—Martin, the distinguished vegetarian wherry voyager, will leave us to-day, for the City of Notions.
He has sold his famous little boat to Mr. S. Roberts, the President of the Empire Regatta Club; and is, therefore, deprived of the pleasure of rowing it back again to Boston. The members of that Club, and some of the boatmen, are to make a demonstration on the occasion of the departure of Martin. It will come off to-day, at 1 P. M., at the foot of Gouverneur street, on the occasion of Martin’s departure for Albany, where he will ship his boat back to the purchaser here, whence he takes the cars for Boston. As Martin is to proceed down the East river, around the Battery, up the North river to Albany, we may expect to hear that there will not only be a grand turn-out here, but that a perfect ovation will be given Mr. Martin at every landing, from Spuyten Duyvel creek to the Sturgeon metropolis.—New York World.
SLAVER CAPTURED—On the 14th of August Capt. Maffit, of the U. S. Steamer Crusader, captured a slave brig off Nuevitas. The brig had no papers, flag or name. She had a slave deck arranged, and there were water and provisions on board for 400 negroes. The brig is a piratical craft, armed with side guns. There were plenty of muskets, pistols and cutlasses on board. The crew was large, and was made up of ferocious desperadoes. It is presumed that the brig was fitted out to seize by force the first slaver that it met en route for Cuba, and thus obtain as many negroes as she could stow away. The prize was sent to Key West in charge of Lieut. J. E. Jewett.
<c06>
IT IS NOT A DYE!
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S
WORLD’S
HAIR RESTORER,
The only preparation that has a 
EUROPEAN REPUTATION.
Warranted not to contain deleterious substances.
This pleasant and valuable preparation has been used for many years by hundreds, of the most distinguished and wealthy persons, who have previously tried all the nostrums of the day without success, some even injuring their hair and health. This is entirely different from all others.

‘IS THERE ANY VIRTUE IN
Mrs. S. A. Allen’s Hair Restorative?’
We can answer this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived benefit from it.
‘Persons personally known to us have come voluntarily, and told us of good results to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it become known 
in St. Louis.’ St. Louis Presbyterian.’
MRS. S. A. ALLEN’S HAIR RESTORATIVE has given universal satisfaction, wherever it has been used. It can be used with perfect safety, and its perfect freeness from all soiling, renders it a very desirable article for the toilet.
Ch’n Witness and Ch. Advocate, Boston, Mass.
MRS. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER is worthy of confidence.’
Philadelphia Christian Chronicle.
Incomparably the best preparation we have ever used.’ N.Y. Evangelist.
All are compelled to acknowledge MRS. S. A. ALLEN’S as the Hair Restorer.’ N.Y. Independent,
MRS. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER has taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind.’ Michigan Christian Herald.
Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.’
Knoxville Presbyterian Witness.
‘There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair, published in the Advocate, which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that of Mrs. S. A. ALLEN’S.
Buffalo Christian Advocate
Another objection to dyes is the unlife-like color and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way to have grey hair assume its NATURAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will be effectual and yet not a dye—Mrs., S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER will do this.’ U. S. Journal.
In these times, when every cosmetic is warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day, it is refreshing to come across that which is what it PRETENDS to be. A really excellent article is Mrs. . A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER. As an assistant to nature, it is of great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Its properties are perfectly harmless, it being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilitate the natural growth of hair.’
Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston,
Those of our readers whose hair is turning grey or losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will find in Mrs. S. A.ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER a preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair, POSSESSING NONE OF THE BURNING QUALITIES OF A DYE.
Philadelphia Mercury.
There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER. Why is this? Simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and most extensive, and we begin to think that it is denominated most appropriately the ‘World’s Hair Restorer.’
Newark Register. 
We have reason to be assured that ’Mrs. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER’ is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrate that its efficacy is generally appreciated. 'RahwaY Register.
Mrs. S. A.ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER. The most successful remedy of the day. We know of instances where its good effects have been remarkable.’ Weekly Visitor, Franklin N. Y.
‘From individual cases that have come under our own observation, we are satisfied that ‘Mrs. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER’ performs all that it promises, and that instead (as is the case with other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless waste of time and money, it is just what it is represented to be, and will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform. We therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character.
St. Louis Ledger.
'Mrs. S. A.ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER.—As we were travelling in Massachusetts a short time since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. After some conversation she spoke of her hair, informing us that two years ago, at least one half of it was grey, and that she had feared that before then the whole would have turned or fallen off. But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair, and at length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen’s Restorer. She did so, and applied it according to directions, and before a year had passed, she assured us that she had as luxurious, even and beautiful head of hair, as when she was but sixteen years old. Her statement was confirmed by other members of the family, while we were informed that in the same neighborhood there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produced by applying Mrs. S. A. Allen’s World’s Hair Restorer.’
Providence Daily Tribune.
‘We are satisfied that the statements made in advertisement of MRS. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER are correct.’
Boston Olive Branch.
‘Its remarkable success is satisfactory evidence.
Norfolk Argus.
’Among the very few preparations that we deem deserving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit ’Mrs. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER.’ It has been thoroughly tested, and found to be all its inventor claims for it; and to deny its excellence would be to deny the assertions made in its favor by scores and hundreds of the most respectable persons.’ Rahway Advocate and Register.
Mrs. S.A.ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER is the best preparation extant for the various diseases incdent to the hair and scalp, and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers, however grey, to their natural color. It having been before the public for many years, and its efficacy in restoring, invigorating, and beautifying the hair fully established, by hosts of persons throughout the country, has led to the manufacture of many worthless imitations, which have been successfully palmed off in numerous instances, upon the public as genuine.’
Brooklyn Morning Journal.
‘This preparation is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair. It possesses none of the burning, cauterizing powers of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glossy appearance almost instantaneously. The Restorer is easily applied, and will not stain the finest linen. The effect is sure in every instance, if applied according to the directions.’ Mercury, Philadelphia.
‘Those unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success.’ Boston Transcript.
It is just what it purports, to be.’ Cleve. Leader.
We might swell this list, but if not convinced,
TRY IT.
We export these preparations to Europe even, and they are superseding all others there as well as in the United States.
It does not soil or stain. Sold by all the principal wholesale and retail merchants in the U. S., Cuba, or Canada.
DEPOT 355 BROOME STREET, N. Y.
where address all letters and inquiries.
Some dealers try to sell articles instead of this, on which they make more profit. Write to Depot for circular, terms and information. Genuine issigned, Mrs. S. A. Allen’s, written in ink. Beware of counterfeits.
See next issue of this Paper for mere information or send to Depot for Circulars.
FOR SALE EVERY WHERE.
