THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, Our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO.10 BOSTON, FRIDAY MARCH 6, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1674.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
SPECIMENS OF COPPERHEAD DEMOCRACY. 
At the late State Convention of the Copperhead Democracy in Hartford, a brawler by the name of W.W. Eaton ejected his venom in this style:-
“Some of the opposition papers would howl, tomorrow, and cry ‘copperhead and traitor.’ But this cry was softening. Public sentiment had undergone a change within a few months. The doings of this Convention will awaken lively emotions in the South. He had never lost sight of his friends there. The resolutions we have adopted will cause a thrill in the hearts of our Southern brethren. Thomas H. Seymour is a man whom the brave men and lovely women of the South love, honor, and esteem. The conservative men of the North will grasp the demon abolition by the throat, strangle it, and invite our brethren at the South to unite with us.”
The speeches before the Convention were in open sympathy with the resolutions. John Cotton Smith, of Sharon, said the Administration was responsible for the war. Alvan P. Hyde, of Tolland, who was trying to bid a place in Congress away from W.W. Eaton, said Congress was attempting to change the Government to a despotism and that the Administration prevented the gaining of any victories by our armies during the fall, so as to have an excuse for making the war one of emancipation only. James Gallagher, of New Haven, said if the United States Marshal attempted to arrest him, he ‘would kill him, damn him! I would kill him! And I say to you, if one of these infamous whelps should attempt to arrest any of you, without due process of law, kill 'em, damn ‘em, kill ‘em!’ Judge Mitchell, of Bristol, said the government had become a military despotism. William W. Eaton said the war was ‘a crusade against a portion of this country and its institutions.’ We are called copperheads,’ he said; ‘I tell you the time has come when we will rattle before we strike! and I tell you now that the Democratic party is preparing to spring at the throat of this tyranny that is crushing us!’ ‘The Democracy of Connecticut will not sustain the general government in a war that is waged to destroy the institutions of a portion of the States of the Union. The Democracy of Connecticut will defy Abraham Lincoln in all his unconstitutional acts. We will say to him, ‘Pass militia bill after militia bill, but when you undertake to take away from the Captain General of this State the command of the guardians of the State, we will say to you, you shall not go one step further!’”
Vallandigham, whom the Democrats ran for Congress last fall in Ohio, in a recent speech at Newark, N.J., at a Democratic meeting, boasted of having been always opposed to the war. He said: 
“I am here the representative of the peace sentiment of the North-west. (Great applause.) I am not a minister, but I believe the Sermon on the Mount says, “Blessed are the peacemakers.” At the commencement of this war, there were two parties. Before the war broke out, a very large majority of the North were against civil war. After the firing on Fort Sumter, they seemed to be in an insignificant minority. But there was no change in the people. There never was a time when, in the hearts of the people, there was not an undying opposition to the war. They dared not speak it. They were carried away by their leaders. There was only a small band favoring peace—they were fewer than the Apostles-but there was no Judas among them. (Applause.) It was said to be a war for the restoration of the Union. I thought that an absurdity. *** Shall the Democratic party be induced, for one moment, to strike hands with those who desire to change the purposes of the Administration, and bring it back again to a war for the Union, when the whole people united cannot accomplish anything before the 4th of March, 1865? Will the war continue during that time? (“Never, never!” from all parts of the room.) Will you send out your sons again to the battle-field? (Overwhelming, enthusiastic, and unanimous cries, “No, no!” “Never, never!” “God forbid!” “Not if I know myself!”) Shall they be conscripted to carry on this war for two years more, and for the negro? (Tremendous outburst. Yells, cheers. Cries of “No, never,” “Let them try it,” “See them d-d first.” “We defy them!”) Shall we do this with the vain, futile, absurd, and most unfounded hope that, after the fourth of March, 1865; after four years of such war as God Almighty never permitted to scourge any land, you will go back again to a war for the Union?”
Just before election, Fernando Wood, another Democratic candidate for Congress—and who was elected by Democratic votes, too—uttered this sentiment:
“The Constitution is to be preserved, in my judgment only by a change of the present Congress, and by a change of the Administration to succeed it. We must be rid of this Abolition Congress, and it is to be done as Oliver Cromwell sent home the Rump Parliament, by walking into parliament, and scattering it to the winds. Let your voices be heard in the Capitol of your country, and if your armies are not successful at once, I, for one, will raise THE STANDARD OF REVOLT a change of measures or a change of men.”
The Dubuque (Iowa) Herald, of Feb. 14th, has an article advocating the annexation of the Northwestern States to the Southern Confederacy. Here are characteristic sentences:-
“One good and sufficient reason for the West’s joining the South would be the avoidance of the enormous debt which Eastern greed and dishonesty has heaped up.
“They (New England) ask in amazement, ‘Do without New England? Impossible!’ Not less possible than probable. She has led us a captive in too many of her triumphs for her own aggrandizement and our degradation. She is not the tutor, but the Pecksniff of the nation; or, in the words of Beecher, ‘she is the pickpocket of the globe.’ She filches from the West its hard earnings; for, let us turn up never so much soil, or harvest never so much grain, New England transmutes it into gold, and then steals the gold.
“The West is the natural ally of the South. Drunk with fanaticism, she has, under the guidance of accidental dignitaries, enlisted in a war IN WHICH VICTORIES ARE MORE FATAL THAN DEFEATS. For the more she cripples the South, the greater and the more detrimental the reaction to herself. She will outgrow the lunacy in time, however, and we who have pointed out her follies, who have deprecated and tried to alleviate her madness, shall earn high titles and enjoy lasting honors. They who have urged us on to destruction will go down in the <illegible> of popular wrath, with here and there an escaped wreck to testify to the judgment of the people.”
<c02>
Selections.
SCENE IN THE ILLINOIS LEGISLATURE.
The Springfield correspondent of the Missouri Democrat contains the following account of an exciting scene in the late Illinois legislature:—
“A great sensation was created by a speech by Mr. Funk, one of the richest farmers in the State, a man who pays over three thousand per annum taxes towards the support of the government. The lobby and gallery were crowded with spectators. Mr. Funk rose to object to trifling resolutions which were being introduced by democrats to kill time, and stave off a vote upon the appropriations for the support of the State government. He said:—
“Mr. Speaker: I can sit in my seat no longer, and see such a by-play going on. These men are trifling with the best interests of the country. They should have asses’ ears to set off their heads, or they are traitors and secessionists at heart. I say there are traitors and secessionists at heart in this Senate. Their actions prove it. Their speeches prove it. Their gibes, and laughter, and cheers here nightly, when their speakers get up in this hall to denounce the war and the administration, prove it.
“I can sit here no longer, and not tell these traitors what I think of them. And while so telling them, I am responsible, myself, for what I say. I stand upon my own bottom. I am ready to meet any man on this floor, in any manner, from a pin’s point to the mouth of a cannon, upon this charge against these traitors. (Tremendous applause in the galleries.) I am an old man of sixty-five; I came to Illinois a poor boy; I have made a little something for myself and family. I pay three thousand dollars a year in taxes. I am willing to pay six thousand, aye, twelve thousand, (great cheering, the old gentleman striking the desk with a blow that would knock down a bullock, and causing the inkstand to fly in the air,) aye, I am willing to pay my whole fortune, and then give my life to save my country from these traitors that are seeking to destroy it. (Tremendous applause, which the Speaker could not control.)
“Mr. Speaker, you must excuse me—I could not sit longer in my seat, and calmly listen to these traitors. My heart, that feels for my poor country, would not let me. My heart, that cries out for the lives of our brave volunteers in the field whom these traitors at home are destroying by thousands, would not let me. My heart, that bleeds for the widows and orphans at home, would not let me. Yes, these traitors and villains in this Senate, (striking his clenched fist on the desk with a blow which made the senate ring again), are killing my neighbors’ boys, now fighting in the field. I dare to say this to these traitors right here, and I am responsible for what I say to any one or all of them. (Cheers.) Let them come on now, right here. I am sixty-five years old, and I have made up my mind to risk my life right here, on this floor, for my country. (Mr. Funk’s seat is near the lobby railing, and a crowd collected around him, evidently with the intention of protecting him from violence, if necessary. The last announcement was received with great cheering, and I saw many an eye flash and many a countenance grow radiant with the light of defiance.) These men sneered at Colonel Mack, a few days since. He is a small man; but I am a large man. I am ready to meet any of them in place of Colonel Mack. I am large enough for them, and I hold my self ready for them now and at any time. (Cheers from the galleries.)
“Mr. Speaker, these traitors on this floor should be provided with hempen collars. They deserve them. They deserve hanging, I say (raising his voice, and violently striking the desk). The country would be better off to swing them up. I go for hanging them, and I dare to tell them so, right here, to their traitorous faces. Traitors should be hung. It would be the salvation of the country to hang them. For that reason, I must rejoice at it. (Tremendous cheering.) Mr. Speaker, I beg pardon of the gentlemen in this Senate who are not traitors, but true loyal men, for what I have said. I only intend it to and mean it for secessionists at heart. They are here in this Senate. I see them gibe, and smirk, and grin at a true Union man. Must I defy them? I stand here ready for them, and dare them to come on. (Great cheering.) What man with the heart of a patriot could stand this treason any longer? I have stood it long enough. I will stand it no more. (Cheers.) I denounce these men, and their aiders and abettors, as rank traitors and secessionists. Hell itself could not spew out a more traitorous crew than some of the men that disgrace this legislature, this State, and this country. For myself, I protest against and denounce their treasonable acts. I have voted against their measures; I will do so to the end. I will denounce them as long as God gives me breath; and I am ready to meet the traitors themselves here or anywhere, and fight them to the death. (Prolonged cheers and shouts.)
“I said I paid three thousand dollars a year taxes. I do not say it to brag of it. It is my duty,—yes, Mr. Speaker, my privilege, to do it. But some of these traitors here, who are working night and day to put their miserable little bills and claims through the legislature, to take money out of the pockets of the people, are talking about high taxes. They are hypocrites as well as traitors. I heard some of them talking about high taxes in this way, who do not pay five dollars to the support of the government. I denounce them as hypocrites as well as traitors. (Cheers.) The reason they pretend to be at afraid of high taxes is, that they do not want to vote money for the relief of the soldiers. They want to embarrass the government, and stop the war. They want to aid the secessionists to conquer our boys in the field. They care about high taxes! They are picayune men, anyhow, and pay no taxes at all, and never did, and never hope or expect to. This is an excuse of traitors. (Cheers.)
“Mr. Speaker: Excuse me. I feel for my country, in this hour of danger, from the tips of my toes to the ends of my hair. That is the reason I speak as I do! I cannot help it. I am bound to tell these men to their teeth what they are, and what the people, the true loyal people, think of them. (Tremendous cheering. The Speaker rapped upon his desk, apparently to stop it, but really to add to its volume, for I could see by his flushed cheek and flashing eye that his heart was with the brave and loyal old gentleman.)
“Mr. Speaker: I have had my say. I am no speaker. This is the only speech I have made, and I do not know that it deserves to be called a speech. I could not sit still any longer, and see these traitors and scoundrels work out their hellish schemes to destroy the Union. They have my sentiments; let them, one and all, make the most of them. I am ready to back up all I say, and I repeat it, to meet these traitors in any manner they may choose, from a pin’s point to the mouth of a cannon. (Tremendous applause, in which the old gentleman sat down,
<c03>
after he had given the desk a parting whack, which sounded loud above the din of cheers and the clap-ping of hands.)
“I never before witnessed so much excitement in an assembly. Mr. Funk spoke with a force of natural eloquence, with a conviction and truthful ness, with a fervor and pathos, which wrought up the galleries, and every member on the floor, to the highest pitch of excitement. His voice was heard in the stores that surround the square, and the people came flocking in from all quarters. In five minutes he had an audience that packed the hall to its utmost capacity. After he had concluded, the republican members and spectators rushed up, and took him by the hand to congratulate him. The democrats said nothing, but evidently felt the castigation they were receiving most keenly, as might have been seen from their blanched cheeks, and restless and uneasy glances.”
SPEECH OF HON. DANIEL S. DICKINSON.
The New York Republican Central Committee celebrated the 131st anniversary of the birthday of Washington, on Saturday evening, 21st ult., by a supper at the City Assembly Rooms. The inspiration of the occasion was heightened by the presence of a large number of ladies. Speeches were made by Charles A. Dana, Esq., Prof. R. C. Hitchcock, Col. S. H. Mix, of the 3d New York Cavalry, and Hon. Daniel S. Dickinson. The speech of Mr. D. was in his usual witty, caustic and eloquent vein. Here is a sample of it:—
What shall the Empire State do in this emergency? There is no half-way house—there are no compromise measures here. There are two great antagonisms, a Government and a Rebellion, a Government at Washington, a rebellion hatched in hell. (Cheers.) Where shall she cast her potential voice? She has taken up her position with the Government which she helped to found, and of which she sits empress crowning this mighty court. We say, the Empire State shall say: War, uncompromising war, (loud cheering,) war to the knife, (continued cheering.) until the rebellion is put down. (Applause.) If a riot should arise in your city here, would our friend, the Mayor, send out an ambassador of peace, or would he send out the representatives of the law in their majesty to crush it down to darkness and to dust? (Cheers) It is a question between the Government and the Rebellion. It has been nothing else, it is nothing else, and it will never be anything else; and you may baptize it at the font of infidel politics as often as you choose, and when it comes out, the same bastard of rebellion will be seen. (Laughter and cheers.) But it is feared by the politicians that some incidents may be drawn in, that may be uncomfortable. This reminds me of the transmigration philosopher who begged a man to desist from the chastisement of a dog, for, he said, he could recognize in its howl the voice of a deceased friend. There are a great many politicians, I think now, who, the moment they hear slavery; crying, believe that they hear the voice of a deceased friend. (Loud laughter and applause.) Now, I have been one of those conservative people, not according to the modern doctrine of conservatism—for I was old-fashioned in my definition—but I was for letting the institution of slavery entirely alone to work out its own problem under the guidance of a beneficent Providence—not interfering with it in any shape or manner, but leaving it to the localities where it existed, to be dealt with in their own time 'and way. When they said “Constitution,” I said “Constitution.” When they appealed to that as their shield, I invoked its protection for them. When they said powder, I said powder. (Applause.) And when they inquired, who can make war upon the beast, I said, the American people. (Cheering.) I have had no anxieties upon this subject, except to afford them the shield of the Constitution, so long as they invoked it. But when they threw it away, when they resorted to arms, I said then, put them down by the whole power of the American people. (Applause.) And I say so now. (Cheers.) I was an old-fashioned Democrat, as you may remember. I am a Democrat now (applause) of the straitest sect. But a great many who were Abolitionists when I was a Democrat—or tried to be, if it paid well—now call me to account, and say I am radical, very radical indeed, and they are conservative. Well, I will admit they are conservative in one sense, and only one, and that is not the etymological or technical sense, but it is the American sense, and that is, opposed to the Government and all its institutions and interests. (Applause.) They say I am radical. I admit I am radical in this radicalism: if they intend by this that I am for making this cure complete, and thorough, and effectual, then I am radical, for, being fairly in, I have an idea to see this war fairly out.
The question of Emancipation has become one of the questions of the day. It cannot be blinked any longer; and I have no disposition to get around it. Many of you thought I was on the wrong side; but I always took one side. I never took both sides on any question. [Laughter and cheers.] I took the side of letting this question entirely alone, so long as they appealed to the Constitution; when they threw that away, and repudiated it, I said, as I say now—and I want the reporters to be sure to get me down—I speak for the benefit of political sneaks generally—[cheering]— I say that the only safeguard of Slavery was the recognition of the Constitution; that the opinion of the world is against it; all the instincts of humanity and religion are against it; the advance of civilization is against it; the interests —moral, material, commercial, and religious—of the country are all against it; and while I would prosecute the war solely and entirely for the purpose of putting down this Rebellion, if Slavery happens to go along with it, I will hold up both my hands, and cry amen to putting them both down. [Great applause.] I never favored it as an institution. I favored letting it alone when they invoked the Constitution; when they threw that away, and exposed its nakedness and deformity, I cared not how quick it went by the board. [Cheers.] They sent their pitcher to the well once too often. [Laughter.] Icarus soared so near heaven that the sun’s heat melted away his waxen wings, and he came down to destruction, and baptized the Icarian Sea, we are told. Although his father cried Icarus, Icarus, he heeded not: he was determined, in his ambition and security, to soar up to the heavens; and thus he was destroyed. Slavery had traded so long in the politics of the country, had controlled convictions, had made the mean mighty and the little great, that it thought it could do anything; and remembering that soaring upward, like Icarus, melted waxen wings, it went right downward. But it melted its waxen wings there, and destroyed the institution for ever. [Great laughter and applause.] The friends of Slavery have done for it what its enemies never could have done; and the Abolitionists ought to hold a day of thanksgiving and prayer for the friends of Slavery for destroying it from the face of the civilized earth. [Applause.]
<c04>
TELL THE WHOLE STORY.
The Delmonico diffusionists profess to desire the spread of useful information, and yet they encourage the World, the Express and the Journal of Commerce. These journals take pains to magnify every advantage of the enemy, and do everything possible to cause the public to lose confidence in the success of the war. Is this useful or sound political information? It is useful to the enemy; it may be thought sound in Richmond, but not here.
Why do these peace men and journals say nothing of the sufferings, of the losses, of the mismanagement, of the dangers and defeats of the enemy? They profess great alarm at our “depreciated currency,” they point to the rise in the price of gold—which their own gambling speculations and evil prognostications have in good part produced—but take no notice of the price of gold or the state of the currency among the rebels. They exclaim that calico is getting dear with us, but they never tell their readers that it has long been ten times as dear in the South; they exclaim against a war tax which makes coffee cost us thirty cents the pound, but they do not mention that coffee is scarce at one dollar per pound in the South. They say leather is going up in the North; but they never inform the public that the commonest shoes cost twelve to fourteen dollars, and men’s boots fifty dollars per pair in Richmond; that half the rebel army is barefooted, and that slaveholders are forced to wear shoes never before used except by their slaves.
Such even-handed diffusion of knowledge would not suit the purposes of the gentry who have come lately to be called diffusionists.
These persons, who are so afraid of the enemy that it they beseech a people of twenty millions to humble themselves in the dust to a population of less than nine millions, a third of whom are friendly to us, are fond of declaiming about the immense sacrifices we have already made for the Union. We have made great sacrifices, true—and the Union is worth them all, and more too. We have suffered losses—but look a little at the enemy.
The rebel leaders have passed a conscription law —and enforced it—forcing every man between the ages of eighteen and forty-five into their armies. Has that been done in the free States? They have just added to this a clause including in a new levy all men up to the age of fifty-five years. Has this been done in the free States? The territory of Mississippi has been laid off into districts twenty miles square, and a recruiting colonel appointed for each district to enforce the conscript and militia acts. Has this been done in the free States?
They have seized and destroyed hundreds of millions of dollars of private property—sugar, cotton, tobacco, turpentine, &c., against the protestations of the owners. Has any such outrage on private rights been committed in the free States? They have impressed thousands of slaves without the consent of their masters. Has this been done by our government in any loyal slave State?
In Virginia, in Arkansas, in Louisiana, everywhere, the rebel leaders seize private property at their own prices for their use; no matter if it is the last bushel of corn of a farmer, or the only bale of cotton of a poor soldier’s wife. Has any one been so wronged in the loyal States?
Their general taxes are ten times as heavy as ours—and necessarily so, for their slaves pay no taxes, and the poor non-slaveholders, the working men of the Southern States, are taxed doubly, that the rich man’s slaves may be exempt. More than this, a law of the rebel Congress specially exempts from service in the army every slaveholder who owns twenty slaves. Is any such unjust distinction in favor of the rich at the expense of the poor found in the loyal States? But their general taxes are not all; their State taxes have been enormously increased, and that while the rebel leaders prohibit trade, and seize arbitrarily on private property wherever they need it. We have before us an abstract of the “new schedule of (State) taxes,” passed by the General Assembly of Virginia last year. We find a general increase on all articles before taxed of not less than fitly per cent., and a great number of new articles on the list, never before taxed; and these not luxuries, not the peculiar property of the wealthy, but the necessaries which every poor man uses. “On every item of property, except slaves,” the rebel assembly largely increased the taxes. “Under twelve years, slaves are not taxed at all, and over that age they are taxed only one dollar and twenty cents per head, regardless of value.” Can any diffusionist point to an act of any free State Legislature so shamefully favoring the rich at the expense of the poor as this?
On the 10th of January last, Governor Letcher called out the sedentary militia of Virginia—the mere remnant of white working men remaining in the State, “between the ages of forty and forty-fire years, to rendezvous forthwith in the city of Petersburg, for a service of six months.” Has any such demand as this been made in the loyal States?
And how do the Southern people bear all this oppression? Our diffusionists attempt to alarm the nation by pictures of discontent in certain free States; they hope to excite such feelings by telling about them. But in the South no such inciters are needed. The rebel leaders have trouble on their hands everywhere. The officers they send out to enforce their oppressive conscription act are shot down by the people, who refuse to be dragged like dogs into the rebel armies. In the West, the Mississippians, Tennesseans and Kentuckians in Bragg’s army have been almost at war with each other, and Jeff. Davis had to go out there to quiet them. In Arkansas, General Hindman’s starving forces are utterly disorganized, and three hundred of them have been frozen to death. In Georgia and North Carolina, the people and deserters from the army have taken to the mountains in organized bands, and resist all efforts to capture or subdue them. In North Carolina, armed bands have violently released prisoners from rebel jails. General Lee has been forced to despatch troops to East Tennessee, “to suppress an insurrectionary movement.” In Alabama, Governor Shorter calls for the militia” to meet and quell the domestic and social disturbances which may spring up.” In South Carolina, even, according to a rebel General’s proclamation, “there are a number of deserters, tories and conscripts, resisting the law.”
And it is to a hand of rebels whose crimes and lawless outrages have thus exhausted and oppressed the people of the South till they in turn rebel against them, that our submissionists ask a proud and powerful nation to humbly sue for peace. It is to rebel chiefs who will presently be in danger from the very people they have too long commanded and outraged, that these peace men ask us to submit. Is this sound political information?
Prentice, of the Louisville Journal, says:—“Those who talk of a reconstruction of the Union, with New England left out, are no better than the other rebels”—which statement tersely sums up the whole question. Let them receive the contempt of every upright and patriotic citizen.
<c05>
MR. BRIGHT, M. P., ON AMERICA.
ROCHDALE, Tuesday Evening, Feb. 3d.
This evening, in the Public Hall at Rochdale, a meeting was held for the purpose of voting the thanks of the inhabitants of that borough to the American merchant and people for the provisions they have sent for the unemployed Lancashire operatives. The MAYOR (Mr. G. Ashworth) presided, and the large room was filled almost to suffocation.
Mr. BRIGHT, in supporting the resolution proposed and seconded, and which was ultimately carried, said that it was evident that whatever might be the faults of ambitious men for the crimes of Governments, the peoples were beginning to learn that they ought not to be hostile to each other, but that they ought to take an interest in each other’s welfare. There had long been a jealousy reigning between some people of this country and some people of the United States, and perhaps that jealousy had prevailed to a greater extent here than there; but why that jealousy and envy should exist, he could not tell. He had never been in America, but he could understand the pleasure which an Englishman going there would experience from the fact that the people of that country spoke his language. Among the twenty millions of a population in the free States of America, there were probably more persons who could read well than there were among the thirty millions comprising the population of Great Britain and Ireland; and they read the same books that we did, their law were much the same as ours, and in the free States there they enjoyed personal freedom as extensively as we in England; and their Government, in the sense of a fair representation of the people, was in advance of ours. But there was no such indifference between the American people of the free States and the English people, that should cause them to look upon each other as foreign and hostile to each other. To America European exiles were much indebted, for it had been the ark of their refuge; and to England it had been a life-boat to artisans and laborers of England. The existence of that great and free country and Government had also had a prodigious influence upon the European nations in regard to freedom, and if it were not for free America, people would soon see an enormous difference everywhere. In fifteen years, from 1845 to 1860, there had emigrated from this kingdom to America 2,400,000 people—in other words, as m my people as were equal to sixty towns as large as Rochdale. The emigrants were there soon permitted to enjoy what every citizen of the United States enjoyed, and they found that the noblest building in every town was a school for children—to which all free children had easy admission; that every man had a fair field and opportunity before him; and that if God had given him the power of bead and heart, there was no place in the country to which he might not aspire or reach. In England, among the great body of those who earned their bread by their daily labor—and this was observable more especially in the agricultural districts—there was an absence of that hope that every free man ought to have in his soul, that if he were frugal and industrious, there was a comfortable independence for him towards the close of his life. In the United States that hope prevailed everywhere. This being so, there was every motive why the people of this country should cultivate amicable relations. America was now the scene of one of the greatest calamities that could befal mankind—the scene of a war more gigantic than any we had any record of. The military operations were such as, extended in a line, would reach nearly across Europe—would reach from Madrid to Moscow. So great a strife could not originate without some cause. What was that cause? He found some men that neither wished one thing nor the other as to the result of the war, and that arose either from their ignorance or their fear to express their sympathy with the South.
One of the questions involved in this war was, whether among Christian nations slavery should be adopted or entirely abolished; for if the result of the dire struggle were to abolish slavery in the territories of the United States, the abolition of slavery in Brazil and Cuba would naturally follow. Only recently, a gentleman well acquainted with Cuba told him that such was the feeling of the inhabitants of that island, and no doubt such would be the result. Thus the question of the freedom of 4,000,000 slaves was not the only one involved, for it involved the freedom of many more; but in this great struggle, there was still a war more involved, for if they were to believe what might be called the opinion of the leading papers and men of the Southern Confederacy, the freedom or slavery of white men was involved. The Richmond Examiner, the most able and influential paper in the South, had stated that universal liberty had failed—that the evils of free society were insufferable—that slavery was the most fitting state for new peoples—and that, therefore, it ought not to be abolished. In a speech of Mr. Cobb, he found that that gentlemen thought that slavery was a cure for everything. Now, for his part, he, (Mr. Bright) said that this great strife has arisen through an infamous conspiracy against the rights of human nature on principles such as could not be found in the pages of any heathen writer of olden times, or in the practice of savage nations in our times. It was the doctrine of devils, and not of men; and all mankind should shudder at the guilt which this conspiracy had brought about their head.
The rebellion was a rebellion against the majority. They argued that, if slavery was right, the slave trade could not be wrong. They were told that the distress here was caused by the blockade, but such was not the fact; the South might send cotton here if they chose, but they refused to do so. They burnt their cotton that they might injure us, and they injured us in the hope that we should not be able to live without their cotton, and that, therefore, we should break the blockade, make war on the North, and help them to obtain their independence. Mr. Mann, of Georgia, Mr. Senator Wigfall, and Mr. Stephens, the Vice President of the Southern Confederacy, had said that if England were without cotton for a week, anarchy would result, and that the Queen would not only lose her crown but her head. Envoys had been, sent off to this country— men who were slave-owners and slave-dealers—to induce us to espouse the cause of the South, and those very men were received under the gallery of the House of Commons by members who shook hands with them. He regretted that England was the only country in Europe where men were to be found who were willing to make their Government take part against the North, and who supplied the South with munitions of war; and only the other day, not an English statesman, but the son of a great English statesman—the Secretary for Ireland—dared to say that he hoped for a division of the great republic, and the independence of the South. Why, if that island which he (Mr. Bright) supposed in punishment for some of its offences had been committed to his (the Secretary’s) care—if that island were to attempt to secede, not to set up a slave kingdom, his Government would sack its cities, and drench its soil with blood, before they would allow it. But the working men of England had not been wrong on
<c06>
this question; they were themselves too slowly emerging from a condition of things allied to slavery for that. The meetings held in the Manchester Free-Trade Hall, in Exeter Hall, London, were evidences of the sympathies and feelings of the working men of England. He (Mr. Bright) was now told on every hand that public opinion on the American question had recently undergone a considerable change, and the reason was the people knew very little about America, and they were learning more every day; in point of fact, the people here had been greatly misled by what were called the public instructors. Jefferson, the American statesman, had said that newspapers ought to be divided into four compartments—one for the truth, a second for the probable, a third for the possible, and a fourth for the lies—and if that plan were adopted in this country, so far as what were called the leading columns were concerned, the fourth portion, when dealing with American question, at least ought to be four times as large as the first. He admitted we were not responsible for the war, nor for how it was carried on, nor for its result, but there was one thing for which we were responsible, and that was our sympathies when we discussed the question. No man who was a man ought to be ashamed of expressing his sympathies. He (Mr. Bright) was not ashamed to express the sympathy he felt on the side of the free North. He could not understand how any man could employ himself with small cavils against the free people of the North, and close his eyes to the slavery and bondage of the South—the South, which contemplated the extinction and the overthrow of the dearest rights of man, and the bondage of the most helpless of mankind. If we were the friends of personal and political freedom, how could we withhold our sympathy from a Government and a people amongst whom white men had ever been free, and who now offered freedom to the blacks? He hoped that, even although they should entertain the belief or fear that the American nation would be destroyed, they would not by any chance commit the crime of wishing for such a result. He did not blame men for differing from him, but he did blame those who wished for such a catastrophe. He had never despaired, and he would not despair, as to the issue of the war, and it was his fervent hope that a prosperous day would again be seen for the American Union, and that the prosperity of that day would never more be marred. The honorable gentleman was loudly cheered during the delivery of his speech, which occupied more than an hour.

MR. P. A. TAYLOR, M. P., ON THE WAR.
Mr. P. A. Taylor, M. P., addressed a great meeting of his constituents at Leicester, (Eng.) on the 26th January, on public affairs. In the course of a long and able speech, he referred to the American question as follows:—
No sooner was Mr. Lincoln elected than the slave-holding South, finding itself no longer predominant in the Union, and that slavery was destined to ultimate destruction, rose in arms against the Government of the United States. Under these circumstances, I say that the North are fighting against slavery. It has been said—like many other calumnies—that the North would submit to the South again to-morrow—that, if the South would only come back, they would give them the Union as it was. No party and no man in the North has ever uttered such a sentiment, as that he would restore the Union with the powers the slaveholder demanded. He would restore the Union with limited State power; he would surround the scorpion slavery with a limit, well knowing that, in a short space of time, it would sting itself to death. (Cheers.) What they are now fighting for is, slavery forever abolished in the territories of the United States (“No,” cheers, and disapprobation;) the Central Imperial Government of the United States free from the stain of slavery, by the slaves being manumitted;—they have for the first time strung up at the yard arm as a pirate the captain of a slave ship;—and at last, and greatest of all, has come that Proclamation of President Lincoln, which makes one feel thankful to God that one has lived to the year 1863—that new declaration of independence and the rights of man, greater in some respects than that which inaugurated the Republic in ‘76. (Cheers.) Look at it side by side with the proclamation which it called forth from the Southern chivalry—from Jefferson Davis. It would seem as if the spear of Ithuriel at one moment had touched the two Presidents, and, presto! they come out in their true colors—President Lincoln with a proclamation for the emancipation of three millions of slaves, and Jefferson Davis, by hoisting the black flag, directing that all slaves shall be relegated to their masters, and the officers of the United States army shall be murdered.
And how can we account for the phenomenon that, in freedom-loving England, public opinion in certain classes should have gone so widely astray on this question? It must be confessed, I think, that it is largely in consequence of that want of knowledge which is natural in regard to everything that takes place 3000 miles off, and also because, within the last twenty years, we have been placed to some extent in antagonism with America. But who was it that has been proposing continually to go to war with England—to punish England in the first place, and to divert attention from slavery at home? The Southern chivalry. Who proposed to seize Texas, and bribe the North with the seizure of Canada as a make weight? The Southern chivalry. Who seized free negroes out of our vessels at Charleston, and put them in prison? The Southern chivalry. Who laid the basis of that antagonism which has grown up between these nations? Not the people of the North, but the Southern filibusters. They attempted to gull us, some time ago, by saving that it was only a question of tariffs, and that slavery had nothing to do with it. When the Southern States seceded and issued their proclamation, they said at once that the fight was for slavery; but England was to be gulled, and told that it was a question of tariff, yet every protective tariff which has been passed by the United States has been carried by a majority of Southern votes.
If you read the columns of the Times, or look into the Standard, you will become aware that we here are a collection of nobodies, employed in amusing ourselves in a carnival of cant. But the working classes have been true to their traditions on the subject. In spite of all their sufferings in Lancashire, or of the insidious demands on them, that they should press for the breaking of the blockade and declare for the South, there has never been a single meeting of the working men in which their voice has not been raised for freedom. I feel a sort of personal pride that the working classes of England should have so more than answered the trust reposed in them by their friends. I also believe that the religious classes in this country, and especially the Non conformist clergy, have stood by the North, and you will find among the philosophers of the age some of the nobodies who have takes a similar course. We have with us on the side of freedom such minds as John Stuart Mill, Harriet Martineau, Peyronnet Thomp-
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extent to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”—J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
son, John Bright, and another well known name in the stirring times of the Anti-Corn Law League, whose opinion, too, is of double weight now, from the fact of his being in the ministry-Thomas Milner Gibson. (Cheers.) Look again among our younger men-those men who will hereafter have to bear the standard of progress for us, and among those who have already made their mark are such men as Stansfield, of Halifax, and Forster, of Bradford, standing by the side of freedom. Look abroad to those who lead public opinion on the Continent. I am ashamed to say that a delusion on this question is confined only to England. You will not find a progressionist Liberal in France or Germany who would not feel ashamed to express sympathy for the South. Look at such men as Victor Hugo and Joseph Garibaldi (cheers), who could hardly be persuaded not to waive the urgent wants of his own country in order to go and draw his sword in favor of the North. (Cheers.) Electors and non-electors of the Borough of Leicester, these are the nobodies with whom your Member is proud to stand of fall. (Cheers.)
Those who, like myself, have carefully marked the action of the Southern press for weeks and months past, cannot be surprised at the effect it has produced on the public mind. Our press never pretends to be fair in the discussion of these questions, but according as they go in for the North or South do they falsify or villify those whom they have determined to write down. Only the other day, the Times declared that there was not one word in the Bible which could be twisted as being against the principle of negro slavery. There is, indeed, a change in England from the time when the Iron-sides of Parliament went forth to fight for liberty with the sword in one hand and the Bible in the other as an excuse for the blood they might shed. (Cheers.) What became of "Do unto your neighbor as you would he should do unto you”? "Thou shalt not steal” must be interpreted in future as excepting the bones and sinews, soul and body of a fellow man—“ Thou shalt commit no murder” with the proviso, “Unless it be the flogging to death of an escaped slave, or the burning to death of the rebel.” And what is the effect of this? Why, that the lovers of freedom in the North are irritated and hurt at the attitude taken by this country. The South said at first, “England was the first denouncer of slavery; we are, therefore, antagonists.” "But," then they thought, "they will want cotton, and therefore we shall bring proud England to our feet ready to swallow her disgrace.” On the other hand, the people of the North relied at least on the moral support of the English people, who were of the same Anglo-Saxon race, and possessed the same instincts as themselves. But the public opinion of England, so far as the middle classes are concerned, has not been ranged on the side of the North. I am happy to find that sounder opinions are gradually making their way, and are growing day by day, and I am satisfied that better feelings will be aroused when the question becomes to be better understood.
With regard to the future of America, I am not about to prophecy, but I believe that success lies inevitably in the North, if it has the courage to stand by its principles. I am old-fashioned enough to have some faith in the sentiment:—
"Thrice is he armed who hath his quarrel just,
And he but naked, though locked up in steel,
Whose conscience with injustice is corrupted!”
If the North keeps its hand to the plough, it will inevitably reap the fruits of the harvest.

INSUBORDINATION OF GEN. MCCLELLAN.
LETTER FROM GENERAL SCOTT.
In the debate on the Conscription bill, in the U.S. House of Representatives, Mr. Stevens, of Pennsylvania, said that our great want of success was suffering Breckinridge democrats to head our armies-men without heart or disposition to crush the rebellion. When General McClellan was at Yorktown, he was promptly ordered to attack the enemy and break his lines. He never obeyed the order. When ordered to send troops to aid General Pope, he stood idle eleven days before he started, and then at a snail's pace. He sent troops under pet generals who never reached the battle-ground. General Porter was one of them, and was justly dismissed from the army for causing defeat. General McClellan reinstated, was ordered to pursue the enemy, invading Maryland. He had 120,000 troops, and moved at the rapid rate of six miles a day till he got up with them. Antietam was a quasi victory; and while in sight of the rebel army, he suffered the enemy to cross into Virginia, taking the last man, wagon and ambulance with him; and shortly after, when ordered by the Commander in Chief to pursue the enemy, be hesitated for three weeks, then took the South Mountain path. There were four distinct instances of disobedience of orders. Mr. Stevens desired to read a letter from General Scott to Simon Cameron.
Mr. Mallory inquired where Mr. Stevens procured the letter.
Mr. Stevens replied that it was a copy of a letter on file at the War Department. It was read, as follows:—
"HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY, WASHINGTON, Oct. 4, 1861.}
Hon. S. Cameron, Secretary of War:
Sir: You are, I believe, aware that I hailed the arrival here of Major-General McClellan as an event of happy consequence to the country and the army. Indeed, if I did not call for him, I heartily approved of the suggestion, and gave him the most cordial reception and support.
He, however, had hardly entered upon his new duties, when, encouraged to communicate directly with the President and certain members of the Cabinet, he in a few days forgot that the had any immediate commander, and has now long prided him-self upon treating me with uniform neglect, running into disobedience of orders. Of the smaller matters, neglects, though in themselves grave military offences, I need not speak, in the face of the following. To suppress an irregularity more conspicuous in Major-General McClellan than in any other officer, I published the following:—
HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY, WASHINGTON,. September 16, 1861.}
GENERAL ORDERS, No. 11.There are irregularities in the correspondence of the army which need prompt correction. It is highly important that junior officers on duty be not permitted to correspond with the General in-Chief or other commander on current official business, except through intermediate commanders; and the same rule applies to correspondence with the President direct, or with him through the Secretary of War, unless it be by the special invitation or request of the President.
By command of Lieutenant General SCOTT, E. D. TOWNSEND, Ass't Adjutant General.’
With this order fresh in his memory, Major-General McClellan addressed two important communications to the Secretary of War, on respectively the 19th and 20th of the same month, over my head; and how many since to the Secretary, and even to the President direct, I have not inquired, but many, I have no doubt, besides daily oral communications with the same high functionaries, all without my knowledge.
Second, to correct another class of grave neglects, I the same day caused to be addressed to General McClellan the following order:—
‘HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY, WASHINGTON, September 16, 1861.}
To Major-General McCllellan, U.S.A., Commanding Department of the Potomac:
The Commanding General of the Army of the Potomac will cause the positions, state and number of troops under him, to be reported at once to General Headquarters by divisions, brigades, and independent regiments or detachments, which report will be followed by reports of new troops as they arrive, with the dispositions made of them, together with all the material changes which may take place in the same army.
By command of Lieutenant -General SCOTT. E. D. TOWNSEND, Ass't Adjutant General.
Eighteen days have now elapsed, and not the slightest respect has been shown to either of these orders by Major-General McClellan. Perhaps he will say, in respect to the latter, it has been difficult for him to procure exact returns of divisions, brigades, &c. No doubt; but why not have given me proximate returns, such as be so eagerly furnished the President and certain Secretaries? Has, then, a senior officer no corrective power over a junior officer in case of such persistent neglect and disobedience? The remedy by arrest and trial before a court-martial would probably soon cure the evil; but it has been feared a conflict of authority near the head of the army would be highly encouraging to the enemies, and depressing to the friends of the Union. Hence my long forbearance, and continuing (though but nominally) in duty. I shall 
<c02>
try to hold out till the arrival of Major-General Halleck, when, as his presence will give me increased confidence in the safety of the Union, and being, as I am unable to ride in the saddle or walk, by reason of dropsy in my feet and legs, and paralysis in the small of the back, I shall definitively retire from the army. 
I have the honor to remain, with high respect, Your most obedient servant,
WINFIELD SCOTT.”

A DANGEROUS SUGGESTION.
The Times of February 23d covers over a bad scheme by attaching General McClellan's name to that of General Fremont, and recommending both of them to renewed employment. There is no objection that we see to the instant return of General Fremont to active service; his past labors in Missouri and Western Virginia have proved his abilities; while his loyalty and devotion to the best interests of the country have been of that earnest and fervid kind which even copperheaded malignity has never dared to question. Many persons doubt the propriety of his resigning his command because an officer of inferior rank and personal offensiveness was appointed over him, but no person doubts his patriotism or disinterestedness. General McClellan stands in a different position. He was dismissed from his place because of wilful disobedience of orders, in the face of the enemy; and to recall him to any other place, before that disobedience has been completely purged, would be to expose the government to general and deserved contempt.
If General McClellan had ever exhibited any signal military abilities, or if his offences had been slight, it might be allowable to restore him to active service after a short term of punishment and disgrace to which he has been consigned. But his military abilities, if we may judge by the total failure of his management at Washington, and of his most disastrous and horrible campaign on the Peninsula, are of a mediocre character, as the Times itself has more than once argued-while his military offences have been so serious that, under a stricter administration than ours, he would have shared the fate at least of his friend Fitz-John Porter. To say nothing of his strange inaction after the battle of Fair Oaks, where, it is the testimony of the best officers present, our army might have walked into Richmond if it had been allowed, how shall we account for his refusal to annihilate the discomfited army of Lee after the battle of Antietam? He not only refrained from moving at once against the exhausted enemy, but deliberately set at naught the most positive orders of his superiors, as if he wished that enemy to escape.
But since his dismissal from office, the conduct of General McClellan has been scarcely less objectionable. Instead of retiring at once to his home, and remaining there in cheerful silence, he has perambulated the country, with a view to raising up and strengthening the political opposition to the government. His chosen companions, both in Washington and New York, have been well-known semi-secessionists, who approve of the course of Vallandigham, Cox & Co., and who have done all that they could do to embarrass the Administration and render the war unpopular. He has even so far lost sight of his own proper self-respect, and allowed himself to be bound for the future, as to accept from their hands, in the name of his wife, the gift of a spacious and well-furnished house, the purchase and stocking of which was managed throughout by a notorious “sympathiser,” who pays the dues of rebel Cabinet officers at our club houses.
Now, we say that to return such an officer to his command would be to stultify the whole policy of the government and offend the moral sense of nine-tenths of the loyal community. It would do more than that: it would crown with success the conspiracy against the Union which the copperheads have been laboring at for the last three months, by substituting General McClellan for General Halleck, and so giving him control of all our vast military operations. Even these friends of his will pretend to admit to you in conversation, that he has failed as a commander in the field, but they still claim for him great capacities for organ zing armies and army movements, and they insinuatingly suggest that the government should not deprive itself of his services. What they mean is, to put him in a position to retard the grand military operations now in progress, and destined soon, we trust, to crush out the last remnants of the rebellion, and to enable him to impair the moral integrity of the army, as he has tried to do before, by turning it into a political machine, more devoted to a single man or a party than it is to the nation.
We do not charge that the Times has entered into this scheme; its suggestions and words are certainly moderate enough; but it has before repeated the same things in nearly the same phrases, and it looks to us as if it were lending itself, knowingly or unknowingly, to the conspirators. Of course, it has a right to speak as it pleases, but the fact that it has lately displayed an unusual devotion to the opinions of a particular member of the Cabinet, might beget the suspicion that he is in some way responsible for such hints or feelers of the public sentiment, and this renders its course at this time somewhat important. It is impossible for any person who has a genuine respect for the Cabinet to suppose that any member of it could so far forget its honor or pay so little regard to the determinations of the President as to desire the restoration to power of a man who is one of the worst enemies of both; but the abettors of treason among us are quick, apprehensive and vigilant, and they will lose no time in spreading abroad the cautious paragraphs of the Times as indications of the set of the current in other quarters. That journal owes it to itself, then, as well as to others who may be innocently implicated and injured by its speech, to declare explicitly the object of its singular military suggestions, so entirely in opposition to its more recent course, so dangerous in themselves, and so likely to revive the dissensions in the loyal community, now happily laid to rest-N. Y. Evening Post.

OOPPERHEAD LOGIO.
The logic of the copperheads is remarkable. They are constantly re-asserting the fallacy, that one of the means resorted to by the government for putting down the rebellion is the sole object of the war. They say, —
“The President has proclaimed the emancipation of the slaves in the rebel States; therefore the emancipation of the slaves is the sole object of the war, as carried on by the government”
Let us suggest some conclusions quite as logical.
The government has constructed numerous ironclad steamer to aid in reducing Southern forts and cities; therefore the sole object of the war, as carried on by the government, is the construction of iron-clads.
The government has blockaded the Southern ports and interdicted trade with the rebels; therefore the sole object of the war, as carried on by the government, is to deprive the people of the rebel States of clothing, food and medicine.
The government, through its armies, has actually fired shot, shell, and Minie balls, at the armed rebels; therefore the sole object of the war is to kill or main the Southern soldiers.
The following syllogism is more logical and more truthful:
The rebel leaders have constantly declared that they will make no peace till their independence is recognised by the North, or the North submits to their dictates; the copperheads, not withstanding this, avow themselves in favor of making peace; therefore, the copperheads are in favor of recognizing the independence of the rebels and severing the Union, or of submitting to the dictates of armed traitors. —Rosbury Journal.
It is not difficult to identify the copperheads: they do this work for themselves. Paint their portrait, and they recognize the likeness. It is never necessary to call names. No truly loyal man will ever imagine himself a traitor. When he sees a traitor lineaments depicted, he will never say, “"That means or was intended for me.” But a copperhead always will do so. He will see himself, as in a mirror, on the instant. He will writhe, too, at the contemplation of his own hideous deformity, and will be pretty sure, while compelled to admit the justice done him, to endeavor to break the force of the blow by dragging down better men to the same level. Nobody will be deceived by this, however,—not even himself. He has gravitated to the ignominious depths where his own nature compels him to breathe out his malignant being; and there he must remain practically alone, for men of loftier natures cannot exist in such an atmosphere. —Ibid.
<c03>
The Liberator.

No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1863.
NOTICE TO DELINQUENT SUBSCRIBERS.
The GENERAL AGENT of the Liberator begs leave to remind delinquent subscribers-i. e., such as are owing from January 1, 1862, to January 1, 1863— that, unless payment be made by the first of April, (which is granting a longer indulgence than usual,) their paper will be discontinued, in accordance with the STANDING RULE. It is hoped there will be no longer delay on their part in meeting their indebtedness and no occasion furnished for curtailing the subscription list.

A MARKED CASE OF NEGRO-PHOBIA.
Negrophobia, in its intensity, is so closely allied to sedition and treason as to be at all times untrustworthy in a great crisis like the present, whether in the army or out of it. Here is a case in point:
Advices from the Department of the South announce the arrest, at Hilton Head, S. C,: by order of General Hunter, of Brigadier General Stevenson, formerly Colonel of the Massachusetts 24th, for publicly declaring that he would rather be beaten by the rebels than fight with the negroes. The following is General Hunter’s order arresting General Stevenson: —
Special Order No. 86.
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE SOUTH, HILTON HEAD, PORT ROYAL, S. C., February 16, 1868.
Brigadier General Thomas G. Stevenson, having stated publicly in the Custom House of Port Royal, Hilton Head Island, that he would rather be beaten than co-operate with a certain class of troops authorized by the Government, he is hereby placed in arrest and ordered to report in arrest to the Post Commander, Hilton Head, where he will remain until the pleasure of the President in his case can be made known.
By command of Major General HUNTER,
CHAS. G.HALPINE,
Asst. Adjt. Gen. 10th Army Corps.
The New York Herald correspondent says the following are the circumstances which induced his arrest: —
General Stevenson, on his arrival at Port Royal, called, in company with several members of his staff, at the Custom House, the officers of which are mainly Boston men and former acquaintances of the General. While there the conversation turned upon the subject of negro troops, the General stating emphatically that he was opposed to arming the blacks. A conversation, substantially as follows, ensued:
“Well,” said one of the gentlemen present, “I had rather the negroes would fight for us than for the rebel.”
The General responded that he had no evidence yet that the Confederates used negro troops against us: but if they did, it was no reason why we should fight with the same allies.
"But,” interrupted an officer of his staff, “you know that black troops were successfully used in the war of the Revolution.”
"That was a different war.”
"And you know,” continued the officer, “that General Jackson employed black men at New Orleans, and publicly thanked them for their services.”
"I don’t care anything about that,” was the reply. “Circumstances were not the same then as now. I don’t want to fight with a negro.”
"Hadn't you rather have them for us than against us?”
"No, sir.”
"But, General, you had rather employ them than to be beaten, hadn’t you?”
"No, sir; I had not”
Several days after, a formal complaint was made to General Hunter of the language used by General Stevenson, and the above order was at once issued.
The friends of Gen. S. claim to have documents from Gen. Foster and others, giving a different version of the affair. No doubt, strenuous efforts will be made to smooth the matter over—for family’s sake.-But how vulgar and brutal is such a spirit!
Since this was in type, a telegram announces that Gen. Stevenson has been restored to his command. He pleaded that the language he used was in the heat of debate, without thought of the consequences!

A TRUE AMERICAN IN SOOTLAND.
The Glasgow Morning Journal reports the proceedings of a meeting held at Paisley, on the American question, near the end of January. An address was delivered in the Free High Church, of Paisley, by Arthur F. Stoddard, Esq., of Thornhill House, on “The Civil War and American Slavery.” The speaker cleared up many of the misconceptions popularly existing in Great Britain in regard to our struggle. He showed that the “liberty” which the South pretends to be fighting for, is a liberty of the strong to oppress the weak; a liberty to enslave their fellow-beings; to sell men, women and children like cattle; to part husband from wife, and mother from child; to reopen and extend the foreign slave trade; to make a moral and physical wilderness of one half of the American continent, and to continue the blighting influence of slavery to the end of time. He exposed the shallow Pretence that the war grew out of, or was bound up with, the question of free trade, and proved, from the official documents of South Carolina herself, that the rebellion arose solely from a determination to sustain and perpetuate slave ins’itutions.
After giving a full and forcible statement of the grounds, near and remote, which not only justify the action of the United States government, but show that action to have been indispensable to our continuance as a nation, Mr., Stoddard took up the question, what should be the attitude of Great Britain in these circumstances. He pointed out the injustice we have received from many of the presses and many of the public men of that country; he made clear the duty and the wisdom of aiding the struggle of civilization against barbarism; and he paid a just trioute to those sympathetic and warm-hearted working men of Paisley, who were the first in Great Britain to express their confidence in the President of the United States, and their trust in Republican institutions, when this war commenced.
At the close of this address, a meeting was held in the vestry of the church to consider what action should be taken on the general subject. A committee was chosen, with instructions to arrange for another great meeting, and to prepare resolutions respecting American affairs to be submitted to it.
Mr. Stoddard, who has made a beginning of this good work, is a native of Boston, but has long been resident in Glasgow, and has repeatedly lent his aid there in movements against American slavery. The able address above noticed was published in full in the Morning Journal, and has since been printed in a handsome pamphlet of sixty-four pages. It is to be hoped that it will receive a wide circulation s. Americans abroad can do no better service to their native land than to diffuse such timely truth as this address contains. —C. K. W.
THE IRON FUENACE OF SLAVERY AND SECESSION.AND SECESSION.
By Rev. John H. Aughey, a Refugee from Mississippi. Philadelphia: William S. & Alfred Martien. For sale by Lee & Shepard.
This volume is a lucid description of the sufferings of its author in making his escape from Secessia. He was a preacher in Mississippi, and was imprisoned at Tupelo, for Union sentiments, from which place his second attempt to escape was successful, though in the face of death. His narrative of personal experience is thrillingly interesting, beside the information which it gives of the state of affairs at the South. Mr. Aughey is dependent upon the proceeds of his book for support, and we hope it will have a large sale. Besides, it is calculated to make a powerful impression wherever read, to intensify the Northern sentiment against the rebellion and in support of the Government, and to aid the cause of universal emancipation. Its statements may unquestionably be relied upon. We have marked various portions of it for insertion hereafter.
<c04>
“BLESSED ARE THE PEAOEMAKERS."
Who would have thought a Copperhead could coil within the Sermon on the Mount? Nobody, till Vallandigham managed to do it,-how, consult our first page. Modestly assuming a more than Apostolic fidelity to principle, he boasted at Newark that from the first he had been opposed to the war. What war? Of the South upon the nation? No; for at "the firing on Fort Sumter,” he was one of an "insignificant minority” who were against civil war. But a the entire North and the new Administration were of that mind, also, Mr. Peacemaker, how did yon you happen to find yourself alone? "why," must needs answer our sleek Friend from the Northwest, "isn't it plain that it takes two to make a civil war?" Well, but your friends began it. "Tut, tut! there had been no war, if you had let them alone" No war, surely, but should we have had a peace?
He who uttered the words which Vallandigham has profaned, was the Prince of a very different kind of peace. With him there could be none without justice, without truth, or without integrity. Peace did not consist in abasing conscience before an aggressive wrong,. nor in human nature’s surrendering on demand the rights with which the Creator endowed it. Peace with him meant brotherhood, meant liberty and equality. And in all ages the peacemaker has been the most restless, the most persistent of men. Whatever disturbs the order and harmony of society, that he combats night and day, seeing no peace in the violation of the divine laws. The liar, the thief, the murderer, all the immoral forces of the universe, he seeks as his natural and deadly foes. Not more resistant than aggressive, he knows no fear save of his own conscience. Like him described by Horace, —
"The man of firm and noble soul
No factious clamors can control;
 No threat’ning tyrant's darkling brow
Can swerve him from his just intent.”
Such was the peace of Jesus of Nazareth, of which the interpretation by a disciple makes purity the indispensable prerequisite. Such have been the world's true peacemaker, whether conspicuous as martyrs, or known only to God for their uprightness to Him and man. But what a mockery in this latter-day pretender to the fellowship of the Apostles! He, a believer in the occasional right of war, in the constant right of self-defence, urges the North to submit to her assailant; -the North, to whom the right of self-defence is as dear as to this peacemaker that would be blessed-the North, whose happiness, lives and liberties can be se­cured only by the annihilation of her foe! Hypocrite! is this your peace? To bind the victim of a foul, per­fidious, devilish assault, and to let loose the cut-throat that thirsts for his blood? Is assassination peace, and is slavery that purity which must precede its return to the nation? Then cursed be the peacemakers!
Yet writhe awhile, ye Copperheads of the Quaker persuasion! Continue your peaceful attacks upon the Government that now represents liberty and light. Still menace those who propose to carry on the war till the South or they succumb, with Christ-like ebullitions of “ Let them try it!” "See them d—d first!” Still furnish aid and comfort to tyranny in arms by calling for a peace which itself has not demanded. Still cripple democracy in its death grapple with aris­tocracy, and peacefully obstruct its officers in the per­formance of their duties, by cries of “ Kill ‘em, damn ‘em, kill ‘em!" and acts to correspond. Already the voice of the people, ominous to domestic traitors, be­gins to be heard from the army. Wait till the open enemy in the field has been discomfited and brought under hand, and then expect your hour is nigh. In that day, Reverend Apostles of the Gospel of Slavery, it will be seen whether, as you boast, there is no Judas among you. Rather will it appear, from your lives no less than from your end, that you were all betrayers and Judases, lacking only the capability of remorse, and the decency of suicide-W. P. G.

LEAVING NEW ENGLAND OUT.
The instincts of the South are well founded. Its keen scent snuffs the far off danger before it is apparent to the eye. Though it can give no just reason for its fears, it abates them not a jot; for instinct is above reason, and, if obeyed, unerring.
The popular mind of the North is yet puzzled to ac­count for this rebellion. Although the antagonism of Freedom and Slavery is acknowledged, it does not explain why the election of Abraham Lincoln was the time chosen by the South for its uprising. There never was a revolution apparently so causeless. In the light of reason, it is utterly unjustifiable.
The new President entered office promising, in good faith, the same pro-slavery fealty that his democratic predecessors were accustomed to offer. The Fugitive Slave Law was to be enforced, and every unholy compromise to be kept. To prevent secession, many prominent Republicans were willing to surrender new territory! slavery, and yield the very point for which their political battle was fought and won. Had the South been content to remain in the Union, no one doubts that she could have exacted new submissions as the price of her stay.
But instinct forbade delay, and Charleston opened her batteries on Sumter. Reason saw only a submis­sive President; instinct was cognizant of a power be­hind the throne, greater than the throne itself. That power was the conscience and anti-slavery purpose of the North.
New England, especially, nurtures these influences adverse to slavery. Her institutions educate the people to hate oppression, and cherish liberty. Skilled in the arts that garner up material wealth, she is also a leader and creator in the realm of ideas. Almost every question that ever agitated the country can claim parentage here. The enemies of progress think there is no heresy that is not native to New England.
It is useless to deny that, in a union based on immorality, she was a disturbing force. The Southern fogs and miasmas could not abide the clear, fresh breezes that came from our granite hills. The instinct of the South was right, and the quicker it struck the blow for supremacy, the surer its chances of victory. Freedom is a no less determined propagandist than Slavery, and the Carolinas knew that, in a union which included Massachusetts, the subversion of her institutions was inevitable.
Weary of this long and bloody war, there are many, North and South, who would be glad to end it by a compromise. An insurmountable barrier prevents that possibility-New England. Unchanged in purpose, with puritanic will, she can never be bribed or intimidated into silence. It is her free speech, more than her armed battalions, that the South fears.
Hence the cry from rebeldom and from Western copperheads, “Let us leave New England out in the cold" It is the grandest tribute ever paid her. Vice cannot endure the company of virtue. “The perfumes of Paradise were poison to the Dives, and made them melancholy” says the Oriental proverb. The purity and conscience of New England are offensive to the foul nostrils of slaveholders, and they refuse to be comforted.
It safe to say that a wilder theory than this was never broached. It is the blind man throwing away his staff, and driving off his trusty dog. It is demented Lear turning Cordelia out of doors. Leave New England out in the cold! Wherever she goes, there will be warmth enough. Self-centered and serene, she needs no aggregate of States to lend her lustre or prosperity. Strong in her isolation, she can bide her time with that confidence which rectitude always gives; for she knows, as sure as the planet revolves, that the Union, when the insanity of slavery shall have passed away, sitting clothed and in its right mind, will call back with blessings the New England now anathematized, and reinstate her proudly in the nation’s ran.—W. L. G. JR.
THE MINISTEE FROM HATTI. The diplomatic representative from Hayti has arrived, and paid his respects to Senator Sumner, chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations. He will receive from the government all the courtesies usually extended to diplomatic representative.
<c05>
REV. ALBERT BARNES.
The position taken by Mr. Barnes in his last Thanks giving sermon encourages the New York Observer to hope that it is “possible to find some common ground between the extreme Northern and extreme Southern view of the slavery question, on which all good men North and South may unite.” Prefacing its account of Mr. Barnes’s position by the false statement that he is “"an extreme anti-slavery man,” the Observer proceeds to give an account, by abstract and quotation, of the substance of that position. The subject of the discourse is “The conditions on which peace should be made.”
Mr. Barnes's first point is that the rebellion should be suppressed without abolishing slavery: —
"The duty now, the immediate duty, the sole duty, is to suppress this rebellion, and to establish the authority of law; to maintain the Union. That, and that only, is the purpose of the war. That, and that only, makes the war right. That, and that only, will make its issues safe. Anything else; even any scheme of benevolence; any measure based on the intrinsic wrong of slavery; any act of justice to the oppressed and wronged as such; any redressing of old grievances, or any rendering of tardy justice long delayed; any proposed amendments of the Constitution as a basis or a promised pledge, valuable as they might be in themselves, and incidental as they may be in the prosecution of the war, would be aside from its design; would be a violation of the Constitution; would properly subject an Executive to impeachment.”
He insists upon the restoration of the Union and the suppression of the slave trade; and then proposes that the government, without interfering with the existence or the continuance of slavery, should take itself out of the position of official connection with it, and responsibility for it:—
“A fourth thing, now shown, by the terrible war into which we are plunged, to be essential to permanent peace, and demanded alike by the best interests of the North and the South, and by every principle of just government, is the entire separation of the General Government from slavery. This I regard as THE great principle necessary in the restoration of peace; the great principle on which the Constitution, if ever amended, is to be amended, and on which, if ever, the liberties of our country are to be preserved. Except in the matter just referred to, of prohibiting the slave trade, the principle should be made universal that the General Government should have no relation to slavery; should in no wise protect it; should in no manner interfere with it to abolish it; should derive no benefit from it; should lend it no support; should in all respects, and at all times, stand wholly aloof from it. The South demands this in words, at least; the North should yield it; the nation—the world—humanity—justice—national honor—religion—should insist on it forever.”
He next proposes that the South, retaining slavery, should have its political power increased by counting votes for the slaves as if they were free men; that is, to change the three fifths rule to a five-fifths rule, the masters still retaining all the power, and all the benefit of it. He says—
"In the meantime, the South has been suffering this wrong-that, as now constituted, two-fifths of the population, that is of what are now four millions of its population, have been without any representation: in other words, under the ratio of representation, there has been a loss to them of ten, fifteen, or of twenty members of Congress.
The true principle of representation would be, undoubtedly, that no human beings should be represented as property; that the apportionment should be in accordance to the entire population as reported by the census tables; that whatever may be the domestic relations of such persons, or whatever their condition, as sick or well, old or young, white, copper-colored, black or semi-black, their existence as human beings-as a part of the nation-as having rights and interests as human beings to be protected-should be recognized in the government under which they live. In the carrying out of this principle, it is, of course, not necessary that all should be eligible to office, nor that all should vote; nor that children, or slaves, or Indians, should be admitted as law-makers of the land. At the North, the people regulate this in their own way: so let them do at the South. As at the North we do not choose that all persons shall be voters; and as we make distinctions-some of them arbitrary and unjust-yet all within our power-so let them do at the South”
Mr. Barnes would have the Fugitive Slave Law repealed or modified, and would have Congress restrained from any legislation on the subject of slavery in the territories; and he argues as follows against immediate emancipation, and if favor of gradual emancipation: —
"Besides, if this power were possessed by the General Government, and should be exercised by it, no pen could describe the evils which would follow from the immediate emancipation of four millions of people held in slavery: a people unused to freedom; most of whom are unable to read; a people unaccustomed to provide for themselves; having none of that economy which springs from the effort at self-support and the support of families; restrained now and habitually mainly by terror and authority, and not by conscience; and with all the remembered wrongs committed against them and their fathers. Such an act of immediate emancipation would, in all human probability, deluge the land in blood, and wrap it in flames. On the other hand, no tongue could describe the blessings which might flow from a wise system of gradual emancipation: where the end was distinctly contemplated, at no remote period, and where a system of training preparatory to it should be at once entered on, fitting those millions for freedom. Such an act would stand forth to the world as among the noblest of human achievements—greater than the deliverance of the children of Israel from Egyptian bondage; greater than the achievement of the Independence of our country—for the numbers are larger than in either of these cases, and the wisdom and the power needful would not be less than in either.”
He, however, proceeds to make it plain that the proposed gradual emancipation is to be only so far as the slaveholders may choose, and that each State and each Territory is to keep slavery or not, at as it may prefer:—
" A sixth principle, founded on such views as have now been presented, and claimed, it seems to me, with exact justice by the South, is that slavery as to its CONTROL, and as to all the laws regulating it, is to be left to the States as such, in all respects, absolutely and exclusively.”
If the Observer has correctly given the above quotations, its conclusion is quite correct that Mr. Barnes “is willing to concede almost everything.” But it is a monstrous falsehood to say that such a man “leads" the advance school of abolitionists in the church.” That school is represented by such men as Dr. Cheever, and by such bodies as the American Missionary Society in New York, and the American Reform Tract and Book Society in Cincinnati, with their few supporters. Mr. Barnes has never been an abolitionist at all, and not one of his books on the subject of slavery has taken a sound and Christian position. Conversions to anti slavery, in these latter days, are taking place among ministers and church-members, just as they are among hunker Whigs and Democrats, among politicians and soldiers; but the church, and the clergy, in the mess, are still behind the people on the subject of slavery, and have shown no disposition to act in forwarding either the abolition of that wicked institution, or the release of its present victims. —C. K. W.
REFUGEES FROM KENTUCKY—SUFFERINGS THE UNIONISTS. A large number of refugees from Kentucky, alarmed at the recent rebel incursion at Richmond and other points, have reached Cincinnati during the past week. The Cincinnati Commerical says:
“We have conversed with a number of refugees from Clarke, Madison, Bourbon and other counties in the Blue Grass region, all of whom seem to be entirely confident that the rebels are in strong force in Clarke and Madison counties. In Montgomery and other mountain counties an awful state of affairs is said to exist. Humphrey Marshall’ vagabonds sweep down from their mountain fastnesses every week or two, murdering and pillaging peaceable citizens, whose only offence consists in their being in favor of the Union, and staying at home attending to their own affairs. No less than a dozen, citizens of Montgomery county have been brutally murdered within the past four weeks. The people live in a constant terror of the barbarous rebels. Every house is a fort, and a man never knows, when he goes out of sight of his home, whether he will live to get back. It reminds one of the terrible trials which the early settlers of Kentucky endured on account of the barbarities practiced by the savages.”
All the horrors of the bloody persecutions of the Waldenses and Albigenses are being witnessed in the Confederate States-solely because the victims are for "the Union as it was, and the Constitution as it is” in the spirit of ancient loyalty. Will the Courier and past enlighten their readers on this point?
<c06>
LETTER FROM MEMPHIS.
MEMPHIS, (Tenn.) Feb. 9, 1853.
MR. GARRISON:
DEAR SIR—I will write you as good a letter as I can, after the fatigue of a day of hospital duties, which engross all my hours, secular and sacred, and leave little opportunity for other thoughts or efforts. 
I arrived here on the 24th of January, from St. Louis, conveyed by the government steamer "City of Memphis.”, which was laden with as immense cargo of army stores and ammunition for Gen. Grant’s army, besieging Vicksburg. The Mississippi presents little variety to interest the voyager. Its magnitude, the vastness of the country it traverses, its rapid and resistless current, (but for the power of steam,) the boundless interests connected with its present and coming history, all this fades from the mind, and gives way to a dull sense of sameness as day after day we are borne along its turbulent and muddy current by its uncultivated and uninviting shores.
The voyage from St. Louis to Memphis is 420 miles, which required four days; for, owing to the boat's heavy lading, and the uncertainty of the channel which is often changed by shifting bars of sand, it was deemed necessary to tie up the boat by night. This gave us the opportunity of putting our feet successively upon the soil of Illinois, Kentueky and Arkansas, besides Missouri and Tennessee, our points of departure and destination. I cut canes of cottonwood and cedar, to take home as trophies from Secesh soil; but afterward, seeing how little they were regarded by my fellow-travellers, I threw them away. No useless possession gives us pleasure, unless others will admire it.
Even this dull voyage presented some points to which recent events and present associations gave interest Cairo, Belmont, Columbus, Island No. 10 and Fort Wright, all now in our possession, have all been fiercely fought for, and are now protected by garrisons and gunboats. There is a small garrison at Island No. 10, and two gunboats. The rebels made an attack with three or four thousand troops, a week since, to regain its possession, but the gunboats belched forth their hissing remonstrances in such strong terms that Southern chivalry took counsel of discretion, and desisted.
At Cairo, we spent several hours. This city is built in the midst of a mighty mudpuddle. Its importance arises from its position at the mouth of the Ohio, commanding both rivers. The site of the city is lower than the surrounding waters, from which it is protected on every side by strong dykes of some miles in extent. Yet the water, oozing through the porous soil, makes mud of the whole territory, and but for artificial works which continually pump off the surplus water, would soon make it uninhabitable, except for aquatics. There is much trade in cotton and cane, and considerable wealth, but none of the advantages that wealth elsewhere gives. The only vehicles are enormous wagons, drawn by teams of six mules, the driver astride of one of the two nearest the wagon, and also a kind of little dray, drawn by a single mule. These flounder along through the mud, sometimes so deep that one might think the mule's long ears given to flap a parting salute to the upper world. I thank the Lord that Cairo is not my abiding place!
Memphis is better. The country is elevated, and rises by a bold bluff from the shore. It affects to be called the Bluff City, as Cleveland claims to be the Forest City, and Baltimore the Monument City. Its trade in cotton has been vast, and its sources of wealth unlimited. In New England, few have an idea of the profuse manner in which wealth has been gathered and scattered here and in some other of the Southern cities, but here especially. Its cotton trade has been counted by millions in a day, and large fortunes have frequently been realized in a few weeks. Even now that ninety-nine hundredths of its trade is departed, still there is an activity surprising to those accustomed only to our carecare ful and considerate New England habits. Memphis has but 25,000 inhabitants, not so large as Lynn, yet the bustle of Memphis would turn Lynn topsy-turvy. And it is not all noise and smoke. Much is done, though the banks have shut up, and the rich population have gone to safer rebel holds. Many make their hundreds, and some their thousands per day by trade. Planters come in with loads of cotton, taking their wives as the nominal owners. The wives take the oath of allegiance, and are permitted to trade, which they do to the great profit of all kinds of bargain-makers, while the Secesh husband skulks and escapes under his wife's apron. This is chivalry. It is no disgrace for the rebel's wife to take a false oath, and thus enable him to evade both Confederate and Federal law.
The rapid rise of cotton stimulats trade. AS a sample of how things are done, on a large scale, even now, or lately, a gentleman from Pennsylvania, at the house where I board, bought last November, (I think,) 3000 bales of cotton at less than 50 cents per pound. It is now worth 75 cents, making a difference of $100 a bale, or $300,000 in the bargain.
Memphis has been planned and built in a style corresponding to its great prosperity; but the war has ravaged it greatly. The Confederates, while in possession, were desirous to have it bombarded and ruined by our forces, that Tennesseans might be exasperated against the Federal Government, and therefore did what they could to provoke the vengeance of our forces. The bait partly took, and many splendid mansions and costly edifices are now heaps of ruins. Others are seized for hospitals and government store houses, and are experiencing rough usage. Nineteenths of the citizens are Secesh, but the city is now largely filled with government officials, soldiers, and a foreign population who are either loyal or indifferent.
There are about 30,000 soldiers here, under command of Gen. Vetch, whose position makes it necessary for him to keep both eyes open. Van Dorn, with a large body of rebel cavalry, is hovering about, and reports of his approach constantly excite the excitable. His force is no match for ours, but by a sudden raid he might do much mischief. Our army is intrenched in a strong and very extensive fort, recently built, and still being extended on the bluffs at the Southern end of the city, commanding the river, and detachments guard the approaches to the city at different points. None are permitted to pass the lines without written permission from the General; yet the rebels have succeeded in smuggling many contraband articles from the city. As a specimen of their tricks, a fortnight since a miserable looking dray. man dragged the carcass of a dead horse nearly to the line of pickets, and was about to dump him down, when the picket remonstrated, and told him to drag his horse into the ravine, outside the lives. This was submissively assented to, and the carcass dragged down the ravine; but the carman not returning, suspicion was excited, the carcass found and examined, and proved to have been disembowelled and made the vehicle of conraband goods—-amounting, as after wards ascertained, to no less than $5000 worth of quinine. The establishment which furnished the quinine was immediately seized and confiscated, to the value of $50,000 or more; but as the rebels got the needed quinine, they will doubtless reimburse the owners, if they escape hanging.
But I meant to write of the contrabands. They are here by thousands, fed by Government, and those who are able worked, but not cared for, and except in their legal rights, no better off, and many worse off, than when in slavery. How much a government commission and systematic government protection is needed for them! All about here are thousands of acres of fertile cotton lands, either abandoned by their rebel owners, or justly liable to confiscation, on which these men and women might be located and employed with great advantage to themselves and all concerned. At the present price of cotton, or indeed at the usual price, these laborers might be well paid, well protected and taught, and the government gain a vast <illegible>, as well as moral, profit by the operation; but the present opportunity is slipping by. March is the planting month, and nothing is being done in their behalf. "Oh that I were judge in the land! I shall write more on this in my next. D. M.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
WHAT IS DONE IN NEW ORLEANS.
[We are permitted to publish the following letter by the friend to whom it was addressed. It shows that the “iron hand” of military rule is laid almost as tyrannically upon the victimized colored people at New Orleans as was that of the rebel masters. Gen. Banks is fast digging his political grave.]
AT SEA, Feb. 9, 1863.
DEAR DOCTOR—Your kind and welcome letter of January 8 was received in due season. I thank you heartily for your kindly interest, and shall endeavor to profit by your suggestions. In a very few days, I hope to confer with you personally on all these matters.
As you did not find the history of the slave case as tedious as I feared you might, I am emboldened to send you another of my New Orleans experiences, which may give you some idea of the way the Proclamation works in the Crescent City. You know I have never been exactly a believer in the doctrine of total depravity, but I fear I shall be obliged to succumb to that tenet of primitive faith; for upon no other hypothesis can I explain the diabolical malice exhibited toward the colored race by a few of our Northern officers. Some Southern writer (I forget who) says that “the Northerner is an inferior animal, and, never comes into the presence of a Southern gentleman without having an instinctive impulse to take off his hat.” This may account for some of the cringing servility shown by such men as Jonas H. French, Col. Clark and Col. Deming towards the smooth-tongued, aristocratic, rebel slaveholders of the South; but it does not explain all their rascality.
But to my story. Some three months ago, as I was passing through one of the passages of the half-built New Orleans Custom-House, I was addressed by a middle-aged colored woman, who asked me to please tell her where she could find General Butler. I pointed out the General's office; “but,” said I, “Auntie, I think it very doubtful if they will let you see him—what do you want to see him for?” She told me the same sad story that I have heard so often in that city, that she had a child in the prison that she wished to get released; taken up, she said, by the Police, because she had no ‘pass,’ and lodged in jail; and now her daughter was sick, and she feared she would die in jail. To make the story short, I went with her to the proper person, Col. Kinsman, and, thanks to his kind heart, he liberated the poor girl, and she was taken home by her mother. The germs of consumption had been developed by exposure and ill-treatment while in prison, and in about a fortnight after her release from jail, she was relieved from all earthly care:—another victim delivered from the power of the oppressor. 
After the death of the daughter, I saw nothing of Aunt Harriet, the mother, until about a month ago, when she came to my room on Canal Street, to ask my advice. She said her master was over the lake in the rebel army, and that the person in whose yard she was now living wanted her to work for him, which she did not want to do, as he had no right to her earnings; and she asked me if I thought any body would trouble her, if she hired a room somewhere else, and went away from the place where she was then living. 
I told her I thought not; that the Police had not arrested any colored persons, or troubled them in any way, since about the last of November; and I believed she would be safe anywhere in the city. She went away. In a few days afterward, she got a message to me that she was in jail, and wished me to get her out if I could.
The next morning, I took a friend with me, and went to the jail in Rousseau Street, to see her, and ascertain from the jailor the cause of her imprisonment. I told the turnkey, whose name is John Aiken, that I wished to see a colored woman who was there. He asked me if I was her master; I answered, no. Have you an order to see her from her master? he inquired. No, I had not. “Then you can’t see her.” Will you tell me upon what charge she is imprisoned? He seemed very reluctant to do so, but another person in the office, apparently a clerk, looked over his record-book, and said she was placed there for safe-keeping. Can you tell me what officer made the arrest? He could not or would not. “The Police have no right to make these arrests, and I should be glad to know where they get their authority,” said I. Mr. Aiken referred me to the Lieut. Of Police, Mr. De Vin, and pointed him out to me, sitting in the jail-yard. I addressed Mr. De Vin—told him my business, and asked him who gave authority for the Police to make such arrests. He replied that his authority was derived from a general order given by the Provost Marshal General, Col. Clark. Will you be kind enough to give me a copy of that order? The Lieut. said he could not, as he had sent it out to arrest another person upon.
I then asked permission to see the woman, which he granted, and directed the turnkey to call her down. She came down to the grated door, and was very glad to see me. I asked her where her master was. She said he was over the lake—she supposed, in the rebel army. Then, said I, the man who has had you locked up is not your master. She answered in the negative. After a few moments’ conversation, I bade her good bye, saying I would do the best I could for her.
That evening, I called at Headquarters to see Gen. Banks. He was not in, but I saw the Adj. Gen., Col. Irwin, to whom I related the facts of the arrest, and asked him if the Police, acting under U. S. officers, had any such authority. He told me they had not, and advised me to see the Provost Marshal General about it.
I feared such a course would do no good, but I thought I could do no less than try, remembering that 
"Our doubts are traitors, that make us lose the good We oft might win, by fearing to attempt.” 
So I went to see Col. Clark. After dancing attendance for three or four hours in an ante-room, I was at last admitted into the august presence of the Provost Marshal General of the Dept. of the Gulf. I stated to him that I had been informed by Col. Irwin, that he was the proper person to apply to for the liberation of a person who had been arrested by the Police. I informed him that a colored woman had been taken up by the Police, not charged with any crime, and lodged in jail, subject to the person who claimed her as owner, that the Police claimed to act under his orders, and I should be glad to get her discharged. 
Col. Clark asked why she was arrested. I answered I supposed it was feared she was going away from the yard where she had been living.
“Yes.” said he sharply, “arrested to prevent her from being a vagrant about the streets. It is perfectly proper.” 
I could have told him that the vagrants about the streets were not colored people; that in ninety cases out of a hundred, the persons belonging to New Orleans, who had been assisted by the Federal authorities, belonged to the white race; besides, it was a novel idea to arrest persons and put them in jail for fear they might become a public charge. It would be much more “proper” and right to put in safe-keeping this Col. Clark and some other scoundrels to prevent their being hung one of these fine days, as I fear they will be, if left to their own inventions.
“I thought (said I) that no U. S. officer had power to make such arrests, or decide upon such a claim, or deliver up such persons to their claimants.”
“Yes they have,” he replied.
I could not forbear taking from my pocket a slip from a newspaper, headed “President’s Proclamation,” and, calling his attention to it, read as follows:—
“And no person in the military or naval service of the United States shall, under any pretence, decide upon the validity of the claim of any person to the service or labor of any other person, or deliver up any such person to the custody of the claimant.”
Col. Clark then said something to the effect that Col. French, who had the Police under his supervision, did not act as an U. S. officer, but under the State law, and immediately turning to me, asked me, "Who are you?" I pointed out to him my card
<c02>
upon his desk, upon which he wrote something which I did not see, and curtly asked what I had to do with the case. I answered that I was acting by the request of the woman. "It didn't concern you," he said, "and you had better let it alone." He then went over to the other side of the room, to the desk of Col. French, and entered into conversation with that officer. As by their looks I seemed to be the subject of their remarks, I walked over too. “I don’t like his talk,” said Col. Clark. Col. French then asked me why I interfered in the matter. I told him why. He then asked, “Do you belong to the army?" "No, Sir, I am a citizen of New Orleans." "Why, then, Sir, do you wear those bottons? (I had on a vest with brass military buttons.) You mean to pass yourself off as belonging to the army, and go around inciting slaves to run away from their mas­ters, do you? Is the person a woman?”
N. B. Col. French also wore a vest with military buttons, although, according to Col. Clark, he was not acting as an U. S. officer.
Both of these gentlemen seemed quite angry. “You had better be very careful, Sir, (said Col. Clark, shaking his head,) or you will get into trouble. "What have I done, Sir?” "I don’t like your talk, Sir." "What have I said that is wrong?" The Col. failed to enlighten me; and fearing if I stayed much longer I should give them a pretext to take me into custody, I began to move off, saying, as I went, that I had no intention of doing anything wrong, and that I would endeavor to profit by their advice. Learning, as I afterwards did, that they made arrests without giving the person arrested any hearing, I consider myself as fortunate in getting away so easily.
The next day, I went to the Provost Court to get an audience with Judge Peabody.  He was on the bench, and I could not have any conversation with him. The next morning, early, I went again. He had not come in, but the Clerk of the Court, Mr. S. R. Glenn, with whom I had some acquaintance, was disengaged, and to him I addressed myself, saying I wished to get an order to bring before the Court a person who had been locked up by the Police, and denied a hearing. I suppose he smelt the "nigger," for he said at once he couldn’t do it. “But,” said I, “this person is not charged with any crime, and has been placed in jail at the request of a person who claims her services, which he has no right to do.” “I can’t help it,” said he; “we have just had orders from the Provost Marshal’s Department not to entertain any complaint where the doings of that Department are called in question.  We cannot annul their doings.” “Then, (said I,) if that is the case, any person, white or black, bond or free, may be arrested by the Police, thrown into jail, and kept there an indefinite period of time, and denied any hearing.” “Oh, (he replied,) any person that is not a slave can show his free papers.” “Mr. Glenn, (I rejoined,) free papers are sometimes destroyed, are they not? Besides, any free white person may be arrested, and where is the remedy?"
I further told him, that a woman had been arrested a few days before, and brought before that court for stealing furniture. It was proved on trial that the furniture was not stolen, but had been given to the prisoner by a former mistress. The arrest was only a lying pretext to get possession of the woman, who was claimed as a slave. Judge Peabody honorably discharged the prisoner; but that same night, the Police seized the furniture, and also rearrested the woman, and locked her up in jail, separating her from her three children, one of whom was a nursing infant. "Now, Mr. Glenn, what are you going to do about it? "He said he could do nothing. I returned to my room, and wrote the enclosed letter to Gen. Banks. I could not help feeling that the case of the colored people of New Orleans was indeed desperate, if Gen. Banks did not step in to protect them. How well he protected them, let the sequel show.
NEW ORLEANS, Jan. 10, 1863.
Major General N. P. Banks, Commanding Department of the Gulf:
GENERAL,—I beg your attention to the following statement.—
The Police of this city are now daily arresting and confining in jail, without any form of trial, and for an indefinite period of time, certain persons not charged with crime, whom they allege to be slaves.
These arrests are made at the instance of real or pretended owners, and the persons so arrested are deprived of all right to be heard in their own defence; they had no opportunity of making a complaint; and if they had such opportunity, the Provost Court would not entertain it, as the clerk of that court so informed me.
The object of these proceedings seems to be the rendition of slaves to their owners, though any person may be arrested, and in the same manner imprisoned without trial, subject only to the will of the person who caused the arrest.
The Police claim to act under the authority of Col. Clark and Col. French, United States officers—the one acting as Provost Marshal General of the Department of the Gulf, the other as Provost Marshal of Louisiana. 
As these arrests are manifestly in violation of General Orders, No. 139, which not only forbid the rendition of slaves, but even the deciding upon the validity of the claim of any person to the service or labor of any other person, I respectfully and earnestly petition you to issue an order, discharging from custody all persons so illegally imprisoned by any person acting under the authority of any officer of this Department, and forbidding such arrests for the future. 
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
Your obedient servant,
280 Canal street. W. H. G.
After sending the letter, I waited several days, and bearing that Aunt Harriet was still in jail, I thought I would make another attempt to see the General. I went early in the day, and by waiting three hours, I at last obtained an audience. I was politely received, and the following conversation ensued:-
G. General, I have come to ask your interference in behalf of some of the colored people of this city, who have been arrested by the Police, and thrown into jail. They are not charged with crime, but held as slaves, and subject to those who claim them as such. 
Gen. Banks suggested that I had better see the Acting Governor, Col. Shepley, or Col. Clark, in regard to it.
G. I have seen Col. Clark, and he seemed angry at my interference with the matter, and was very threatening in his manner towards me. I was told by a Lieut., of Police that the order for the arrest of these people came from Col. Clark.
Gen. Banks. That cannot be; Col. Clark is my officer. That is not so.
G. It is so, General, for Col. Clark did not disavow the order, but approved it, saying it was right and proper.
Gen. Banks. Will you put your statement in writing, and send it to me?
G. I have already done so, General.
Gen. Banks. I have not received it.
G. I will write a copy and send it, if you wish. 
Gen. Banks. Do so, if you please. 
And so the conversation ended. 
I returned to my room, and wrote a copy of the former letter, and took it myself to headquarters. Could not see the General, because it was Sunday. The next morning, I was again at the General’s quarters. The General was busy-so the Orderly at the door said-and was anxious to take my documents himself, but I told him I preferred to deliver them personally, as a former letter failed to reach the person it was intended for. After some little time, Mr. Tucker, the Private Secretary of Gen. Banks, made his appearance, to whom I gave my letter. He said he would be personally responsible for it, and give it to the General himself.
I have heard nothing from it, and whether it had or will have any good or bad effect is more than I can tell. When I left the city, Aunt Harriet and the other slave woman were still in jail.
About the 20th of January, Col. French capped the climax of his iniquity by arresting all the colored people, bond or free, found in the evening on the street without a pass, (amounting to several hundreds, some say thousands,) and shutting them  up in jail. This was a grand scheme to deliver up slaves to their owners. By paying $1.25, the masters obtained pos-
<c03>
session of their slaves-while those who could not show free papers were kept 
The Proclamation has worked most disastrously for the colored people in New Orleans. Relying upon the promises of the Government, thousands of slaves left their masters and came within our lines, and now our officers turn round, and are delivering up these runaways to their exasperated masters. If the policy is not changed, a bloody insurrection, I believe, will follow, and I am not sure but it ought to. 
I remain, as ever, your obedient servant,
Dr. Harris Cowdry. W. H. G.
SUPPRESSION OF A TRAITOROUS PRESS.
The following is a brief sketch of a debate at the “BOSTON SUNDAY INSTITUTE,” Chapman Hall, Sun day evening, Feb. 22d, 1863:-
Question:-Ought the press of Boston, which sympathizes with secession, to be suppressed, and the editors thereof be sent to Fort Warren?
Mr. EMERY opened the discussion in the affirmative. He contended that the government had a right to protect itself, and for that purpose has made war upon the South. It is true that there is nothing in the Constitution that tells the President to send iron-clads to Charleston, yet the people sustain him; and they do so because he seeks to save the country.
We have been told that there is no proof that any of the Boston papers sympathize with rebellion. In my opinion, there is abundant evidence on that point. The speaker here read extracts from the Courier, to show that that paper was unfriendly to the government, and was doing all in its power to give aid and comfort to the rebels in arms against the government. He thought that the man who was in favor of slavery, especially at this time, was a traitor to his country. The Boston Courier and Post seem to take delight in honoring those who have been dismissed from the service for good and sufficient reasons. McClellan is entertained in this city-by whom? The great mass of the people? No. It is the Beacon street nabobs who honor the hero of the spade. This class of men are doing their best to discourge the army, and to bring the administration into ridicule, and cripple its efforts to save the country.
Mr. TRIPP thought that the ideas of the last speaker were not commensurate with the energy and zeal he had manifested in the delivery thereof. He could tolerate much that men might say, but when they come to act, it was a different thing. When editors, or any other class of men, act in opposition to the government, it is our duty to treat them as they deserve. If the last speaker was correct, when he stated as his opinion that those who were in favor of slavery were traitors, then it is also true that a majority of the people were traitors, for there is not much anti-slavery feeling even in the North. The speaker thought that the people were afraid of the government, and dare not express their opinion concerning the manner in which its affairs are administered. Is it treasonable to assert that if the government had acted as wisely and had been as active as the rebels, we should have succeeded far better in our attempt to crush the rebellion? Shall a man be sent to Fort Warren for saying this? If the government cannot withstand a proper degree of scrutiny, let it go down. 
Mr. CAMPBELL was not in favor of incarcerating people in Fort Warren for trivial offences, but he was desirous of punishing those who factiously oppose the government under which they live. The papers in Boston do not speak treason so boldly as those in the West, or in Baltimore; nevertheless, we have in our midst those who, through their papers, utter treason against the government. Every good citizen will sustain the government under which he lives. Does the Boston Courier say aught against the rebels? Does the Democratic party say aught against them? Did McClellan give his voice against them? Nay, verily. The worst and most formidable feature of secession is the Democratic party. Its votaries have not the manliness to meet the friends of the government in fair argument. he rebels tell us, in plain Anglo-Saxon, what they propose to do. The resolutions of the Legislature of Illinois savor of the rankest treason, and are perfectly in keeping with the course pursued in Congress by Vallindigham, that prince of traitors.
Mr. Burke thought that, if the Democratic party did not speak so as to be understood, as alleged by the last speaker, he was at a loss to know why that gentleman should denounce them when they could not be understood. The majority of the press unite in condemning the rebels. Is it not a redeeming quality in those who desist therefrom? What is the cry at this time? Why, the cunning Phillips, who once danced with joy around the flames of the burning Constitution, is now in favor of the Union. What kind of a Union? Why, a union of the abolitionists. The country must be abolitionized, despite the Constitution and everything else.
Mr. STERN said he had learned his pro-slavery principles from General Butler, whom the abolitionists claim as their convert. The speaker’ proposed to adhere to those principles. He did not profess to be a ready debater, and thought that meetings for discussion were often productive of mischief. The novelty of the question induced him to attend on this occasion. Was it possible that such a question should be proposed in Boston, so near Faneuil Hall? He, however, was soon to leave for the Democratic State of New York, there to take up his abode. The speaker here quoted from a speech of Mr. Sumner, to show that the Senator, in common with other abolitionists, was desirous to have slavery abolished, even if the Constitution and Union should be destroyed in consequence. Dr. LYON remarked that the question under consideration was not one of party: it involved great principles. Men have sought in times past to advance their own personal interests by party allegiance. The question has been asked, What is the cause of the rebellion? and our opponents evade it. Surely, nothing it more obvious than that slavery is the cause. With reference to the free expression of opinion, the speaker was willing to grant it, provided such privileges were not used to the injury of others. If a man says or does anything to injure the country, he deserves to be sent to Fort Warren. The South have sought to extend the system of slavery, and if allowed thus to do, alas for the country’s future! The Democratic party will never again hold the reins of government—at least, not until their sentiments undergo a radical change. The accursed system of slavery begets every thing that is unjust and oppressive, and it is the duty of every lover of liberty to give his voice against it.
J. G. C.
THE REV. J. SELLA MARTIN’S WELCOME.
A circular calling this meeting, accompanied by a tract entitled “What are the South fighting for?” granted by the Anti-Slavery Society, was left at 5,000 houses in the great parish of West Ham. This advertisement, in connection with the intense interest excited a year ago by Mr. Martin throughout this district, called together on Thursday last a densely crowded meeting in the Congregational Church, Plaistow. Great numbers went away unable to obtain admission. The audience consisted largely of the gentry of the neighborhood, but chiefly of the hard-handed working men from the great railway works at Stratford, the ship-building yards at Blackwall, of the laborers from the docks, and of the navvies from the outfall sewer works. The proportion of men to women as signally preponderated as at the grand meeting in Exeter Hall. Letters of apology for absence were read from Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton, Bart, the Rev. J. J. Russell, Harper Twelvetrees, Esq., and others.
The Hon. and Rev. Baptist Noel delivered a speech of quiet but intense earnestness, full of information, and bursting at last into a fire of sympathy with freedom and indignation against the oppressor. He showed the direct interest which working men all over the world have in the great question which is now raised by the contest in America. It was delightful to witness the breathless interest with which this long speech was heard. Every one felt that a good man was speaking the truth at a great crisis. The Rev. John Curwen read extracts from President Lincoln’s letter to the working men of Manchester, commenting on the true dignity of the governor of a great nation addressing himself directly by letter to men of low condition, but of true hearts, who had sympathized with him in the purging of his country from the stain of slavery. Mr. Curwen recommended
<c04>
every man to read the autobiography of a slave girl, entitled “The Deeper Wrong,” and published by Mr. Tweedie, in the Strand. The authoress was a member of Mr. Martin’s congregation, in Boston, U. S., and Mr. Martin freely vouches for her honorable and truthful character. It is no secret in America that the real name of Mr. Bruce, the gentleman who befriended this fugitive slave, is N. P. Willis, Esq., well known in both countries for his "Pencillings" and his sacred poetry. Mr. Curwen hoped that every man whose blood tingled with shame and indignation at the reading of this tale would determine to do something for the anti-slavery flag now raised in America.
The Rev. J. Sella Martin was received with great enthusiasm. Although weakened by protracted illness in America, he spoke with nearly all his old energy and fire, and with much of his natural humor. In speaking of the “gains of the year” during his absence from England, he referred to the manner in which anti-slavery feeling in England had strengthened the hands of the anti-slavery and Republican party in America. He showed that for eighteen months the North had tried to carry on the war under the old compromises of the Constitution, by the appointment of Democratic, pro-slavery generals, who drove back the fugitive slaves, and refused the military aid of the negro. But within the year just passed, slavery has been abolished in the Capital of the nation. The negro States of Hayti and Liberia have been recognized; slavery has been excluded from those vast districts, equal to the whole of Europe, called the territories of the United States; an effectual treaty has been made with England for the suppression of the African slave trade; the great abolition proclamation has been issued, and is already taking effect; negro regiments have already been received into the United States service at Port Royal, and a bill has been favorably received in Congress for arming 10,000 more. Perhaps the most interesting point of Mr. Martin’s address was his enumeration and description of the Northern pro-slavery generals, and other influential Democrats, who have been converted to decided abolition views by the degradations and horrors of slavery which recent experiences have disclosed to them. The misunderstood and unjustly abused General Butler was among the number.
Reference having been made to the ascertained fact that a large number of Confederate war vessels, like the Alabama, are now on the stocks in various English dockyards, the meeting, which will long be remembered in the parish of West Ham, closed its important work by the adoption of the following resolution -Mr. Curwen being then in the chair-“that the chairman be requested to write to the Prime Minister of our Queen, earnestly entreating him to put in force, with utmost vigilance, the law of England against such ships as the Alabama.”-London Morning Star, February 14th.
MR. MASON, THE COMMISSIONER FROM THE CONFEDERATE STATES. This gentleman was present at a banquet given by the Lord Mayor of London, on Wednesday evening. Towards the close of the entertainment, the Lord Mayor proposed the toast of "The Visitors,” referring particularly to the presence of the Mayor of Quebec and Mr. Mason. The mention of the latter gentleman’s name elicited loud cheers. His Lordship proceeded to say, alluding to Mr. Mason, that although he could not greet that gentleman as a recognized plenipotentiary to this country, he was perfectly justified, by virtue of his position as chief magistrate of the city of London, in offering to him, and to all gentlemen who came to this country on any important public business, a hearty welcome in his official residence.  They, as citizens of London, deeply deplored the disastrous war which was being waged on the American continent, and longed, in common with the rest of their countrymen and of the civilized world, to see it brought to some satisfactory termination. Mr. Pope, the Mayor of Quebec, briefly acknowledged the compliment in an animated speech, in which he dwelt on the strong attachment of the North American colonists to the mother country, adding that they regarded it as their highest privilege that they were fellow-subjects with the people of England of the same Sovereign.
Mr. Mason responding to an urgent invitation of the company, presented himself to speak, and was received with enthusiastic cheers. He said: But that I feel deeply the obligations I am under to the honored chief magistrate of this city, to be present to-night, I should feel strongly disposed to pick a quarrel. His Lordship has not chosen to remember that here, in England, I am not considered of full age; that I am yet n my minority. The government of England-we all know, honored from ages, and always a wise government in its generation-has declared that the country which I represent beyond that broad water has not yet attained years of discretion, and is not capable of managing its own affairs. (A laugh.) I say, therefore, that but for really being overwhelmed by the kind and generous manner in which I have been received by this honored company, and in the presence of your chief magistrate, I should have been disposed to say, in the language of a poet—
"You would scarce expect one of my age 
To speak in public on the stage.”
My Lord Mayor, I am a stranger in London, or rather I was a stranger; but I have learned since I came to London that none of English blood from my own Southern land are strangers among you. (Cheers.) I speak this from my heart (cheers), for I have been by every circle in England and by every class of society a welcomed and an honored guest. (Cheers.) I return my sincere thanks to you for the kindness with which you have listened to a stranger. The day will come (great cheering,)-it is not far off-when the relationship between that government which is now in its infant fortune, and yours, will be one of close and intimate alliance. (Renewed cheers.) My country is the unrivalled producer of the great staples of the world, and I say the relations, commercial, doubtless political, certainly social, between my honored countrymen and the people of London, will before long be of the most intimate character. (Cheers.)-London Morning Journal.
SLAVERY AT THE MANSION HOUSE.
To the Editor of the London Morning Star:
SIR,-In the event of our reaching the depth of moral degradation involved in the recognition of the Southern Slave Power, Mr. Mason may well claim to be its most fitting representative. As the author of that masterpiece of iniquity, the Fugitive Slave Law, no one will surely dispute his bad pre-eminence. When 3,800 ministers of New England protested against the passing of the Nebraska Bill as "a great moral wrong,” Mr. Mason said:-"Ministers of the Gospel are unknown to the Government; their mission on earth is unknown to the Government. Of all others they are the most encroaching, and, as a body, arrogant class of men. I move that the petition be not received, as the best evidence of the sense of the Senate of its character.”
The close fellowship between the Chief Magistrate of the City of London and this incarnation of the worst of despotisms ought to awaken us all from supineness. The estimation of Christian ministers in Great Britain happily is not like that of the Secessionist leader. With proper notice, we surely have in this country more than 3,800 ministers who will offer their earnest and effectual protest against this “arrogant” slave-master and the cause he represents.
I am, sir, yours faithfully,
JOHN WADDINGTON.
9, Surrey-square, Feb. 12. To the Editor of the London Morning Star:
SIR,-Much as 1 had read of the manner in which Southern chivalry is upheld by the middle and upper classes of society, I was not prepared for the reception that Fugitive-Slave-Law Mason met with among the Lord Mayor’s troop at the Mansion House on Wednesday last, and beg leave to correct a slight error he committed in saying that he had been received with enthusiasm by all classes of society. Has he tried the class that caused the passing of the Irish Emancipation Act, the class that caused twenty millions to be expended in freeing the poor negroes? has he tried the class that forced from their enemies the abolition of the corn laws, and successfully demanded whatever has been gained in the way of Reform? No, he has not tried them yet; and I advise him not to attempt it, or a change may come “o’er the spirit of his dream.” But there is great consolation in the certainty that the address from Manchester to the President of the United States and the Exeter Hall meeting are worth fifty receptions by the Lord Mayor and his tail
A WORKING MAN.
EMANCIPATION SOCIETY At a special meeting of the committee of the Emancipation Society, (says the London Morning Star, Feb. 14th,) held at their offices, 65, Fleet street, London, Wm. Evans, Esq., in the chair, it was moved by the Rev. J. W. Massie, D. D., LL.D., seconded by Edmond Beales, Esq., barrister-at-law, and unanimously resolved—
“That this committee having seen with profound astonishment the reported proceedings at a recent banquet at the Mansion House, on which occasion the Lord Mayor is represented as having given a ‘ hearty welcome’ to the Confederate commissioner, Mr. Mason, would record its convictions that the Lord Mayor in thus extending the hospitality of the City of London to the author of the infamous Fugitive Slave Law, (himself a slave-owner,) and the representative of a Government avowedly based upon slavery as its chief corner-stone, has thereby offered a wanton insult to the anti-slavery sentiment of Great Britain; and this committee trusts that the citizens of London will take an early opportunity of effacing the stigma thus cast upon the past history and noble traditions of their ancient municipality.”
Even the London Times sneers at the speech of the rebel Mason, and says the Lord Mayor’s reception of him is an affair of no significance. 
<c05>
“THE COPPERHEAD.”
The way in which the new political sect in this country obtained the name by which they are now so generally designated, is explained by Harper’s Weekly as follows:-
"Mr. Clement Vallandigham, member of Congress from Ohio, made a speech last week, in which he avowed himself a 'Copperhead.' Certain editors nearer home have likewise rejoiced in the title. It becomes interesting to inquire what it means, and how it came to be applied to a class of politicians. A Copperhead, according to the American Cyclopedia, is an enormous serpent, the head is thick, the neck contracted, and its scales smooth; there are no rattles, the tail being short; near the flank are rounded dark blotches; it prefers dark and moist places; it gives warning of its proximity; feeds on mice, small birds, &c.; and seldom attacks man. It is slow and clumsy in its motions, and a very slight blow suffices to kill it. It is also called ‘Chunkhead,’ and 'deaf adder.' It cannot be denied that the analogy between this loathsome creature and the mean, sneaking politicians who are now distracting the Northern mind with cries of peace, is quite striking. Like the copperhead the peace party are venomous in their attacks on the nation; like it their head is undoubtedly thick; like it their neck and reach are contracted. Their scales too are smooth; and they have no rattles to warn the honest traveller of their insidious approach. Like the copperhead their character is stained by dark blotches; and like it they 'prefer dark places' to the light of day. Like that sneaking reptile their prey is ‘small, feeble creatures;’ and they ‘seldom venture to attack a man.' If we add that our political Copperheads, like their reptile type, are 'so slow and clumsy in their motions' that they deserve the additional cognomens, of ‘Chunkheads’ and ‘Deaf-adders,' and that ‘a very slight blow’ makes an end of them, we shall have made the analogy complete. It is creditable to the discernment of our Western fellow-citizens that they so quickly realized the resemblance between the copperhead snake and the peace politician, and baptised them by one common appellation.”
SEVERE ON THE COPPERHEADS. "Sunset Cox,"-a Democratic member of Congress from Ohio—is unmercifully ridiculed by the Richmond Enquirer, which says that the Democratic Representative is wooing South Carolina to no purpose. The Enquirer adds:—
"The seductive song of the impassioned swain means, Help us, Carolina, to a Democratic ticket for next Congress, and you shall have part of the stealings. Have we not always, Oh child of the sun! lived and loved and stolen together? How often have our hands met in the pocket of the same innocent public, and fondly pressed one another! Without our dear South, the Democrats can plunder no more! Without thee, that once unterrified party pines in isolation and despair; it is one blade of a pair of scissors; it is the half of a hook and eye. So sings the swan of Ohio. Will Carolina hearken to the gay seducer?"
The Richmond Enquirer, while rejoicing over the assistance given to the rebellion by men of the Vallandigham school, calls those worthies mere “stump-orators,” and informs them of the condition on which the friendship of rebels is to be had, in the following cool manner:—
“If they repudiate the debt they have contracted; and abandon the government they have established; and recant their vows; and break pledges; and eat dirt-it is well; we shall be charmed; the movement will suit us perfectly; and, although we shall not exactly respect the actors in that affair, yet we shall not be unwilling to trade with them-holding our noses a little-and to show them all suitable civilities, but at a proper distance.”
Well may the Southern rebels "hold their noses" in proximity with such a mass of putrefaction!
REPORT ON FOREIGN RELATIONS.
WASHINGTON, March 1.
The following are the proposed concurrent resolutions reported by Senator Sumner from the Committee on Foreign Relations to whom was referred the message of the President, communicating, in answer to a resolution of the Senate, correspondence on the subject of mediation, arbitration or other measures looking to the termination of the present rebellion.
WHEREAS, it appears from the diplomatic correspondence submitted to Congress, that a proposition friendly in its form, looking to a pacification through foreign mediation, has been made to the United States by the Emperor of the French, and promptly declined by the President; and whereas, the idea of mediation or intervention in some shape may be regarded by foreign governments as practicable, and such governments through this misunderstanding may be led into proceedings tending to embarrass the friendly relations which now exist between them and the United States; and whereas, in order to remove for the future all such chance of misunderstanding on this subject, and to secure to the United States full enjoyment of that freedom from foreign intervention which is one of the highest rights of independent States, it seems fit that Congress should declare its convictions thereon:-
Therefore, Resolved, The House of Representatives concurring, that while in times past the United States have sought the mediation of foreign powers in cases of international questions where the United States were a party on the one part, and some other sovereign power a party on the other part; and while they are not disposed to misconstrue the natural and humane desire of foreign powers to aid in arresting domestic troubles, which, widening in their influence, have affected other countries; especially in view of the circumstances deeply regretted by the American people that the blow aimed by the rebellion at the national life has fallen heavily upon the laboring population of Europe; yet notwithstanding these things, Congress cannot hesitate to regard every proposition offering interference in the present conflict as so far unseasonable and inadmissible that its only explanation will be found in a misunderstanding of the true state of the question, and of the real character of the war in which this Republic is engaged.
Resolved, That the United States are now grappling with an unprovoked rebellion which is seeking the destruction of the Republic, that it may build a new power whose corner-stone, according to the confession of its chiefs, shall be Slavery; that for the suppression of this rebellion, and thus to save the republic, and prevent the establishment of such a power, the National government is now employing armies and fleets in full faith that through these efforts all the purposes of the conspirators and rebels will be crushed; that while engaged in this struggle on which so much depends, any proposition from a foreign power, whatever form it may take, having for its effect the arrest of these efforts, is just in proportion to its influence, encouragement to the rebellion and its declared principles, and on this account is calculated to prolong and embitter the conflict, to cause increased expenditure of blood and treasure, and postpone the much desired day of peace; that with these convictions, and not doubting that every such proposition, although made with good intent, is injurious to the national interests, Congress will be obliged to look upon any further attempts in the same direction as an unfriendly act which it earnestly deprecates, to the end that nothing may occur abroad to strengthen the rebellion, or weaken those relations of good will with foreign powers, which the United States are happy to cultivate.
Resolved, That the rebellion from the beginning and far back, even in conspiracies which preceded the outbreak, was encouraged by the hope of support from foreign powers; that its chiefs frequently boasted that the people of Europe were dependent upon regular supplies of the great Southern staple; that sooner or later their governments would be constrained to take sides with the rebellion in some effective form, even to the extreme of forcible intervention if the milder form did not prevail; that the rebellion is now sustained by this hope, which every proposition offering interference quickens anew, and without this life-giving support it must soon yield to the great and paternal authority of the national government; that, considering these things which are aggravated by the motive of resistance thus encouraged, the United States regret that foreign powers have not told the chiefs of the rebellion that the work in which they are engaged is hateful, and that a new government such as they seek to found, with slavery as its corner stone, and with no other declared object of separate existence, is so far shocking to civilization and the moral sense of mankind that it must not expect welcome or recognition in the Commonwealth of nations.
Confident in the justice of their cause, which is the cause of good government and of human rights every where among men; anxious for the speedy restoration of peace which shall secure tranquillity at home, and remove all occasion for complaint abroad; and waiting with well assured trust the final suppression of the rebellion, through which all these things rescued from the present danger will be secured forever, and the Republic one and indivisible triumphant over its enemies will continue to stand an example to mankind; the United States hereby announce as their unalterable purpose that the war will be vigorously prosecuted according to the humane principles of Christian States, until the rebellion shall be suppressed; and they reverently invoke upon their cause the blessing of Almighty God.
The last resolution directs their transmission to our Ministers, that the declaration and protest herein set forth may be communicated to foreign governments.
THE REBELS EMPLOYING NEGRO SOLDMAN. All has been introduced into the Legislature of South Carolina, entitled “A bill to amend an act to organize and supply negro labor for coast defence, in compliances with requisitions of the government of the Confederate States, and to authorize and direct the Governor to proceed to furnish negro labor under said act”
<c06>
THE CONSCRIPTION BILL. The conscription bill has been passed by both branches of Congress with a unanimity which testifies to the general conviction of its necessity. In the Senate the vote was unanimous. In the House 115 voted for the bill, including such conservatives as Thomas of this State, Calvert and Thomas of Maryland, and Maynard of Tennessee. Only 49 voted against the measure, including Vallandigham, Cox, Wood and the other Copperheads. The only New England members who voted against the only bill were the two Connecticut Copperheads, English and Woodruff. The bill was sent to the Senate again for concurrence in some unessential amendments, and passed.
CHARACTERISTIC ANECDOTE. The Philadelphia Enquirer tell the following good story:
“A gentleman of our city, well known in the literary world, with a view to preparing biographical sketches of our most prominent military leaders for future publication, recently forwarded circulars to the Major Generals and Brigadiers of our army. One of these was received by General Butler, requesting him to fill up the annexed blanks with his birth-place and age, together with the most remarkable events in his military career. In a few days it was returned, with his birth-place and age properly set forth, and with the blank devoted to military exploits containing the following: ‘I have done everything I was told to!’”
GENERAL BURNSIDE’S CREED. In his recent visit to Providence, R. I., General Burnside met with no ovation, because he desired none. Appearing everywhere in citizen’s dress, he made one incidental remark which is worth preserving, as covering the whole ground, and showing the patriot and hero in one. When asked what he thought of this measure or that move of the Government, he replied: “My creed is short. The Government must be sustained; the rebellion must and will be put down.”
CAPTURE OF THE QUEEN OF THE WEST.
CAIRO, III., Feb. 28. Full despatches in regard to the capture of the Queen of the West by the rebels have been received. The day before her capture, she went down below Chafalaga a few miles, and captured a rebel train of 17 wagons. Upon returning, those who captured the rebel train were fired upon by guerrillas. On the next morning, a force was landed, who destroyed all the buildings in the vicinity. The steamers which accompanied her were blown up to prevent their falling into the hands of the rebels.
THE IRON-CLAD INDIANOLA CAPTURED!
U. S. MISSISSIPPI SQUARDON, Feb. 27, via MEMPHIS, March 1.
Hon. Gideon Wells, Secretary of the Navy:
I regret to inform you that the Indianola has also fallen into the hands of the enemy. The rams Webb and Queen of the West attacked her, 25 miles from here, and rammed her until she surrendered. All of which can be traced to a non-compliance with my instructions. I do not know the particulars.
(Signed,) DAVID D. PORTER,
Commanding.
A despatch from Halifax states that on the 12th of February, in latitude 24 degrees, longitude 65 degrees, the rebel pirate Florida captured and burned the ship Jacob Bell, hound from China for New York. The Jacob Bell had 1,600 chests of tea on board. Her passengers and crew were transferred to a Danish vessel, and arrived at St. Thomas on the 19th.
While the honors of the city of Baltimore were being publicly tendered to General Butler, one of the guests, Com. Maxwell Woodhull, of the U. S. Navy, was accidentally killed by stepping unexpectedly in front of the cannon as it thundered a part of the salute. His body was shockingly mutilated.
The Kentucky House of Representatives, on the 2lst ult., tabled a resolution offered by a member, nominating General McClellan for the Presidency.
When an army is unfit for fighting or moving, they say now it is maclellanized.

OBITUARY.
Hon. WILLIAM FOSTER died in Boston on Wednesday, Feb. 25th, at the age of 91. He spent nearly twenty years of his early life in France and Spain, taking an active part in the revolution of 1790-93, and serving as president of a Jacobin club. French and Spanish were more familiar to him than English. To the last days of his life he was a frequent contributor to the newspapers, under the signature of “Franklin.”
WILLIAM S. RUSSELL, a prominent citizen of Plymouth, Mass., and well known in different portions of the country for his chronicle of the old town and its traditions, died on Saturday, Feb. 21st. His “Recollections of the Pilgrims” have been widely read.
Mr. RINALDO BURLEIGH, well known in Connecticut as a schoolmaster, deacon, and father of a family of orators and poets, died in Plainfield, Feb. 10th, in his eightieth year.
PROVIDENCE, March 2. Rev. Dr. Henry Jackson, a well known Baptist minister of Newport, died instantly in the cars to-day, while going from here to East Greenwich.
MR. ALCOTTS CONVERSATIONS.-Mr. A. BRONSON ALCOTT will speak on “THE LIBERATOR AND REFORMERS,” at the Hall of the Sons of Temperance, corner of Bromfield and Province Streets, on Monday evening, March 9th, commencing at half past 7 o’clock. Tickets to be had at the door.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak at the MUSIC HALL, on Sunday next, March 8th, on “The Good of Evil.”
THEODORE D. WELD will deliver a lecture is PHILADELPHIA, on Monday evening, March 9th.
Copies of the photographic picture, by ALLEN, of the Music Hall stage, in Boston, as arranged for the 29th Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary, may be obtained by application to ROBERT F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington Street, Boston. Price, one dollar.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. 
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.

LIFE OF CAPT. JOHN BROWN.
THE Life and Letters of Captain John Brown, who was executed at Charlestown, Virginia, Dec. 2d, 1859, for an Armed Attack upon American Slavery; with Notices of some of his Confederates. Edited by RICHARD D. WEBB. London: Smith, Elder &Co. 1861.
A small fresh supply of this interesting work, (which is prefaced by a fine photograph likeness,) wherein the character and purposes of John Brown are set forth with great clearness and justice, has been received and is now for sale at this office. Price, one dollar. Correspondents sending that sum will have a copy of the book sent them-postage paid. Address, SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston.  Mar6-mar6-tf
FARM HANDS WANTED!
TWO good farm hands can find steady employment, at fair wages, by addressing the subscriber immediately, at MINERSVILLE, Henry County, Illinois.
Fifty good hands could find lucrative employment in this section the present season, if application be made soon. 
A. TAYLOR.
Minersville, III., Feb, 28, 1863. mar6-3w
IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET.
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a hark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also, packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUI BANNISTER.
No,31, Winter Street, Boston.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry
For the Liberator.
ATONEMENT,
Ask ye why our armies fail?
Why disasters load the gale?
Sacred History tells the tale:—
Only God is great!
Read the fate of oldea Saul,
Ponder mighty Pharaoh’s fall,
Proud Goliah’s end recall—
Only God is great!
While we swung the whip and brand,
Armies crumbled in his hand,
Navies perished on the strand— 
Only God is great!
He, between us and success, 
Stood, to thwart us, not to bless—
Stood to punish and redress—
Only God is great!
For these mountains of our sin
Have the great disasters been;—
Through atonement we may win—
Only God is great!
Lo! repentance is began:—
Since the last year’s rising sun,
Old Oppression's race is run—
Only God is great!
Russia’s despot led the van,
Giving freedom unto man:—
God was mover in the plan—
Only God is great!
Lo! our Rulers, following now,
Freedom for all men svow:—
Unto God in reverence bow—
Only God is great! 
Spare, oh People, from your heard!
Give your treasures to the Lord!
Give your bravest, most adored!—
Only God is great!
Shrink not from the sacrifice,
Through its flames the pardon lies:—
Only God is good and wise—
Only God is great!
By our brave sons lost and slain,
By the good we hope to gain,
All this blood is not in vain—
Only God is great!
Mourning mothers, mourning wives,
Trembling for your dear ones lives,
Through their valor Right survives—
Only God is great!
Faint not though the end delay,
Though Oppression gain the day:
Work till God resume the sway—
Only God is great!
From this hour shall spring release,
From this hour the strife decrease,
Fading softly into peace-
Only God is great!
From this mighty epoch traced,
Bondage soon shall be erased,
Freedom all mankind shall taste—
Only God is great!
They who most for evil burned,
From their hateful purpose turned,
Through His triumph shall have learned,
Only God is great!
St. Johnsbury, Vt. F. B. GAGE.
From the Hastings (Michigan) Banner.
MY DREAM—A BALLAD.
I dreamed a dream the other night,
As curious a dream
As e’er was dreamed by mortal man;
Jeff. Davis was its theme.
I dreamed I stood upon a Mount,
All on the sacred soil
Of old Virginia, where the slave
For many years did toil,
Until the barren land proclaimed
That it had done its best;
And to recruit its energies,
Needed a century's rest.
Around, about, on every side,
Sad desolation reigned;
Mansions stood tenantless that once
“First families” contained.
The walls down broken, fences gone,
Destroyed each fruitful tree;
It was a scene of ruin vast, 
As far as eye could see.
There was no sign of human life,
But all was drear and still;
At length I saw a wasted form
Slow creeping up the hill.
That tottering frame seemed to have been
One time a noble form,
Though now ‘twas bent and crushed beneath
The weight of many a storm.
And through the cloud of dark despair
That mantled o’er his face,
I could the deeply impressed lines
Of mad ambition trace.
He gained the summit, and sat down
Upon a fallen oak,
Whose blighted trunk was struck down by
The lightning’s shivering stroke.
He gased around, and as he gazed
A shudder shook his frame;
And such a look! oh, such a look!
As o’er his features came.
So Satan might have looked when he
First raised his eyes in hell,
And saw the waves of God’s fierce wrath
In fiery billows swell.
“This is the end,” at length he said,
“Of all my plans and schemes;
The final termination of
My wild, ambitious dreams!"
His voice was sullen as the croak
Of the funereal bird 
Mid scenes of pestilence and death,
At darkest midnight heard.
“Cursed be the hour when first the thought
Found way into my heart,
My country’s interest to betray,
And act the traitor’s part!
Oh! had that moment been my last!
Twere better far than be 
The author of the ruin vast,
On every side I see.
What countless millions squandered to
Maintain the deadly strife!
What crimson seas of kindred blood!
What waste of human life!
And all in vain—for we must bow
To the relentless hand 
Of Law and Justice, which, full soon,
Will sweep us from the land.
High on the scroll of infamy
My name will take its place;
And Arnold’s when compared with it,
Will bear but small disgrace.”
Just then, up from the North a cloud
Of pitchy darkness rolled; 
And moving onward, the dark mass
The mountain did enfold.
Up in its midst, before our sight,
A fiery gallows sprung; 
And from the transverse beam, a form
Like Davis’, struggling, hung.
And then a voice in thunder burst
From out the horrid gloom,
Shaking the mountain to its base:
“TRAITOR! BIMOLD THY DOON!”
<c02>
Jeff. Davis sprang upon his feet,
And gave a piercing scream!
I started from my pillow—and,
Behold, it was a dream!  H. WOODWORTH.

The Liberator.
THE CONNECTICUT AND SHENANDOAH.
A TALE OF TO-DAY.
CHAPTER III.
WORK-A-DAY.
Astir! Not now with the intense silence of soul-life, but with the noisy demonstration of the material. Frenzied Industry wakes with the dawn to do the bidding of fevered Enterprise. Contemplation is folded back with the shadows; sentiment sinks into the heart-cup as flower-odors are withdrawn into the calyx; emotion is dried from the cheek as the dew-drops from the grass, for that heart-swell must be contributed to the mechanical force to-day, as the chemical agencies demand those glittering gems in practical solution for to-morrow’s shower. Do you hear the birds sing and the streams gurgle? At three o’clock, it was wonderful, as those who prayed and then slept, and he who neither prayed nor slept, looked out upon the dawn; now, it is the shrill clarion of cocks and the dash of fretted waters over the dam you hear. Hark, to bells! not deep-toned and melodious, but sharp, superficial, exacting; hurried feet respond to one, in the direction of the factory-building; hurried feet respond to the other, toward the point where the steam-monster pants giant throbs of impatience to rush over his iron way. With the latter moves the Candidate, en route for Boston; he will be here again, but not per manently, if ecclesiastical officials bear sway. With the former speeds the half-hidden member of the choir—among them, yet, in a certain sense, apart—the gifted vocalist is, after all, but a factory-girl! The minister and mill-hand are hurrying in opposite directions; why should they not? Not far from either, un seen of each, but observing each, alternately, with a strange mixture of emotion, walks in yet another direction Edgar Horton. Coke and Blackstone claim their student to-day; a devoted one, surely, for that early factory-bell finds him regularly on the highway with the workers, morning and evening. And thus it is in the dramas of the actual—the performers, all un known to the casual observer, and oftentimes to themselves, are moving over a common highway, apparently isolated and independent of each other, yet their feet are inextricably interlaced by the unseen meshes of an inseparable destiny, and the most commonplace and unnoteworthy encounters are often important parts in the profound plot of the Infinite Dramatist.
Edgar Horton was very pale as he turned over his books this morning. No wonder his friends so often remonstrated with him on his close application; wholly absorbed seemed he in his train of research, for he heeded not the later coming of his fellow-students into the office, nor the entrance of the Counsellor himself in earnest conversation with a stranger. Some tech nicality of law was evidently the question in discussion, for the Counsellor directed the junior student to lay before them a volume of unquestioned authority, open at a certain page, and over this they talked animatedly for some time.
“The case is a perfectly clear one—perfectly clear. You comprehend it entirely to my satisfaction,” said the stranger, at length. “I have to thank my landlord for referring me to you, and, should I need further advice in this matter, I trust I may rely on you, Sir” There was something pompous and offensive in the tones of the speaker’s voice, who, while saying this drew from his portemonnai a bank note of large amount, and laid it before the Counsellor in acknowledgment of his service.
“Certainly, Sir,” replied the gratified recipient. “My business is to expound and help assert the majesty of law under all circumstances; and I am especially fortunate when the duties of my profession bring me into relations so agreeable as the present.” The stranger bowed haughtily, and a slight sneer, scarcely obvious, stirred the heavy black moustache. Rising as if to go, then suddenly arresting himself, he turned to his obsequious friend—“Perhaps it is in your power, Sir, to give me a little piece of local information am in search of. Can you direct me to the lodgings of Rev. Mr. Berkeley?"
“I am ignorant, Sir, not having any further knowledge of the gentleman named than that he preached in one of the churches, yesterday.” The Counsellor was embarrassed, for he had heard enough of that morning sermon to make it a matter of surprise that such a question should come from this source; he hesitated between his wish to oblige the stranger, and the fear of compromising his office by bringing young Horton into notice in this presence. He was spared decision by that young gentleman himself, who, having overheard enough of the conversation to make him desirous, perhaps, of looking upon the face of the stranger, turned suddenly toward him and said, with a manner as haughty and yet courteous as his own-
“Mr. Berkeley took the early train for Boston and Lowell, Sir."
The stranger seemed struck with the contrast between the Counsellor and the student, and the impression was obviously in favor of the latter. His manner had less of the supercilious as he said,
“You may be able to inform me whether he returns to this place, soon."
“Not for several months, Sir, probably.”
“May I ask if it is the purpose of the people here to settle him?"
“It is not yet decided. Many of us desire it, greatly, but there is opposition, and Mr. Berkeley seems, for some personal reason, to prefer one of our principal cities or large manufacturing towns.” A look of peculiar satisfaction passed over the swarthy, not unhandsome, face of the stranger. Edgar perceived it, and proceeded with his advantage: “As you are interested in him, Sir, you may know the cause of this preference; with me, he is but the acquaintance of a day, though I would gladly have it otherwise."
“You sympathize in his peculiar views, then, my young friend?"
“Entirely, Sir, so far as I have had opportunity to judge of them.” The Counsellor actually turned pale at this acknowledgment. The stranger smiled with blended approbation and chagrin, but there was no lurking sneer this time. Resuming the seat from which he had risen, as if in no haste to depart, he fixed his large, well-formed, but not agreeable, black eyes upon the young student, who stood directly opposite, leaning in a firm but gracefully negligent attitude against a desk.
“My young friend, are you aware that opinions such as Mr. Berkeley entertains threaten the safety of this country?" 
“I am aware, Sir, that the causes which compel him and others to the decided expression of their opinions have, for a long time, threatened the safety of the country.” There was nothing of passion, but the simple earnestness of truth, in this reply. Perhaps the speaker did not see the gesture of remonstrance made by the counsellor-he did not seem to. Perhaps the stranger did see it, for the sable moustache stirred again with the familiar curl of the haughty lip, yet the eyes looked admiration on the calm, brave youth, and his voice had an increased courtesy in modulation as he rejoined-
“It is not your expression of opinion, at the North, that we complain of, except so far as it interferes with State rights. Holding the views you do, my friend, and possessed of so much courage and sincerity, I see not how you will get on in the profession you have chosen, if I may judge of your pursuits this morning."
“Whatever in the laws of the land my judgment and conscience fail to accept, I am bound, as a worthy citizen, to try to remove; and, in order to do this wisely and effectively, I seek a knowledge of the principles of law in general."
<c03>
“Right, entirely right in theory, Mr.-.”
“Horton, Sir,” interrupted the trembling Advocate, perceiving this grope after the name.
“Thank you. But, Mr. Horton, what, meantime, is your practise—in a case like this, for instance, which brings me here this morning—a fugitive slave case?”
If Edgar thrilled, for an instant, with intense emotion, it was as instantly mastered, and manner and voice were unaltered as he answered—
“I should act, impartially, in accordance with State rights.”
The stranger looked up with an eager, gratified smile; the Advocate drew a deep breath of satisfaction; the students looked alternately at each other and the two speakers.
“Ah! I have much misapprehended the Abolition sentiment of Massachusetts, then. I am glad to know this.”
“Pardon me, Sir, but may it not be that you have misapprehended the question of State rights?”
“How, Sir?” with a familiar flush of the brow and ash of the eye.
“Let me suppose, Sir, that you are a South Carolinian; I am a citizen of Massachusetts. The distinctive feature of your State is its system of negro slavery; that of mine, its system of free schools for all, without distinction of nation or race. I attempt to carry the peculiar institution of Massachusetts into South Carolina, and am arrested, imprisoned, or driven at the peril of my life from your borders, on the ground that I am interfering with State rights. The peculiar institution of South Carolina finds its way to Massachusetts, and it is claimed as a duty that we shall bring all available forces to conserve and protect it. In the question of State rights, which, here, is the injured party?”
“Do we claim anything but what the Constitution guarantees to us?” he replied somewhat warmly, and with a slightly startled air.
“Yankee, as I am, permit me to ask, again, before answering, Does the Constitution, in any section, line or word, recognize the distinctions of color?”
In spite of himself, kept cool and deliberative by the respectful earnestness and brave sincerity of the champion of equal rights, the Southerner answered, musingly—
“I don’t see your point in the question—I can’t say the Constitution says anything about color, but it dearly implies the existence of our black slaves, and legislates with reference to them.”
“For the sake of our argument, will you do me the favor to repeat what it says on this point; or rather, be so kind as to read it”—placing a copy of our National Charter before the Southerner.
(Reading, triumphantly)—“No person held to service or labor in one State, under the laws thereof, escaping to another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labor; but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service or labor maybe due”—(handing the document back, with a satisfied look, into the calm, firm face of the student.)
“I will not ask you how you reconcile the term ‘person,’ there, with your practical idea expressed in the more fitting term, ‘ chattel’; nor how you make service or labor ‘due,’ harmonize with service or labor despotically compelled. This would be a mere quibble about words, and no compliment to the intelligence of either of us. You know, Sir, as well as I, that those words might be made to apply to runaway apprentices, sons of free-born citizens, and, as far as mere words are concerned, find their full significance. But I know, as well as you, Sir, that this was a compromise of Freedom to Slavery; reluctantly, very reluctantly conceded in those ambiguous words, not frank and hearty, like the other specifications of this instrument; and you know, as well as I, that could they who inserted that conciliatory clause have looked forward to its results, they would cheerfully have endured over again all the suffering, deprivation, toil and sorrow of their recent struggle, rather than entail that terrible evil on their descendants.” Edgar’s voice deepened, as he spoke, into a thrilling sadness that infected every listener.
“All, my young friend, you magnify the evil; and,” added the Southerner with a bland smile, “you have ingeniously led me on to answer my own question in the very words of the Constitution.” As he said this, he glanced victoriously at the smiling Advocate and the two disappointed-looking students, at the same time taking up his hat in the act to go.
“Pardon me, Sir, this is not all,” exclaimed Edgar, eagerly, shaking off the sadness with increased vigor. “You have given me all the direct or indirect provisions of the Constitution for slavery, and I have frankly admitted them. The question which you were so kind as to waive at my request now recurs, legitimately, and I answer—When you claim the right to search a Massachusetts vessel, and take thence a Massachusetts citizen and incarcerate him in a Southern prison, simply on the ground of his color, do you not claim more than the Constitution guarantees to you? When you come on to the soil of Massachusetts, and, on the mere ground of color, without due process of law, and in violation of a right which this State guarantees to all, the right of trial by jury, you seize an intelligent human being as your property and thrall, for labor and use and sale, according to your individual, absolute will, are you not interfering with the rights of a State, the first article of whose Constitution is in these unequivocal words: ‘All men are born free and equal, and have certain natural, essential and inalienable rights; among which may be reckoned the right of enjoying and defending their lives and liberties; that of acquiring, possessing and protecting property; in fine, that of seeking and obtaining their safety and happiness.’ And do you not, in this case, also, claim more than you can find sanction for under that National Charter, which explicitly asserts that ‘no PERSON shall be deprived of life, liberty or property, without due process of law’—and, again—‘The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a republican form of government, and shall protect each of them against invasion’?”
The Southerner remained silent, his brow darkened, and his whole aspect was disturbed. The Counsellor fidgeted and gesticulated, in vain, to get the attention of his recreant pupil, while the other students gazed on their fellow with reassured satisfaction. After a courteous pause, Edgar resumed:
“Again, Sir, freedom of speech and of the press is declared to be ‘essential to the security of freedom in a State’; and, except in a treasonable use of these, they are claimed by and guaranteed to the citizens of the whole Republic by the spirit of all its laws. How stands this question of State rights, practically, between South Carolina and Massachusetts? We hold that ‘Wisdom and knowledge, as well as virtue, diffused generally among the body of the people,’ are ‘necessary for the preservation of their rights and liberties’; and, therefore, it becomes a duty to spread ‘the opportunities and advantages of education in the various parts of the country, and among the different orders of the people.’ Let this attempt be made within the borders of your, or any, slave State, in a spirit however Christian, or, indeed, on any soil of the Republic where slave influence can be brought to bear, and the obnoxious types are hurled into river or ocean; and the obnoxious tongue smothered by dungeon walls, or silenced forever. Yet, here in Massachusetts, yon claim the right to assert and defend, by force of arms, if need be, sentiments sod opinions, not only in violation of the whole spirit of our laws, but the whole spirit of Christianity and Christian civilization in the nineteenth century.”
“You forget, Mr. Horton, that the peculiar system of Sooth Carolina is local; that in interfering with it, ever so indirectly, you interfere with the domestic relations of that State—that you peril its domestic security; whereas, according to your own admission, the abstract principles with which we here, occasionally, come in conflict, are national; your domestic well-being is not jeoparded, and, being national, we, of course, come in for our share of the inconvenience.”
Again the Southerner looked around complacently, as certain that he had made an important point. The
<c04>
Advocate nodded and smiled and winked benignantly; the students drew deep breaths of eagerness, their eyes fixed on Edgar. Evidently with no feeling of discomfiture, that young gentleman rejoined-
“I accept, Sir, entirely, the abstract statement that Freedom is national, Slavery sectional, but not your conclusion with regard to the results of its encroachments on our State rights. If the exercise of our rights, in your midst or at home, perils your domestic security, in as great a degree, although in a different manner, ours are endangered by you. The questions which your encroachments give rise to separate families, disturb the peace of neighborhoods, embitter communities, engender party animosities, check the steady growth of Christian principles, and clog the advance of every worthy enterprise; not to mention the outrage of our finest sensibilities, and the perversion of enlightened judgment and conscience.” Again his listeners were thrilled with the deep grief-tone of his rich voice. But, rallying instantly, he proceeded with kindling enthusiasm—“These are domestic and social results, to us, which cannot be denied. Look at the aspect of your sectional system in the Congress of the nation. Freedom of speech in defence of what you admit to be national, Freedom, stricken down by brute force in the person of one of the noblest results of the peculiar institutions of Massachusetts; your local and domestic institution pushing its way into every newly-acquired inch of territory-involving the nation in an unjust and cruel war of extermination, that it may have wider range for unholy occupancy—claiming to legislate for the whole land, and menacing with the threat of disunion whenever there is the least indication of a policy favorable to the great principle of Equal Rights which forms the basis of our National Structure. I appeal to you, Sir, by the candor you have thus far shown in this conversation, if I have in any degree exaggerated in these statements. If not, how can any one assert that slavery is, practically, sectional? How can any one deny that by IT, alone, are the welfare and safety of the country threatened? How can any one fail to see that, not only as a citizen of Massachusetts, but as an American citizen, it is my solemn duty to withstand its encroachments, and use every lawful measure to banish it from the land it is destroying? Setting aside all questions of humanity and philanthropy, I ask you, Sir, simply as a political measure, could you, in my position, find any other conclusion than this?"
Slowly, musingly, reluctantly—“No, Mr. Horton, admitting your premises, I should be compelled to accept your conclusion; but,” looking eagerly up, “do you see where this places your Websters and Everetts? Your Fugitive Slave Law is treason against Massachusetts, in the light of your statements and arguments; the defenders of it are all traitors, not only to the interests of their State, but of the country, if you are right. Can you expect Southern men to be magnanimous when Northern men are not even honest? Why was not Massachusetts' intellect and culture and statesmanship brought to bear upon an amendment of the Constitution, in the objectionable clause, rather than expended in trying to make it palatable to your enlightened community? In your places, we of the South should have done this."
Honest shame mantled the cheek and brow of our young hero, under this taunt; his fellow-students laughed, audibly but not cheerfully; while the Counsellor writhed as if under the lash.
“We deserve all this, Sir, and more too, I admit. Had Northern men stood bravely and unitedly by Northern principles, or, rather, let me say, by National principles, slavery would have died of exhaustion, in its original limits, long ere this. But, weakly waiving the great crisis question whenever in God’s trial-providences it presented itself; putting off to another day the momentous duty of then and there; imitating, servilely, the one weakness of the fathers, instead of taking up, heroically, and completing, the work left for us to do, in the spirit and power with which they did their part—we stand, this day, cowardly and cringing, asking what is truth, when we should be demonstrating it by every fire-side in the land, and calmly asserting its supremacy before the nations of the world."
The factory-bell struck the dinner-hour of the operates. Edgar's cheek blenched, for an instant, but it was unobserved by the stranger, who was consulting his watch. Replacing it, and taking up his hat, he extended his hand cordially to the student—“You have won my respect and regard, young gentleman, if you have failed to convert me to your opinions. Let me hope the pleasure of meeting you again."
“We need not separate here, Sir,” said Edgar, somewhat hurriedly, seizing his hat; “if our walk is in the same direction, allow me to be your company."
“Thank you, my young friend, with all my heart.” Exchanging a few low-toned words with the Counsellor, (who shook the stranger’s extended hand with some trepidation,) and bowing courteously to the other students, the Southerner drew the Abolitionist's arm within his, and they went forth together.
“I will take your place at the mill this afternoon, Clara, if you will try to rest,” said Aunt Hattie, as they rose from the table.
“Thank you, dear Auntie, you are so kind."
“Effle, dear, you may put things in order while I sit awhile with cousin Clara; then practise your music; I shall be down soon.” Again Aunt Mary and Clara were closeted together.
“The note bears evidence of great haste, as you see. He slipped it into Effie’s hand, in passing her, just after he had separated from the stranger. He will be here this evening."
“O, Aunt Mary, what faithfulness and devotion from that young gentleman! What obligations, that I can never repay!"

MOVEMENTS AMONG THE COLORED CITIZENS.
The State Convention of the colored men of Michigan, held at Ypsilanti, January 28, 1863, appointed a Committee to appear before the Legislature, and urge the removal of the word “white” from the Statute Books; in furtherance of which object they submitted the following

APPEAL
Of the State Central Committee of Colored Men.
The State Central Committee, as the representatives of the general interests of the Colored People of the State of Michigan, have thought it advisable to accompany these proceedings with an appeal to their white fellow citizens. Our object is plain and simple.
Organic disabilities are always dangerous, and the longer they stand, the more serious they become. The Constitution of the State, Article VII, Section I, recognizes alone the white and Indian residents as citizens. This is to us a disability the most grievous and unjust.
At such a time as this, when our beloved country is writhing beneath the throes of civil war, every man, of whatever race or color, who at all values the endearing name of American citizen, should be called upon and required to do his duty in upholding the general government, and putting down the most infamous rebellion that ever distracted a country in the history of the world.
Whatever may be required of others, should be required of us, and we feel willing and stand ready to obey our country's call, in a summons to arms in her defence, or in any other just capacity in which we may be required. But, as residents of the State of Michigan, we cannot feel willing to serve a State, while it concedes all that is due to others, and denies much if not the most that is due to us.
Therefore, in view of all these facts, we appeal to you, as fellow-citizens of the same State, and one common destiny, to use your influence by petition and otherwise, to have the word white erased from the State Constitution, and, to urge the repeal of all laws and statutes which make a distinction between us and other citizens of the State.
W. J. WHIPPER, G. W. ELLIS,
J. S. CAMPBELL,  Mr. MARTIN,
Mr. BROWN, 
State Central Committee.
Ypsilanti, January 30, 1863.
The California Legislature is about removing certain restrictions upon colored testimony in courts.
BLACK MEN READY TO FIGHT. A correspondent in Pennsylvania thus writes us:-
“The probable passage of the Negro Enlistment bill is producing quite a stir, in a quiet way, among the
<c05>
colored people in and around Philadelphia. No doubt is entertained here that if the bill should become a law, a large number of colored people, including the most respectable of the class, will be found ready to enroll themselves as soldiers in support of the country.
Robert Purvis, of Byberry, has signified to his friends his readiness, if desired from the proper source, to do what he can in getting up a regiment to be placed at the disposal and used for the benefit of the government.
Mr. Purvis is a proper man for such a duty,. He has intellectual ability, personal culture, pecuniary means, and enjoys alike the respect and confidence of the white and colored classes. His high standing among the latter would afford him peculiar facilities in the performance of a task of this kind."-National Anti-Slavery Standard.
At a meeting of the colored citizens of Harrisburg, (Pa.) Feb. 2d, the following resolution was discussed, and adopted:-
Resolved, That while white men, North and South, in the full enjoyment of their rights and privileges, under the freest government in Christendom, are proven to be disloyal before the bar of public opinion, the black men, oppressed and embarrassed by national and legislative enactments, have remained firm in their devotion to the Government, and loyal to the old flag. 
H. Ford Douglass communicates to Frederick Douglass's Paper, that he has enlisted in company G, 95th Regiment Illinois Volunteers, in order, as he says, that he may be better prepared to play his part in the great drama of the Negro's redemption.
Enthusiastic meetings are being held in Boston, Springfield, New Bedford, and throughout the New England States, in promotion of enlistments. At one of the early gatherings in New Bedford, Rev. L. A. Grimes, of Boston, was called, and gave utterance as follows, eliciting the heartiest demonstrations of approval:-
He urged the duty of colored men to respond to the call of the Governor. They had heretofore offered their services, and they had been refused. They had sought an opportunity to fight, but without avail. Now they were called upon to take up arms, and they should not hesitate a moment. The speaker then alluded to the change which a year had effected in the prospects of his race, and spoke eloquently of the act of January last. He then fully answered the assertions that colored men would not fight and ought not to fight, stating instances of their courage and daing as soldiers, insisting that they had, in some sense, more at stake than even the whites in this war, and should, therefore, engage in it. He replied to the objection that colored men would not enlist under white officers, by remarking that so soon as they showed their ability to lead, their promotion was assured; that Governor Andrew would recognize the merit, as he had the rights of black men. After referring to the necessities of the service, and expressing his belief that colored men were to be the salvation of the country, he closed by calling on his hearers to rally to its defence. He was willing to go. He would take his Bible, and go with them; and, if need be, would not refuse to take, the musket.
The following gentlemen have been appointed by Governor Andrew a Committee to superintend the raising of the 54th Regiment:-
George L. Stearns, Esq., Hon. Amos A. Lawrence, John M. Forbes, Esq., William I. Bowditch, Esq., Dr. Le Baron Russell and Richard P. Hallowell, Esq., of Boston; Mayor How land and James B. Congdon, Esq. of New Bedford; Hon. Willard P. Phillips, of Salem; and Francis G. Shaw, Esq., of New York. Mr. Hallowell will act as Treasurer of the Committee. A check for $500 has been sent to the Governor by Hon. Gerrit Smith, of New York, as a contribution toward a regimental recruiting fund.
Under sanction of Governor Sprague, a recruiting office has been opened in Providence, and it is expected that two companies will soon be on the way to join those already in camp at Readville, where, under care of such men as Colonel R. G. Shaw and Lieut. Col. Hallowell, the prospect is very encouraging for the Massachusetts 54th Regiment.
At the several meetings addressed by William Wells Brown, Charles Lenox Remond, and Dr. J. B. Smith, the objections to enlistments have been satisfactorily explained; and as they feel conscious that a regenerated public sentiment will speedily welcome the removal of the word white from the Statute Book of Massachusetts, they would inspire others with the hope which animates their own breasts. 
Boston, Feb. 22d, 1863. W. C. N.
LETTER FROM PRESIDENT LINCOLN TO THE WORKINGMEN OF MANCHESTER.
From the Manchester Guardian, Feb. 10.
The following letter and enclosure were received yesterday, by the Mayor of Manchester, Abel Heywood, Esq.:
“LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES,
LONDON, FEB. 9, 1863.
“SIR: I have the honor to transmit to you, by the hands of Mr. Moran, the Assistant Secretary of this Legation, a letter of the President of the United States, addressed to you as chairman of the meeting of workingmen, held at Manchester, on the 31st of December, and in  acknowledgment of the address which I had the pleasure to forward from that meeting.
“I am. Sir, your obedient servant,
“CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS."
“EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, January 19, 1863.
“To THE WORKINGMEN OF MANCHESTER: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the address and resolutions which you sent me on the eve of the new year.
When I came on the 4th of March, 1861, through a free and constitutional election, to preside in the Government of the United States, the country was found at the verge, of civil war. Whatever might have been the cause, or whosesoever the fault, one duty, paramount to all others, was before me, namely, to maintain and preserve at once the Constitution and the integrity of the Federal Republic. A conscientious purpose to perform this duty is the key to all the measures of administration which have been, and to all which will hereafter be pursued. Under our frame of government and my official oath, I could not depart from this purpose if I would. It is not always in the power of Governments to enlarge or restrict the scope of moral results which follow the policies that they may deem it necessary, for the public safety, from time to time to adopt.
I have understood well that the duty of self­preservation rests solely with the American people. But I have at the same time been aware that favor or disfavor of foreign nations might have a material influence in enlarging and prolonging the struggle with disloyal men in which the country is engaged. A fair examination of history has seemed to authorize a belief that the past action and influences of the United States were generally regarded as having been beneficial toward mankind. I have, therefore reckoned upon the forbearance of nations. Circumstances — to some of which you kindly allude— induced me especially to expect that, if justice and good faith should be practised by the United States, they would encounter no hostile influence on the part of Great Britain. It is now a pleasant duty to acknowledge the demonstration you have given of your desire that a spirit of peace and amity toward this country may prevail in the councils of your Queen, who is respected and esteemed in your own country only more than she is by the kindred nation which has its home on this side of the Atlantic.
I know, and deeply deplore, the sufferings which the workingmen at Manchester, and in all Europe, are called to endure in this crisis. It has been often and studiously represented that the attempt to overthrow this Government, which was built upon the foundation of human rights, and to substitute for it one which should rest exclusively on the basis of human slavery, was likely to obtain the favor of Europe. Through the action of our disloyal citizens, the workingmen of Europe have been subjected to severe trial, for the purpose of forcing their sanction to that attempt. Under these circumstances, I cannot but regard your decisive utterances upon the question as an instance of sublime Christian heroism, which has not been surpassed in any age or in any country. It is indeed an energetic and reinspiring assurance of the inherent power of truth, and of the ultimate and universal triumph of justice, humanity and freedom. I do not doubt that 
the sentiments you have expressed will be sustained by your great nation; and on the other hand, I have no hesitation in assuring you that they will excite admiration, esteem, and the most reciprocal
<c06>
feelings of friendship among the American people. I hail this interchange of sentiment, therefore, as an augury that, whatever else may happen, whatever misfortune may befall your country or my own, the peace and friendship which now exist between the two nations will be, as it shall be my desire to make them, perpetual.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
“ABEL HEYWOOD, Esq., Chairman, Manchester.”
OD
FOR DE HAPPY RETURN OB DE DAY.
COMPOST FOR DE OCCASHUN,
BY
POMPY TOODUR,
DE 
ONLY SURVIVIN “NIGGER” OF DE RIVERLUSHUN.
102 YEERS, 7 MUNS, 5 DAS OLE.
Dis be de berry da to nite
When Washintun fust see de lite. 
Fire de trumpit, blo de gun, 
For good ole Massa Washintun!
What he sa, if he look roun,
An see de worl turn upside down?
What de good ole genral sa,
To heer de rebbles tauk awa?
Villendiggum,him a skunk—
An Saulsberry, so berry drunk—
How cum little Delawar
To send dat drunken fellah dar!
Wile de galries stamp and snicker,
To see de seniturs in licker.
Fire de trumpit, blo de gun,
For good ole Massa Washintun!
Since dis grate man went to hebben,
Wurthy cheefs dar hab been, sebben,
Sittin in de Genral’s char,
An four, dat had no bisnis dar.
No two ob all so like dar be,
As good ole Massa Abe an he.
Fire de trumpit, blo de gun,
For Massa Abe an Washintun!
He fust propos’d to free de slabe—
Dat ting is dun, by Massa Abe.
Wat shall de grateful nigger do?
He shout de loyal hullabaloo.
If de Debble do not ketch
Jeff. Davis, dat infernal retch,
An roast and frigazee dat rebble,
Wat is de use ob any Debble!
An now how happy we shall be
De wife an pickaninny free!
So long beneath de driber’s goad,
His time and toil de slabe bestowd,
Dat he, poor nigger, nebber knew
Dis word was made for Cezer too!
De thought was new, dat life and lim,
Muscle and bon, belong’d to him.
An when Roxanny had a baby.
It might be his—his massa’s may be;
An oft he stare—as well he might—
De pickaninny look so white!
No matter whose it was—de guinny
Would always buy de pickaninny.
Tank God, dem drefful das is flown,
Cato can call his chile his own.
When Massa planter old and poor,
Nigger no shut de cabin door—
He welcome dar to rest, and Cato
Go roast him yam and sweet potato—
Forgib de wrongs he eber knew—
An pray de Lord may do so too.
Fire de trumpit, blo de gun,
For Massa Abe an Washintun!
—Boston Transcript. POMPT TOODER.
The following lines, (says the Old Colony Memorial,) the production of a negro contraband, unable to read or write, were composed on the Proclamation of President Lincoln. They were handed to us by Mr. Cornelius Bradford, who has recently arrived from the hospital at Hampton, having been discharged from his Co. (E) on account of sickness:-

THE DAY OF JUBILEE.
COMPOSED BY THOMAS PECK, HAMPTON, VA., NEAR FORTRESS MONROE.
In 1861 this great and glorious work begun;
In 1863 brings four million their liberty; 
Glory to God who has spared us to see 
This glorious day of Jubilee!
Moses led the Israelites, 
But Joshua reached the place;
Garrison commenced the glorious work, 
But Lincoln decides the case.
We have suffered long, and were punished wrong,
But now we see the light; 
The time has come, seventy years have won, 
And Lincoln will do all things right.
We’ll thank him and praise him, 
And will ever agree 
In the great celebration 
Of the day we are free.
Fremont is our friend, 
And that the nation can see, 
That Hunter is in favor 
Of the day of Jubilee.
Massachusetts has done nobly,
And Andrew will be
A great man in 
The year of Jubilee.
New York has done well, 
But better she would be 
If she were in favor 
Of this great Jubilee.
There is old Pennsylvania, 
She too has shed her blood, 
But her sons are opposed 
To the people’s being free.
Old England has been growling,
Old Spain has been grouty,
But they both ought to see.
That France is in favor of the people’s being free.
Bennett is a Democrat, 
And opposed is he 
To the great proclamation, 
Of the people's being free.
The Tribune is our friend, 
And ever will be 
In favor of the colored man 
Learning his A B C.
Freedom is a good thing, 
Slavery is not fair; 
Thomas Peck was under the yoke 
Twenty-one year.
154 Washington St., 5 doors South of Milk St.
October 24. 6m
WEIS & ZOEBISCH
MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN
EUROPEAN AND FANCY FURS,
308 Washington Steet, 308
OPPOSITE BOSTON THEATRE, BOSTON.
Particular attention is paid to altering and repairing Old Furs.
Furs preserved during the summer. nov7-3m

JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
No. 6, TREMONT STREET,: : BOSTON.
