THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM NO 6.
ROBBERT F. WALLOUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents -one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receives subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, EDITOR.
Our Country is the world, our countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, PRINTERS.
VOL. XXX. NO. 21.BOSTON. FRIDAY, MAY 25, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER 1535.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
THE AMERICAN TRACT SOCIETY.
Bennett's New York Herald, commenting upon the proceedings of the American Tract Society, at its recent anniversary in New York, says:-
The Rev. Mr. Wolcott, of Chicago, appeared yesterday morning with the’ helpless negro boy,' tied up in nice white paper, and accompanied with all the usual string of where as and resolves. After reading his resolutions, he indulged in a very bitter Abolition harangue, and it looked like an interminable debate, when Judge Bronson moved that the meeting be adjourned without day; and adjourned it was, forthwith. And that is the last of the little nigger in the Tract Society for this year.
That he will come up again, and one of these days dissolve the society, there can be little or no doubt. He has already divided the Church, and will one day split up all the religious societies except the Bible Society. Even that organization may suffer. The Abolitionists may demand that the Gospels shall be altered so as to make out our Saviour a Garrisonian, and Saint Paul, although he counselled the rendition of Onesimus, a sympathizer with Mrs. Beecher Stowe. Only one thing prevents the societies from splitting on the Almighty Nigger, and that is the Almighty Dollar. The ’commercial classes' button up their pockets when the little nigger is mixed up in evangelical questions. The receipts of the Tract Society have been somewhat diminished already, and in case the society should break on the slavery question, the business would be entirely smashed. The evangelical individuals who control the Society's business are as well aware upon which side their bread is buttered as are the world's people, and they have no intention of losing their fat salaries for the sake of an abstraction. So far they have out-generalled the radicals in every encounter. But the end is not yet. The Almighty Nigger has smashed up all the political parties, introduced dissensions into the churches, fostered all manner of malice, envy, hatred and uncharitableness between brethren of the same evangelical school, and now be interferes with the spiritual pabulum which is dealt out by the Tract Society at the rate of five hundred millions of sheets per annum. There is such a thing as having too much of the Almighty Nigger, as some people will find out before a great while. There was sound philosophy, though apparent, in the wish uttered by a Connecticut politician, that he really’ wished the speakers on his (Black Republican) side would let the slavery question alone.' We opine that the Tract Society managers hold that view of the subject. It is by far the best way of getting over the ground easily, and hauling a good lot of donations, the main thing which they are after.

From the New York Herald.
DECLINE OF THE ANNIVERSARY SPIRIT.
TOO MUCH ABOUT THE NEGRO.
There is a decided falling off this year in the interest, excitement and amusement which usually characterized the anniversaries of former times. The numbers attending the meetings are fewer, and the proceedings generally are flat and without point. We devoted fifteen or sixteen columns yesterday, and we devote almost as many more to-day, to reports of the different gatherings, but the transactions of the various bodies seem to lack the spirit, which for the past ten years or so animated the pious and philanthropic assemblages of this kind. There are fewer white cravats to be seen in the streets, and a smaller number of strong-minded women from the rural districts, than in previous years. Even the Garrisonian company, which used to be so full of spicy debate and entertaining absurdity, seems to have lost its fire, and lapsed into a very dull and stupid performance.
It is evident that the public are getting tired of the anniversary excitement. The nigger question has had so large a share in the proceedings of the several societies, that outside people have become a little disgusted, while the inside elements themselves have grown to be discordant and inharmonious upon that subject. The perpetual discussion of the anti-slavery question has partially disorganized many of the societies, and will finally break up the whole. Even the purely anti-slavery bodies themselves are not free from dissension; but the religious bodies, the Bible and Tract societies and others, are on the eve of being torn to pieces by the same agency. The best proof, perhaps, of the declining interest of the public in the anniversaries is the falling off in the annual receipts of some of these bodies from that of last year, as the following figures will show:
Receipts in1858.1859.Decr'se.
Young Men's Christian Association, $5,500 2,600 2,900
American Anti-Slavery Society, 35,967 14,237 21,740
New York Sunday School Union, 77,000 15,000 62,000
Amer. Home Missionary Society, 187,409 185,216 2,923
Amer and Foreign Christian Union, 73,000 57,000 16,000
On the other hand, we find that those societies into whose proceedings the slavery question seldom or never enters, have increased their income. Thus the American Seamen's Friend Society shows an increase of $20,961, the society for the Amelioration of the Jews an increase of $3,783 and the Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions an increase of $7,900.
The truth is, the merchants and others, who were the largest contributors to these societies, are beginning to find that their operations are seriously affecting the interests of trade by the perpetual agitation of the slavery question, and they are accordingly buttoning up their pockets in answer to the appeals of the agitators. The anniversary spirit is manifestly declining under the withering influence of Abolitionism, and we should not be surprised to see it extinguished entirely in two or three years more.

From the New York Journal of Commerce.
STEREOTYPED ABOLITIONISM.
The Abolition Societies, under various names, are repeating their ’doleful cry' this week. If any person is curious enough to know what is said at their meetings, he can save himself the trouble of personally attending them, by consulting the May files, for any number of years past, of those newspapers which publish reports of them, either to keep up the Abolition excitement, or to poke fun at them,-the effect in both cases being precisely the same, viz., to give the Abolition orators the notoriety which they crave. Indeed, they accept as the highest personal compliments, stale eggs, tar and feathers, and free rides in sharp rails. When those luxuries are not to be had, as they are not in these parts, the Abolition orators content themselves with the fame which they derive from the praise or abuse of the press-the latter being always most welcome to them.
It is not our intention to waste a single word of censure or scorn in speaking of these annual Abolition gatherings. They are too well known in this community to require any exposure. We only wish to warn people who would go to them in pursuit of a new sensation, that nothing under the sun can be older, staler, or flatter. The speakers are the same that have done the talking for the last dozen years.
<c02>
They make a good living by it, as lecturers or preachers, and admit no new competitor for the dimes of a gullible public. Freedom of speech (except to abuse that freedom) is nowhere so savagely denied as in Abolition meetings. Any attempt at it is always hissed, stamped, coughed, and scraped down. Nothing is tolerated except insults to religion, aspersions upon dead statesmen, and venomous expectorations at the Union and the Constitution. The people on the platform are the same. There are always two or three colored persons, who slink into corners as if they instinctively divine the humbug of the proceedings, and are, on the whole, rather ashamed to associate with their white brethren. There are always half-a-dozen elderly ladies, in antique dresses, with high, bony foreheads, and, by a remarkable coincidence, very plain looking, who, for some totally inexplicable reason, sit in the nearest possible proximity to the colored brethren aforesaid. There are always at least a couple of Abolition clergymen without white neck-cloths, as if by leaving off that mark of the sacred office, they would declare their personal superiority to, and independence of, their profession, but who are always very nervous to have ’Rev.' duly prefixed to their names in the newspapers. There are very many men of wild aspect, with long hair and beard of Californian length-those extravagant appendages being mysteriously identified with crazy reformers and agitators, all the world over. There is always at least one man in a complete Quaker suit of clothes, who looks as if butter would not melt in his mouth, but who, when he gets up to speak, amazes the audience with the fluency of his vituperation and the deep ferocity of his epithets. There is always at least one rank lunatic, not merely maniacal on the subject of slavery, like his associates, but stark mad on every other subject, who insists upon jumping up at the most unexpected moment, and saying the oddest things, but whose eccentric interruptions are regarded quite as a matter of course by the meeting, and, in fact, as giving an added spice of interest to the exercises.
Among the audience the colored people, the strong-minded females, the long-haired males and the lunatics are repeated and multiplied. The floor is a duplicate of the platform, minus the handful of speakers, and plus a crowd of credulous country folks, and a few city wags who go to chuckle over the absurdity of the whole thing.
A FRIEND WANTED.-A clergyman who heard Dr. Cheever on Tuesday while addressing the Anti-Slavery Society, expresses regret that no friendly adviser stands ready to interpose in his behalf. His manner was strangely excited and violent; his appearance wild and unnatural, suggesting painful surmisings as to the evil effects upon himself of further indulgence in his favorite topic. When treating other subjects, few clergymen are more edifying; but it is manifest that he is powerless for good when harping on the ‘old threadbare coat.' Men rush to hear him on such occasions, as spectators resort to a bear-garden, to see the animals. Meanwhile, religion is scandalized, a once prosperous church reduced almost to spiritual and material ruin, and the unfortunate clergyman himself exposed to incurable mental disorder. Such a condition of things should not be continued indefinitely. Not many years ago, there was a church in New York city whose condition was in many respects similar to the one located in Union Square. The minister persisted in holding on, contrary to the expressed will of the people, greatly to the detriment of all the interests involved. But by a ruse, the property was sold under a foreclosure of mortgage, and the society disbanded. In a few days, however, there was a reorganization, with a new pastor, and the church has since continued to be one of the most influential and prosperous in the city. It might be a happy solution of the difficulty on Union Square, could some similar plan be adopted, thereby averting evils which are liable to become more aggravated. A decision of the question now before the Courts, as to who are the legal trustees, will prepare the way, it may be hoped, for a speedy disentanglement.-Ibid. 
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.-This body met on Tuesday at the Cooper Institute. A most violent address by Dr. Cheever was the chief feature. The leading spirits, white and black, were evidently so delighted to number him among them, that they had little emotion left to expend in their usual style of invective, and the amount of cursing was rather below the average, though still enough to satisfy the most eager for such aliment.-Ibid. 

SELECTIONS. 
From the National Anti- Slavery Standard.
THE ANNIVERSARY.
It has been for a long series of years our happy duty to say of each of the Anniversaries of the American Anti-Slavery Society, as they succeeded each other in grand procession, that it was the best of all that had gone before. We are most happy to be able to say of the Twenty-Seventh of the order, that it is still, as it should be, in advance of any that ever went before it. This, to be sure, is a necessary fact in the history of the Movement, if those carrying it forward do but their simplest duty. They are pressed forward by the march of events, and have only to hold their own and keep in the foremost place which Providence has assigned them, to find themselves at each Annual Review of their forces in a condition of better preparation, an attitude of more dignity, and a position of greater weight and influence, than at any previous moment. We can, therefore, without the suspicion of vain boasting on the part of any person competent to judge in the premises, exult in the prosperity the Meeting which was held in this city last week, as a proof of past successes and the sign of victories to come.
The attendance was never so numerous, nor was the speaking ever more unexceptionably excellent. We have had more crowded meetings in smaller halls; but the immense space of the Cooper Institute could have swallowed up all the rooms we have ever met in, and yet not been satisfied. The actual number of thousands of souls that were reached by the utterance of the voice during this meeting was very much beyond that which ever received the truth through the hearing of the ear at any former one. This we feel it right to aver, as some of the political and religions papers, of the Satanic brand, have attempted to misrepresent the interest excited by this Anniversary by misstating its numerical attendance. We were also unusually free from the annoyances to which our sacred regard for the freedom of speech has sometimes subjected us. The speeches were all good and profitable for reproof of wickedness and instruction in knowledge. The Journal of Commerce, one of the chiefest of the pro-slavery politico-commercio-religious papers above alluded to, through that singular passion which seems to love a lie for its own sake, has seen fit to represent our sessions as always haunted by ‘at least one rank lunatic,’ who insists upon incessant interruption, which is submitted to as a matter of course. We think that even the editor of
<c03>
the Journal of Commerce, if present in the flesh, would have found it difficult to put his finger upon any such ‘flea of Conventions' at our last assembling of ourselves together.
The statements of the same veracious print as to the persons who took part in our discussions were marked by the same symptoms of chronic mendacity, which seem to indicate its case to be hopeless of recovery. It says that the speakers were the same that had done the talking for the last dozen years. Though it would have been entirely immaterial if this had been the case, it was so far from the truth that none of the gentlemen or ladies, taking part in the meeting, could be said to be habitual speakers at our New York meetings, with the exception of Messrs. Garrison and Phillips, though one or two of them have occasionally spoken at them. The voices were fresh ones, almost all of them, that were uplifted on the slave's behalf at this his assembly. As the proceedings and speeches will be found in full in our columns, we shall spare the space necessary to any detailed remarks upon the speakers, or what was spoken. But we should do injustice to our own feelings, and to the just expectations of our readers, if we omitted to record the pleasure with which the appearance of Dr. CHEEVER upon our platform was hailed by all upon and before it. The cheering which the emphatic cordiality with which he grasped the hand of the President, as he came forward to speak, called forth, was a loud and sufficient witness of the spirit with which he was welcomed among us. It was a simple, yet a significant, expression of the fraternity which can join men of the most diverse opinions in a common unity of purpose and action for a great practical reform.
They whose memory in the cause could run backward for twenty years could not fail to remember that it is that precise period which separated this Meeting from that of 1810, when the Secession took place, of which the pretence was the recognition of the rights to the female members of the Society to act and vote in its meetings, while the real reason was the wish to save the American Church from the blows to which her pro-slavery villanies justly and inevitably exposed her, in the necessary course of the conflict with the demon which she was sheltering in her pulpits and behind her communion-tables. That, indeed, looked like a day of small things. The great mass of the men most prominent in the Movement at that time left it, carrying with them the organ and the property of the Society. Affairs had a most gloomy look, as we held our session in Thomas Van Rensselaer's cellar, to devise ways and means, and look out for men to use them. But as we did not take counsel of flesh and blood to avoid the split, we only strove to discover the pointing of duty, and were guided into the ways of wisdom. We established this paper, which has survived all that have been set up, or kept up, in opposition, and have seen the American Society well served and well maintained, while its enemies have vanished, and the places that once knew them, know them no more. Now we see clergymen of the first professional eminence, as well as of the most unflinching fidelity to principle, finding that the Anti-Slavery platform is one where they can stand,, and the Abolitionists men with whom they can work, without any just impeachment of their theologies or their functions, for the conquest and destruction of the one great enemy of Religion and Liberty in the nation.
While we rejoice in the eminent success which has attended the Anti-Slavery Meetings of the last week-fitly rounded by the immense gathering with which the City Society caused even the vast Cooper Institute to overflow-it is rather as a Sign than as a Success that we accept it. We see the effects of the Anti-Slavery Movement everywhere, in the State and in the Church. It has riven asunder the Democratic party at Charleston. The Irrepressible Conflict which it inaugurated entered even that Pandemonium, and the evil spirits could no longer be of one accord. It compelled the long-buried men of the Whig party to rise from their political graves, and hold a Sabbath at Baltimore, in the hope that their gibberings might help slavery to the peace it sighs for in vain. And the Republican party, which it has called into being, is even now deciding with how little to the Anti-Slavery life we have breathed into it, it can have a name to live so as to reach the paradise of power and pelf. And we have been not less happy in the wholesome disturbance of the Sects in their worship of Slavery instead of God, in the breaches which we have made in the walls of their pro-slavery Zions, and in the blows we have been enabled to give to the great Babylons of Missionary and Tract Societies, in which they have hoped to hide their pro-slavery wickedness. We have made slavery the one absorbing topic of thought and discourse in the country-in high places and in low. This was the work we undertook to do, and we have done it, God helping us, with our might. It is only by this faithful antagonism to slavery that the liberties of the country can be saved from the toils of despotistm which are fast encompassing us. The animating scenes and words of the last week, the daily history of the country everywhere, show the Abolitionists of the country what they have done. But they show yet more emphatically what remains to be done. To the future we now address ourselves.

THE LIBERATOR.
SPEECH OF REV. GEO. B. CHEEVER, D. D.
At the Annual Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society, in the Cooper Union, New York, May 8.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: These free and earnest words render almost unnecessary the opening remarks which I had proposed to make; still, I will say, that I am here to-day, by the courteous invitation of this Society, holding it an honor and a privilege to speak is anywhere on God's earth in behalf of the enslaved. In being here, I do not endorse, nor am I imagined to endorse, the views of men on this same platform whose views I do not know, or whose opinions in regard to the Constitution, and, for aught I know, in re regard to some things in the Word of God, may be very different from mine. Nay, I have been kindly, courteously invited here, although supposed to entertain very different views from those of some of the oldest members of this Society. And I heartily rejoice, by responding to the invitation, to make any contribution, of which I am capable, towards breaking down the walls of partition between the friends of the slave of every denomination, and bringing into the power of combination their intense hatred and abhorrence of the infinite crime of slavery, and their determination to abolish it.
The distinction of this Society, from the outset, has been its high, grand purpose of abolition for the enslaved. That which other professed anti-slavery <illegible> have rejected as a reproach, a <illegible>, a treason, the members of this Society have put foremost as their object, their boast, their honor, their conscience, their
<c04>
duty, to the end. They have thus been, on this subject, the breakers up of the fallow-ground, before it could be sown; for it was a forest of thorns huger than the cedars of Lebanon; and, had they not done this difficult work with such terrible decision and energy, outside the Church, I do not see how we could, even now, have begun the same work, inside. Perhaps it needed a corps of men branded as infidels, and therefore reckless as to the Church, to drive this storm-ship, this ice-plough, this gigantic jungle-cleaver, before any in the Church would have taken out a patent there to drive this same tremendous engine under the auspices of an Orthodox firm.
I remember, in an interview which I had, a number of years ago, with D'Aubigne, in Switzerland, a remark of his as to the show of religious parties in this country, especially the distinction between Old School and New, and the character each seemed to him to be assuming. I see, said he, on the one side, truth and deadness, on the other side, error and life; and I know not what to make of it. But there is one thing worse than error; it is truth held in unrighteousness, the truth married to moral corruption, the boast of speculative orthodoxy, along with the sanction and embrace of dishonesty, licentiousness, and cruelty. The historian of the Reformation knows that that mixture is a profanation of the name of Jehovah worse than idolatry, worse than infidelity. The Good Samaritan was the despised infidel of old; but the orthodox priest and Levite were worse than he. I have been, and am now, a lover of the sternest kind of Calvinistic orthodoxy; not because it is of Calvin, or the fathers, but of God; and only so far as it is of God; not in theory merely, but in practice, in the fruits of truth, in righteousness, love, justice, humanity, and the defence of the enslaved and needy.
Now, if anything is clear, it is this, that the more orthodox a man is in the letter, if in practice he goes against the spirit, he is the greater traitor, the worse man. If he holds the truth in unrighteousness, it is the very climax of corruption, for which God says the man is utterly reprobated ’What hast thou to do to declare my statutes, or that thou shouldst take my covenant in thy mouth? When thou sawest a thief, then thou consentedst with him, and hast been partaker with adulterers. Yet they seek me daily, and delight to know my ways, as a nation that did righteousness, and forsook not the ordinances of their God; they ask of me the ordinances of justice; they take delight in approaching to God.' Yet, notwithstanding this intense and exalted orthodoxy, in which they said, Stand by thyself, come not near to me, for I am holier than thou, they were a smoke in God's nostrils, a fire that burneth all the day, because they had chosen their own ways, and their soul delighted in their abominations. That being the case, no intensity or exactitude of orthodoxy was any recommendation of them to God; on the contrary, the most sacred professions of doctrine, the very symbols of faith, were hateful to him, in such hands. He that killeth an ox, though for the altar of atonement, is as if he slew a man; he that sacrifice the lamb, as if he cut off a dog's neck; he that burneth incense, as if he blessed an idol; for this was the orthodoxy that God had chosen, and is now: to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke, deal your bread to the hungry, clothe the naked, do justice to the afflicted and needy, and deliver the poor and oppressed out of the hand of the wicked. The predicted characteristics, also, of the coming and reign of Christ the Savior, and of a true revival and missionary piety, were just these: He shall judge the poor of the people, he shall save the children of the needy, and SHALL BREAK IN PIECES THE OPPRESSOR.
Now, these are extraordinary announcements, and it is time that our pretences of sanctity were tried by them, for they make terrible havoc in the ranks of churches whose pastors can say,’ I have bought and sold slaves, and shall do it again, under like circumstances, and I teach these views to my people.' If this be orthodoxy, in its highest boasted purity and perfection, this also is the very climax of orthodox sin, to which those very churches were driving whom twenty years ago, D'Aubigne beheld in spiritual deadness, but with a pure, systematic, elaborate creed. They have reached the consummation which always follows the boast of truth divorced from life, in the enthronement of the great modern Man of Sin and Son of Perdition in the Temple of God where now the professors of extremest orthodoxy are the officiating high priests; and professed disciples of the Son of God burn incense to the Moloch of American Slavery, as being the incarnation at once of natural right and of God's most perfect benevolence and missionary providence. The enslaved are the flock of this orthodox slaughter, whose possessors slay them, and hold themselves not guilty; and they that sell them say, Blessed be the Lord, for I am rich: and their own shepherds pity them not. It has come to past that in this modern orthodoxy, as of old, its professors dare to defend, in God's name, a crime reprobated of God under penalty of death, and to justify those members of the churches who are guilty of it, under the plea that’ We are delivered to do all the abominations.' Take you the record from God's own word, and judge for yourselves whether the Church in this country have not assumed and acted out the same impiety, but with aggravated guilt, in the justification of American slavery, along with the profession of the extremest orthodoxy.’ Trust ye not in lying words, saying, The temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, are these. If, indeed, ye thoroughly amend your ways and your doings; if ye thoroughly execute judgment between a man and his neighbor; if ye oppress not the stranger, the fatherless and the widow, and shed not innocent blood in this place, neither walk after other gods to your hurt; then, indeed, ye are my temple. But behold ye trust in lying words, that cannot profit. Will ye steal, murder, and commit adultery, swear falsely, and burn incense unto <illegible>, and come and <illegible> before me in this house, which is called by my name, and say, We are delivered to do all these <illegible>? Is this house, which is called by my name, become a den of robbers in your eyes? Behold, even I have seen it, with the Lord. They have set their abominations in the house that is called by my name, to pollute it.'
<c05>
That which has been is now, nor is there anything in human wickedness of which we can say, this is new. Twenty-four hundred years pass away; and even as the forms of Egyptian dancing-girls might be copied from the tombs of the dead in the mountains of Thebes, and represented in our theatres, even so these old Jewish sinners, these antique masters in hypocrisy, these models of histrionic impiety, are before the world upon the stage again, enacting the same tragedies in the temple of God, in the personification of American slaveholding Christianity.
Now, in view of these monstrous enormities of old, God said, Cease to do evil, learn to do well, break every yoke, give liberty every man to his brother, and every man to his neighbor, and that is your only true orthodoxy. Just so now, we would like to have men of all parties, in the name of God, unite, and drive upon a slaveholding Church that is apostate in this wickedness, and a falsifier of the gospel, this demand for the removal of this brand of shame from the dishonored form of Christianity; their demand for the abolition of this wickedness constituting the only orthodoxy. Either this or infidelity is the alternative presented to a perishing world, by a slaveholding church and ministry. The church and ministry that go against the Spirit of the Bible become the greatest traitors to it and to God, just in proportion as they swear by its letter and falsify its contents.
And just so with the Constitution, and a man's faithfulness to that. The abolition of this wickedness is the only orthodoxy there. The man that goes against the Spirit of the Constitution, though sworn to support it, is the greatest traitor to it, and to his country. He that offends the letter of it, by adhering to its Spirit, is a truer man, a truer Christian patriot, than he that, by the latter, defeats, or labors to defeat, pervert and suffocate the Spirit. This is God's own logic, and it is irresistible. If the uncircumcision keep the righteousness of the law, shall not his uncircumcision be counted for circumcision? And shall not uncircumcision, which is by nature, if it fulfil the law, judge thee, who by the letter and circumcision dost transgress the law? Thou that preachest, a man should not steal, dost than steal?-babes into the bargain? Thou that sayest, a man should not commit adultery, dost thou commit adultery? Thou that makest thy boast of the law, through breaking the law dishonorest thou God? Take the Constitution and obey it in the spirit, and every one of its letters will support you in the right; deny it in the spirit, and you can turn its plainest letters to the wrong. The Constitution being for freedom and equity, that is its law; and whoever by letter transgresses that law, the spirit judges and condemns him.
We are bound to drive every engine against slavery that either letter or spirit will permit. Give me the power, and I will handle the Constitution upon this monster in such a way that, from his cranium to the os coccygis, there shall not be left a fragment of bone big enough for even Cuvier to determine from it what range in the museum of dead, but once living, deviltries on earth the creature could have belonged to. And I will do it constitutionally. Give me the power to put the right in practice, and it will thenceforth appear in theory so clear, so resplendent, that men will wonder how any other men could ever have been so crazy as to have devised it, or such wrong-reasoning sophists as to have drawn any other conclusion in regard to it. A Chinese puzzle is as plain as day when you set the pieces in the right place.
Give me the power to serve upon the South that one article in the Constitution concerning service due, for the purpose for which alone the Constitution was intended, and, according to the rule of interpretation by which, in the acknowledgment of all sound jurisprudence and justice, such an instrument is to be pressed in favorem libertatis, and it will crush the iniquity of slavery to the centre. Give but the power, and turn out the squatters, and the border ruffians, and all the apartments of the Constitution are a fit abode for angels; and the moment they enter, it will be found transfigured and transparent with their light. At the same time, there are articles in it that can be possessed with the devil, if Uriel is not on guard, even as a toad was found in Eden, squat at the ear of slumbering Eve. See how the power to enforce even the Dred Scott decision has inoculated the whole Constitution with malignant disease! The possession of such a devil makes the whole instrument luminous with the glare of hell; it is as if it had been steeped with moral phosphorus; and your Democratic saints have breathed the same element to such an extent that they are ready for spontaneous combustion.
Persons held to labor by the laws! There is the door by which every devil enters; and if not by that, there is no crevice through which slavery can insert the point of a jimmy, even for a burglar's operations. Station there the angel of truth and equity at that door, and no devil can open it, or cross its threshold. If you are a person held to service, it is a principle of common law and justice that no labor shall be exacted from any man without a fair, equivalent, by contract. If held to service under law, by the same law held to be paid; and if not paid, the service not due. A fugitive from service, who could prove that his master owed him more than the service for which he was bound, could not be returned, on such proof being produced before a jury.
But, we are speaking of service, and what has that to do with slavery? Of a person, and what has s that to do with a chattel, a thing, a piece of merchandise? Of service due by law, and what has that to do with property in man? How can you thrust in here even the idea of slavery, where not only not the name is mentioned, but not one of its elements, nor any intimation or description by which it is even known.
The power to execute the right is all you need; and the instant it is executed-the very first blow struck is that direction, the whole soul of the country will see and feel the right, and rejoice in it. The first blow struck against the god Serapis, the spell of a thousand years was broken-the awful power of superstition, the Satanic mist and darkness, rolled away; and the first exercise of power, according to the right through this article, you will see Satan fall as lightning from this usurped heaven of his abode, and the whole phantom as clean gone as when at one
<c06>
touch of your anger, a corpse, long preserved by being hermetically sealed, falls into dust before you. Strike this blow; let one administration of the Constitution by right and equity do it, and all the daemons in every hiding-place will forsake their altars. Strike this blow, and you will find the spirit waiting for it in the heart of the people. Strike this blow, and the fountains of the great deep will be broken up, and every structure of this despotism swept from its foundations. With the spirit of liberty in the heart of the people, the Constitution will be found a giant's maul to beat down every Moloch of oppression. With the spirit of liberty is the heart, the Constitution is an instrument, a voice, an appeal, that comes right to the heart-a sword and a battle-axe for freedom that the heart of a whole people can use. With the spirit of liberty in the heart of the people, the finding of slavery in the Constitution is a false finding; it is impossible, it is a lie. If that spirit had been prevalent, and the attempt to turn the Constitution against freedom, and in defence of slavery, had been for the first time and unexpectedly made, the whole country would have been convulsed with horror and indignation. It would be as if, in the midst of the worship of a vast congregation in some mighty cathedral, an invisible demon could have fastened such a Satanic attachment upon the organ that, instead of playing the accustomed Te Deum, it should thunder forth a hallelujah to his Infernal Majesty.
I beg you to note the infinite outrage of putting such a compound, concentrated mischief and villany, such an enormous crime in itself, and such a machinery of crime for its perpetuity, as slavery, into such an instrument as our Constitution by mere inference, supposition, conjecture, without the reality being once described or mentioned. A power, a necessity, a fatality, of the degradation of an immortal being into property- the assassination of his personality and rights for himself and his posterity forever, an assumption, involving in itself the violation of another article in the same instrument-the article forbidding any bill of attainder, that is, any taint of penalty or injury from parent to offspring, even in the cases of crime, much more where no crime has been committed, or was alleged-that such a power should be imbedded by bare assumption in the centre of the charter of a people's liberties-in a Constitution the object of which was known to be the more perfect guarantee or security to all against invasion of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness-it it a thing unimagined in any other despotism on the face of the earth, and unexampled in the history of any people.
Even in the case of crime, if an indictment fail to describe to the uttermost perfection, in unquestionable, unmistakable reality, the precise thing of which the man is accused-if there is any uncertainty, indefiniteness, doubt-if there is the actual failure, though but in a hair's breadth, where the language of the accusation does not reach, does not certify and apply-then it is quashed, and the man goes for that time free. You cannot even try him for a crime, the name and exact nature of which are not plainly, palpably, indisputably defined. And now, to make words that imply no crime, no degradation, no disability, but simply a fair and just contract, an obligation due of service, stand for, and in place of, a degraded penal state and condition, that state itself being not so much as named or hinted at, yet including a penalty as if for crime attaching to an innocent being, making the victim of it the sufferer beneath a cruelty that God himself reprobates with the crime of murder, but which is much worse than murder, being a living death contrived not for the man only, but for his posterity also,’ and fastened upon them forever; to make the words service due under law stand for SLAVERY, which is a condition without law and against law, and a word and condition not so much as named; to make these words not signify, but absolutely stand in place of chattelism, the assassination of the man's personality and manhood for himself and his children forever, and then to press down upon such a contrivance of torture, such a sharp-cutting mould and creatorship of cruelty and misery, the whole power of a Constitution confessedly designed and framed for liberty and equity to each and all, is to make out of professed and justice a compound, accumulated power of wickedness and despotism such as the worst tyranny never invented, such as the worst malignity never applied.
It is to make the Constitution but a barbarous, murderous Moloch, such as in false and horrid systems of worship has sometimes been contrived, in the shape of a divine Mother, holding forth her arms to receive, as precious gifts, the children of her devotees, and the moment they are laid in that inviting embrace, the bosom opens by machinery and draws them within, for the torturing process of an irresistible and complicated ferocity. To suppose that Madison, Washington, Franklin, Jefferson, Hamilton, Jay, contemplated such a monster, intended to set up such a power, to smuggle in such a horror of abomination into the centre of the instrument, to be its master, its controlling active spirit, would make them the sublimest traitors of the race, would change them from the friends to the enemies of mankind, would subject them to the just abhorrence of every good being in the world. It is an outrage upon common sense to maintain the possibility of such artful inhumanity and cruelty in some of the truest philanthropists and lovers of freedom the world ever saw. But if they were guilty of such an enormity, then it is our duty to put a stop to it, and by the Constitution itself to shield the victims of such a conspiracy.
But the conspiracy once formed, and in full process, the constitution of it, and its prosecutions, are declared to be a vested right, with which no man must interfere, but every man join to guarantee, if interfered with. All rights of the enslaved are <illegible>, ignored, or denied, even by the only party professing to dislike slavery. All the claims of benevolence and justice in regard to the millions now held as slaves, and all the principles of morality revealed in God's Word, are flung to the winds, and yet the very men who promise to aid in keeping the millions of the enslaved still enslaved, as an eternal vested right of the States where the iniquity is established, proclaim themselves opposed to the extension of slavery! And even this is merely out of regard to the whites, being at pains to explain that they do not go against slavery out of any sympathy with the oppressed negroes-not
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is ‘a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous <illegible>. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
at all. They disavow any such elevated motive, any such disinterested consideration, but boast to have taken under their especial care the rights of the whites to the exclusive pursuit of free labor in the Territories. Made bare and free with such intense selfishness, trained, exercised, oiled and disciplined in such indecent nakedness of all moral considerations, even in the most intensely moral conflict ever forced into polities, these beings constitute fit political jockeys. but nothing better, nothing else. A conscience towards God is essential in the conflict against slavery, and not an intuition of expediency merely, or a conscience towards the majority. If the party professedly for freedom would take conscience for their guide, and the people could once feel that they are honest and determined in the right, they would get the victory. But that party which, with correct principles, is afraid to follow them, afraid even to acknowledge them, afraid of the very men who would be faithful to them, as not being candidates available for success, and of all things afraid of being too much in the right, will be crushed, despised, ridden over roughshod, by any party, with principles however wicked, not afraid of their principles, and determined to carry them out. 
When the time comes for carrying principle into action against slavery, so far as to do anything, or propose anything, or mean anything for the deliverance of the enslaved, your mere politicians scud and dive like frightened seals or beavers. They deny any principle that looks that way. There is no anti-slavery in them, nor would there be the slightest hope of mercy for the slave in the success of such a party, nor could any conscientious Christian give to such a party a solitary vote. And if such a party obtain the votes of any honest men, it will be in spite of such elaborate professions of depravity, and because the party are believed to be better than those men in it who, in the hope of votes in certain quarters, proclaim such detestable abnegation of principle, and yet, for the sake of votes, would be glad in some other quarters to be thought anti-slavery. The bogus profession of anti-slavery, along with the pledge never to interfere with slavery where it exists, reminds us of the hoax played upon a pious old negro, the burden of whose constant prayer used to be that de Lord would send de good angel, and take Caesar's soul to hebben. One night, just before retiring, he was startled by a knock at his cabin door. Who's dar? he called out. ï¿½The Lord's messenger,' was the response, in a deep sepulchral tone; ï¿½time for Caesar to die.' What do de Lord's messenger want? he tremblingly asked. ï¿½Want's Caesar's soul,ï¿½ broke on the solemn stillness. Out went the light, and under the bed went the humble, pious petitioner, exclaiming, No such nigger here, sah! been dead tree weeks!' Just so with the professions of anti-slavery principle in some of our politicians, and anti-slavery piety in some of our ministers and Churches. When the demand comes to put the principle into action against slavery, the light is put under a bed. No such principle in our party; been dead ever since the last election. We pledge ourselves not to interfere with slavery where it exists. We purge ourselves of all suspicion of opposing slavery as to the negro race, all taint of Abolitionism. We go for the superiority of free labor over slave labor in the Territories, meaning that we are determined that none but whites shall have any opportunity at free labor at all. 
There are those who sincerely believe that the success of such a party would be more disastrous, more hopeless for the enslaved, than even that of the party that declare the rightfulness and justice of slavery over the whole country. There is no ground on which we can meet the slave party but the ground of conscience, truth and righteousness. If property in man anywhere is not a crime, then everywhere it has the same right as any other property. The slaveholder, with his slaves, has just as good a right and title to the Territories as you have to them without slaves, and has just as perfect a right to carry his slaves all over the Union, and have them protected as his property, as you have to carry your children, your forming utensils, your books, your presses, your schools. But if free labor is right, if you have the right, as free laborers, to exclude slavery from the Territories or to prevent its extension, it is only because free labor is just; and slavery being wrong, you are bound by God and justice to oppose slavery everywhere. You can oppose it with the Constitution only on the ground of its being wrong, only on the ground of the same right of the blacks to freedom as your own; for if slave property be not wrong, it belongs everywhere, wherever men choose to carry it. If it is wrong, your first duty and business is to break it up where it is already established. If it is right, it is right everywhere; and if you admit it anywhere, as right, you must admit it everywhere. 
When the moral assassination of the colored race was committed by the Dred Scott decision, and the after-stab of Judges made it sure, I asked, What will you do with the body of your victim? You are at your wits' end to know what to do. Not so at the South; they see and feel, with a terrible certainty, that all must be slaves, in order to keep down those that are thus murdered, from insurrection, in their living graves. When Washington said, Put none but Americans on guard to-night, it was a crisis for freedom. It is now a crisis for slavery, and the watchword is, None but slaves, or we perish. In this moral assassination, kill all, or we are betrayed. And the poor whites themselves join in this slaveholding slogan. And the poorer, baser, meaner whites of the North, camp-followers, expectant kettle-bearers of the slave-holding Democracy, merchant princes on their knees before this Dagon, waiters on a dry-goods' providence, with still deeper malignity curse the negro race, and, like a pack of baying, panting hounds, would drive them from existence. The policy foreshadowed in some quarters in regard to these millions, both North and South, is so selfish, so cruel, so atrocious., that the impending crime becomes terrific. It is proposed to abolish, not slavery, but the slaves, the whole race, to cast them forth out of the country, as a nuisance and a curse. 
On one occasion, many years ago, I remember, when the British Empire was in a ferment in regard to the Irish, and their asserted wrongs, and the question was asked in Parliament, What shall we do with Ireland? a member replied, 'Scuttle her.' This is the amount of the cool, hardened cruelty proposed in regard to the colored race of the United States. Slough them off! Expatriate them! Scuttle them! Keep the slaves where they are, and guarantee the vested rights of the slave States in them as property, and at the same time expatriate all the free negroes, and keep both slave and free out of the Territories. Leave slavery where it is, and keep it where it is, sending back all fugitives, and maintaining it by law as a domestic institution. Shut it up in the slave States, and it will die out; but promise not to interfere with it there, directly or indirectly. In these promises and propositions, the most distant idea of any right to freedom on the part of the enslaved, or any obligations of justice or of mercy on our part towards them, or any assertion of their rights, or even of the right of any attempt on our part to redeem and deliver them, is as completely ignored, and in effect denied and forbidden, as if they were exiles in Siberia. The barbarous inhumanity of these propositions, towards whites as well as blacks, if slavery be considered a wrong and an evil, can hardly be described or appreciated. Suppose that a deadly pestilence were raging in some part of our country, and, instead of sending physicians, medicines, nurses, suppose we should dig a most round the whole region, and, forbidding the escape of any fugitives, should leave the victims of the pestilence to die, and the land to be depopulated. Suppose that a fire were raging in a great city, and, there being a powder manufactory within its limits, suppose that the proprietors of the outlying farms and villages should cut off all communication, and stand 
<c02>
afar off, and see the city burn, meantime driving back within its walls all that endeavored to escape from it. Suppose that the country should denounce all other action excepting only this as unconstitutional. Suppose that the country should, in the name of God and the Constitution, solemnly pledge themselves not to interfere in any way, directly or indirectly, with the pestilence and the conflagration, where they were raging; but, on the other hand, to guarantee the security and perpetuity of the evil as a vested right not to be meddled with! 
If each be the policy to be proclaimed and pursued in regard to the crime and pestilence of slavery, it is diabolical, and the more so because the pretence is that by such a policy, you ensure the termination of the evil. But in what way? Is this a Christian remedy? Is this the command of mercy that comes to you from the word of God, or of justice from the majesty of Heaven? The evil you say will die out, if you can only secure the country against its extension. The evil will die out, if you only prevent any more slave States from being established. Restrict, therefore, your policy of reform, your Christianity, your benevolence, to that, and leave the sin alone, where it is now rioting in the morals and miseries of millions beneath its despotism. And this is the remedy proposed by Christian men and brethren, commanded to love their neighbors as themselves! This is the proposition of Christian reformers, to let slavery die out among its rotting, dying, imploring victims! To let it die out, by letting it work on, in all its atrocity and cruelty, at a guaranteed, constitutional gehenna, marked off, moated off, environed, amidst surrounding spectators and powers of mercy and of justice, that might scatter the fuel of its perdition, and rescue its millions of burning men, women and children, as brands from the burning, by the legitimate power of the gospel of God and the Constitution! This gehenna you might have changed into a school of freedom and piety, but you refused to interfere, and consented to its sanction and continuance, and guaranteed its permanence, as a vested interest, a missionary institution, a domestic hell, which the owning and superintending demons have a perfect right to perpetuate for their own profit and power!
There is no language that can suitably describe and denounce such monstrosities. The worship of God and Baal together was no worse among the Jews than the embrace and amalgamation of such doctrines. What a hideous, mongrel, debased thing must that freedom be, which is the compound of such selfishness and cruelty! The temple of God, under Solomon's wildest madness of compound concubines and idolatry, even when altars and incense arose to Moloch and Jehovah side by side, was not so signally disgraced by such abominations as our religion and theology by such avowed and practised impieties, We talk about infanticide, and the horribleness of laws justifying it, or of a united public opinion, legal sanction and moral justification making that practice, one of the vested rights of human beings in society. But what is that in comparison with the pretence of a vested right, morally justified, to brand the babes of four millions, as soon as they are born, as chattels, that is to steal them from their birth, assassinate their personality, and make merchandise of them from the cradle to the grave! If God has set murder as a crime to be punished with death, and if, on that account, infanticide being the crime of murder, is to be judged with the same abhorrence, and punished in the same way, then, by the same rule, since man-stealing is also set down of God as a crime, of the same kind as murder, and to be punished in like manner, it follows that babe-stealing, the converting of babes into chattels, the making merchandise of them, is also and equally a crime worthy of death. And yet we have the spectacle of professedly Christian men of all parties uniting in the justification and defence of this crime, declaring that the right to commit it is an inherent right of State sovereignty, and a vested right of slave property, and emulating each other in the proclamation of a pledge never to interfere with that right! A spectacle so debasing, so vile a degradation of manhood and Christianity, never was seen on earth. The crime of the Sodomites in attacking angels was not to be compared with the wickedness of turning innocent babies into things to be used from the cradle to the grave for the lust and avarice of their owners.
Now, to think of such tenets as these being instilled into the heart of the community, by the preachers, political and ecclesiastical, of such a slave-holding theology and liberty! They weave the spider's web, and hatch cockatrice's eggs: he that eateth of their eggs dieth, and that which is crushed breaketh out into a viper. It may be said of this progressive pestilence, this infant corruption of morals, gangrening not only the heart and mind of the people, but striking the very Constitution with sickness and death, it may be said, as of Job's leprosy, By the great force of my disease is my very garment changed, and bindeth me about, as the collar of my coat. The habit of such corruption of conscience and heart, if not resisted, if not thrown off, becomes not only a national wrap-rascal, but even as in nature the bark of one year's growth becomes the wood of the next, so it turns inward, and becomes at once vitalised and hardened as an unchangeable life. Thus we are going on. Our laws, our theology, our mercantile and social existence, under the spread of this iniquity, the power of these pestilential teachings, are becoming like a tangled wilderness of scrub Upas trees, infested with deadly serpents. At every step you breathe poison, your flesh is torn by the knotted, thorny underbrush, and your veins, your blood, take up the virus. It is a region of horrors, in which the lizards and snakes of a preadamite world, not intended for man's abode, crawl over you and glare upon you. 
It is the breathing of such an air, the getting accustomed to such moral monstrosities, the diseased condition of the moral sense consequent upon them, the stupefaction, the oppression, as of a moral goitre in the soul, that has prepared the people to endure, unmoved, such outrages as would have stung their fathers to madness, and to look stupidly on, while right after right is being invaded and taken from us, and usurpation after usurpation is set as precedent and law. Our free citizens are thrown into jail at the uplifted finger of the Slave Power, without so much even as the allegation of a crime. Where is our Personal Liberty bill, needed not for fugitive slaves only, but for all men who have not a fugitive and lying conscience, ready to forsake God and humanity at the beck of the oppressor? It is the least and lowest thing that any sovereign State can do for its citizens, to protect them in the rights of personal liberty, to defend them at least from being seized by a foreign power on their own soil, torn from their families and thrust into jail, without crime, and without even the pretence of trial. If a sovereign State cannot protect its citizens against such tyranny, such violence, what is it sovereignty worthï¿½what is it good for? If any sovereign State will let its citizens be snatched up in this insolent way, refusing even the writ that should take them from the grasp of such tyranny, and bring them to a fair trial, we see not what prerogative of sovereignty it has left which is not a mere sham. John Randolph's toast concerning State Rights may be drunk by the slaveholders over the dead body of such a sovereignty with a hip and hurrah! De mortuis, nil nisi bonum. And the Slave Power can afford to give to such a State, that will thus sacrifice the personal liberty of its citizens, at the bidding of as infamous unconstitutional federal slave bill, or Senatorial Investigating Committee, the largest privilege of blazing and fulminating against slavery. Such a State may be indulged by the Federal Government, and the Slave Power enthroned over it, in any, the moat extravagant jubilant anthems concerning the opening of the prison-doors and letting the oppressed go free, in any freaks and sallies of 
<c03>
speculative demonstrations, in conventions, in resolutions, in speeches all blazing with the pyrotechnics and thundering with the detonating powder of the Highest Republican or Democratic liberty. The grander each harmless, ineffective enthusiasm, the safer for the slave tyranny; the more sublime the flight of the spread-eagles of popular eloquence, the more abject and spiritless will such a people be, whose ardor in the cause of freedom shuns the form and cost of brave, decisive deeds, and expends itself in speculative boasts and hallelujahs. There being no intention, nor any danger, of going beyond the form of speculation concerning liberty, it coats nothing, as Burke said of the flights of hypocrisy, to have them magnificent. And our slave-drivers need not be afraid, though Bunker Hill Monument itself should, one of these Fourth of Julys, be rammed full with powder, and the charge wadded with all the glittering generalities of the Declaration of Independence, and the column slanted and fired down South, with the huge, hissing, red-hot ball flaming from its granite throat, that all men are born free and equal, black or white, and that property in man is a lie, a curse, an impossibility. 
Our liberties are going down to the pit, and we with them, by submission to such invasions, and the breathing of such pestilential winds of doctrine that accompany them, as fast as any remorseless and successful despotism could ever carry us. There lies at this very moment in Washington jail, for conscience' sake, and for the assertion of our rights, our liberties, a free citizen, our friend and brotherï¿½a very Hampden in his position, and as noble and sincere in his soulï¿½a finely-toned, enthusiastic, noble spiritï¿½ our friend and brother Hyatt; and it is conscience and the rights of conscienceï¿½yours, mine, that are outraged in his imprisonment. Law, truth, conscience, justice, equity, freedom, piety, everything dear to us, is outraged in this act. Mr. Hyatt treated the Senate with marked deference and respect. He presented himself freely before them. He did not refuse to answer any of their questions that might be put to him in courtesy, and not thrust upon him under the uplifted lash of the slave-driver. He merely denied, as in his conscience he was bound to deny, that they had any right to compel him to answer. And for that declaration, as for crime, this insolent body of the people's servants instantly, as though they were a court of justice sitting on trial, and armed with that indefinite and awful power of accusation and punishment of what is called contempt of court, threw this free citizen into prison. Why, my friends, if the man had committed a crime, it would have shielded him! They could not have dealt with him thus, could not have touched him with the finger of their despotism; but being innocent, and declaring himself governed by a conscience towards God, being accused of no crime, and guilty of none, so as not to come within the jurisdiction of any law, they can treat him, driven by their own despotic rage at his claim of conscience, as they could not treat even a felon. If he had been accused of some definite and horrible crimeï¿½if he had really committed it, before and against that bodyï¿½if he had drawn a revolver, and shot Senator Mason through the heartï¿½then they could not have condemned him nor punished him without trial; could not even have arrested him without warrant; could not have moved one step against him without indictment, court, judge, jury, counsel, witnesses, all. But he having, without any crime, declared to the Senate that in his conscience he did not think or believe that an investigating committee of the Senate had lawful power to compel him to answer their questions, for that declaration, as for crime, they can hurry him away to prison on the instant, overriding, crushing, annihilating accusation, indictment, trial, court, judge, jury and witnesses, all in one motion, all at one blow. Now, consider what an enormity is this. What an awful, irresponsible power is here claimed and exercised, by which, at any time, through subtle management in the Senate, raising a committee with powers, a faction in that body may seize any man obnoxious to it, any man, anywhere, who stands in the way of its will, its tyranny, and put him out of the way, without the uncertain, slow and dangerous operation even of false accusation of crime, which indeed could not bring him before them. But any pretence of being engaged in any investigation for the people can, according to his assumed power; and his liberty is taken from him without trial, and without any power in the people to restore it to him! If this can be done, if this can be endured, we are the most pitiably power-ridden and hypocritical pretenders to freedom that ever breathed. 
If the Investigating Committee of the Senate had been sitting as a Court, even of legislation, there might have been some little shadow of authority; because, in a Judicial Court, the body are presumed to possess, and by custom do possess, this despotic power to throw a man instantly into prison for contempt of Court, a power so liable to be abused, (as in the case of Passmore Williamson,) that it ought not to be permitted without a trial by jury, as for every other crime. But the Committee of the Senate was no such Judicial Committee, no such Court. A Committee cannot clothe itself with the powers of a Court, nor be so invested. The Senate cannot create any such Court, nor transform itself into any such Court. But even if it could, this Committee were no such Court, but a mere political resort, an instrument raised for a purely partisan, political object, no necessity for it, no interests of the nation demanding it, no new legislation requisite, or contemplated by it, nothing under heaven in view but the protection of slave property and the increase of the Slave Power. The assumption, therefore, of the powers and sacredness of a Court of Justice, for the sake of punishing Mr. Hyatt, was a contempt of the whole people; and the exercise of any such power is a daring usurpation beyond law, and against law. It would have graced the annals of Caligula, and Tacitus would have recorded its endurance by the people as one of the evidences how irrecoverably they had lost the spirit of freedom, and yielded themselves, in utter degradation, to the tyrant's will. This usurpation is the most barefaced iniquity yet committed by any branch of our government. Even a Judicial Court could not exercise this tremendous power of imprisonment for contempt without trial, except in pursuance of their legitimate vocation. If Judge Taney and his associates should form themselves into an Investigating Committee, to look into the causes and consequences of the bolting or splitting in the Charleston Convention, and should summon witnesses, does any man in his senses imagine that they would have the power of throwing a Democrat into prison for contempt of Court in not answering? or in asserting a right of conscience? or for affirming, on his conscience, that they had no authority given them by law to play the inquisitor over him? 
The temper and daring that are capable of this outrage against Mr. Hyatt, when it is found that such an outrage can be endured, and therefore can be safely committed, will do anything, will shrink from nothing, in the service of the Slave Power. And a people willing to endure this, to let it pass into precedent, custom, opinion and law, no rising of the masses against it, no movement of conscience at God's command, no indignation of the heart to put it down, no assertion of right and justice, of truth and freedom against it, are prepared for any outrage upon their own rights, for any surrender of their own liberties. The Senate may take the whole government into their hands, may change the very forms and processes of government, from a government of law to a government by inquisitorial Committees, Star Chambers, investigating screws, leashes of bloodhounds, infuriated with madness by the scent of John Brown's martyrdom, fierce and strong enough to leap from Washington to Concord, but not capable, even after such a spring, of standing before the face of one heroic woman, and baffled by the steady courage of 
<c04>
the descendants of those yeomen who once drove back a whole regiment of military invaders, halting, panting, disabled, discouraged, half-dead, whom, however, as British soldiers, it were a disgrace to compare with the American bounds let loose by the Slave Power against our free citizens. I say, the Senate may do all this, and may throw a free citizen of Massachusetts, by the mere dictum of a Committee, into prison, though accused of no crime, permitted no trial, nor form of accusation, nor indictment, nor opportunity to answer for himself, nor investigation of the case, nor Court, nor Judge, nor Jury, nor Law, by a bold, insolent exercise of irresponsible, lawless, unauthorized power, by a sheer daring usurpation of powers belonging only to the whole government, and possible to be exercised by the government only according to definite law; by the concentration of such power within their own body, through the base form of a Committee of Investigation, the Senate may take away the liberty of a free citizen, may throw him into a common prison; and if the people look on and endure this with stupid tranquillity, they are ready for any tyranny, and any tyrant may be sure of success. They have committed this outrage upon Mr. Hyatt at the instigation of the slave party and power, and it is an outrage on us all. And yet, we are counselled to keep quiet, because, if the free party talk too loud, it will hazard their interests! Political expediency makes men speak even of such an outrage with bated breath, lest the agitation against it may damage the prospects of some who have sanctioned it, even in the very party proclaiming to be the guardians of liberty! 
Let there be a mass meeting gathered in this city to express the judgment and feeling of the people against this monstrous outrage; and if a deputation of a hundred freemen should be appointed to go on to Washington, to present themselves before the Senate, with a demand for the release of a citizen 
imprisoned without law, without crime, without trial, it would be no more than is due to our own freedom and dignity, and to the Hampden who, for conscience and for our sakes, is the victim of this despotism.
Dr. Cheever's speech was frequently interrupted by hearty and prolonged cheering. 

SPEECH OF WM. LLOYD GARRISON. 
LADIES AND GENTLEMENï¿½Among the tracts recently published by the American Anti-Slavery Society is one entitled,ï¿½ The New Reign of Terror in the Slave States, for the Years 1859-'60.' It makes a pamphlet of 144 pages, and is occupied with a recital of the multitudinous atrocities perpetrated within that short period upon Northern citizens found in the Southern States, and suspected, merely because they were Northern Citizens, of sympathizing with those in bondage. Tarred and feathered, their heads shaved, their bodies scourged with the whip, and every atrocity and indignity possible committed upon themï¿½and this, so far as the North is concerned, without any general indignation or alarm, without any thought of possible redress, almost with entire indifference and apathy, as though every man felt himself made simply to be used up by the slaveholder or his minion, if found south of Mason and Dixon's line! Hundreds of cases are here brought together, and hundreds more might be added; and yet men talk to us about our country, our Union, our Constitution, our flagï¿½men who know, if they know anything, if they are not idiotic, that, so far as the southern portion of our country is concerned, no man is allowed to stand upon its soil, and be a freeman before God. The slaveholder may talk of the whole country for himself; the slaveholder may glory in the Constitution; the slaveholder may boast of the star-spangled banner protecting him everywhere. So it does. He may come, and does come, to the North, and he marches over our soil as though he were a demigodï¿½the tallest man among usï¿½the man of the freest speechï¿½the man who dares to say just whatever be chooses, and to spit in our faces and insult us in regard to our ideas of freedom, and to scorn our free institutions, and he does to with all possible impunity; nobody thinks of molesting him; let him speak, let him curse, let him do what he pleases. On the other hand, any man going down from the North to the South, if he dare to whisper but one single word that indicates hatred of slavery, he is in deadly peril. There is no Constitution to protect him; no Union for him; no star-spangled banner to wave over his head. And yet men talk about preservingï¿½ the glorious Union'! What infatuation is this! 
However, I did not intend to make any remarks at this time, but only to introduce to you one of the victimsï¿½Mr. JAMES CRANGALE, of Ireland, who has been a resident of our country some two years, and of whose atrocious treatment in Georgia you may have heard. He is here, and I invite him to the platform to tell his own story. 
Mr. CRANGALE, who was received with hearty applause, then proceeded to detail the circumstances: connected with the outrage perpetrated upon him in Augusta, Ga., with which the readers of the Liberator are already familiar, and which are given in the pamphlet entitled 'The New Reign of Terror,' to which Mr. Garrison referred. In conclusion, Mr. C. said that he endorsed the doctrines which had been advocated from that platform, and that hereafter he should use every exertion in his power to bring about the emancipation of the slave. (Applause.) 
Mr. GARRISON again came forward, and, resuming the topic on which he was speaking when he introduced Mr. Crangale, said: 
This book ('The New Reign of Terror,') ought to be circulated by millions throughout the Free States; a copy, at least, should be in every household, to 
'Stir a fever in the blood of age, 
And make the infant's sinews strong as steel.' 
What would be the feeling of the South, provided a hundredth part of the outrages committed upon Northern citizens had been perpetrated upon Southern men at the North? How many slaveholders could we catch and lynch, make them pay for their own imprisonment, slave their heads, lacerate their bodies, tar and feather them, all because they were Southern men, before there would be a lightning flame throughout the entire South, and the whole body of slaveholders would spring up as one man, and declare war to the knife, if security could not be obtained in any other way? But, on our side, there is no strong emotion, no popular indignation, no sense of the value of liberty. We read these outrages in the papers from day to day as mere items of intelligence. It would seem as if every spark of manhood had died out from our souls; and yet some sparks are still left. I am sorry Mr. Crangale was subjected to such outrageous treatment at the South; and yet, looking at it in another light, I am glad. I am glad they caught an Irishman; (laughter;) and though I wish well to every Irishman in the world, I should not object to their catching some more of them. (Renewed laughter.)ï¿½A fellow-feeling makes us wondrous kind,' you know; and it is well, perhaps, that we should taste of this cup together. There is another case of an Irishman in Carolina, who was suspected of being an Abolitionist, and was stripped and flogged. They tarred and feathered him, and shaved his head, and when they got out of feathersï¿½ for they tarred him more than onceï¿½they used cottonï¿½tar and cotton! Two or three of these cases happening to Irishmen, it woke up the indignation of the Catholic paper in this city, (The Tablet,) and the editor declared that if it had come to this, that freedom of conscience, freedom of speech, and safety of locomotion had ceased in the South, the sooner the Union was dashed in pieces, the better. (Loud applause.) Therefore I felt gratified that, at last, the Irish heart had been touched, and the Irish spirit aroused, through personal sufferings at the hands of Southern ruffians. 
<c05>
We have had a great deal to contend with, so far as the Irish population of our country are concerned. I have often said that if this were a fair stand-up fight between native-born Americans, we should soon settle the question. But the calamity has been that the millions who have come here from the Old World in quest of homes, have been used by the Slave Power of the country to perpetuate the chains of those in bondage. I do not feel indignant in regard to their position, but only deeply compassionate.ï¿½ They know not what they do.' But it is a tremendous political and religious power exerted in one direction, and that is against the Anti-Slavery enterprise. A few years ago, O'Connell Father Mathew, and seventy thousand other Irishmen, a considerable portion of them priests of the Catholic Church in Ireland, put their names to an Anti-Shivery Address, calling upon Irishmen in this country to be true to the Anti-Slavery enterprise, and to regard the Abolitionists as the only true friends of freedom in America. But it was received with indifference, contempt, nay, even with hostility, by the great body of Irishmen here. I am very glad, therefore, if it must be so, that through their own sufferings they are made to understand and feel what slavery is. 
Let me give you an extract from the speech of O'Connell on the subject of American slaveryï¿½and I would that every Irishman in our country could read the words of the great Liberator, as a voice from the other world, and give a hearty and cordial assent to them. Mr. O'Connell had been admonished by the Irish Repeal Associations in our country, that if he opened his lips in opposition to American slavery, no money would be sent over to the Irish National Repeal Association. But he stood up grandly and defiantly, and said: 
'Yes, I will say, shame on every man in America who is not an anti-slavery man; shame and disgrace upon him! I don't care for the consequences. I will not restrain my honest indignation of feeling. I pronounce every man a faithless miscreant who does not take a part for the abolition of slavery. It may be said that offence will be taken at these words! Come what may from them, they are my words. The question never came regularly before us until now. We had it introduced collaterally; we had it mentioned by persons who were friends of ours, and who were endeavoring to maintain good relations between us and the slaveholders, but it is only now that it comes directly before us. We might have shrunk from the question by referring the document to a committee; but, I would consider such a course unworthy of me, enjoying as I do the confidence of the virtuous, the religious and the humane people of Ireland; for I would be unfit to be what I desire to consider myself, the representative of the virtues of the people, if I were not ready to make every sacrifice for them, rather than to give the least sanction to human slavery. 
They say that the slaves are worse treated since the cry of the Abolitionists has been raised in their favor, as it has made their masters more suspicious of them, and more severe against them; but has that any weight with me? How often was I told, during our agitation, that "the Catholics would be emancipated, but for the violence of that O'Connell"! Why, one of the cleverest men in this country wrote a pamphlet in 1827, in which he stated that the Protestants of Ireland would have emancipated their Catholic countrymen long before, but for me, and fellows of my kind; and yet, two years after, I got emancipation in spite of them! But it is clearly an insult to the understanding to speak so. When did tyranny relax its gripe merely because it ought to do so? As long as there was no agitation, the masters enjoyed the persecution of their slaves in quietness; but the moment the agitation commenced, they cried out, "Oh, it is not the slave we are flogging, but we are flogging, through his back, the anti-slavery men." But the subject is too serious for ridicule. I am afraid they will never give up slavery until some horrible calamity befalls their country; and I here warn them against the event, for it is utterly impossible that slavery can continue much longer. But, good Heaven! can Irishmen be found to justify, or rather to palliate, (for no one could dare attempt to justify,) a system which shuts out the book of human knowledge, and seeks to reduce to the condition of a slave millions of human beingsï¿½which closes against them not only the light of human science, but the rays of divine revelation, and the doctrines which the Son of God came upon the earth to plant! The man who will do so belongs not to my kind. Over the broad Atlantic I pour forth my voice, saying, " Come out of such a land, you Irishmen; or, if you remain, and dare countenance the system of slavery that is supported there, we will recognize you as Irishmen no longer."' 
I want to say a word of what is called infidelity. Reference has been made to it several times on this platform during our meetings, and the first question that I would ask is, What have we to do with it, as a matter of criticism, of condemnation or approval, here? What right has any man to come to this platform, and point the finger at another, on the ground that he is an infidel, as though he were a depraved and dangerous man? Yet, so common is it, on the part of those who fancy that wisdom will die with them, and that they are really the representatives of Papal infallibility, though Protestants by name, that it comes as a matter of course for them to deal in this kind of speech. Now, we are here for one specific object. Suppose the city were on fire, and every person interested in saving it from destruction: should be seen rushing to it with all his might, to put out the conflagrationï¿½I ask you, would that be a time to talk about theological differences of opinion, or to attempt to define who was orthodox or heterodox? No; such conduct would be an outrage. I think that if, in the midst of the conflagration, any man should step forward and say,ï¿½ I protest against working with that man at the engine, or passing theï¿½ buckets with him, because he is an infidel; I am as much opposed to this conflagration as anybody; I am as much in favor of putting it out as any one, but I cannot work with an infidel;ï¿½ the people would say at once,' That is the villain who set the city on fire.' (Laughter and applause.) It would be an act I so absurd, so impertinent, so monstrous, that, unless the man could be considered insane, the solid judgment of the city would be that he set it on fire, or knew who did it, and wanted the city to be burnt down. What matters it whether a man who comes upon this platform is a Presbyterian, Baptist, Methodist, Unitarian, Universalist, or so-called infidel? We do not come here to settle theological opinions, to subscribe to creeds, or to point the finger invidiously one at the other. We must not do it. We are here to recognize the slave in his chains as a man, and his right to immediate freedom as at the hands of God; and if we agree upon this, let us leave the things about which we differ to take care of themselves elsewhere. (Applause.) 
I hold that this term 'infidel' is a mad-dog cry, raised for an evil purpose, and that, on Protestant ground, no man has a right to use the termï¿½ infidel' towards any other man, for differing in opinion from him, even though that difference be heaven-wide. What is Protestantism? Is it a Pope and Cardinals? No. Is it Councils to override individual conscience? No. It is the right of every man to do his own thinking, and to come to his own conclusions as to the will of God or what is right, and to obey his own conscience, though he stand alone in the universe. That is Protestantism. Now, then, on the ground of Protestantism, whoever is true to his own convictions cannot be an infidel, no matter what those convictions may be. (Applause.) He may be in error, but he is not an infidel. The man who says,ï¿½ This is my conscientious belief,' and acts up to that belief, is a consistent man, and, showing in that act an earnest desire to be true to his duty, deserves respect. Among Protestants, infidelity is possible only in two ways. First, a man may be infidel to his own convictions; and if he is, brand him as such. Then, again, be may be infidel to his own pledges. He may promise to do what be ought to do, and break his promise; that is infidelity. Now, this nation is an infidel nation. Why? Because it declares that it 'holds these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with an inalienable right to liberty,' and then enslaves every seventh person in the land. Any man, any body of men, untrue to their own standard, are guilty of infidelity. 
<c06>
Whoever is true to his convictions cannot, as a Protestant, possibly be an infidel. It is the old cry, as raised in all ages, to put down reform and progress. Have you ever thought of it? All the glorious martyrs of whom we boast in the world's history, including Jesus himself, were put to death on the ground of their exceeding wickedness, because they were infidels, heretics, blasphemers, and therefore deserving to be put to death. It will ever stand recorded upon the page of history, that Jesus was crucified by those who claimed to be the very elect of God, on <illegible> count of his diabolical wickedness. 'He hath a devil; further witnesses?ï¿½ And from the beginning of this glorious movement, one of the most effective and powerful devices to keep us from uniting together has been the raising of this cry ofï¿½ infidelity' against those engaged heartily in this great work. Where as, if there was ever a cause that has shown its faith in God, that has gone down to the root of things, that has been characterized by a lofty morality and a true religious spirit, it is the anti-slavery movement. It has had no arm of flesh to lean upon numbers, but upon that truth which is mighty, and able in due time to overcome all opposition. Still, we are not here theologically to settle anything. it is of no consequence what a man professes. What do I care that any man calls himself by the name of Presbyterian, or Methodist, or Unitarian, or Universalist? I do not know him by the name. These are idle terms; empty as the whistling wind; easily accepted, easily won. No, before I will give my judgment of him, I must put my finger upon his pulse; I must know the man; I must get his ideas of justice and humanity; I must know whether he dares to be a man; and it will be upon that ground that I will give him my regard, and not because he is a Presbyterian, Methodist, or Liberalist. (Applause.)
What is a profession of faith in Christ worth in this country? Worth nothing. What does it prove in this country? Nothing, except that he says what everybody says. What does it prove among Mohammedans that a man says, 'There is one God, and Mahomet is his prophet'? Nothing! nothing of character, nothing as to the moral condition of the man. And here, in this country, to profess faith in the Christ of America, a Christ that sanctions slave-breeding, slave-hunting, and slave-extension, why, it is to go with the nation, and to be on the popular side. It is of no value. It is salt that has lost its savor. I do not care that a man tells me he believes in Christï¿½I do not know him by that term. Let him show me that he believes in one who, like Christ, stands in his day despised and rejected of men; that he sympathizes with the lowest and most persecuted of God's creatures, and is willing to suffer the loss of all things, if need be, that he may be redeemed, and then I will give him my heart. The absurdity is in trying to perpetuate the old terms, the old tests; in supposing that there have been no new sins, new evidences of the old ones. They said to Jesus, those proud, pretentious, dissembling Pharisees, 'Who are you? We have Abraham for our father.' Did it cost them anything at that tome to say that? Nothing; it was to be in the fashion. But, in the days of Abraham, to have been an Abrahamite meant something. Here we are in the midst of Protestants; It is easy to say we are Protestants; it is not the slightest evidence of character; but when Luther nailed his theses on the Church door, and had to meet the malignant opposition of all the Catholic powers in Europe, banded to crush him and the Reformation be inaugurated, to say,ï¿½ I am a Protestant,' indicated the spirit of the man, and how much he dared to suffer for conscience and in the cause of God. (Applause.) What do I care that an American now shouts,ï¿½ Hurrah for Bunker Hill! I glory in George Washingtonï¿½? Indeed! Indeed! Is not that marvelous courage! 'I have the highest respect for the memory of Sam Adams and John Hancock.' No doubt of it; it is the fashion. Cowards and demagogues, Democratic office-holders and office-seekers, are saying these things all the time, and prove their emptiness by saying them. The true man does not go back to Luther. Luther had his work to do in his day; Jesus his work in his day; the prophets their work in their day; and they did not turn back t glorify Moses or Abraham, but they said to the people, 'Your hands are full of blood; wash you, make you clean; put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes' ï¿½ï¿½ Woe unto you, scribes, pharisees, hypocrites!' When the revolutionary war was launched, when the tide of battle was sweeping onward, when our fathers stood up against the colossal power of the mother country, at the imminent peril of their lives, then it was heroic, and showed that manner of men they were; but for us now to have our Fourth of July celebrations, as they are now observed, and declaim about British oppression, and boast about that our fathers did, it is all stuff! We ought to be in better business, We ought not to keep any day, save days of humiliation, fasting and prayer, tillï¿½ liberty be proclaimed throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.' (Loud applause.)
The other day, I received a copy of the recent masterly work of Dr. Cheever, vindicating the Bible as an anti-slavery volume; and I think he has done it most conclusively. I said so in many paper, and I commended the work to the attention and consideration of those who have an idea that, some how or other. slavery, in the Bible, has received the Divine sanction; but I added,ï¿½ Nevertheless, the rights of men are not dependent upon any parchmentï¿½; and, behold! your Orthodox oracle of New York, claiming to be anti-slavery, the Independent, discovers in that simple truism of mine 'infidelity,' and the utmost contempt for the Bible. [Voicesï¿½'Shame!'] Yes, the utmost contempt for the Bible, when I say that the rights of man are not dependent upon any parchment! Why I was merely reiterating the Declaration of Independence:ï¿½ We hold these truths to be SELF-EVIDENTï¿½not pertaining to Greek particles or Hebrew roots, or to past ages, not needing any logic, not originating in any volumeï¿½' SELF-EVIDENT that all men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with an inalienable right to liberty.' And that is infidelity!ï¿½that is to scorn the Bible! Well, it will be charitable to believe that the man who wrote that article in the Independent is an idiot; otherwise, it is evidence of Satanic malignity. How do I pour contempt upon any book when I say that the rights of man grow out of man's nature? What or whom do I dishonor when I say that? God, or man, or the Bible? No! I had said that Dr. Cheever had grandly demonstrated the Bible to be an anti-slavery book; and that it is such I have asserted for thirty years, against the foul interpretations of the pro-slavery clergy of this country, they maintaining that the Bible, asï¿½ the word of God,' sanctions slavery, therefore slavery is right; and I maintaining that this Bible is a thunderbolt to hurl slavery to the dust. (Lord applause.) I hold it to be a perfect magazine of God's truth on that subject; that if there be any one sin in this world, more than another, which is represented in that volume as abhorrent to God, it is the sin of oppressing the poor and the needy; that if any one thing in it is commanded. more than another, it is toï¿½ proclaim liberty throughout all the land.' 'undo the heavy burdens, break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free.' (Applause.) Nevertheless, whether the book goes for freedom or not, man was made for freedom; whether the book is really on the side of human rights or not, human rights are never to be sacrificed. Man in man, and can never be justly slave; and if the book be made out as against liberty, it is simply proof that the book is not from God, but came from beneath, and ought to be sent there. (Applause.) I hold it to be everywhere refulgent with <illegible> upon the subject, but not originating man's rights,
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
nor are man's rights dependent upon it—though its glorious truths are in entire accordance with the nature of man, and the supremacy of God over every soul. Hence I use it without superstition—without accepting any particular dogma in regard to it. I use it in season and out of season, (if there be any out of season with it,) because its denunciations against oppression are so tremendous, its warnings so solemn and awful, its promises of the blessings growing out of emancipation so grand and soul-inspiring—as the best weapon I can find against American slavery.
A VOICE— Where do people get rights, except from the Bible?
Mr. GARRISON—What is man? Who is he?
ANSWER—Created in the image of God.
Mr. GARRISON—When?
ANSWER—When God created him.
Mr. GARRISON—True. ’So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them.' That was before there was any book, I believe. (Laughter and applause.) Was man without rights, and under no law of God, at that time? Man was before all books, is greater than all books, and shall survive all books, and therefore no book is equal to man. (Applause.)
SAME VOICE—Where there is no Bible, there is no liberty either.
Mr. GARRISON—Where there is the Bible, also! there are four millions of slaves. (Great cheering.) Why does not this Bible-believing nation break every yoke?
VOICE—Speak to them, and not to us.
Mr. GARRISON—I am speaking to them; and because I ask that question, I am branded as an infidel.
VOICE—I am as anti-slavery as you are, but I don't like to hear anything said against the Bible.
Mr. GARRISON—I am vindicating the nature of man, not disparaging the Bible:
'How rich, how poor, how abject, how august,
How complicate, how wonderful is man!
Distinguished link in being's endless chain,
Midway from nothing to the Deity;
A beam ethereal, sullied and absorpt;
Though sullied and dishonored, still divine.’
Whatever tends to elevate man, of course is right. The Bible, rightly understood and used, may be made a tremendous weapon to beat down injustice and wrong. The Bible, read superstitiously, read mechanically, accepted traditionally, may kill, as the letter does kill, while the spirit in that case fails to make alive. (Applause.) Whether it be infidelity or not, I say that the rights of man are not dependent upon any parchment, [1] and the New York Independent ’may make the most of it.' (Loud cheers.)
[1] Since this sentiment was uttered, we have seen, for the first time, the following passage extracted from the first political speech delivered by the celebrated Alexander Hamilton. The coincidence of his thought and expression with our own is very striking:—
'The sacred rights of mankind are not to be rummaged from among old parchments or musty records; they are written as with a sunbeam in the whole volume of human nature, by the hand of Divinity itself, and can never be erased or obscured by mortal power.'
Query—Does the Independent think that it was the design of Alexander Hamilton to ’bring the Bible into contempt' by his declaration of human rights?—[ Ed Lib.
TWENTY-SEVENTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
[Report of proceedings concluded.]
TUESDAY EVENING, MAY 8.
The evening session was largely attended, and the meeting was called to order by the President at 7 1-2 o'clock. The first speaker was the Rev. ARTHUR B. BRADFORD, of Newcastle, Pa., editor of the Church portfolio. His address was a masterly delineation of the unequalled sinfulness of slavery, the frightful demoralization of the land, and the guilty complicity of the Church. It was heard with deep interest, and at various points heartily applauded.
Rev. BERIAH GREEN, of Whitesboro’, N. Y., next addressed the meeting in a speech of remarkable analytical clearness and force, reviewing the late speech of Hon. William H. Seward in the U. S. Senate. It was an admirable effort.
Rev. J. R. W. SLOANE, of the Covenanter Church in New York, made the closing speech. It was of the deepest feeling and power, and fitly closed the day’s meeting, when three able and eloquent orthodox ministers had appeared and spoken on the platform of the American Anti-Slavery Society, cordially welcomed by the anti-slavery host, although become of little reputation among their own fellow-orthodox theologians.
The Convention then adjourned, to meet on Wednesday morning at 10 o'clock.
WEDNESDAY MORNING.
The Society reassembled at the Cooper Institute at 10 o'clock, the President in the chair.
The Committee, appointed to nominate officers of the Society for the ensuing year, reported as follows:—
PRESIDENT,
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, Massachusetts. 
VICE PRESIDENTS,
Peter Libby, Me. Edward M. Davis, Penn.
Luther Melendy, N. H. Thomas Whitson, Penn.
John M. Hawks, N.h., Joseph Moore, Penn.
Jehiel C. Claflin, Vt. Rowland Johnson, N. J.
Francis Jackson, Mass. Alfred G. Campbell, N.J.
Edmund Quincy.Mass. Thomas Garrectt, Del.
Asa Fairbanks, R. I. Thomas Donaldson, Ohio.
James B.Whitcomb, Conn. Benjamin Bowne, Ohio
Samuel J. May, N. Y. William Hearn, Ind.
Cornelius Bramhall, N.Y.  William Hopkins, Ind.
Amy Post, N.Y. Joseph Merritt, Mich.
Pliny Sexton, N.Y. Thomas Chandler, Mich.
Lydia Mott, N.Y., Cyrus Fuller, Mich.
Henry A. Hartt, N.Y., Carver Tomlinson, Ill.
Lucretia Mott, Pa. Caleb Green, Minnesota.
Robert Purvis, Pa. Georgiana B. Kirby, Cal.
CORRESPONDING SECRETARY,
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, Plainfield, Ct.
RECORDING SECRETARY,
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Boston.
TREASURER,
FRANCIS JACKSON, Boston.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,
William Lloyd Garrison, Sydney Howard Gay,
Francis Jackson, Samuel May, Jr.,
Edmund Quincy, William I. Bowditch,
Maria Weston Chapman, Charles K. Whipple,
Wendell Phillips, Henry C. Wright,
Anne Warren Weston, Charles Follen.
The report was adopted, and the officers named elected unanimously.
Mr. GILES B. STEBBINS, of Ann Arbor, Michigan, was the first speaker in the morning. He eulogized the Anti-Slavery cause as one of the great educating power of the country, and rebuked the moral cowardice of the times.
J. ELIZABETH JONES, of Ohio, was then introduced to the meeting, and delivered an address of the most touching and interesting character.
Rev. GEORGE F. NOYES, of New York city, addressed the meeting, attributing to the President of this Society the honorable responsibility for the whole anti-slavery agitation now existing, and expressing his views of the true philosophy of the cause.
Rev. SAMUEL MAY, Jr., then made an earnest appeal to the members of the Society and the friends of the cause generally, to contribute liberally, in view of the great work to be accomplished, and the special exigencies of the times. He was followed by Mr. GARRISON, who briefly addressed the audience on the same topic, contrasting the munificent sum received annually by the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions (upwards of $400,000) with the small amount contributed to the American Anti-Slavery Society, which, he said, was the only Mis-
<c02>
sionary. Bible or Education Society is the land, in an honest sense. He hoped the friends would remember that this was a struggle for themselves—that they might have a country. It was not only that those in bonds might be set free, but that throughout the world every throne right totter to its fall, and every form of despotism come to an end.
Mr. GARRISON spoke on the real character and meaning of the United States Constitution, in reply to the views expressed by some previous speakers.
Rev. Mr. BALME, of Wisconsin, said be desired to show by his presence upon the platform that his heart was in this movement; but orthodoxy, with its elevating principles, was the only power which could push it to a successful termination.
Mr. GARRISON read the following letter, which he had just received from Rev. Dr. Furness of Philadelphia:—
MY DEAR FRIEND—I have just received your telegraphic message, and, although I have not any one decisive reason for not being with you in person as I am in spirit, yet a number of little reasons unite to prevent my presence at New York. As I have always attended the May meeting for my own sake, accounting it an honor and privilege, I cannot think that you need me now when you are gathering giants around you, and such eloquent voices are raised in behalf of the sacred Rights of Humanity. So great and holy is the cause for which you assemble that, while it animates, it overpowers me, and the best and strongest word that I can utter seems to me but the feeble stammering of a child. It is not the wrongs of millions of Southern slaves only that are at stake. The Anti-Slavery movement reveals the absence of all principle in the patriotism, all faith in the religion of the land. In speaking for the slave, you are pleading for the personal salvation of every soul of us. Whenever I have stood with you on that sacred platform, for that holy cause, the truths and interests involved, both temporal and eternal, have so opened before me, in such vastness and depth, that I have been well-nigh overwhelmed at the view. It seems as if, for the terrible wrong of American oppression, I had nothing to articulate, and could only break out into a wild ’cry of honest indignation.' O, it is unutterably sad that these millions of intelligent people, possessed of hearts and consciences, should so quietly consent, as we do, to build our commerce and our luxury upon the crushed souls and bodies of our poor African brother! God send his light into our darkness! 
Perhaps I shall run on for a few hours after all! I am much exercised in my mind at this moment, not feeling free (as our Quaker friends say) to stay or to go. Cordially yours, however, at all events,
W. H. FURNESS.
Adjourned to 3 o’clock, P. M.
WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON.
The Society re-assembled at the Cooper Institute, Mr. GARRISON in the chair. WM. WELLS BROWN, once a slave in Missouri, but for many years a free-man, was introduced by the PRESIDENT, and received with welcome applause. He testified strongly to the determination of the colored people to remain in this country, in spite of all efforts to remove them.
Rev. SAMUEL LONGFELLOW, of Brooklyn, addressed, the meeting in earnest commendation of the objects, purpose and courageous spirit of the Anti-Slavery Society, declaring the great need of its continued action, and particularly dwelling upon the inhumanity of the land as shown in all its treatment of the colored people.
Mr. GARRISON next addressed the meeting. [For his speech, see preceding page.]
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., on behalf of the Business Committee, offered additional resolutions. [The series is so extended, we can find room, in our present number, for only the following:]
Resolved, That the imprisonment of Thaddeus Hyatt by the Senate of the United States, for his conscientious refusal to appear as a witness before the Committee appointed by that body to investigate the facts pertaining to John Brown’s interposition in behalf of the slaves at Harper's Ferry, is a usurpation, of power not conferred by the Constitution, and a dangerous infraction of the liberties of the people; and that we give Mr. Hyatt assurance of our gratitude for his brave resistance to this new exhibition of the insolence of the Slave Power.
Rev. BERIAH GREEN, in some able remarks, showed where the real infidelity of this nation lies. In the strongest manner he endorsed the truth of what Mr. Garrison had said, viz.: That human rights are antecedent to the Bible, and depend on no parchment. It is absurd, said Mr. Green, to suppose that God cares more for a dead book than he does for a living man.
The resolutions before the Society were then taken up and put to vote, and were adopted without a dissenting voice. And the Society adjourned, sine die. 
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, President.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., SUSAN B. ANTHONY,} Secretaries

NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The Annual NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION will be held in the (new) MELODEON, in Boston, on WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY, May 30th and 31st, commencing on WEDNESDAY, at 10 o'clock A.M.
Let this Convention, in numbers, spirit, and tone equal and exceed those which, with such marked effect upon the public mind and conscience, have preceded it. Let every New England State be fully represented, and let the free voices of the men and women of New England find clear and full utterance through the Convention.
Friends of the Anti-Slavery cause, from beyond New England, are cordially invited to attend.
Among the expected speakers at the Convention are the following:—WM. LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, Rev. A.B.BRADFORD of Pennsylvania, T. W. HIGGINSON, Rev. J. SELLA MARTIN, CHARLES L. REMOND, ANDREW T. FOSS, Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY, AARON M. POWELL of New York CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, Rev. F. FROTHINGHAM of Maine, Rev. N. R. JOHNSTON of Vermont, H. FORD DOUGLASS, of Chicago, GILES B. STEBBINS, of Michigan, HENRY C. WRIGHT, Rev. JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE, and KEMA CLARKE, and others.
At the opening session, on Wednesday forenoon, WENDELL PHILLIPS, WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, and Rev. Mr. SLOANE, of New York, are expected to be among the speakers. A prompt and full attendance is desirable. It is confidently expected that every subsequent session will be full of interest.
At the evening meetings, an admission fee of ten cents will be charged, to defray expenses. 
In behalf of the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society,
FRANCIS JACKSON, President.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Sec’y.
CRITICAL CONDITION OF REV. THEODORE PARKER.— Letters from Florence, received in this city, confirm the statements in regard to the dangerous illness, of Rev. Theodore Parker. For several weeks previous to the date of the letter, (the latter part of April,) he has been failing sensibly, though his mind was calm and he talked serenely of his bodily condition. Feeling that something must be speedily done, a consultation of Dr. Appleton, Mr. Apthorp, of Boston, and others of his friends was called, and it was decided to obtain a vetturino with a view of transporting him by easy journeys to Florence, in the hope that new sights and scenes might improve his condition. For two days the journey was prosecuted, but then the patient became so weak that the vetturino was abandoned. After a period of rest he was taken to Florence by rail, and at last accounts was surrounded by his friends, growing daily weaker and weaker, and with but faint hopes of another rally. The tenor of the letter, which was written by one often at his bedside, bids his friends here to prepare for early intelligence of an afflictive, character, as his dissolution was expected in the course of a few days.
<c03>
THE REPUBLICAN NATIONAL PLATFORM, 
ADOPTED AT CHICAGO, MAY 17.
Resolved, That we, the delegated representatives of the Republican electors of the United States, in convention assembled, in the discharge of the duty we owe to our constituents and our country, unite in the following declarations:—
1. That the history of the nation during the last four years has fully established the propriety and necessity of the organization and perpetuation of the Republican party, and that the causes which called it into existence are permanent in their nature, and now, more than ever before, demand its peaceful and constitutional triumph.
2. That the maintenance of the principles promulgated in the Declaration of Independence, and embodied in the Federal Constitution, is essential to the preservation of our Republican institutions, and that the Federal Constitution, the rights of the States and the union of the States, must and shall be preserved; and that we reassert’ these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. That to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed.’
3. That to the union of the States this nation owes its unprecedented increase in population, its surprising development of material resources, its rapid augmentation of wealth, its happiness at home and its honor abroad; and we hold in abhorrence all schemes for disunion, come from whatever source they may, and we congratulate the country that no Republican member of Congress has uttered or countenanced the threats of disunion so often made by Democratic members without rebuke, and with applause from their political associates; and we denounce those threats of disunion, in case of a popular overthrow of their ascendancy, as denying the vital principles of a free government and as an avowal of contemplated treason, which it is the imperative duty of an indignant people sternly to rebuke and forever silence.
4. That the maintenance inviolate of the rights of the States, and especially the right of each State to order and control its own domestic institutions according to its own judgment exclusively, is essential to that balance of power on which the perfection and endurance of our political fabric depend; and we denounce the lawless invasion by armed force of the soil of any State or Territory, no matter under what pretext, as among the gravest of crimes.
5. That the present Democratic administration has far exceeded our worst apprehensions, in its measureless subserviency to the exactions of a sectional interest, as especially evinced in its desperate exertions to force the infamous Lecompton Constitution upon the protesting people of Kansas; in construing the personal relation between master and servant to involve an unqualified property in persons; in its attempted enforcement everywhere, on land and sea, through the intervention of Congress and of the Federal Courts, of the extreme pretensions of a purely local interest; and in its general and unvarying abuse of the power entrusted to it by a confiding people.
6. That the people justly view with alarm the reckless extravagance which pervades every department of the Federal Government; that a return to rigid economy and accountability is indispensable to arrest the systematic plunder of the public treasury by favored partisans, while the recent startling developments of frauds and corruptions at the Federal metropolis show that an entire change of administration is imperatively demanded.
7. That the new dogma, that the Constitution of its own force carries slavery into any or all the Territories of the United States, is a dangerous political hereby, at variance with the explicit provisions of that instrument itself, with contemporaneous exposition, and with legislative and judicial precedent; is revolutionary in its tendency, and subversive of the peace and harmony of the country.
8. That the normal condition of all the territory of the United States is that of freedom; that as our republican fathers, when they had abolished slavery in all our national territory, ordained that no person should be deprived of life, liberty or property without due process of law, it becomes our duty, by legislation, whenever such legislation is necessary, to maintain this provision of the Constitution against all attempts to violate it; and we deny the authority of Congress, of a Territorial Legislature, or of any individuals, to give legal existence to slavery in any territory of the United States.
9. That we brand the recent reopening of the African slave trade, under the cover of our national flag, aided by perversions of judicial power, as a crime against humanity, and a burning shame to our country and age, and we call upon Congress to take prompt and efficient measures for the total and final suppression of that execrable traffic.
10. That in the recent vetoes by their Federal Government of the acts of the Legislature of Kansas and Nebraska, prohibiting slavery in those Territories, we find a practical illustration of the boasted Democratic principle of non-intervention and popular sovereignty embodied in the Kansas and Nebraska bill, and a demonstration of the deception and fraud involved therein.
11. That Kansas should of right be immediately admitted as a State, under the constitution recently formed and adopted by her people, and accepted by the House of Representatives.
12. That, while providing revenue for the support of the general government by duties upon imports, sound policy requires such an adjustment of those imposts as to encourage the development of the industrial interests of the whole country, and we commend that policy of national exchanges which secures to the workingmen liberal wages, to agriculture remunerating prices, to mechanics and manufacturers an adequate reward for their skill, labor and enterprise, and to the nation commercial prosperity and independence. 
13. That we protest against any sale or alienation to others of the public lands held by actual settlers, and against any view of the free homestead policy which regards the settlers as paupers or suppliants for public bounty, and we demand the passage by Congress of the complete and satisfactory homestead measure which has already passed the House.
14. That the Republican party is opposed to any change in our naturalization laws, or any State legislation by which the rights of citizenship, hitherto accorded to immigrants from foreign lands shall be abridged or impaired; and in favor of giving a full and efficient protection to the rights of all classes of citizens, whether native or naturalized, both at home and abroad.
15. That appropriations by Congress for river and harbor improvements of a national character, required for the accommodation and security of an existing commerce, are authorized by the Constitution, and justified by an obligation of government to protect the lives and property of its citizens.
16. That a railroad to the Pacific Ocean is imperatively demanded by the interests of the whole country; that the Federal Government ought to render immediate and efficient aid in its construction, and that as preliminary thereto, a daily overland mail should be promptly established.
17. Finally, having thus set forth our distinctive principles and views, we invite the co-operation of all citizens, however differing on other questions who substantially agree with us in their affirmance and support.
Such is the Platform adopted by the National Republican Convention at Chicago last week. It will be seen that it takes no issue with the Dred Scott Decision, or with the Fugitive Slave Law, or with slavery as it exists in the District of Columbia; and, by omission at least, surrenders its old non-extension of slavery policy, and thus virtually endorses the ’popular sovereignty' doctrine of Stephen Arnold Douglas, so far as the admission of new States into the Union is concerned.
The Convention itself was unparalleled for the enthusiasm and numbers (estimated from thirty to fifty thousand) attending, it. On the first ballot for its Presidential candidate the vote stood as follows:—For William H. Seward, of New York, 1731/2; Abraham Lincoln, of Illinois, 102; Edward Bates, of Missouri, 48; Simeon Cameron, of Pennsylvania, 501/2; John McLean, of Ohio, 12; Salmon P. Chase, of Ohio, 49; Benjamin F. Wade, of Ohio, 3; John B. Collamer, of, Vermont, 10; Read of Pennsylvania, Dayton of New Jersey, Fremont of California, Sumner of Massachusetts, 1 each.
On the second ballot, Seward had 1841/2, Lincoln
<c04>
181, Bates 35, Chase 421\2, Dayton 10, McLean 8, Cameron 2, C. M. Clay 2. 
On the third ballot, the whole number of votes east was 466; of which Lincoln obtained 354, and was duly declared nominated. Seward received 1101\2. The result was received with the moat tremendous demonstrations of applause, and the vote made unanimous by the Convention. 
On the second ballot for Vice President, the Convention chose Hannibal Hamlin, of Maine, who received 367 votes; Clay 86; Hickman 13. So, then, Hon. ABRAHAM LINCOLN, of Illinois —and Hon. HANNIBAL HAMLIN, of Maine, 
are to be the standard-bearers of the Republican party in the pending Presidential campaign. The disappointment of Mr. Seward and his friends must be overwhelming, as his success was deemed certain.
WORDS FITLY SPOKEN. 
I must express my thanks to our revered co-laborer, WENDELL PHILLIPS, for his timely and potent words in his letter to the Independent. Though one is led to blush for the want of manliness, that excluded a single sentence from the columns of a paper so well reputed, yet we will be thankful for small favors, by which the readers of the Independent have been indulged. 
Listening, as I am often compelled, to the bitter and senseless charge of the ‘infidelity’ of Garrison, from the lips of men who have an end to answer, I felt in my soul to say—these are words fitly spoken, and that, too, at the right time. Not that our ever faithful pioneer needs, for his own sake, a vindication against a charge so groundless, but for the sake of the cause we love. I well remember the early and trying days when it cost a man's reputation, and even life, to be an Abolitionist. I can bear willing witness to the self-sacrifice, the Christian fidelity of the brother who then, And even now, receives the scorn of heartless priests and ambitious politicians. But, true as’ the needle to the pole,' he has moved on, ’in sunshine and in shade,' counting nothing dear but the cause of suffering humanity. He has earned, and can well endure, the scorn of all those who have failed to be instructed by the pertinent question of Christ—' How much better is a man than a sheep?' 
But others, who are just escaping, like ’brands from the burning,' from an idolatrous church and nation-others, from whose eyes the scales are falling, need to be disabused and enlightened respecting this senseless cry of’ infidelity.' It is to be expected that those who are governed more by dogmatic theology than honesty, will, as long as possible, raise the mad-dog cry. Indeed, should they meet with a’ change of heart,' their occupation would be gone. For a besotted hunkerism demands a gospel in the abstract, that glories in God, and talks of an imaginary heaven while it tramples upon human rights, and bounds it a love by sect and party. 
Thanks, then, for the words of my respected friend Phillips —and, more especially, do I express this thankfulness, since we now have the testimony of an orthodox man. Mr. P. is not a heretic, theologically but is guilty of the blessed heresy of placing man above institutions—making religion a life, not a creed. 
G. W. S.
Many besides my friend G. W. S. were gratified by seeing that letter of Mr. Phillips, so unfairly treated by the Independent, which, taking advantage of Mr. Garrison's absence, I inserted, week before last, in the Liberator,—of course, without his knowledge. Such things need to be placed on record, since they are an important part of the history of our time; and every record of this sort, it is to be hoped, will open the eyes of more and more persons to the fact that suppression of truth, misrepresentation, deceit and falsehood are now used by the clerical successors of Luther and Calvin as systematically and as pertinaciously as they ever were by the clerical opponents of those eminent men. The battle of human liberty, civil and religions, is to be fought oat against an amount of treachery and calumny on the part of the Protestant priesthood, as great as our ancestors ever experienced from the Catholic.—c. K. W.
THEODORE PARKER. 
The heavy and gloomy intelligence of the sadden decline of the great and noble friend of man, and fulfiller of all righteousness, THEODORE PARKER, renders appropriate, at this sad moment, the reproduction of a beautiful prayer breathed, in his behalf, in an ode which was written for’ the Festival' of the beloved Pastor's Society in 1857, by F. B. SANBORN:—S
‘-one anxious thought
stirs in every heart to-day; 
Summer breeze, why bring'st thou not 
Health to him for whom we pray? 
Thou, O God, whose mighty task, 
On his willing spirit laid, 
Bows the body; grant, we ask, 
Strength for labor undecayed.' 
WASHINGTON, May 19th, 1860.
A message from the President was received in the Senate. The message calls the attention of Congress to the capture of the slaver Wildfire with 507 negroes by steamer Mohawk, April 26th. The negroes were carried to Key West, April 26th, and delivered into the custody of the Marshal of the Southern District of Florida. The question arises. What shall be done with the negroes? The President referred to the case of the slaver Echo, when the negroes were sent had to Africa by agreement with the Colonization Society and suggested that Congress authorize the President to make a general agreement with the Colonization Society to cover all future cases.
In consequence of the increased activity in the slave trade, such cases are likely to become frequent, and something must be done. These negroes are now at Key West, and an expense already incurred a $12,000, but worse than that, the yellow fever is likely to come to Key West, and the Marshal urges their removal at an early day. The message was referred to the Judiciary Committee.
District of Columbia business was taken up. The bill relating to the common schools of the District was considered, on which Mr. Clark offered an amendment providing that no person whose property is taxed shall be deprived of the privileges of the schools, an also that separate schools be organized for colored children.
Mr. Clark stated he should insist on the amendment and on motion of Mr. Brown, it was postponed.
THE SLAVE TRADE BRISK. The Key West Key of the Gulf states that when the barque Wildfire left the African coast, there were fourteen American vessels waiting for cargoes of negroes. The barque William left eight days before her, with seven hundred on board. Two Spanish armed steamers were also waiting at the Congo river for cargoes of one thousand five hundred each, bound to Cuba.
CAPTURE OF A SLAVER.—The barque William, late of New York, has been taken into Key West with 550 negroes on board, having been captured by the U. S. S. Wyandotte, off the Isle of Pines, Cuba.
ALLEGED SLAVER SEIZED.—The barque Cora, alleged to have been fitted out for the slave trade, was seized by United States officers on Saturday as she was being towed out of New York harbor.
REV. THEODORE PARKER'S SOCIETY. —The Music Hall Society in Boston has paid Rev. Theodore Parker his salary of $2,500 during his absence, the past year, and has had 41/2 discourses from his desk, 26 of which were delivered by laymen, nearly all denominations having been represented.
Hon. Wm. S. Damrell, member of Congress for four years from the Third District in this State died at Dedham, 17th inst., after a long and painful illness. Mr. Damrell was by trade a printer, was one of the pioneer publishers of the Boston Journal, and afterwards a member of the firm of Damrell & Moore, book and job printers of that city. He was fifty years of age.
The Japanese Embassy reached Washington on Monday, 14th inst., and were received in state. The capital was alive with the remarkable event. The occasion was one of great interest, and attracted an immense concourse of spectators. The Japanese are represented as delighted with the reception given them.
The colored folks at Hamilton, Canada, celebrated the birthday of John Brown on the 9th, by a procession and oration.
<c05>
Among the many restoratives which nature has supplied to relieve the afflictions of humanity, there is no more favorite one for a certain class of diseases than the ‘medicinal gum' of the Wild Cherry Tree; but however valuable it is, its power to heal, to soothe, to relieve, and to cure, is enhanced ten fold by scientific and judicious combination with other ingredients, in themselves of equal worth. This happy mingling exists in that 
‘Combination and a form indeed'
Of medicine known as
DR.WISTAR'S BALSAM OF WILD CHERRY.
Whose value in curing Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Asthma, Pulmonary Affection, and Incipient Consumption, is inestimable.
Strong Testimony
From BENJAMIN WHEELER, Esq., Depot Master at South Royalton, Mass.
SOUTH ROYALTON, Jan. 4, 1860.
Messrs. SETH W. FOWLR & CO., BOSTON:
Gents.,—Although unsolicited by you, I cannot refrain from adding my testimony to the many already given in favor of your Wistar's Balsam of Wild Cherry.
In the spring of 1858, I was most severely afflicted with a hard, dry cough, with its usual accompaniments of night sweats, completely prostrating my nervous system, and producing such a debilitated state of health, that after trying medical aid to no purpose, I had given up all hopes of ever recovering, as had also my friends. At this stage of matters, I was prevailed upon through the influence of a neighbor to try Wistar's Balsam, though with no belief whatever in its truly wonderful curative properties, and before using two bottles, the effect was almost magical. My cough entirely left me, the night sweats deserted me, hope once more elated my depressed spirits, and soon I had attained my wonted strength and vigor.
Thus has this Balsam, as has often been remarked by persons conversant with the above facts in this vicinity, literally snatched me from the yawning grave. You are at liberty to use this for the benefit of the afflicted. Very respectfully yours,
BENJ. WHEELER.
Prepared by S. W. FOWLE & CO.. Boston, and for sale by druggists and dealers everywhere.
May 25th.
PROSPECTUS.
A history of the great principles of our Republic, and of its grand design as contemplated by its founders, is a work which, though of the greatest importance to every American freeman, has not yet had a being. It is an observation of the wisest men of the ages, who have built up and reformed States, that a civil community cannot depart from its first principles without bringing upon itself certain ruin. The noble fathers of our Republic made the same observations, and declared that a frequent recurrence to first principles is absolutely necessary to the preservation of the State. For six years, the subscriber has been laboring to prepare a work unfolding the history of those great first principles which were originally established by our fathers as the foundation of the Republic. By perseverance in his researches, he had discovered many new and important facts, relating to this subject, which he is confident every honest American will consider as answering the great questions that are now before the country.
He has prepared this work without reference to any political party of the present day. It stands above all party.
The following is the title:—
OUR REPUBLIC:
The Glory of its Origin, Principles and Purposes.
The work will consist of nearly 600 pages. Price, $1 25.
E. C. ROGERS, Hingham, Mass.
POLITICAL ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The undersigned, believing slavery to be the greatest curse of this nation, a crime of the deepest dye, subversive of the rights of the white as well as the black man, tending to debase the moral sentiment of the American people, and to hinder their material advancement, and that it is the duty of every American citizen to give his vote and his influence in uncompromising opposition to this form of oppression, feeling that neither of the political parties at present before the country represent their sentiments, would respectfully but most earnestly invite the friends of freedom to meet in mass Convention at MERCANTILE HALL, Summer street, in this city, on TUESDAY, the 29th inst., at 10 o’clock, A. M., to consider the propriety of forming a
POLITICAL ANTI-SLAVERY PARTY,
and to take such other political action as may be deemed advisable.
The question for the decision of the American people is not alone the question of negro bondage. It is also whether they will preserve the liberty their ancestors fought for at Lexington and Concord and Bunker Hill.
It is whether they will give up those great principles of freedom which gave birth to the Revolution, and which were baptized in the blood of those heroes whose names,’ familiar as household words,' shall live when the Rock of Plymouth and the sterile hills of New England shall have crumbled into dust. It is whether they will incorporate into the national government the radical principles of the Declaration of Independence. It is whether the Constitution of the United States shall become a ’glittering generality,' allowing the base myrmidons of an unscrupulous Slave Power to gag the mouths and outrage the persons of free men with impunity.
It is whether a man, guilty of no crime, shall be thrown into prison for the meanest of party purposes, and whether they will give their support to that vile pro-slavery party which conceived the shameful wrong, or to that other party which so readily assisted in its execution.
It is whether a man's own house shall cease to be a, safe asylum in this so-called free land, but may be entered with impunity, under false pretences, without the sanction of law, by the miserable tools of a wicked and unscrupulous government.
It is believed that the citizens of this country are not prepared to become slaves, and that they will aid in devising means to meet the present alarming condition of political affairs.
Those opposed to, as well as those in favor of the proposed movement are invited to take part in the discussion, which will continue through the day and evening.
Able speakers will address the Convention, whose names will be duly announced.
S. S. FOSTER, JOHN PIERPONT,
J. W. BROWN, J. H. STEPHENSON,
CHAS. W. ELDRIDGE, NATH'L T. ALLEN,
ISRAEL LOMBARD, JR., T. C. SEVERANCE.
W. W. THAYER, JOHN AYRES,
RELA MARSH, JAS. REDPATH,
W. W. WOOD, RICH D S. HINTON.
Boston, May 14, 1860.
PENNSYLVANIA YEARLY MEETING
OF
PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS.
The eighth Yearly Meeting of Progressive Friends will convene at Longwood, Chester County, Pennsylvania, on First Day, the 3d of the Sixth month, [June,] 1860.
JOSEPH A. DUGDALE, MARY A.W.JOHNSON,
ELIZABETH JACKSON, MARY F. SMITH,
OLIVER JOHNSON, EUSEBIUS BARNARD,
WILLIAM BARNARD, MARY I. BARNARD,
ISAAC MENDBNHALL, MIRIAM C. WORRBLL,
MARY P. WILSON, MARTHA KIMBER,
JOMN G. JACKSON, SARAH MARSH BARNARD,
RUTH DUGDALE, DINAR MENDENHALL,
ALICR JACKSON, J. WILLIAM COX,
THOMAS WORRELL, CORA WILBURN,
 ANNIE M. STAMBACH, M.D.
Communications for the meeting may be addressed to JOSRPH A. DUGDALE, Hamorton, Chester County, Pa., or to OLIVER JOHNSON, Anti-Slavery Office, New York.
ESSEX COUNTY.
The Annual Meeting at the Essex County Anti-Slavery Society will be held in GEORGETOWN, in the Town Hall, on Sunday, June 3d, commencing at 101/2 o'clock, A. M. The members of the Society are particularly requested, and all persons are cordially invited, to attend. PARKER PILLSDURY, CHARLES C.BURLEIGE, and other speakers will he present.
CHARLES LENOX REMOND, President. MOSES WRIGHT, Secretary.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in Quincy, next Sunday, May 27, forenoon and after noon
ANNIVERSARY WEEK.—Meetings in Boylston Hall, corner of Boylston and <illegal> streets, Sunday afternoon and evening. Speaker: Charles Spear and wife, Rev. R.Z Wickson.
Prayer-meetings, every morning, from 7 to 8 o'clock.
Exhibition of Paintings on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, from 5 to 6, P.M.
<c06>
NOTICE.
The Church Anti-Slavery Society will hold its Anniversary by two public meetings in the Tremont Temple. Boston, May 29th, at 11 o'clock, A.M., and half-past 7, P.M. The speakers will be Dr. Cheever, Rev. Daniel Worth from Greensboro' Jail, North Carolina, Rev. A. B. Bradford, Free Presbyterian Church, New Castle, Pa., Rev. S.R.W. Sloane, Reformed Presbyterian Church, N. York, Rev. R. Dunn, Free Will Baptist Church, Boston, Rev. A. W. Ide, Congregational Church, Boston.
There will be a Business Meeting, which all the members and friends of the Society are requested to attend, at 3 o'clock, P.M., in the Meionson Hall of the Tremont Temple Building.
By order of the Secretary,
HENRY T. CHEEVER.
THE ANNIVERSARY MEETINGS of the friends of the WOMAN'S RIGHTS CAUSE will be held at the Melodeon, on the afternoon and evening of FRIDAY, June 1st. Further notice hereafter.
By order of the Committee.
CHRISTIAN SPIRITUAL CHURCH.—Social Prayer Meeting, at 99 Court street, at Harmonial Institute, every Sunday morning, and Spiritual Circles for positive demonstrations, every Thursday evening. Seats free.
REMOVAL.
The office of the MASSACHCSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, and also that of the LIBERATOR, have been removed from 21 Cornhill to the Washington Building, 221 Washington Street, directly opposite Franklin Street—third story. The change of position is a very desirable one, and the accommodations are more spacious and agreeable.

WEDDING AND VISITING
CARDS,
FASHIONABLY ENGRAVED BY 
E. A . TEULON,
1491-2 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON,
Directly opposite the Old South Church.
ALSO
WEDDING BILLETS,’At Home,' &c.
WEDDING ENVELOPES, in great variety.
WEDDING CAKE BOXES, new styles.
MOURNING NOTE PAPER and ENVELOPES,
ALL AT VERY LOW PRICES
May 18. eop6m.
New Edition of a Great Work.
HELPER OUTDONE BY JUDGE STROUD
IN HIS MASTERLY WORK,
‘A SKETCH OF THE SLAVE LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES.'
EVERY man should own and read this book. Rev. Dr. Wayland says of it, in a letter to the author, ’I wish there was a copy of it in every family in the United Stated. No work could be more timely, or better serve the purposes of humanity.'
We want 500 Agents to sell this work during the present Presidential campaign. No more effective document can be circulated. Price, &1. Large discount to agents.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO.,
PUBLISHERS,
No. 20 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON. 
May 11. 2mos

BROOKLYN HEIGHTS
Hygienic Establishment.
Nos. 63 and 65, COLUMBIA STREET,
BROOKLYN, L.I.
THIS Institution is open Summer and Winter for the reception of patients and boarders. The Doctor brings to his aid eight years' experience in the Hydropathic practice, and he has no hesitation in saying that he has the largest out-door practice of any ’Water Cure' Physician in the country. To boarders, or parties visiting New York, this House offers superior inducements, as the location is very desirable, being only fifteen minutes' walk from the Astor House. Accommodations and table, excellent, and at one half the price charged at the Hotels.
Address GEO. F. ADAMS, M.D.,
April 20. Physician and sole Proprietor.

CARPETING
‘All the Year Round.'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Trapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths ( of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
ALSO
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept 16 tf
THAYER & ELDRIDGE,
PUBLISHERS
AND
Wholesale Booksellers,
114 & 116 WASHINGTON ST.,
Mch 16 tf BOSTON, MASS.
Resistance to Slaveholders!
LETTER TO SENATOR WILSON.
JUST PUBLISHED: a pamphlet of 36 pages, by HENRY C. WRIGHT, entitled, ’NO RIGHTS, NO DUTIES; or, Slaveholders, as such, have no Rights, Slaves, as such, owe no Duties. An Answer to a Letter from Hon. Henry Wilson, touching Resistance to Slaveholders being the Right and Duty of the Slaves, and of the people and States of the North.'
For sale by BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield street, and at the Anti-Slavery Office, 21 Cornhill. Price 10 cents.
CHARLES HAZELTINE.
PIANO-FORTE TUNER 
AND
REPAIRED.
Orders may be left at Russell & Tollman's 299 Washington street, and at the Neponset Post -Office.
Mr. H. has permission to refer to Thomas Ryan Wulf Fries, and their follow-members of the Mendelssohn Quintette Club: also, to Woodward & Brown, and Wm. Bourne, Piano-Forte makers; B. F. Baker and W. R. Babcock.
Nov.4. 6m
PHRENOLOGY.
By urgent request, Prof. N. WHEELER, well known as a scientific and truthful Phrenologist, has opened rooms at 99 Court street, corner of Hanover Boston, where he will make Phrenological Examinations, give written delineations of Character, and furnish Charts; heal the sick, impart instructions relative to health and habits, and the management of children. tf. March 4.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY. 
For the Liberator
SPRING.
Stern Winter, the monarch of seasons, has field,
And many who saw its beginning are dead:-
May we, who're permitted its scenes to survive,
Be grateful to Him who has kept us alive.
All joyous we hail the return of the Spring;
To its Author the heart's grateful tribute we bring; 
And while Nature to life is now waking anew,
Let each strive for a life far more noble and true.
As the earth is now donning her gayest attire,-
As before Spring's warm breath Winter's cold doth retire,-
May we, each, with a heart filled with love for mankind,
Seek to melt off the fetters from each human mind.
As the farmer goes forth, casting into the soil
The seed which when grown shall repay all his toil, 
So may we, in this Spring-time of being, prepare 
In the Joys of the world's final harvest to share.
Boston, May 11 1860. JUSTITIA.

THE GLADNESS OF MAY.
'<illegible> May again, 'tis May again,
The time of happy hours,
When Nature wears her fairest robe
Of young and dewy flowers;
When gentle morn wakes from the east
As rosy as the sky,
And brooks are laughing in the meads,
And birds are singing by.
Visions, sweet as summer's eve,
Or autumns' glowing day, 
Are rushing on the mind of youth
As lovely as they're gay; 
Hopes prized more than coral lip.
Or maiden's blushing vow,
Are coming back to cheer old age,
And dock its snowy brow. 
Kingeups, bathed in golden light,
Their tender breasts unfold,
And verdant plains bunt on the sight,
Like beds of waving gold;
Violets from the mossy banks
In purple clusters rise, 
And daisies one by one begin
To show their starry eyes. 
Leaves nursed in the noontide's warmth, 
And, kissed by the dew, 
Are woven into forest crowns
That mock the emerald's hue;
And twining garlands round about 
The wasting walk of yore, 
As doth the heart to memory, 
When life's bright days are o'er.
Blossoms fair as orient pearls
Adorn the orchard trees,
And odors from their honied lips 
Add fragrance to the breeze; 
Beauty's, soft and radiant glow 
Is mantling all the grain,
And from the earth a promise comes
Of fruit and corn again. 
Birds, rich in plumage and in voice, 
From every wood and grove,
In joyous concert carol forth 
The melody of love; 
Zephyrs, mild as music's tone,
Upon their pinions bring
Sweet echoes to the listening ear, 
And incense of the spring. 
Insects, bright as Tyrian dyes,
Wake from their torpid sleep,
As countless as the ocean sands 
That wash the rocky steep;
Lambs, in little playful groups,
Are scattered o'er the lea, 
And squirrels from the beachen boughs
Dance on from tree to tree. 
Clouds, calmly hung in silver light
Like folds of fleecy snow, 
Are shadowed in the silent streams
That by the valleys flow;
Now cradled by the swelling waves,
Now on the shore at play,
Now flitting round the lofty hills 
As blithesome as a fay.
'Tis May again, 'tis May again,
The time of happy hours,
When Nature wears her fairest robe
Of young and dewy flowers;
When gentle morn wakes from the east
As rosy as the sky,
And brooks are laughing in the meads,
And birds are singing by.

THE COLD HAS PASSED AWAY.
BY JOSEPH HUTTON.
Cold winter, with its chilly winds,
Has left us for a while;
And spring-time, with its new-born flowers,
Makes hills and valleys smile.
And many a home is cheerful now,
And many a heart is gay;
For spring has brought us sunny warmth-
The cold has passed away. 
Once more the lark's sweet song is heard,
Once more the fields are green; 
And all around, where flow' rets bloom, 
Bright joyous life is seen. 
And, with the earliest dawn of light,
Forgetful of decay,
The peasant sings his labor song- 
The cold has passed away. 
Bright summer time will visit us,
And autumn with its store 
Oi fruit and grain will come again,
As welcome as of yore.
And, worker's in the world's broad field,
Remember still that they 
Who nobly win can truly sing,
The cold has passed away! 

SPRING.
Look all around thee! How the spring advances! 
New lift is playing through the gay, green trees; 
See how, in yonder bower, the light leaf dances 
To the bird's tread, and to the quivering breeze!
How every blossom in the sun-light glances!
The Winter-frost to his dark cavern flees,
And earth, warm-wakened, feels through every vein
The kindling influence of the venal rain. 
Now silvery streamlets, from the mountain stealing,
Dance joyfully the verdant vales along; 
Cold fear as more the songster's tongue is sealing;
Down in the thick, dark grow is heard his song; 
And, all their bright and lovely hues revealing,
A thousand plants the field and forest throng; 
Light comet upon the earth in radiant showers,
And mingling rainbows play among the flowers.
[From the German of TIECK.

THE ANGEL OVER THE ROOF.
Over all houses, where man reside,
Spirits have stationed an angel guard-
Souls of the loved who have lived and died- 
Faithful and constant their watch and ward. 
Our sentinel floats in the balmy air;
Over the roof we see him stand, 
Clothed in a garment all white and fair,
And pointing up with his cloudy hand.

<c02>
MISCELLANEOUS. 
Special Correspondence of the New York Herald.
IMPORTANT FROM THE OCEAN.
A Fugitive Slave Surrendered on the High Seas-Statement S.R. Spaulding Returning from the Democratic National Convention, is obliged to hoist the American Flag 'Union Down'-A Negro discovered after Five Days' Confinement in the Coal Hole-Intensely Interesting Scene at Sea- The Spaulding and Her Partner, the Ben. de Ford-Great Excitement at Boston-The Opinion of Passengers on the Board, &c.
STEAMER S.R. SPAULDING
Off Block Island. May 6-A.M.
One of the steamer's boats having just returned from the service of placing on board the steamer Ben. de Ford, from Boston for Charleston, a negro presumed to be fugitive slave, found secreted on board the Spaulding early this morning, I will give you an account of the occurrence in detail, inasmuch as the whole affair is likely to be fully investigated upon the arrival of the Spaulding at Boston, and, furthermore, is calculated to provoke discussion in other section of the country.
DISCOVERY OF THE NEGRO AFTER FIVE DAYS' CONFINEMENT IN THE COAL HOLE-LITTLE FOOD-NO WATER.
About half-past one o'clock this (Sunday) morning, one of the firemen of the Spaulding, named, Patrick Daly, was hard at work shoveling coal into his furnace, when the heap tumbled down, and the legs of a human being appeared to his startled vision. The place was dark and close, but there was sufficient light from the furnace fires for him to see that there was a human body there, dead or alive. Supposing that some of his fellow-firemen had fallen asleep or become suffocated, he placed his hand on the breast of the object, which he could distinguish by the white shirt, and hauled the body out. Daly was not a little frightened, but he soon discovered that he had exhumed a negro, either dead or asleep, for he appeared insensible. After some shaking, the negro was aroused, and his first exclamation was, 'Please don't tell on me, Massa! 'Daily immediately informed one of the engineers, Mr. Libbeus Davis, of the discovery he had made; but that officer did not inform the, other officers of the boat of the fact, and it was not until nearly four o'clock that the chief officer of the Spaulding, Mr. Josiah Atkins, was made aware of it.

A CONSULTATION AMONG PASSENGERS. 
Mr. Atkins at once informed Capt. Howes, commander of the Spaulding, of the circumstances, and at a little part four o'clock a consultation was held between Hon. Bradford S. Wales, of Massachusetts; Col. Peter Dunbar, (one of the charter party,) and Hon. A. Hunter, a slave-owner in Missouri, and it was unanimously agreed that the negro should be returned to the South, by some means or other. Although he said he was a free negro, there was sufficient evidence, in the judgment of those interrogating him, to prove the contrary, and the question was whether it was best to put back to Norfolk, Virginia, or to endeavor to intercept the Ben. de Ford, belonging to the same line as the Spaulding, and which sailed from Boston at 4 P. M. on Saturday, for Baltimore. It was decided to adopt the latter course, and it was done. 

POSITION OF THE S. R. SPAULDINC WHEN SHE CHANGED HER COURSE TO DELIVER UP THE FUGITIVE ON THE HIGH SEAS. 
At the time, about 4 A. M., the Spaulding was at sea forty miles southwest from Nantucket South Shoals. The weather was calm and the sea light. After determining to change her course in order to intercept the Ben. de Ford, Capt. Howes put the Spaulding on a westerly course, and kept in that direction about four hours.
About 8 A. M., Capt. Howes made out a steamer, bearing N. N. W.; and although the weather was hazy, Capt. H. was satisfied that it was the vessel he desired to intercept. Signals were then hoisted and guns fired. The American ensign, Union down, was set flying as a signal of distress, and the throats of the guns which had seen service in the Revolution, and in the war of 1812, were made to thunder the alarm that was to attract the attention of a vessel which would be the means of fulfilling a constitutional obligation in sending back a slave into bondage from which he had endeavored to escape. 
THE BEN. DE FORD MISTAKES THE SPAULDING FOR AN ENGLISH STEAMER. 
The Ben. de Ford kept upon her direct course for nearly half an hour, before she answered the signals of the Spaulding, and hauled off to meet us. It was afterwards understood that Capt. Hallett, of the Ben. de Ford, had mistaken the Spaulding for an English steamer, as she was then steering in the direct route, of vessels bound from Liverpool to New York. The weather continued hazy for some time, which prevented Capt. Hallett from seeing our signals, and it was not until he heard a number of the Spaulding's guns that he was made aware that the object was to attract his attention. He then hoisted the private signal of the line, (the Merchants' and Miners' Transportation Company,) which was answered in a similar manner by Capt. Howes, and the vessels neared each other. 
SENDING THE NEGRO ON BOARD-A STIRRING SCENE. 
About 9 o'clock A. M., (Block Island bearing N. N. E., distant fifteen miles,) the vessels being within a couple of cable lengths of each other, the order was given by Capt. Howes to 'bring the man up'-a note explaining the circumstances of the case, addressed to Capt. Hallett, having been previously prepared by the commander of the Spaulding, and placed in the hands of his chief officer, Mr. Atkins, to be delivered by him in person. 

APPEARANCE OF THE NEGRO. 
When the negro appeared on deck, he was a truly pitiable object. He wore an old slouched felt hat, with very broad brim, turned up in front. His garments afforded evidence of the noisome and dirty character of his place of confinement, and were besmeared and <illegible> all over. His eyes were bloodshot, and restless and piercing as a snake's. His features were of the African type, flat nose, big lips, but not unusually so for the race. He had a black moustache, and his chin was covered with a beard of short length. He seemed like a plantation negro who had seen hard service, and wished to taste a hit of the free air of the North.
Mr. Atkins stepped into the small boat, as she was swinging by the davits, and ordered the negro to follow him. The negro did so, and seemed alarmed at the possibility of falling overboard. He was seated near the stern sheets. Two or three of the steamer's crew took their places with the oars, and just before the boat was lowered into the deep, the negro was asked bow he felt. He replied, 'Oh, pretty well, sah;' and in a short time he was placed on board the De Ford, to be carried back, not exactly to Old Virginny, but to Maryland, where, if he can substantiate his title to freedom, he may be again set at liberty. 
THE STEAMERS. 
Meantime the scene on board the two steamers was exciting in the extreme. All the passengers and most of the crew of each vessel were on deck, witnessing the novel spectacle of surrendering a fugitive slave in mid-ocean. On board the Ben. de Ford a number of ladies appeared-a truly pleasant sight to some of the young and old bachelors on board the Spaulding, who had been more than four days without seeing crinoline in any shape. There was a gentle swell in the sea, and each vessel having stopped its engine, they dipped and bowed to each other on the swelling bosom of old ocean, like some huge monsters endeavoring to outdo each other is acts of politeness; otherwise the sea was as calm as a mirror. 
As the boat containing the fugitive was cast off from the Spaulding, there were cries among the passengers for 'Music, Basic,' and Gilmore's band was soon in requisition. After playing 'Old Hundred,' the ladies on board the De Ford waved their handkerchiefs, and, to the surprise and amusement of many, the fugitive himself joined in the demonstration by waving his hat to the Spaulding. The band then played several other sacred airs, for it was a bright Sabbath morning, and the occasion was one of solemn interest to many, and none knew what storms might arise before we reached our port of destination, nor bow Providence would regard the whole proceedings, to say nothing of the courts of law. Some wanted the band to play 'Garry me bask to Old Virginia,' as an appropriate air; but out of regard to the sacredness of the day, Mr. Gilmore wisely declined doing so.
A Voice from the Ben. it Ford, (the small boat containing the negro being then midway between the two steamers.) Who's that you've brought from the <illegible> Covention? Is it a black republican? 
<c03>
Answer from the <illegible>. Yes; take good care of him. 
Ben. de Ford. Well do that. 
Spaulding What's the news from Boston?
Ben. de Ford. Charleston Convention adjourned Baltimore. Is this fellow a delegate? 
Spaulding. Look out for that. Is that you, Fraser? How are you? How's Toltec? 
Ben. de Ford. Two and seven-eighths, and rising. (Ha! ha! ha!) Who Have you nominated at Charleston?
Spaulding. James Buchanan. 
Ben. de Ford. Who did you say? 
Spaulding. (repeats.) James Buchanan.
Ben. de Ford. Ha! ha! ha! 
The hand strikes up again. The 'Marseilles, Hyarn' is exquisitely played-succeeding 'America.' Cheers are given by the passengers on the Ben. de Ford, the ladies wave their handkerchiefs again-some from the port-holes, as if the poor, dear creatures were sea-sick, and could not get from their berths to the deck. Rousing cheers were given from the Spaulding, and each vessel departed on its separate course, apparently satisfied that they had accomplished an imperative duty. There were a large number of sailing vessels in sight at the time the transfer occurred, and if a calm had not prevailed, they would doubtless have come down to us to ascertain the cause of such an extraordinary spectacle as an American steamship coning from a Democratic National Convention with the flag of their country Union down. 
HOW THE NEGRO GOT ON BOARD THE SPAULDING, AND STOWED HIMSELF AWAY. The negro was engaged by a trackman, on the morning (Tuesday) after Gilmore's last concert in Charleston, to assist in carrying some of the instruments of the band back to the vessel. He carried on board some of the pieces, <illegible> was paid by Mr. Marshal P. Wild, business agent of the band, and also postmaster of the Spaulding during the expedition, for the service. He then left the vessel, and in about an hour or two afterwards, returned with a package of mint, bound up in a newspaper, which he offered to Mr. Wild, who declined it; but observing that he had a couple of Charleston papers in his hand, Mr. W. asked him what he intended to give with them. He replied that he intended to give one to him (Mr. W.) and one to the steward, Mr. Franz, and asked where he could find the latter. Mr. Wild told him where he was likely to be, and paid no more attention to the matter until he was called upon to identify the negro this morning. He at once recognized him as the one who had been employed to do some service for the band, and it is likely took occasion of the opportunity afforded to seek the steward to stow himself away in the coal hole. This was about nine o'clock on Tuesday morning, the 1st of May, and he had therefore been in the coal hole, close by the boiler, a place entirely without ventilation, from that time until his discovery, at half-past one o'clock on the morning of the 6th, and this, too, without a particle of water, and no other food than a few crackers. 
THE NEGRO'S STORY OF HIMSELF. 
Being interrogated by Mr. Hunter, of Missouri, the negro said he was free, and his name was Sam Jones; at another time that it was Wm. Braxton; that he was about thirty-three years old, and that he had served as a fireman and as a barkeeper on steamers on the Ohio river; that he lived in Madison, Indiana, and had a relative in the city of Boston. He said he had been hired by a delegate to the Democratic Convention to attend him, for which he was paid seven bits a day, with on allowance of two extra bits per day to purchase food. He wanted to get to Boston to see his relative, and stowed himself away in the coal hole of the Spaulding for the purpose, not having money enough to pay his passage.
Mr. Hunter, who has a large plantation about twenty-five miles back of Cape Girardeau, on the Mississippi river, and is familiar with the peculiarities of the dialects of the negroes in different sections of the country, pronounced Jones' story entirely improbable. Besides having no free papers, a requirement inflexibly demanded in South Carolina of all negroes claiming to be free, his whole manner was that of a South Carolina slave, perhaps a house servant, although be did not look much like one as he made his departure from the Spaulding. On demanding his passport, he said be had lost it, and on examining his wallet, it was found to contain only a pass written by Mr. Gilmore, of the band, for admission to his concert, and a few dollars in money. Having been refused admission to the concert by Mr. Wild, who probably knew the Southern regulations in such cases more familiarly than Mr. Gilmore, Jones retained his pass, in the hope, possibly, of its being of service to him in his attempt to escape from bondage.
Jones said he had suffered terribly in his confinement on account of thirst; that his body was nearly all the time next to the boiler, which was so hot that it would sometimes almost roast him. There being, as we have said, no ventilation for the place, the stench was so great as to create quite a quarrel among the coal-heavers as to who had been guilty of committing a nuisance therein. 
A CONTEMPLATED JOKE TURNS OUT TO BE A SERIOUS AFFAIR. 
It is generally customary, on long excursions by sea for the wags on shipboard to be contriving to get up some hoax or 'sell' for the amusement of the crowd. On this occasion it was arranged among some of the 'phunny phellows' to darken the face of one of the waiters by the application of a compound of milk and molasses, and dress him up in the garb of a female, and at a preconcerted moment start the alarm that a female mulatto slave had been discovered on board. The affair was in good hands, and would, doubtless, have been carried out admirably, had not the circumstance that a real, hona fide, flesh and blood negro had turned up in the coal hole, put an end to the comedy in view of the melodrama actually on the stage. It was with difficulty that some in the plot could be made to believe that the report of a negro slave being found concealed on board was true. And one-a gentleman from South Carolina-was so incredulous as to laugh at the idea, even when the flag of distress was hoisted and the guns of the Spaulding fired. 'A good joke, my fine fellows,' he said; 'but you can't take me in. I'll wait until I see the negro, and then I'll believe your yarns.' He had an opportunity a short time thereafter, and also to send for a few bottles of champagne at dinner in payment for his incredulity. 
THE LAWS OF SOUTH CAROLINA AND THE COURSE OF CAPT. HOWES. 
There is no doubt the abolitionists of the North will be highly incensed at the course of Capt. Howes, in surrendering a supposed fugitive slave on the high seas without legal arbitrament; but the laws of South Carolina are so severe on the subject of carrying away negro slaves, that his own life and the property of his owners might have been sacrificed had he not acted promptly in the emergency. The course of the Spaulding, so as to intercept the De Ford, was changed by his order some time before the consultation among the charter party and other passengers had ended-before they had decided what was the best to be done. It was fortunate that be so acted, for the loss of half an hour's time would have made us lose the De Ford, and put us to the great inconvenience of retracing our steps some hundreds of miles to Norfolk. 
OPINIONS OF PASSENGERS ON BOARD THX SPAULDING. 
But few of the passengers disapprove of the action of Capt. Howes. Their ground is, that Capt. H. should have carried Jones to Boston, and allowed the question of his freedom or servitude to have been decided by the proper judicial authorities. They think that it is a usurpation of power which properly belongs to the Admiralty Courts. The majority of the passengers, however, are of the opinion that Capt. H. acted precisely right in the matter, and are ready so to express themselves in a public manner. The whole affair has been of the most exciting character, and although it delays our arrival at Boston some eight hours, it has furnished one of the most interesting topics of conversation and paragraphing since the Spaulding left Boston, on her fruitless expedition of endeavoring to nominate a candidate for the Presidency at Charleston. The new of the adjournment of the Convention to Baltimore was first received by the Ben. de Ford, and gave satisfaction to the Spaulding's passengers. 
Commenting upon this revolting affair, the Newburyport Herald says-' To attract the attention of the other vessel, the Spaulding put her flag at half mast and Union down, and fired alarm guns. She was then a fit representative of the Democratic party, which, on account of the negro in its hold, has put the national flag Union down, and at half mast, and gives many evidences of being in the deepest distress-yes, in the agonies of final dissolution." 
<c04>
From the, Providence Journal 
CUSHING ON TRAITORS
We venture to Say, that the approaching campaign will not furnish a more sublime piece of impudence than that with which Caleb Cushing has opened it. He denounced those who an opposed to his party as those who labor to overthrow the Constitution under the false and insidious pretence of supporting it; those who are aiming to produce in this country a traitorous, sectional conspiracy of one-half of the States of the Union against the half; those who, impelled by the stupid and half-insane spirit of faction and fanaticism, would hurl our land on to revolution and to civil war. This is the language which be applies to a party in which are found John M. Read, Edward Bates, Judge McLean, Governor Fish, Thomas Corwin, and a host of others of equal patriotism, if of less distinguished ability. These are the insulting terms in which be alludes to thousands of his fellow-citizens, whose wise conservatism, whose services to their country will at least not suffer in comparison with those of Mr. Caleb Cushing. 
Who is this person that thus stands up to brand men whom the nation regard as at least his compeers in virtue and patriotism, with the most disgraceful epithets in his fertile vocabulary of vituperation? What has he been? What has he done? Who does not know that he signalized his early career by the most stringent opposition to slavery, and that too when there was no question practically raised about the extension of slavery to the territories? As long as he thought that it was for his interest to berate the slaveholders, he assaulted them with all his vehement energy. But there came a day when he thought that his chances for preferment would be improved by advocating the new Democratic doctrines, and, lo! the verbose anti-slavery politician suddenly came forth a fluent and flippant Democrat of the first water. No man so to ready as he to abuse his old associates, and to misrepresent those who had refused to follow him in his violent attacks upon the slaveholders. No man so busy in predicting that 'cataclysms of the universe' are to follow triumphs of the Republican party. And now no man so quick to charge upon his political opponents traitorous and fanatical designs. It is to be hoped, for his own sake, that, after so many 'cataclysms' as he has passed through in his political life, his sense of comfort is not disturbed by any reflections upon his consistency and dignity.
And what are the atrocious opinions held by these men whom he so asperses? What are the outrageous doctrines which constitute them traitors? Why, simply that free labor is preferable to slave labor; that the territories should not be burdened with slavery. There is no proposition to interfere with slavery in the States. And yet the men who hold these old-fashioned doctrines of revolutionary days, and none that are inconsistent with them, who merely desire to see the government administered on the pure principles of its founders, are branded as traitors by this Democrat, whose violent, anti-slavery speeches must still be ringing in his ears. Mr. Caleb Cushing may have made more eloquent speeches than he did on Tuesday in the Convention at Charleston; but we doubt whether, in all his remarkable career, he has ever made a more impudent one than he made on taking the chair. Its tone may have been suited to a ward caucus in New York, but it was unworthy the national convention of the party.
From the Savannah Republican, May 3d.

THE BKSCUE OF CAPTAIN FARNUM. 
On Tuesday afternoon, about dusk, our county jail was visited by some four or five persons who effected the rescue of Captain Farnum, who was arrested in New York, and brought to the State for trial on a charge of complicity with the slave trade in the Wanderer case. The circumstances of the rescue, so far as we can learn, are as follows: Captain Farnum, it appears, has been allowed every privilege at the jail, consistent with a liberal construct ion of duty; his confinement being almost a nominal thing. Arrangements were made between him and the rescuers that Captain Farnum should give up his parole under which he had been allowed such freedom from restraint, when the former were to rush in, bind the jailer, and release the prisoner. This was carried into effect, an opportune moment being selected, when Mr. Stone, the jailer, was out on parade, and Peter Luddy, his deputy, in charge. Captain Farnum requested Luddy to lock him in his cell, which was done, and Luddy had returned to the hall leading through the jail, when he was met and held by the rescuers; his keys taken from him, the prisoner released and conducted to a carriage in waiting, and driven off to the Pulaski House, where he was surrounded by his friends, who farther defied the law by protecting him from arrest. The District Attorney, Hamilton Couper, Esq., heard of it, while casually visiting the office of the Pulaski House, and endeavored to take the necessary proceedings for a re arrest; he agreed to let the matter rest until yesterday morning. Farnum's friends, in consideration of Mr. Couper's consenting to adopt that course, pledged him their honor that they would produce the man and make application for bail, the ensuing morning; such application not having been made at two o'clock, Mr. Couper notified Mr. Farnum and his friends that he should now require that Mr. Farnum should surrender himself into the custody of the jailor before he would consent to notice any application, after that hour, for hail on his part, and that if they refused to adopt that course, he would call upon the proper authorities, and require his forcible arrest. Mr. Farnum then surrendered himself into the custody of the jailor of Chatham county. We understand he will make his application for bail this morning.
At one time matters wore a squally appearance in the office, and 'shooters' were exhibited with freedom. The parties engaged in the affair, we believe, make no secret of their complicity; they did not even take the trouble to disguise themselves, but went about their work with a boldness and apparent disregard of consequences that show they were determined, to override every obstacle, and set the law at defiance. Their object is accomplished, and our community have the proof before, them that our courts avail us nothing, if a few determined men see proper to set their actions at naught. 
REV. DANIEL WORTH. 
Last evening, (says the New York Tribune of the 8th inst..) Rev. Daniel Worth, late North Carolina, addressed a large audience in the City Assembly Rooms, on the subject of his recent indictment and conviction in his native State for selling some copies of Helper's Impending Crisis. The discourse was well delivered, and was listened to with profound attention. 
While the collection was being taken up, in the meeting above mentioned, Mr. Ketcham made a few remarks; after which, Mr. A. P. Sperry of North Carolina mounted the plantform. He said: I am entirely unused to public speaking, and merely get up here to-night to ask the Rev. Mr. Worth a few plain questions, to be answered as fairly. Mr. Worth was born and brought up in my county in North Carolina. The Rev. Daniel Worth was a magistrate upon the bench in my county. He knew, when he circulated Helper's book and the doctrine which he has been preaching, that he was violating the law of the State. Now, gentlemen, I only ask him to give us common justice. I ask him, considering that he violated our law, if we didn't treat him as well as we could? I think this shows that although slaveholders have a had name, yet there is some kindness left in their hearts. I say here, before the Rev. Mr. Worth, that went myself to the jailer, and gave him a dollar to get Mr. Worth a warm breakfast. I am a fair and honest man in my views All we at the South want is to be let alone on this Slavery question. 
SEVERAL VOICES. We won't let you alone. (Cheers.)
Mr. SPERRY. Well, you must let us alone; we must be let alone.
VOICES. You shall not be let alone. 
Mr. SPERRY. Then it is war to the death.
One of the audience here asked Mr. Sperry if the same privilege which he (Mr. S.) was now enjoying-that of freely expressing his opinions-would be accorded in North Carolina to a citizen of another State.
Mr. SPERRY. I will answer that question in all candor. Our laws we forbid it.
A VOICE. Repeal your laws then. (Cheers, and cries of 'Hear him.')
Mr. KETCHAM. In New York we always hear North Carolinians and everybody else.
A VOICE. It is not so in North Carolina, though. Mr. SPERRY, resuming. Our laws forbid it, for the same reason that you would forbid me to cause a horse to run away in the street-because of the damage which be would do-for the same reason- (illegible>, and cries of 'Hear him;' 'Go on;'
<c05>
'Free speech everywhere;' we don't choke people down, as they do at the South.)
Mr. SPERRY. All I want is a fair showing, anywhere and everywhere.
A VOICE. Except at the South.
Mr. SPERRY. The Rev. Mr. Worth, or any gentleman in the country, has a perfect right to go to our parlors and argue this question, bat not in the presence of colored persons. 
A Mr. WORTH. That is a mistake. 
VOICES. Yes, and he knows it. 
Mr. Mr. SPPERRY. My first question is, how was he treated by the citizens of Greensborough? The second, why didn't be get somebody else to go his bonds? And another, how did be get to the borders of the State? 
Mr. WORTH. I will answer. In regard to going to the stores or parlors, and arguing this question, as the gentleman has said we may do, why, a word that makes a slave 'uneasy' indictable. You can't say a word of that kind that is not indictable. I have read the law for you, and you can see that there is no opportunity of discussing the matter at all. He asks if I was not treated well in, Greensborough, and lays that be gave the jailer a dollar to get me a warm breakfast.
A VOICE. Yes, and he has advertised it. 
Mr. WORTH. If he had given me that dollar, I could have got the breakfast. I never before heard of the breakfast or of the dollar. (Great applause.). He asks if the citizens of Greensbrough didn't treat me well. All the means I had of knowing their demeanor toward me was through the jailer, Boone, and he told me that I could not walk that street without being massacred. I could have given bail at any time; but, as I have told you, I was informed that I could not live in that community; that would be massacred by mobs. (Cries of 'Shame, sham,' and cheers.) His last questions were, why I got slaveholders to be my bondemen, and how I got out of the State. This last is a question with which I don't think he has any particular business. He sees that I am out of the state. How I got out, or by what means, are best known to myself. Slaveholders came and volunteered themselves at my primary examination. There was one of them present then, and, referring to a former period, when my father and uncle, who had done something for him, lived there, said: 'The Worths made me, and I have a devilish notion to shoulder the whole of that myself.' 
RESULT OF EMANCIPATION AT JAMAICA. 
WASHINGTON, May 6th, 1860. 
Among the strangers now present in this city is the Rev. Mr. Brown, a Baptist clergyman of Northampton, England, who has just returned from Jamaica. He is one of a commission sent out by his denomination to visit the churches of the West Indies, and especially to see for themselves the workings of English Emancipation. He brings here, after a careful examination, a most satisfactory report. He would choose Jamaica as the point which shows the absolute success of English Emancipation, and this he is ready to substantiate by the facts and figures of proof that will be undeniable. And doubtless the proof will be laid before the world in a formal manner, as it is intimated that this commission will be cited to appear before a Parliamentary Committee, in company with such other persons may have it in their power to give information, and the results of the inquiry will be laid before the world in a Blue Book.
It has been often stated by pro-slavery Congress men, and their presses, that English Emancipation is a failure, and they point to Jamaica to prove it, citing late commercial returns, which show that Jamaica now exports but one-half the amount of sugar that she did before the slaves were made free. This fact is not controverted; these gentlemen say labor is turned into another channel, and is more productive in its new form than in its old. The planters in most cases refused to hire their slaves after they became freemen, and they were reduced to the necessity of taking up government lands for themselves. Hence there are now thousands of farms, ranging in size from a garden spot to a plantation, owned and cultivated by these freed men, and which support them in independence, and in comfort and luxury, according to the labor and skill exerted. They export but little, for they consume what they raise-and so few are their wants, and so productive their soil, they can raise almost all they need.
As to the alleged deterioration of the race, Mr. Brown declares that the contrary is the case. The African physiognomy has in a great measure disappeared in the children burn free, and is greatly mitigated in the forests. The blacks display an astonishing degree of skill, foresight, sagacity, and stranger still, industry, considering their late condition and want of any education. But the marked improvement that is evident in their offspring shows the practical truth of the beautiful theory, that with freedom come all the other virtues. These assertions are borne out, it is said, by the testimony of the Governor of Jamaica, who has made investigations with a perfect zest, not only in his own but in the other islands, and he declares Jamaica a monument of successful emancipation, and the rest of the West India islands only second to his own province. I wish I had room for some of the many incidents narrated by Mr. B., showing the truth of his report. 
So much for the negroes: the whites are also thriving and prosperous. But the old families, the ancient patroons, planters, owners of lands and negroes, are fast decaying and dying out. They are passing away with the old system, as they find it difficult to accommodate themselves to the new order of things. They were encumbered with bondage of men and land, with slavery and mortgages. Government swept away the one-time is doing away with the other. The plantations come under the hammer and are bought in by enterprising, industrious men, who work them themselves, who live on them and by them, and thus they make them productive and profitable. These persons are in many cases the bookkeepers or overseers of the former owners. Hence the cry among the old residents that the country is fast relapsing into barbarism, which only means that they themselves are falling from riches to poverty, and from high social position to a level or below the level of those on whose industry they lived, but whom labor they despised. We see the same class in our slave States, living on the price of the soil they have worn out, and sold to Northern settlers who resuscitate and make them profitable. 
As to the running down of plantations, Mr. Brown declares that, with a view of ascertaining the truth of that rumor, be asked, wherever he went, the question- 'Do you know of a plantation, worked by its owner or its overseer, that is not in a prosperous condition?' And to this question, leading as it is, he never received an answer substantiative of this rumor.
The failure of British Emancipation has been so often alleged, that such news is at least agreeable to the friends of anti-slavery. The formal substantiation of these facts by British philanthropists will do the cause they have at heart much more good than all the denunciations ever fulminated from Exeter Hall. ALPHA. 
The Methodist Quarterly Review has in the April number an extensive article on the 'Results of West India Emancipation,' in which we find a tabular view of the comparative condition of the British western slave colonies in 1833 and in 1851-2. From this it appears that in eighteen years, since the emancipation, the population of these colonies went up from 827,224 to 1,069,895, an increase of over thirty per cent., and every single colony had increased, except the small islands of Anguillo, Monserrat and Nevis. The yearly revenue increased from £432.999 to £715,729; the value of imports from £3,205,523 to £4,727.295. Shipping increased from 473,091 tons to 651.698. The sugar exports to the United Kingdom had gone down from 3.646,366 to 3,408,637; a falling off of less than 8 per cent., while the home consumption had become immense, besides a considerable export to the other countries. The writer of the article, Rev. Henry Bleby, an English Wesleyan clergyman in Barhadoes, who has resided also in Jamaica for fourteen yean, adds the following remarks:-
'The statistical view which we have given of the colonies in 1831-2 exhibits the results of emancipation under the most unfavorable aspects: for that, as already shown, was the period, when the affairs of the planters were at their worst, and the financial condition and prospect of the colonies most dark and discouraging. Since that date, a vast improvement has taken place in the West ladies. Sugar having rises in value, an impulse has been given to its culture and manufacture. The planters, adopting modern improvements, find the cultivation of their estates highly remunerative, and the <illegible>, of free over slave labor is no longer a matter of question or experiment, but of demonstration and certainty.' 
<c06>
Is there any virtue in
MRS. S.A. ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER?
READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
TO THE ED's OF EVANGELIST; 'My age in sixty. One year ago, my hair was very gray, and had been gradually falling, until, on the crown, it had become quite thin. About the 1st if March, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S.A. Allen's Restorer, 'No. 1, according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once in now almost restored to its original color, and the <Illegible> appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE, BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRETIONS. My hair ceases to fall, which is certainly an advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.' Rev. M. THACHER.
Bridgewater, Oneida Co., N.Y., Nov. 22,1855.
President J.L. EATON, LL.D., Union University,
Murfressboro.' Tennessee.
'MADAM-I would state, that some time last spring I found MY HAIR FALLING OFF. I concluded to purchase a bottle of 'Mrs. S.A. Allen's World's Restorer,' &c., and give it a trial. I commenced using it but very irregularly; but notwithstanding this irregularity, I found that its influence was distinctly visible, THE FALLING OFF OF HAIR CEASED, and my locks, which before were quite GRAY, WERE CHANGED TO BLACK. I do not consider that I have given it a fair trial, but from what I have seen of its effects in my own case, I have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do, viz., PERVENT THE HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, and to RESTORE GRAY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.'
Mrs. D.W.CLARK, wife of Rev. D.W.CLARK, Editor 'Ladies' Repository,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'I have been using Mrs. S.A. Allen's Zylobalsamum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it in any position desired.'
Rev. JOHN E. ROBIE, Editor 'Christian Advocate,' Buffalo,N.Y.
'Your Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color.' &c.
Rev. E.R.FAIRCHILD, D.D., Cor. Sec. American and Foreign Christian Union, N.Y. City.
'Mrs. S.A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have been used in my family with beneficial effects; and I take pleasure recommending them to such as have occasion to use such preparation.'
Rev. A.WEBSTER, Editor 'Christian Ers,' Boston, Mass,
'Having used numerous specifies to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be off on value. So I regarded your World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so far several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither bald nor gray; my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.'
Rev. H.V.DEGEN, Ed. 'Guide to Holiness, Boston.
'Mrs. S.A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer, found among our other advertisements, we insert from actual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now the evidence of our won eyes. We can testify to its good effects.'
Rev. S.B.MORLEY, Paster Congregational Church, Attleboro', Mass.
'I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Hair Restorer has been to change the 'crown of glory' which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to direction. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The Zylobalsamum I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.'
Rev. DANIEL T.WOOD, Middletown, Orange Co., N.Y.
'My hair has greatly thickened upon my head, and put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY, UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP, AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.'
GREAT BRITAIN.
Rev. W.B. THORNELOE, Prescot, Lancashire, England.
'Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color,-not the wig-like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dye, I can strongly recommend it, and shall fell happy in answering the queries of any you may refer to me.'
[The above clergyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States.]
HAVTI
Rev. Mrs, E.S. ANDRUS, (many years Missionary to Hayti,) Martinsburgh, N.Y.
In consequence of her long residence in aforenamed island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually Baptist,'-'I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but never any thing that so materially and permanently benefited me as those of Mrs. S. A. Allen.'
Rev. J.WEST. 6 Washington Place, (Pacific street,) Brooklyn.
'I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's in the most literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.'
Rev. R.H.POLLOCK, Ed. 'Presbyterian Witness,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till we know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity and being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I would be pleased to insert adversisement, &c.
Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, Corres. Sec. Board of Education R. D. Church, 337 Broadway, N.Y. and New Baltimore, Greene county, N.Y.
'Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair Restorer, &c for the use of a relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray to its original glossy and beautiful black.'
Rev. JAS. McFARLANE, Pastor Prot. Dutch. Church Esopus, Ulster country, N.Y.
'I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have produced all the effects described in her advertisement, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance.'
Rev. B. C. SMITH, Prattsburg, N.Y.
'I was really surprised to find my gray hair soon turned as black as when I was a young man.'
Rev. M. C. KLING. Lewistown, Pennsylvania.
'It has stopped the falling off of my hair, and caused a new growth, although I did not attend to it as your directions require.'
Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD, Meriden, N.H.
'We think very highly of your preparations, and have no doubt, if you had an agent in this vicinity, a large quantity might be disposed of.'
We think that if these fail to convince, nothing less than trial will. Some few dealers try to sell articles on which they make more profit than on these; always INSIST on having these.
These are the only preparations exported in any quantity to Europe.
We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced. One bottle of the Restorer will last a year; $1 50 a bottle. Balsam, 371/2 cents per bottle.
Address all letters for information. &c to 'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer Depot. No. 355 Broome Street, New York. 'The Genuine has 'Mrs. S. A. Allen's signed in Red Ink to outside wrappers, and in Black Ink to directions pasted on bottles-none other is genuine. Signing the name by others is forgery, and will be prosecuted by us as a crime <illegible> offence.
SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOOD DEALER Oct 14 1yeop
