THE LIBERATOR.
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM No 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:- FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMOND QUINCY, EDMOND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS
W. M. LLOYD GARRISON, Edition
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 47. BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1561.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<C01>
SLAVERY AND THE ABOLITIONISTS.
Southern slavery, as a rule, is the mildest and most benevolent system of labor in the world, and the slaves, without Abolition temptation, are the must happy and contented laborers. But, granting is the character attributed to it by the Abolitionists, it is even in comparison with Abolitionism, most saintly and holy. There is not an evil to character and home, to society or country, attributed to slavery, by an ignorant or lying press, that Abolitionism does not produce a hundredfold. It is the lie of modern politics, the falsehood of modern philosophy, the apostasy of modern civilization. If ever men deserved the doom which Benedict Arnold escaped, W.H. Seward, Horace Greeley, Charles Sumner, Wendell Phillips, and their abettors, political and clerical, are the men. And yet, Southern men, and patriotic Northern men, too, who are determined to resist the demon of Abolition in every form, and to make no compromise with the <illegible> monster, and who simply contend for the Constitution of their country, and the Union based upon it, are denounced sometimes by Southern men as fire-eaters, extremists, ultraists and disunionists! Same on the ignoble souls who thus attempt to weaken the public confidence in reference to the <illegible> iniquity of Abolitionism!
This indirect support of the Abolitionists has done more to embolden them in their aggressions than anything else. Even now, Lincoln's organ at Chicago, John Wentworth's paper, boldly advocates the overthrow of slavery in the States as the doctrine of the Republican party, and shames the Republican leaders who are too timid to avow it. It quotes Lincoln's language, embodying the same sentiment. But so far as we can see, nothing but defeat, and the election of an Abolitionist, will ever teach Southern men, and constitutional men generally, the lessons of patriotism and political wisdom. United, Black Republicanism could be easily defeated. The people are willing to unite, but the demagogues and office-seekers, who curse the country, will not let them. And thus we are divided into three parties, when we ought to be one; just as the Jews were divided into irreconcilable factions when Jerusalem and the temple were tottering to their fall. Our country has fallen upon evil times, and nothing but the providence of God can save us, for vain is the help of man. While Christian men should use all the political means in their power, the present should be a time of general humiliation and prayer.-New Orleans Advocate.
SECESSION MEETING IN CHARLESTON.
A report is given of a great meeting of the citizens, over which the resigned Judge of the U. S. District Court for South Carolina, presided, assisted by one hundred and eighty-three Vice Presidents, all titled and professional men. Ex-Judge Magrath, upon taking the chair, made a brief address, the leading points of which were as follows:-
FELLOW CITIZENS: If in the rush of great events, which surround and excite us, there could be left room for emotion of a mere personal character, it would arise in my bosom this night, in being honored with the proud distinction of presiding over the present meeting. We do, indeed, live in a momentous period of our history--in the infancy of our national existence, but, unlike other young nations, we enjoy a high degree of civilization and development. We are about to sever the relations that have so long existed between ourselves and this Federal Union, and to create a new existence for ourselves. We do so to obtain guaranties that those privileges transmitted by our forefathers of the Revolution-those privileges which have been denied, torn and wrested from us-shall be secured to our friends and our posterity. However varied, they have but one element, one grand fundamental principle pervading the whole, and that is equality of political rights.
The Legislature of South Carolina, with a unanimity beyond all precedent, has determined to call a Convention of the people of South Carolina. It is true the object of this Convention is not declared, but it is known by all people, viz.: The instant dissolution of the Union. How far South Carolina has discharged her obligations as a member of this Union, it is not for me to say. This is the office of the future historian. But I will undertake to say, that posterity will find no acts of hers that will bring a blush to the cheek of her sons; nothing done by her that she or her children will have cause to wish undone.
When we consider the contests for freedom which we meet on the pages of history, we find struggles of subjects against kings, and slaves against their masters. But our contest is one of a very different character; it is a contest of freemen, who demand guarantees for their rights-freemen who have lived free, and will die free.
I believe that your contest will be a peaceful one: your consciousness of truth and justice will secure you the remedies you seek without suffering. But if it be otherwise, if the spoiler ravage her coasts, sack her cities and villages, and waste her fair fields-yet the State of South Carolina shall be redeemed, cost what it may. And if through that contest she shall come out mutilated and scarred, yet will those of her sons who survive, bow down before her, love and worship her more than any political mother in Christendom.
The resolutions, which were passed unanimously, were offered by J. Pringle Smith, and supported in ardent speeches by John Lomens, L.M. Spratt, R. Barnwell Rhett, James Conner, Esq., the resigned U.S. District Attorney, B. R. Carroll, and J. D. De Bow, of the Commercial Review. The latter speaker referred to the opinion of John Randolph, concerning the poison which was hidden in the Constitution at its adoption. He reviewed the gradual and steady development of that poison up to the point which has compelled the South to act in self-defence. He closed with an impressive exhibition of the resources of the South, and of the brilliant prospects awaiting a new and independent government for the South.
THE KNIGHTS OF THE GOLDEN CIRCLE.-We find in the Houston (Texas) Telegraph of the 1st inst., an account of the movements of General Bickley, President of the K. C. G. 's The paper says:-
''The order of the K. C. G. 's originated in the deep and settled hatred of the General to Abolitionists; and any mistaken philanthropist who could desire the freedom of the negro, even at the risk and shame of a servile insurrection. This hatred took possession of his bosom when he was only eleven years old, at which early age he saw his little brother and sister murdered by blacks, during a servile insurrection, urged on by Abolitionists. For thirty years he has nurtured those feelings, but it was only six years since he began to revolve the prospect of uniting the whole South into a friendly military body, which should at all times be prepared to resist the encroachments of the Abolition hordes of the North, and by conquest add more Slave Territory to the Union, thus equalizing Southern and Northern representation in the National Congress. The order now numbers 150,000 men, and is daily increasing in number, power, and influence. Fifty thousand men can be concentrated in ten days at any given Southern point. No movements against Mexico will be made until after the result of the election is known.’
<c02>
SELECTIONS.
SPEECH OF HON. HENRY WILSON.
The Republican Wide Awakes of Boston and vicinity made a brilliant demonstration and gathered an immense assemblage in Music Hall, on the evening of 9th inst. in commemoration of the election of Abraham Lincoln to the Presidency of the United States. Among the speakers were Charles W. Slack, Henry Wilson, Anson Burlingame, Charles A. Phelps, John L. Swift, Richard Warren, and Joseph Story. Senator Wilson spoke as follows:-
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen, - Wide Awakes: To-night we have assembled here to pour out our congratulations over the great national triumph of liberty in America. (Applause, and cries 'of' Good.') The Republican party, representing in America the cause of equal, universal and impartial liberty, has won a glorious and brilliant victory, and Abraham Lincoln, its candidate, is President elect of the United States. (Applause.) A party not six years old, representing the higher and better sentiments of the country, is now to take possession of the American government, and to change the policy of the Republic. (Cheers.) We have seen our country borne by the Slave Power far, far away from the faith and the policy of the fathers. We have protested against the aggressive policy of the Slave Power; we have appealed to the heart and conscience of the nation, and to-night, thanks be to God, we stand here with the Slave Power of American beneath our feet. (Enthusiastic applause, and cries of' Good.')
That proud and haughty power, that used and destroyed the old Whig party, that corrupted in its childhood the American party, that has used the Democratic party as its tool,-that power lies tonight before us, and our heels are upon it. (Cheers, and cries of' Good.') And, gentlemen, come what may hereafter, that party never more rises in America. (Applause.) Perhaps the men who have served it until they have been overwhelmed by the triumphant hosts of freemen, may reorganize and; rise again, temporarily; but, gentlemen, that gigantic power can nevermore sway the government of Republican America.
It is the glory of the Republican party of the United States, that, representing the cause of liberty, and standing in the footsteps of the Republican fathers, it has crushed and ground to powder the Slave Power and its minions, in the North and in the South. (Applause.) And while we rejoice over the victory, may we not also rejoice over the noble manner in which we have won it? We have appealed to no base passion of the human heart; we have appealed to the reason, to the conscience, to all that is noblest in man; and the best and purest minds of our country have responded to our appeal, and are to-night rejoicing over the triumph of liberty. (Applause.)
Now, gentlemen, we have won power; we are to, take possession of the federal government. I have the most undoubting confidence in the capacity, honor, integrity and devotion of Abraham Lincoln. (Applause.) I trust, gentlemen, as we have won a victory by the bold and fearless promulgation of our principles, that we are to have an administration that shall be true to our principles. (Applause.) I trust that we are to have an administration that shall rally around it all that is liberty-loving and patriotic in America. Threats are made that the Union is to be dissolved, and we are told by the telegraph that a Massachusetts vessel in the harbor of Charleston has hoisted the Palmetto flag. (Voices-'Shame.') And we are told that that vessel is owned by the Cushings of Massachusetts. (Hisses and cries (Hisses and cries of Shame;' one voice exclaiming,' It can't be true.') Well, gentlemen, I hope it is not true; but I shall not be surprised to learn that it is true, for I have observed, during the last few months, that there has been a very strong disposition to fuse between the professed lovers of the Union and the disunionists. (Laughter.) Now, gentlemen, I say to the men of the South who have been threatening the dissolution of the Union, who are calling conventions, who are mounting blue cockades. Go on, if you dare! (Cheers, and cries of' Good.') We intend to stand by the Constitution and by the Union, at any and every hazard, come what may (loud applause); and I say to those men of the South who are threatening to pull down the columns of the Union, that if they expect any aid in the free States among the cowardly men who have shrunk before their threats, they will be utterly disappointed. However these men may sympathise with, they cannot aid them, for they are powerless in the free States. (Applause.) I was told last winter, on the floor of the Senate, by Jefferson Davis, that Gen. Cushing had said, if the contest; came, we Republicans were to be' throttled in our tracks.’ I should like to see them try it on, gentlemen. (Great cheering.) Let them try it on in Washington, or anywhere they choose! (Renewed cheering.) We seek no conflict; we know we are right, and we mean to stand by our principles. We have won a victory by proclaiming them, and by being faithful to them. We mean to stand by the Constitution of our country, doing justice to all sections of our common country, and we mean to stand by the Union our fathers made to promote the cause of liberty. (Applause.)
Now, Republicans, a single word, and I close. We have won, after many years of struggle, a brilliant victory. We have proclaimed our principles; we have been true to those principles; and now that we have attained to power, let us see to it that we carry out what we have proposed when out of power. (Applause.) Let us show to the country and the world that these principles were in our hearts, that we were honest in their promulgation, and will stand by them in victory as we have stood by them in defeat. (Applause.) Let us see to it that the work not yet accomplished is accomplished. We want to carry every Congressional District in the free States. (Applause.) We have not the Senate; we shall not have the next House. Let us, then, gather up our forces, strengthen ourselves by wise and judicious action, by fidelity to our principles, and let us see to it that we organize and carry every Congressional District in the free States for the Congress succeeding the one now pending; and above all, gentlemen, let us see to it that Massachusetts is a unit in the Congress of the United States for the cause of human liberty in America. (Loud applause.)
A SOUTHERN UNION MAN.
The following is from a speech made by Hon. John M. Botts at Lynchburg, Virginia, on the 19th of October;-
I have been asked what I thought it was the duty of the South to do, in the event of the election of Mr. Lincoln. I answer, nothing in the world; but submit, as we have always done. I have no desire to keep secret from any man what I would do, for I would wear my heart upon my sleeve, and if every political opinion I entertained could be summed up in one word, I would have that word on my breast that every man might read it who felt an interest
<c03>
in knowing. His election would constitute no reason for a dissolution of the Union, nor would that of any other free white man, a native citizen -of the United States, 35 years of ago, the only qualification required by the Constitution. First, he has the Senate fixed against him, the political complexion of which cannot be changed within the next four years; and the Supreme Court is against him, so there is another source of protection to the South. So that if Lincoln were elected, and even prepared to offer violence and outrage to the South, I would not be prepared to dissolve the Union. If he were elected, and should recommend violent and extreme measures to Congress, I should not think the time for dissolution had arrived. His recommendation might be repudiated by both branches of Congress. But suppose Congress adopted his recommendation-would a time for dissolution then have arrived? I think not; because this sacred little book, the Constitution of the United States, provides another remedy, and that is the Supreme Court. I would go to the Supreme Court. I would there proclaim that Congress had no power to interfere with slavery, and demand that justice and right should be done me. But if the Supreme Court refused me redress, then I would say the time has come for revolution; and let him take the lead who will, I will follow. (Great applause.) But I will never consent to plunge this country into all the horrors of civil war; to involve your children and my children: to inflict such a calamity upon the nation; to oppose brother to brother and father to son in deadly conflict;-I never will, until I have exhausted every remedy provided by the Constitution. (Great applause.)
If South Carolina declared herself out of the Union, what aspect does she present to the United States? Is she a State in the Union? If so, the laws must be enforced in the: Union. But if she is no longer a State in the Union, she assumes the position of a foreign enemy to the United States, and also to Virginia. And am I to be asked to give aid to the enemy of the States? or am I to be called a traitor for obeying the Constitution of my State and of the Union? She is an enemy to the States and to you. I owe no allegiance to South Carolina because she is a slave State; and I would as soon march to South Carolina to enforce one law, as I would to Massachusetts to enforce another-whether the fugitive slave law or any other-or to reduce either to submission, if they were rash enough to assume the position of a foreign enemy to me and mine. I am not a slave to slavery, and I will not make a fool of myself to please fools. (Applause.)
SENTIMENT OF THE SOUTH.
The Nashville (Tenn.) Banner comments as follows upon the matter of disunion;-
'We believe the friends of the Union are vastly in the majority all over the South-in the border slave States there can be no question of this fact,. We hardly deem it necessary here in Tennessee to present the overwhelming arguments-arguments based upon patriotism and self-interest-which readily occur to every calm thinking man, against the wild and senseless cry of secession and separation. The teachings of the wisest statesmen of our country from Washington down-the teachings of experience since the foundation of our government- the lessons of yesterday and to-day-all unite in convincing and unanswerable arguments against the doctrine of disunion in any event.
We hold that there is no evil existing-no evil threatened, even in the excited imagination of these mad disunionists-for which the remedies secured to us by the federal Union and its Constitutional guarantees, are not fully adequate, and vastly to be preferred, under all circumstances, to any remedy of secession or revolution.
There are mad spirits in the South determined" to precipitate the cotton States into a revolution." Tennessee must not allow its conservative strength in the Union to lay dormant at such a crisis. She must put herself upon the record at once, in some form or other, with immediate and direct reference to this question. The moral weight of her position will have an important bearing upon the issue of the question. She must give the fanatics of the South -the impracticable abstractionists and dreamers who would pull down the edifice erected by Washington, Jefferson, and their compeers, and build air castles in its stead-to understand that they must not count upon her co-operation.'
The Petersburg (Va.) Intelligencer fears no evil from the incoming Administration. The Intelligencer says of Mr. Lincoln:-
'We do not believe he will trample on our rights, but will pursue a vastly more conservative course than our politicians have endeavored to impress upon the Southern mind he would pursue. Apart from this, we are for submitting to the constitutional expression of the opinion of the majority. We shall (should the Union be preserved) support him in his constitutional action, and oppose him when he pursues an opposite course.'
GOVERNOR HOUSTON EXPLODING THE RECENT ROORBACKS IN TEXAS.
The slavery Democratic papers all over the country have been teeming for months past with terrible blood and thunder stories of the operations of a band of' Abolition agitators' in Texas." Houses were said to be burned-whole villages destroyed-wells were poisoned by the negroes at the instigation of certain Abolition preachers; and every nameable outrage was perpetrated. To avenge these outrages, ministers were hanged, school-masters were tarred and feathered, and negroes were burned alive. We have now an authoritative denial of these stories by the Governor of Texas, Gen. Houston. In a speech made by him at Independence, Texas, the Galveston News reports him as follows:-
‘In regard to the recent raid and incendiarism in Texas, he said it had been exaggerated and misrepresented by the letters of" that man Pryor, of Dallas," the brother, he said, of Roger A. Pryor, of Virginia, who had some time since sent a certain challenge. The fact was, there had been but one white man hung in Texas for incendiarism.-Herndon, of Henderson-and two negroes; and there never had been a vial or bottle of poison found in the possession of any other negroes in this State-thus intimating very clearly that the others that were punished were unjustly punished.
As to the house-burnings, it had been reported at one time that there were fourteen houses burned in the city of Austin, when in fact, there was only a shanty or shed in the outskirts of the city burned; and he accounted for the burning of that by the carelessness of the Dutch, who were lounging and smoking there at the time.
He said that this Pryor letter had injured and was greatly injuring our country; its effects were being felt everywhere; our lands depreciating in value: persons from other States afraid to immigrate here, and a great many were leaving our State. Only the other day, a gentleman from Northern Texas had told him that on his way in, he had met two hundred wagons, with at least five persons to each wagon, on their way to Arkansas and Kansas-some
<c04>
leaving for fear their negroes would be falsely accused of incendiarism, and hung; and others for fear  they, as not being slaveholders, might be charged with being Abolitionists, and lynched.
He had been accused of being violent and abusive in his speeches, but he did not think he ought to be blamed, when forced to the wall, for striking out. He had buried his personal dislike to Breckinridge, Douglas and Bell, and was for either one of them to beat Lincoln. He said nothing in favor of Breckinridge, nothing for or against Douglas: but Mr. Bell had been with him on the Nebraska Bill, for which the people of Texas, three years ago, rebuked him, Sam Houston, but time has shown he was right. 
However much he might regret the election of Lincoln, still, if constitutionally elected, he ought to and should be inaugurated. "Yes! they would have to walk over his dead body if he was not!"
The Governor was very severe on Calhoun and South Carolina, but lauded Benton, Clay and others. He never missed an opportunity to give a thrust to South Carolina and her doctrines.
THE TEXAS 'PLOT' NO PLOT AT ALL.
In confirmation of the denials of abolitionist conspiracies in Texas, which have reached us from other quarters, we have now the following emphatic testimony from a resident in Texas, who writes to the Louisville Democrat:-
LAMAR COUNTY, Texas, Sept., 1860.
Messrs. Harney, Hughes & Co.,-Seeing that the many rumors and reports which were circulated through our State a few months since, as to abolition emissaries, insurrection, &c., are being published and accredited by many of the papers in the older States, I desire, through the columns of your paper, to say to my friends in Kentucky, and to the public generally, that all such rumors are altogether unfounded. It is true, that during the exceedingly hot and dry weather of the past summer, there were many destructive fires in the State of Texas. The town of Henderson was nearly destroyed, that of Dallas greatly damaged, and some houses burned in other towns in different parts of the State. But the origin of these fires, as far as yet ascertained, was either from the ignition of matches, or some other accidental cause. I have not been able to learn of a single instance in which there was the slightest evidence that it was the work of an abolition emissary -in fact, I don't believe there is one in the State, though there are some characters nearly as bad.
As to the reports that poison had been found in the possession of negroes in various and sundry parts of the country, and in wells, &c., they are false, as far as I have been able to learn. I have not met with a single man who knows of an authenticated instance. Yet these reports are published by all the papers in the State, and accredited: by many, and the people in many parts were excited almost to desperation. Who originated these reports, and for what purpose, are the questions that have perplexed the good citizens of our State for some time past. Such reports are certainly calculated to injure the State, and keep away such emigrants as desire to come. Why, then, should the people of Texas circulate and give credit to them?
It is the opinion of many of our best citizens, after mature deliberation and thorough investigation of the subject, that these reports have had their origin in the minds of scheming politicians, and are a part of that great plan concocted, and being put in execution to 'nerve,' the Southern arm and excite the Southern mind,' preparatory to precipitating the cotton States into a revolution.
Yours, &c., P. B. D.
THE EXODUS OF FREE NEGROES FROM SOUTH CAROLINA.
Some time since we published a statement that a large number of free negroes were leaving South Carolina, to avoid being doomed to slavery under a law of that State, passed at its last session. Many of these have gone to the West Indies, some to Africa, and a considerable number have arrived in Philadelphia; but by far the largest portion have been forced into slavery. The process by which they are made slaves is as follows:-Up to 1822, emancipations were frequent in the State, but in that year a law was passed forbidding manumission. By that law, slave owners, upon resigning their ownership in negroes, were to place them in the hands of trustees, who were to be vouchers for the negroes, pay their taxes, and a tax, except in the negro's possession, was evidence that he had been made free.
The law lately passed makes one man their guardian. They are to be entered on the tax list as slaves, and must always wear a badge of servitude, made of copper, with their number upon it. If found without a trustee, they are to be sold at the block; if failing to have a badge, they are to be fined $20, or imprisoned. Under such stringency there was but little hope for them. They might be robbed of their badges by designing men, then imprisoned, and then sold unconditionally into slavery. To escape such a fate, thousands of the negroes have fled from the State. The Philadelphia Press has an account of the condition of those which have arrived in that city, which we copy in part. Up to November 1, more than seven hundred and ninety persons departed from the port of Charleston, about one hundred and fifty of whom have arrived at Philadelphia.
The facts given by the Press are from a personal visit by the editor to a large number of families. The editor says:-
Of the one hundred and fifty mentioned, two-thirds are trades-people. The men are carpenters, tailors, shoemakers, and masons; the females, mantuamakers, milliners, laundresses, and nurses. We read a long list of certificates from white ladies of Charleston, stating that one of these was an' excellent and faithful nurse.' One testimonial was addressed ' to the ladies of the North,' and certified that the bearer had attended her through a' long and dangerous sickness'- a fact which does not go far to show the gratitude of the recent Palmetto legislation.
Another party bore a certificate of his proficiency in plastering, from a master-mason of Charleston.
A handsome married woman, almost, white, exhibited her' badge,' or, as she facetiously termed it, her ' putty goole watch.' It was a diamond shape plate of copper, an inch square, bearing the inscription: ' Charleston, 1860-Servant 1243.'
This delicate piece of jewelry was punctured with a hole, and suspended thereby from a string. She had given $2 for it. Her husband had a similar one, labeled ' Porter,' for which he gave $4. The man and woman had been one day behind-band in ' taking out ' these badges, and they were fined $40 for being dilatory.
We asked the latter whether it was probable that others would leave South Carolina. She said that most of those possessing the means to emigrate had already done so. We know one of our colored residents who has sent, at various times, to those needy people of his race, $80 for passage money. Many of the refugees parted with their property at ruinous rates, and many have still some effects in Charleston. The latter class made revelations of
<c05>
their difficulties with timidity, fearful that their property would be jeopardized by undue complaint. We could see, however, that property considerations had little influence compared to dearer relations. Many of these ebony Evangelines have left in their Southern Acadia relatives and friends, for whose safety their fears are ceaseless. The mother of a yellow girl told us that her daughter had a' young feller in de Souf, whose safety ‘peared to weigh like on her mind,' and as she said this, her son, a tall young man, with glossy locks, was observed to wear an anxious look, as if he, too, had lost somebody in Carolina. We were told that one of the refugees had left an aged mother in Charleston. The old lady, on being solicited to come away with the family, replied that she had passed a lifetime in 'de Souf, and, please God, she wanted to die dar: nobody wanted to make a slave of de weakly ole 'oman.'
EXPULSION FROM SOUTH CAROLINA -STATEMENT OF WILLIAM C. WOOD.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
I noticed in your paper of last evening an article on my return home from South Carolina. The impression left by it was mainly correct. One or two inaccuracies I might notice. I should prefer, however, if one case out of many is sufficiently interesting to your readers, to give them a more detailed account of the treatment I received.
I arrived at Blackville, ninety miles from Charleston, at 8 o'clock on Monday evening, November 5th. Stepping upon the platform, I was almost immediately surrounded by a group of young men. Finding that they were a Vigilance Committee, I answered their questions until they asked,' What are your political opinions? Are you in favor of Mr. Lincoln's election?' My answer was, I beg your pardon, gentlemen, I have nothing to say to you on political matters. They asked me to stop, examined my trunk and a chest containing my library, until late Monday night, and for an hour or two Tuesday morning. The examination was conducted with politeness and delicacy. They found little against me -nothing, as they told me - which materially changed their impression. However, I was a Northern man-that was sufficient. The chief of the Vigilance Committee told me privately that such was the feeling, that were it not for several circumstances,' I should not have been let go with a whole skin.' However, they would send me home safe, pay my passage, and keep my books until the money was refunded.
This feeling, so strong then, gradually changed. A feeling sprung up and gained ground that I should be sent on to my employer. The meeting broke up without being able to agree. I was informed of this by one of the members, who advised me to proceed. I told him no. I'm not going to run away. I was stopped officially, and I must have official notice that I may leave. This I presently received. Thus the storm, I thought, had passed away.
At Barnwell, ten miles distant, I enjoyed the hospitality of the Baptist minister. In the afternoon, my employer (from a neighboring town) called. While conversing with him, I was unexpectedly waited upon by gentlemen who wished my attendance in the village. We proceeded to the Court House. I shall not be likely to forget that occasion; many circumstances invested it with interest. It was Barnwell Court House, from which, years ago, under memorable circumstances they sent away the venerable Judge Hoar. It was an assembly composed of the most respectable men of the place, There were the educated men, one minister (at least) and the physicians of the town. There were the principal slaveholders, and a large planter of 5,000 acres sat in the chair. The proceedings were parliamentary and courteous throughout. I stood at the table-(a little Massachusetts man, the shortest, I believe, in my class at Harvard)-and interrogatories were put me one by one. What were my sentiments on slavery, its extension, Mr. Lincoln's election, the higher law, irrepressible conflict, &c., &c. I answered them fairly. When I could reply with effect, I did so; when I could not, I declined to answer. Speeches were made-for and against. All expressed their admiration at the able and honest manner in which I had borne myself throughout. Many who did so, said that convictions of duty compelled them to vote against my stay. The vote stood 22 to 9. The Vigilance Committee generously raised the money on the spot to pay my expenses home.
Thus far I had met only courteous and considerate treatment. After a day spent under the roof of Rev. Mr. Perry-himself a slaveholder-I returned to Blackville. On the train I was insulted by a fellow, who dragged me into the negro car, (there was no one to say nay,) and persisted in sitting by my side, threatened me with whipping, paddling and hanging, and who, on my refusal to answer his questions, drew his knife to cut off my ear. A pretended friend offered me a pistol, told me I should need it before I reached Charleston. Of course, I declined it. At Bambergs, where they had hanged a man shortly before, ' the fellow' went out and called the Vigilance Committee, several of whom entered and seized me, and endeavored by main strength to force me from the car to hang me. I had good hold, and they couldn't move me, but they tore my coat badly in the struggle. The cars, moreover, were starting; they tried in vain to get them stopped, and were forced to desist. The conductor quietly extended all the protection, as I think, which he thought safe for him to do. Arriving at Charleston, he procured me an officer who conducted me to the guard house. It was not safe, the Chief of Police told me, to go abroad until the boat was about to start. They congratulated me on my narrow escape. Next day the officer attended me to the boat.
Here ends the story. It is only just to say that in addition to the election and secession excitement, the people have been exasperated by several cases of well-poisoning and slave arming. But extreme Abolitionists are not the only Northern men who have fanned the excitement. The editors of those journals North who have misrepresented the designs of the Republican party have done quite as much, I think, to procure the result. What mischief makers! Even the personelle of the Republican candidates has been misrepresented. Why, in South Carolina they really believe that Senator Hamlin, Vice President elect, is a mulatto man!
If I have not already left the impression, I wish to state that I have the best reasons for saying that my return is owing to no imprudence on my part. I could not change any act done or recall any sentence uttered before the two Vigilance Committees. I say this for two reasons-1st, in justice to myself; 2d, to show that no Northern man with Northern principles, however prudent and well-intentioned, is panted in South Carolina to-day; I was told that distinctly many times.
Such, Mr. Editor, is a brief but fair account of my reception in South Carolina, and my return home. I have, at last reached a State where I can express openly the suppressed joy and satisfaction which I felt on South Carolina ground, on hearing that a new and better era has began in our history
Your very truly,
WM. C. WOOD. 
West Roxbury, Nov.15th, I860.
<c06>
MAINE SEAMEN FLAYED. 
The following communication appears in the Savannah News, where it is headed,
'Abolitionists Dealt with in Camden County':-
At a meeting of the citizens of Camden county, held on the 6th inst., at Jeffersonton, a committee was appointed to examine the brig Julia E. Arey, of Bangor, Maine, and collect proof in relation to certain charges made against her master, E. W. Ryder, and her second mate, Joseph E. Ryder, both of South Orrington, Maine. The committee executed that duty, and reported to an adjourned meeting of the citizens on the following day, and the prisoners were brought before them.
'The citizens of Camden county having deliberately resolved to hang the first Abolitionist they could convict, and not being satisfied with the evidence then before them, adjourned their meeting to the 8th inst., that all the evidence could be elicited, and they could calmly and quietly deliberate upon the guilt or innocence of the prisoners. A jury of twelve men, composed of our best citizens, was then empanneled, and the evidence under oath submitted. It appears beyond doubt that a man, said to be a mulatto, has secretly passed through our county, representing to our negroes that Lincoln was to be elected, and that then they were to be prepared for a strike for freedom. It was also proved that the prisoners had held improper and dangerous conversation and intimacy with negroes; but the testimony not being sufficiently conclusive, the jury were compelled to render a verdict not to hang, but to flay the prisoners; to confine them in jail until their brig could be dropped down to the Sound, where a committee were appointed to see them safely off, with orders never to return, which sentence was duly and promptly executed.
'It was also resolved that our thanks be returned to Mr. Naylor, of the S. A. and G. Railroad, for his kind notice of certain rumors; that we solicit all such information, although we have every confidence in the perfect subordination of our negroes. It was further resolved that our Senator and Representatives in the Legislature be requested to urge on that body the enactment of a law to prohibit our citizens from permitting their slaves to enter any Northern vessel as pilot, stevedore, or in any other capacity; to allow us the right of search of all such vessels; and the right of selling into slavery all free negroes who enter our waters-which rights we claim in self-defence, and which we mean to exercise at all hazards.
'It was resolved that these proceedings be published in the Savannah papers.
'DUNCAN L. CLINCH, Chairman. 
'W. L. BIRD, Secretary.'
ANOTHER NORTHERN REFUGEE.
Another instance of intolerance has been brought to our notice. A young man named George B. Eddy, a pianoforte tuner, was sent out to Augusta, Georgia, by one of our largest houses in the trade, at the request of their agent in that city. Mr. Eddy reached Augusta on the 10th of October, and entered the employ of a good Southerner. At one of the houses which he visited, he entered into conversation with two ladies, who appeared to have been instigated by some one to draw the young man out. He expressed his preference for the Bell and Everett party, but said nothing to warrant the harsh usage which he subsequently received. His replies to interrogatories by the ladies were, however, either falsely reported to the editor of the Independent South, a fire-eating newspaper printed in Waynesboro', Georgia, or were maliciously construed by him into a bold and defiant attack upon the South and her institutions. An article-being a tissue of falsehoods, with scarcely a statement of truth therein-appeared in the issue of that paper of Nov. 7th, which excited the public against Mr. Eddy, who received the following abrupt and compulsory notice:
AUGUSTA, Nov. 8. 1860.
MR. EDDY,-You are ordered to leave the city immediately for expressing Abolition sentiments in Burke county; notice the Independent South published in Waynesboro', where you will see the charge brought against you. (Signed) MANY CITIZENS.
Mr. Eddy left Augusta on the 8th inst., by a circuitous route, in order to avoid any attentions which might be paid to him, and arrived in this city on Tuesday morning.-Boston Journal, Nov. 16th.
THE REIGN OF TERROR IS GEORGIA.
The steamer Alabama, which arrived here on Tuesday from Savannah, brought twenty-four cabin passengers, one-half of whom were banished from that city because of their Northern birth. One of these persons, John Devinney, has called upon us, and from him we gather some facts in relation to this- new phase of the Reign of Terror. Mr. Devinney was in the employ of Harnden & Co., Express men, in Savannah, and received, on Saturday morning, a notice that he must leave the city immediately. A notice was served, at the same time, upon Mr. Coe, an employee in the same office, that he also must leave. Expostulations were unless; the assurances of both men that they had in no way interfered with Southern institutions, and had no intention of doing so, were not listened to for a moment, and they were threatened with immediate death, unless they departed at once. As no alternative, therefore, was left them but either to face death or leave, they left in the afternoon of the same day. Their only fault was that they were Northern men-Devinney being a native of Philadelphia, and Coe of one of the Eastern States.
The man who was most instrumental in their banishment, was one James White, master of transportation on the Georgia Central Railroad. This White is himself a Northern man, but having lived for some years in Georgia, and become a slaveholder, he is to far trusted as to be permitted to prove his faithfulness by such villanous services as these. Three of the passengers on board the Alabama were a gentleman, his wife, and daughter, who have resided in Augusta for several years. This gentleman is a physician, and the hue and cry was raised against him by one of whom he endeavored to collect a debt. This method of settling pecuniary claims is a favorite one in Augusta, as our readers will remember. This gentleman barely escaped with his life, and neither he nor his family were permitted to bring away anything but the clothes on their backs. Another of the passengers was from Lexington, Georgia, but all, except these four, were from Savannah, and all were banished, without any other reason given them than that of Northern birth.-N. Y. Tribune.
ARREST OF AN ABOLITIONIST.-A man who gave his name as Daniel Donagan was arrested in this city yesterday for tampering with slaves. He was heard to say to a negro that to-day Lincoln would be elected, and the slaves of the South would be free. He was promptly arrested, and will he  disposed of to-day in some way not agreeable, perhaps, to the Black Republican disciple. The community should be on its guard against the machinations of such wretches.-Pensacola. Daily Observer.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men and unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.’-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
DISCOURSE OF HENRY WARD BEECHER.
Extract from a Discourse on 'The Signs of the Times,' recently delivered by Henry Ward Beecher:
The despotism of the plantation differs from others only in being bolder, more irresponsible, more entirely subject to temptations of avarice, lust, and arbitrary power. Such a system carries with it inevitable weakness in all elements of good, and power chiefly in elements of evil. It wears out the land, it demoralizes the conscience, it corrupts the public morals, it prevents increasing intelligence, and it brings the whole of society into the precincts of barbarism. 
Meanwhile, you shall find the family likeness preserved; and every argument, every plea, palliation, and excuse for oppression, made since the days of Nimrod and Pharaoh, is reproduced in our own land. You shall find in the defences of slavery nothing but the old clothes of past despotism, new vamped for modern use. Sermons go masquerading in the servile rags with which despotism was defended out of the Bible for a thousand years. Spain, Austria, and old Rome have opened their dead hands, and given to modern politicians the very material of defence which they employed in their times of despotic power. And thus the tombs of two thousand years ago have been broken open, and the virus collected from the decayed dead of infamous ages, to inoculate the young body of a new State. They lanced the arm, they put in the poison, but, thank God, it would not take! For a little time the place looked red, but the body resisted, and health kicked it out! You will observe, too, now, as always before, that wasting evils in the body politic seek to repair themselves by some interchange with neighboring health; and, when resisted or refused, you shall always find the same imagined sense of wrong. There is nothing that is so much aggrieved, and that suffers wrong from so many sources, as despotism; for it runs against every development of God in nature, and it fain believes that every law which it runs its head against, is some enemy attacking it. There is nothing that suffers half so many attacks and aggressions as slavery, if you believe the words of its advocates. In our land slavery has acted with the very instincts of the genus to which it belongs. And I do not see how there could very well have been any other course of history than that which has transpired in connection with it. It is undeniable that slavery seized the reins of this government, and that, for more than fifty years, it has substantially controlled it. It is the very necessity of the nature of oppression, to take supremacy. It was not merely its choice, it was its destiny, to do it. For it was life or death. Slavery must either muzzle our institutions, mask the Declaration of Independence and the Bills of Rights, and swathe the Constitution by putting it into the hands of political undertakers, who, by construction, are to bury the whole power of liberty-it must either do this, or it must itself die. If that spirit which burned in Southern and Northern hearts together and alike, in the beginning, when this confederacy was framed, had continued until now to animate and administer our government, do you believe there would have been at this time one single slave State in our borders? If, then, oppression was to exist, it must stop the administration of this government according to the principles in which it was formed. It made a life struggle, and did it. It acted according to its instinct, as the wolf acts according to its; as the snake acts according to its; as the bee, the wasp, and the hornet act according to theirs; and as the eagle and the vulture act according to theirs. It is essentially a beast of prey, and it has preyed upon us. 
When there arose in God's providence a spirit of investigation; when, again, in our day, Christ came to the grave, and called, 'Lazarus, come forth,' and he came, bound hand and foot; when this rising spirit of Christian liberty began to make its presence felt-then it was the necessity of slavery to demand in Congress, and through all the channels where traffic gave them influence, that it should be stopped. The Jews sought to put Lazarus to death because he was a standing miracle and authentication of Christ. And slavery cannot live if free speech lives, and is allowed. It is essentially an institution of dumbness. They are incompatible things, and cannot travel together. It is pertinent, perhaps, to ask what is the nature of an institution that cannot sustain itself without putting out the eyes of vigilance, and cutting out the tongue of free speech.
But once let it be settled that slavery must stand, and there is no help for it. Silence, except in praise and defence, must be had, or it cannot live. It will not bear the light of investigation. It will not stand discussion, if it is free. There is a certain kind of free discussion allowed. It is allowed in South Carolina, in Georgia, in Alabama, in Mississippi, in Louisiana, and in Arkansas. It was allowed in the border times of Missouri and Kansas. Every man that believed in slavery had a right to talk freely, and nobody else. This is what they call free discussion!
When John Quincy Adams, the venerable Giddings, and Slade, and other men, began to speak in Congress, the inevitable results took place. The whole power of Southern feeling rose up, and not only demanded that these men should be gagged, but commanded silence upon the whole land. And it was boldly said that to speak on these things was treason. And there were not wanting men among us so servile that it was evident that they were born white by mistake, who declared that there ought to be punishment for free speech in the North! I do not blame slavery for its course, any more than I blame a wolf for eating when he is hungry-for eating a lamb when he cannot get anything better. If it was to live, it must employ the proper instrumentalities of life; and the suppression of free Speech was one of them. Muzzles must always go where shackles are.
Next came the great step westward-the Texas war. That, too, was inevitable. It sprung from the radical nature of slavery. Once let a bound be put about slavery; once say to her, 'Thus far, and no further;' and then her extinction is simply a question of time, and not of fact. For the nature of slavery is such that she can only live as the nomadic Arab lives, by changing her pasture-ground. Give her a foundation, and give her tents, and refuse to let her play nomad on the great Western territories, and her doom is sealed. To stand still is to die, in her case.
The war with Mexico, and the acquisition of territory by a species of justice interpreted, exactly, by the chief-justices of the highway, by those lovers of equity called foot-pads, is only another step of the same kind. It was legitimate. Not legitimate for justice, but legitimate from the nature of slavery. She could not help herself. It belongs to the system. If that system is right, or is to be tolerated, such things must also be. It cannot be otherwise. For everything must be fed with the food appropriate to its nature. And if slavery is to exist, you must feed it, as in the old myth the dragon was fed, which demanded for its victims the fairest virgins of the city. So long as the dragon of slavery lies coiled up in our land, you must give the fairest things we have got to feed its maw!
It is but a single step more to the recent events-the abolition of the Missouri compromise, the desperate debaucheries of justice in Kansas, and the Dred Scott decision, together with those other bolts, already forged in the stithy of injustice, and ready to be launched against liberty, just as soon as success had given another lease of four years' authority in this Government. These, all of them, are logical. They all proceed from the same central source. 
The manacle was on the wrist of liberty, the lock was hooked on, the key was fitted, the hand was stretched forth to turn the key, when God launched the omnipotence of the vote, and dashed manacle, and lock, and key and hand, all to the ground. And that shackle will never be put on again. It has been on for the last time.
In all this aggression and wrong in behalf of a system of the merest and most unmitigated iniquity, there has been, as we should expect, a constant outcry on the part of slavery. An outcry of what? For all the world, of what? Why, an outcry that they have been abased and wronged! Having stolen the government; having perjured every line and, instrument of Revolutionary memory; having grossly travestied the whole testimony of our fathers; having turned the stem toward the stern, and put the ship end for end in reverse; having, with step after step taken advantage of temporary authority, and for the purpose of augmenting and deepening and fortifying this institution of slavery, they stand crying and weeping, and declaring that they are the victims of constant persecution-that they have been grossly wronged! Every pain that gripes them, from the nature of their own disease, is an arrow from the North! Every waste for which they have no supply, is a testimony of the infidelity of the North! Every resistance which the law of God has made to their progress, is some cord treach-
<c02>
erously spun and cast before their path by the North! And so while thus arrayed against reason, liberty, and justice, they have railed at as for the wrongs which they have suffered as a result of their own misdeeds!
'After that hoary old despot, Ahab, had revelled in iniquity knee-deep-yes, from his loins to his neck; after he had slain the prophets, and ramped up and down like the devil, and walked about like a lion, one poor starveling prophet came to him, when he says to him, 'Ah! art thou he that troubleth Israel?' This man had carried devastation and revolution through the land, and destroyed its faithful prophets, and the moment he comes in sight of a surviving one he says, 'Ah! you are troubling Israel!' It is the same game over and over. For the nature of despotism is the same every where, in every age, and under all circumstances; and what you read in the Book, you can read on the plantation, in the halls of Congress, and in the speeches and conduct of men, in your own day.
That long period, thank God, has come to an end. The last westward step is taken. I think they will never get any nearer to sundown than they are now. The last inch of territory to be corrupted by slavery has been filehed. That robber-circle is completed, and that robber-career is ended. And you and I are born, and are permitted to stand spectators of such a day, and of such a glorious result as that.
Now, I pray you, consider some of the results and events that have happened on the other side, during this conflict.
When God sent to Israel, in a very dark and corrupt day-in a day of very great trouble and peril and oppression, his people being bond-servants under Pharaoh-he did not send a king, or a school of philosophers: he sent one poor man, Moses. Moses made his essay, and failed, and left his brethren where he found them, and went forty years in the wilderness an exile. And when he was eighty years of age, he returned a solitary man, a shepherd, to give deliverance to his people. And again, in history, when all things seemed about to be enveloped in midnight; when old Eli had grown infirm and indulgent, and his sons corrupt, and misrule prevailed around about the very altar-front of God, then a little child in the temple heard the voice of, the Almighty, and did not know what it meant. It was Samuel that God spoke to, and not Eli.
Now, at the beginning of this great work, whose period we mark and celebrate to-night, God did not call the great, or the many, but his voice sounded first in the ears of the humble and the few. I call you to remember that this great work, however-much help it may have received from the Church, and from persons in the Church, was not begun by the Church. Courts and assemblies were not called to head the resistance to slavery. It was not the legislature nor the States; it was not any part of organized society whatever, that inaugurated this revolution against slavery. All these things had too much to take care of to be able to risk anything for an unpopular justice. They were all of them asleep; and when the voice sounded, none of them knew it to be the voice of God. He spake, therefore, to a few mostly unknown men. The men that first agitated in behalf of liberty and against slavery, were the truest martyrs that this age has seen. Many of them are dead; or rather they have burst forth from the constraining bonds of this life, and now they truly live in heaven. They but glimmered here: there they blaze. A few patriarchs are yet alive. It is but a pleasant magnanimity to speak well of those with whom you differ in many very material respects; and though I am not on his side, I must bear witness to the fidelity of such a man as William Lloyd Garrison. It may be hard for some to believe that he was one of the earliest and noblest of those instruments that God employed for the overthrow of oppression among us-he that has been the scourge of the ministry and Church, and whose tongue has walked to and fro through the land amid persecutions scarcely paralleled in modern times. And yet, after all, however much he may be liable to criticism, however much we may lament his spirit, and differ from his present views, one thing cannot be denied, that there has risen up no more stalwart or heroic man in any age, to labor for freedom, to declare slavery to be iniquitous, and, from the first, to speak untempered words, but words that were untempered only because, in the might of wickedness, and in the strength of his feeling, there was no time for measuring. The ages are more just than the years in which things take place; and, by-and-by, when you and I are gone down below the horizon, and men see none of us, they will behold, standing high as a star, such a man as William Lloyd Garrison. Not on account of the infelicities of his disposition, but on account of this element of his life-Christian opposition to slavery. Many and many a man, if remembered at all, will be remembered because he threw dirt at him. With him there sat many others. The list, at one period, I could read without much impeding my discourse, or unduly elongating it. For I remember when to have been a mad dog in the street would have been safety and pardonable, compared with being an abolitionist. The number then was comparatively few: and those that dared, in any town, and in any connection, to espouse the anti-slavery cause, had to bid farewell to popularity, and therefore to every hope of advancement and of honor.
The beginnings of this strife were inauspicious, full of tumult, rage, and violence. It is well known that men travelling in the West become seasoned with malaria, so that while there they have no chills and fever, but when they come to the seaboard, where the bracing influences of the Eastern climate work upon the system, it develops itself. They carry the egg of disease about them, but at last it hatches, as it is said. The malaria of slavery was early in the North, and it broke out later; but it broke out under the stimulating influences which were brought to bear upon it. It is incredible, even so soon, what intensity of hatred was heaped upon men that only loved liberty and spoke for it. One would not believe that it was possible for a free people to be so pervaded with the venom of slavery. Almost every organization of society set itself against this reformation. The family, the school, 
colleges, caucuses, parties, and legislatures were against it. Churches, consistories, presbyteries, synods, and assemblies were against it. Boards of publication and boards of missions were against it. Bankers and brokers, jobbers and shippers, makers. and venders, were against it. Everything was; against it. Time after time they killed it. Argument upon argument was hurled at it. Resolution upon resolution was aimed at it. Never was the bell tolled at the death of any rising spirit of revolution oftener than at the death of the rising spirit of anti-slavery! And what was the result? Just the same as the result which followed Herod's attempt to kill Christ. He slew a few babes in Bethlehem; but Christ was not touched, and he grew to the stature of a man, and became the Redeemer of the world, and by death brought life. And of what all these resistances have done, you are witnesses to-day.
To the young I cannot appeal; but you who are past forty years of age-let me ask, if twenty years ago I had preached this sermon, on which side would you have been? You smile to think of it now; but you have travelled further than through a hemisphere from that time to this, and you are conscious of it.
The invincible might of weakness was never more displayed than in the life and progress and victories of the anti-slavery cause: for there was never a cause more unpopular, more disdained, more opposed by the organizations of society. We ought, therefore, to derive some important lessons from this change. We ought, for instance, to see what is the power of a moral principle steadily pressed, over all resistance. You cannot destroy a moral principle, if men are willing to stand up in its behalf, and be martyrs for it. Such a principle carries in it the life of God. A question of tariff, or a question of bank, may go this way or that. A question of economy may be shoved one way or another. Questions of policy, however important they may be, have no vitality of their own. But a question that touches human nature at the root; a question of absolute moral justice, of absolute truth, and of absolute 
purity; a question of right or wrong-it makes no difference how unpopular such a question is, if it has faithful advocates it will prevail. A man that puts himself on the ground of moral principle, if the whole world be against him, is mightier than all of them. For the orb of time becomes such a man's shield; and every step, every year, brings him nearer to the hand of Omnipotence. If a man takes ground for truth, and justice, and rectitude, and piety, and fights well, there can be no question as to the result. I would that I could inspire you to do right with courage, therefore, by making you feel that right is itself a host. Never be afraid of being in minorities, so that minorities are based upon principles.
<c03>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, NOVEMBER 23, 1860.
NO SLAVE-HUNTING IN MASSACHUSETTS.
The following petition is now in the hands of reliable friends of freedom, in all parts of the Common wealth, for immediate circulation. It is precisely the same which, for the two preceding years, has been signed by thousands of the most virtuous and humane portion of the people, and which ought to be subscribed by every man and woman in Massachusetts. Those to whom it has been sent are earnestly urged to be up and doing, for the time is short between the present and the period for the assembling of the Legislature. Let every family, and every person, be tested by its presentation; let it be (as it will) a revelation of character and of purpose: and let the world know how many there are among us who 'remember those in bonds as bound with them,' and are therefore for protecting the fugitive, or, on the other hand, how many are still for allowing slave-hunters to seize their prey with impunity on the Puritan and Revolutionary soil of the old Bay State, and to act as their accomplices in kidnapping. 
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts:
The undersigned, citizens of
Massachusetts, respectfully ask you to put an end to SLAVE-HUNTING in Massachusetts, by enacting that no person, who has been held as a Slave, shall be delivered up, by any officer or court, State or Federal, within this Commonwealth, to any one claiming him on the ground that he owes 'service or labor' to such claimant, by the laws of one of the Slave States of this Union. 
The Boston Journal, Transcript, and Springfield Republican are basely urging the entire repeal of the Personal Liberty Bill in this State, and the most abject obedience to the accursed Fugitive Slave Law, as a peace-offering to the Southern slaveholding banditti! Such shameless villany and dastardly cowardice should excite the popular indignation from one end of the Common wealth to the other. Instead of adopting the measure proposed, the people will rather demand of the Legislature to put an end to all slave- hunting in the State, so that they may proudly exclaim in regard to Massachusetts, as Curran did respecting British law:- 
'I speak in the spirit of the British Law, which makes liberty commensurate with, and inseparable from, the British soil-which proclaims, even to the stranger and the sojourner, the moment he sets his foot upon British earth, that the ground on which he treads is holy, and consecrated by the genius of Universal Emancipation. No matter in what language his doom may have been pronounced; no matter what complexion, incompatible with freedom, an Indian or an African sun may have burnt upon him; no matter in what disastrous battle his liberty may have been cloven down; no matter with what solemnities he may have been devoted upon the altar of Slavery; the first moment he touches the sacred soil of Britain, the altar and the god sink together in the dust; his soul walks abroad in her own majesty; his body swells beyond the measure of his chains that burst from around him, and he stands redeemed, regenerated, and disenthralled, by the irresistible Genius of UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION.' 
The Union! Read what a Springfield, Ill. correspondent of the New York Tribune writes:- 
'I mentioned that Mr. Lincoln had already quite a large correspondence with the South. There are many of his letters from that quarter which the country ought to see. Missives which no decent man could write are abundant; their postmarks reveal the fact that the vocabulary of Billingsgate is not confined to the Five Points and Marshal Rynder's office. Unfortunately, the earmarks of some of them show that their writers are not devoid of education, if destitute of decency. Letters threatening death, in all its forms, as the penalty of his high position, are more abundant still. They are, of course, mainly anonymous, though a few bear real names. Some are signed in hieroglyphics, said to be known only to the "Sacred Order" or "Southern Brotherhood," which threatens Mr. Lincoln with a sudden and untimely taking-off. A few are ornamented with sketches of executions by the gibbet, assassination by the stiletto, or death by a lightning-stroke; and in nearly all, the theology of the writers is indicated by rude caricatures of the Devil, ready with his three-pronged fork to receive and pitch into everlasting fire the body of the unfortunate Lincoln, whose offence consists in the belief that human slavery is wrong.' 
People of Massachusetts! as to the numberless outrages on the part of the South, be in this spirit:- 
'Have they wronged us? Let us then
Render back nor threats nor prayers;
Have they chained our free-born men?
LET US UNCHAIN THEIRS!' 

PROGRESS OF SOUTHERN TREASON.
The proceedings of the brutal, demented, God-defying oppressors at the South continue to be of the most inflammatory and treasonable character-treasonable so far, at least, as words are concerned; for these blatant secessionists have, as yet, been careful not to commit any overt act against the General Government, whereby the safety of their necks would be imperilled. They vauntily telegraph from Charleston, that not an American flag is seen waving from the mast-head of any vessel at the wharves-only the Palmetto flag; but it is significantly added, that the national ensign is seen flying, as usual, over Fort Moultrie down the harbor! No attempt has been made either to take the fort, or to interfere with the collection of revenue at the custom-house. Hence, all their blustering and vaporing amounts to treason in spirit, language, and possible design, but not to any thing tangible.
We could occupy the whole of our present number with the ridiculous pranks and ferocious demonstrations going on at the South. The Oxford (Miss.) Mercury says- 'From all portions of the South, we hear the notes of preparation for the coming storm. The reveille is being beat, minute men, riflemen and dragoons are forming, and making ready to march at a moment's warning to repel the foe,' &c. And this is but a specimen of the lunacy every where prevailing in the South; while, at the North, the people are quietly attending to their own business, and no more design any unjust or unlawful procedure against Southern men or institutions than they do to establish an absolute despotism among themselves!
The result of all this military arming will be a heavy bill of expense to the South, and all-prevailing and severe distress will soon be felt by her population as a natural consequence. Already a telegram from Charleston announces that one heavy cotton and other smaller houses in that city have suspended-the banks refuse to discount-cotton is declining-and trade is completely prostrated. In Virginia, there is a terrible pressure in the money market-flour is declining, and all the mills have stopped, except the Gallego, &c., &c. As they sow, so are they reaping; for such is the justice of God. The end is not yet. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS AT MUSIC HALL. The discourse of Mr. Phillips, at Music Hall, on Sunday forenoon, before the Twenty-eighth Congregational Society, was a lucid and impressive exposition of the true uses of a pulpit, and in warm commendation of the one so nobly consecrated to the service of freedom and humanity by the late Theodore Parker. It was listened to with deep interest and great satisfaction by a large audience. We hope to see it in print. 
In the evening, at the same place, Mr. Phillips made a powerful address on temperance, characterised by his usual plainness of speech in regard to distinguished transgressors. Rev. Mr. Miner also spoke with marked ability, and did not spare either clerical, legal or medical upholders of wine-bibbing. The assembly was a noble one, and the occasion full of encouragement to the friends of the temperance cause
<c04>
SOUTHERN ATROCITIES. 
Of the new series of Tracts, in process of publication by the American Anti-Slavery Society, the FOURTH NUMBER, (issued during the spring,) comprising no less than 144 pages, was wholly occupied with a list of lawless and barbarous outrages committed at the South, within a short period, upon the rights and persons of Northern citizens visiting that part of the Union, guiltless of any wrong, on the malicious pretence that they were either secretly or openly opposed to slavery, and therefore unsafe to he tolerated on Southern soil! Another tract will be issued in the course of a few days, extending this catalogue of deeds worthy of fiends, recently committed; and these are sure to be multiplied, almost to any extent, in the future. At the present time, in no part of the world are human life and liberty so insecure as in the Southern States. All freedom of speech is denied- the rights of conscience are not recognized-worse than savage barbarism prevails in every quarter-and the entire population seem to be on the verge of lunacy, if not thoroughly demonized. Nor is it Abolitionists alone who are thus given over to the horrible process of lynch law: indeed, of the multitudinous victims from the North who have been imprisoned, scourged, trampled underfoot, tarred and feathered, hanged, or driven out by murderous violence, it is not known that more than one or two ever pretended to be an Abolitionist, or regarded the Anti-Slavery movement with favor. On the contrary, it is known that some of them have always been proslavery in spirit and purpose, and others wholly indifferent to the cries of the perishing bondmen at the South. Hence, the real truth is, that scores of innocent men,-innocent even in the Southern meaning of the term,-have been subjected to the most humiliating and savage treatment, without legal arraignment or trial, and without the slightest proof of criminality. No Northern man, suspected of entertaining the sentiments avowed by Washington, Jefferson, Wythe, Pinkney, and Patrick Henry, in regard to the wrongfulness of slavery, is safe for one moment beyond the Potomac. If he be from Massachusetts, his peril is greatly increased. In vain does he assert his innocency-in vain does he demand to be tried as an American citizen-in vain does he seek protection under his country's flag-in vain does he claim his rights under the National Constitution-he is beaten, hunted, outlawed, in the most ferocious manner, as though he were a wild beast, or a felon of the deepest dye! 
It is astonishing with what comparative indifference these daily multiplying atrocities are regarded by the people of the North-thus inviting to fresh outrages continually! A vast majority of the newspapers merely record them as items of intelligence, without comment, as though they were of no particular significance; and their readers are apparently as little affected by the perusal as though they related to the treatment of iron and granite! Is the manhood of the North clean gone for ever? Has it lost all self-respect, all reverence for justice, all appreciation of constitutional liberty? What is its connection with the South but one of criminal complicity, of cowardly submission, of selfish subserviency, of degrading vassalage? What additional insults and outrages will arouse it to assert its rights, and to demand justice at any cost?
TRIBUTE TO THE EARLY ABOLITIONISTS. In preceding columns we have made an extract from an earnest, eloquent and impressive discourse on 'The Signs of the Times,' delivered recently in his own church by Henry Ward Beecher. In the course of it, he endeavors to pay a generous tribute to our own labors in the cause of emancipation in special, and to those of our unfaltering coadjutors in general-mixing with it such qualifications and disclaimers as seemed to him at least prudent, in the present state of public sentiment. We gratefully appreciate it, with all humility of spirit; but we are perplexed and pained by the declaration in regard to us personally, 'We are not on his side.' If he is not with us, he must be against us; and in that case, how can he bestow such a panegyric? The language implies more than he meant to convey, we have no doubt; for what more have we done than to utter, apply and carry out the anti-slavery principles enunciated in his discourse? As for the estimation in which we are now or may hereafter be held, it is to us a very small matter, so that we are able to keep a clear conscience, and to meet the responsibilities of the times in n faithful and fearless manner. The appalling delinquency of the American Church, in the long and painful struggle for the overthrow of slavery, is truthfully and vividly delineated by Mr. Beecher, confirming all the allegations we have made in that direction.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for December, contains the following papers:-1. The United States and the Barbary States. [More correctly-The United States are the Barbary States.] 2. Sunshine. 3. The Two Tongues. 4. Midsummer and May. 5. Epithalamia. 6. Arthur Hallam. 7. The Confessions of a Medium. 8. John Andre and Honorn Sneyd. 9. We Shall Rise Again. 10. The Professor's Story. 11. A Plea for Freedom from Speech and Figures of Speech Makers. This 'Plea' is evidently from the pen of the writer of 'A Trip to Cuba.' (a series of sketches characterized by an equal mixture of inhumanity and vulgarity.) whose spite toward Wendell Phillips occasionally ventilates itself through the columns of the New York Tribune, and now in this witless essay, the object of which is to sneer at the progressive spirit of the age, and to satirize the most eloquent advocate of the rights of her own sex who has yet ventured to grapple with the despotism of ages.
We beg leave to suggest to the present proprietors of this monthly, that its large circulation is mainly, if not entirely owing to the interest taken in it, from its commencement, by those who have confidently expected of it a higher moral tone and a deeper interest in the cause of struggling freedom than any other literary magazine in the land; and if they are to be treated, from time to time, to such vicious productions as we have referred to, and the Atlantic Monthly is to be merely literary, we predict there will be a serious curtailment of its present list of subscribers, at no distant day. 
JOHN BROWN MEETING. At a meeting of the 'John Brown Anniversary Committee,' held in Washington Building, Monday afternoon, it was decided to hold a meeting in Tremont Temple, on December 3d, which is to be addressed by Wendell Phillips, Gerrit Smith, Fred. Douglass, Montgomery Blair, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Rev. Mr. Wheeler, and others, on the subject, 'How can American slavery be abolished?' The speakers will be confined to the question, as the Committee think it would be a work of supererogation to defend John Brown now, and a useless waste of time to eulogize him, and they wish to seek to continue his life by striving to accomplish what he left them to finish. 
We accidentally omitted to give credit to the Atlas and Bee for the report (made by Mr. Yerrinton) of the timely and eloquent lecture of Wendell Phillips,-the sixth of the Fraternity Course,-on the Presidential Election, published in our last number. The audience was immense, and the enthusiasm great, notwitstanding the faithful reproofs and scathing criticisms of men and parties scattered through the lecture. The moral courage of the orator is matched only by his rhetorical power.
THE FAMINE IN KANSAS.-A number of our leading citizens have called a meeting to be held in the Tremont Temple this (Friday) evening, to take measures for the relief of the suffering inhabitants of Kansas. 
<c05>
'HARRINGTON.' 
The author of Harrington calls it 'A Story of True Love,' and it is such. But love and marriage are the staple material of novel writers, and every one of them would fain have his book a story of true love, and a representative of his ideal of marriage. The attempt to do this is the most common thing in the world; its success must depend upon the mental and spiritual elevation of the writer. 
The writer of Harrington has treated this difficult subject ably and well. Without defining marriage, he has represented it in his hero and heroine as (in my judgment) it should be represented, as the union for life of one man and one woman who not only love, but who are suited permanently to live with each other, in mutual love and helpfulness; and in whom this love and helpfulness are to co-operate, not only towards the outward necessities and comforts of life, but towards the progressive improvement of each; towards the formation in each of a higher and nobler character.
Holding, and distinctly representing, this lofty and noble ideal, our author can afford to speak plainly of the imperfections of the thing popularly recognized as marriage. He accordingly lets the villain of his story (a character black as the devil himself, who practises a brutal and ferocious cruelty equally towards his wife and his slaves,) mention Horace Greeley by name, and-referring to his well-known delineations in the Tribune (very correct delineations, in my judgment,) of the abuses and enormous evils which would be the first result of a relaxation of the existing bonds of marriage-boast of the power given him by those bonds to tyrannize over his wife as thoroughly as over his slaves. Our author evidently is thinking, and means to set his readers to thinking, how to attain the yet unattained golden mean-first an equal recognition, in law, of the rights and interests of both parties in the marriage compact, and next, the doing of what may be done to insure fitness, as well as permanence, to these unions.
But in Harrington the predominant idea and impression are of liberty, civil liberty, far more than of love or marriage. The book is a vigorous assault upon American slavery. Its scene is laid in Boston, in 1852, shortly after the passage of the Fugitive Slave Law. A long, but intensely interesting, preliminary chapter represents how far slavery can go towards the realization of hell upon earth, in a description of Mr. Torwood Lafitte, his wife, his slaves and their overseer, and his plantation on the Red River in Louisiana. In this chapter the slave Antony, who has been captured at the very commencement of an attempt at escape, is subjected to such intolerable cruelty and outrage that he renews the attempt, and this time successfully. 
After great privations and sufferings at the commencement of his enterprise, he gets clandestinely on board a vessel just leaving New Orleans for Boston, carrying fast locked on his neck a heavy iron collar with a projecting prong, stamped with the inscription-'LAFITTE BROTHERS, NEW ORLEANS.' In a few days hunger, thirst, and the foul air of his hiding place in the hold, oblige him to reveal himself. The captain proves to be one of the worst of the evil class called Northern men with Southern principles; and they arrive in Boston just at the time when the representatives of its Southern trade had followed the lead of Daniel Webster in thoroughly overcoming whatever 'prejudices' they might once have felt in favor of liberty.
Such is the 'Prologue,' introductory to the story of Harrington, who succeeds, through numerous adventures and perils, and ultimately at the sacrifice of his life, in rescuing Antony from the clutches of the Slave Power in Boston. I need not rehearse the details. Everybody will read them, especially as some of the characters drawn in the book represent real persons in this city.
Men conspicuously known to the public, whether as well-doers or evil-doers, are, like public buildings, the common property of the novelist and the narrator. So, writing in regard to Slavery and Anti-Slavery, at a time when the representatives of both were actively working in Boston, our author has taken the liberty not only to draw some of his characters so that they may be recognized as real persons, but to refer, by name, to those who were then conspicuous here in the historic struggle between liberty and slavery. Indeed, how could a dramatic representation of the state of Boston at that time be correctly given, without reference, by its interlocutors, to William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Theodore Parker and Thomas Wentworth Higginson, on one side, and to Hallett, Sprague and the Curtises on the other? Those of our novelist's characters who love freedom, and are themselves working in its behalf, speak with admiration, with enthusiasm, of the men, above named, who then led the struggle of its brave minority in the actual life of Boston. They speak of these men as future generations will speak. All men now praise Hancock and the Adamses, Washington and Warren. But to understand their full courage and merit, we must remember that much lofty and powerful respectability in their own circle of society spoke against them while their struggle was yet pending. So State Street now speaks of the second revolution. By and by, Garrison and Phillips, Parker and Higginson, laboring for the elevation of man, will be seen by all to have occupied a higher and nobler position than even the bravest of those who in 1776 fought for themselves and their children.
At present, many will speak of these praises, uttered by Harrington and his associates, as extravagant. And, unfortunately, this unjust charge will be helped to gain credence by the fact that the author's style is justly open to the charge of extravagance. Writing with really great ability, and able effectively to describe scenery, incidents, emotions and character, he seems not to know when he has accomplished an adequate description, and overloads his pages with a profusion of epithets, frequently misusing language in the attempt to intensify it. He excites intense interest, alike in scenes tender and scenes terrible, but the effect of each is sometimes marred by overdoing. In spite of these errors in its form, the book will be widely read, and the words of Harrington and Muriel will stir the hearts of many to go and do likewise.- 
C. K. W. 
'HARRINGTON.'
MR. EDITOR-I have just finished reading 'HARRINGTON,' the last new story from the anti-slavery publishing firm of New England, Messrs. Thayer & Eldridge; and I want to call the attention of your readers to a book, rare and remarkable as angels visits are, and full as good. I have risen from its perusal, nobly resolved, strengthened, and encouraged to live a more earnest, useful and practical life henceforth. And this is its great merit-to infuse new zeal into those who have hearts to feel, and heads to think; who have faith in personal effort, to work with renewed energy in the daily battle of life, for the Good Time Coming; to diligently labor in the world's Great Cause for suffering humanity.
I never dreamed a story could be written with the scene laid in Boston, where all the places mentioned are familiar as old friends, much less one which fairly makes you tremble with the interest it creates-never thought such a thing possible; but here it is, real as it is strange, and true as it is real.
The faults of the book are comparatively few and trifling, so as to detract little from its value. I can recollect now, no book which has so stirred my heart, so moved the deep fountains of my whole being, as has 'Harrington.'
It is no exaggeration to say, that its wealth of description is not surpassed by anything in Brockder Brown or Edgar Poe. Unlike their writings, however, its moral purpose is holy; it pleads the cause of the slave. And while the story is anti slavery to degree not surpassed by anything a Mrs. Stowe,
<c06>
the book is also thickly strewn with the sagest hints and profoundest suggestions upon questions growing out of all the reform measures of the times; Marriage, Temperance, the Rights and Elevation of Woman, Trade, Social Caste, are interwoven in the most delicate, ingenious and keenest manner imaginable. Laden with great practical thoughts, they glow with beauty, strength and fire. Every page is alive, for a large-hearted, whole-souled, wide-awake man is earnestly at work.
The book throughout is original, ingenious, and at times eloquent as inspiration-fresh as the morning dew, sparkling and crisp as November frost. From Prologue to Epilogue, 'Harrington' is a triumph.
Boston, Nov. 18, 1860.

THE LONDON BAPTISTS AND THE SLAVERY QUESTION.
The quarterly meeting of the London Board of Baptist Ministers was held at the Baptist Mission house, Moorgate-street, London, on Wednesday, Oct. 31st. There was a large attendance, including the Revs. W. Barker, J. Blomfield, W. H. Bonner, S. Brawn, W. Brock, S. Bird, P. Cater, G. W. Fishbourne, J. H. Hinton, W. Crome, W. Miall, J. H. Milliard, C. Stovel, R. Ware, F. Wills, S. Wills, D. D., and G. Wyard.
The Rev. J. H. Hinton was called to the chair. The Rev. W. Barker, the Secretary, observed that a committee had been appointed to consider the relations of Dr. Baron Stow, an eminent Baptist minister of Boston, to slavery. A report had been made, accepted, and forwarded to Dr. Baron Stow, with a letter, courteously requesting him to make such a statement in reply as he deemed desirable. Six months had elapsed, and, though a second request had been forwarded to him, no reply had been made. The Secretary, however, had been informed through another channel, that Dr. Baron Stow did not intend to reply. The Rev. W. H. Bonner, by request, reviewed the progress of the inquiry, and read the report. The Rev. C. Stovel moved that the report be adopted, and a committee of three be appointed to prepare an address to the American Baptists, based upon the facts which had been evolved during the inquiry. It was seconded by the Rev. J. H. Millard. An animated and extended discussion took place, evincing much sympathy for the slave. The Rev. W. H. Bonner made an able speech, offering proofs for every statement made in the report, and answering every objection made to it. He placed on the table a printed form of the pew-deed of Dr. Baron Stow's Chapel, which provided that pew should only be let to respectable white persons, and pleaded eloquently in behalf of four millions of fellow-men in bondage, and also for the purity of the British churches endangered by the visits of pro-slavery American ministers, the representatives of churches corrupted by slavery, and greatly needing reformation. A resolution prepared by the chairman was then moved by the Rev. G. W. Fishbourne, seconded by the secretary, and adopted in substance as follows:- 'That Dr. Baron Stow having returned no answer to the report sent to him in February last, this Board are justified in concluding that its allegations are correct, and therefore do adopt the said report.' It was adopted with one dissentient. The motion of the Rev. C. Stovel was then adopted. The Rev. W. Brock moved that a committee of three be appointed to report the address, and that the Rev. C. Stovel be requested kindly to prepare it. The chairman and secretary were placed on the committee. The vote being put by the Rev. W. Brook, it was adopted. The proceedings were then brought to a close.
WESTERN CONVENTIONS.
TO THE EDITOR:
For nearly a month, I have been the pioneer to the doctrine of Immediate and Unconditional Emancipation, and of No Union with Slaveholders, as the surest, speediest step to its accomplishment.
 Last Saturday and Sunday, we held a La salle County Convention at Mendota. Numerically, it was not a very large meeting, but it was one of those to be weighed, not counted, to show their size. Around were the 'earthquake, whirlwind and fire' of political and sectarian strife, fierce as in the vision of Mount Horeb. But the 'still small voice' in that vision was any thing but a small meeting. So was ours at Mendota.
We had at that meeting the presence and most valuable aid of our new coadjutor in the field, Mr. Edwin R. Brown, (son of our friend Dea. Brown of Cummington,) of Elmwood, Peoria county, in this State. I was expecting a good deal of him, from the representations of Mr. Foss and others; but he realized almost my very highest wishes. And it gives me the greatest pleasure to announce him as one of our regular field workers, after the first of December.
Mr. Campbell, too, was there, from Clinton, Iowa; and with both speech and song added great to the interest of the occasion. He has been for some years in the field of reform, and I trust will remain there. Mrs. Campbell accompanied him to Mendota, and would have spoken, had there been time. She lectures mainly in the cause of woman, and, I have been assured, with excellent effect. Mr. <illegible>, too, was present, and also Mr. W. T. Allen of Geneseeo, and both spoke with good effect for Republicans.
All the sessions of our Convention were marked at least with earnestness. One subject was the inconsistency of holding with Gerrit Smith on the Constitution, and then voting for Abraham Lincoln. What shall we say to such men? What do you say to such? Nine-tenths of the voters hereabouts hold with Sumner and Lovejoy that slavery is unconstitutional, unnatural, and every way diabolical; and yet with Sumner, Lovejoy and the rest, they have voted for Lincoln, who even accepts the present Fugitive Slave Law as a Constitutional right guarantied to the South! It is wondrous to see with what cool effrontery men, who seem to be sound and sensible on most subjects, will argue by the half hour the propriety of holding with Gerrit Smith continually, and yet always voting for whatever candidate Republicans set up. Who is it that celebrates the absurdity in song-
'To hold with the hare, but run with the hound'? 
I made a man very angry in the meeting, by telling him such a course showed a sad defect either of head or heart. Such men always endeavor to get up a Constitutional discussion; but I always admit their interpretation for the time, and then demand why they do not go with it to the polls. That is a point which certainly admits of no debate, and persons often become quite heated in attempting to reconcile the absurdity. Sometimes they taunt us very bitterly with the questions, 'Why do not you Garrisonian do-nothing vote? Why don't you carry your principles to the polls?' My answer is, 'It was our Constitutional principle which you carried there; now, why don't you carry your principles to the polls? not ours! not Calhoun's, and Clay's, and Webster's; and Abraham Lincoln's too? They hold, ever and always, that the Constitution upholds and protects slaveholding, and slave-hunting, and slave-breeding, and slave-buying, and slave-selling, as well as a slave representation in Congress. And you voted for all these when you voted for Van Buren and Fremont and Abraham Lincoln- and that is why we don't carry our principles to the polls. We don't think such principles are fit to carry any where-and above all things, to be sent to Washington embodied in Abraham Lincoln or any other President holding them. And so stand aside, and labor night and day, and all days, <illegible> change men to honesty and humanity, not from our pro-slavery party to another, as from Democracy a Republicanism.'
In those new fields where I have recently been, it is not remarkable that these radical utterances <illegible> some sensation; especially when such men as <illegible>, Sumner and Lovejoy have taught men the <illegible>
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
son of thus absolutely believing both the promptings of reason and the dictates of the dictates of the heart. Our work 
is to make men honest, to the end that they may become abolitionists.
PARKER PILLSBURY.
Chicago, Ill., Nov.13, 1860.
NO FLINCHING!
NEW YORK, Nov. 19th, 1860.
What will the South do? is the question propounded by every one to every one in this city at this time. The answers given to this city inquiry indicate in general a feeling of indifference as to the result. I judge from what I hear and see, that even here in this great trading mart of principles, nearly all intelligent men are beginning to feel that the Slave Power is about (to make use of a New York phrase)'played out' In proof of this, I state, that nothing
excites more contempt and disgust than the latest report that Virginia proposes to offer to the North a new series of compromises as a means to reconcile the South, and as a condition of her remaining in the Union. As a Republican, I say, No! No more compromises. We have as many now as we dare to fulfil. I Indeed, the aggressions of the Slave Power, and of South Carolina in particular, have more than released us from returning their runaway fugitives. It is as much as we can do to promise that we will help them in case of domestic insurrections or John Brown incursions for the future. For my own part, I would rather they would go out of the Union than remain and hold us to that service. While the explosion of Judge Hoar from South Carolina, and the assault on our beloved Senator, remain matters of history, Massachusetts will never repeal her personal liberty bills, or conquer her prejudices in favor of human rights— never, never! There may be and doubtless will be a financial panic. Trade and business for a time will receive a check. We shall suffer, as we might expect, and as we ought to suffer, for upholding and excusing this barbarous institution but let us yield no more. Let us be steady and firm. The way of duty is the way of safety, for nations as for individuals. In the language of the President elect, ‘Let us have faith that right makes might, and in that faith let us dare to do our duty.'
J. H. C.
MEETINGS IN VERMONT.

DEAR MR. GARRISON And so, Vermont has been favored with another annual Anti- Slavery Convention—the fourth — held this year at Bradford, and already reported through your paper. Not having enjoyed the pleasure of attending its sessions, I pass it by; but justice to the cause and its advocates impels me to send you a word regarding the meetings I have attended, addressed by C. L. Remond and H. Ford Douglass, who remained in the State some days after the Convention. 
Saturday evening, Oct. 27th, a meeting was held at West Brookfield, and was continued the following day and evening. It was organized by appointing Rev. Jehiel Claflin, President; Mrs. Abby Hutchinson, Secretary; C. L. Remond, H. Ford Douglass, James Hutchinson, Jr., Ira Mann, and J. M. Coburn., a Committee on Resolutions.
The following resolutions were presented:-
Whereas, American chattel slavery, as now existing in these United States, and protected and upheld by Federal and State legislation, and defended by all the great political parties of the country, and apologinzed for or ignored by the great religious and ecclesiastical bodies of the land; and whereas, this so-called’ peculiar institution' includes in itself, as elements essential to its existence, theft, robbery, concubinage, adultery and cruelty, and is indeed, in the language of John Wesley,' the sum of all villanies' therefore,
Resolved, That slaveholders are not worthy to be regarded or treated as gentlemen or as Christians. 
Resolved, That no political party at the North is worthy of the honored name of Anti-Slavery, which, while proclaiming to be opposed to the extension of! slavery in the Territories now free, is at the same time avowedly opposed to its abolition in the District of Columbia, over which Congress has exclusive jurisdiction, and that does not recognize and endorse that great Republican axiom, that taxation is the basis of representation, by extending to colored men in the free States, whose property is taxed to support the government, the right to exercise the elective franchise.
Resolved, That we believe in the Fatherhood of God, and the Brotherhood of man, as taught in the religion of Christ, and embodied in the Declaration of American Independence; and that these great principles underlie and constitute the elementary principles of a righteous civil government, consistent with and inseparable from man's condition as a free moral agent; and that we hold American slavery to be antagonistic to the spirit and genius of republican government, as well as a gross and palpable violation of the plainest principles of civil and religious liberty. 
Resolved, That as the Constitution of the United States was conceived by slaveholders, and brought forth in guilty compromise with this man-destroying and heaven-insulting system of outrage and wrong, we are bound, as honest men and Christians, to for-swear all allegiance to this Government and Constitution by refusing to vote for men who are willing to support or obey, under any circumstances, its pro slavery very provisions.
Slight objections were raised, and some questions respectfully asked, but, for the most part, the time was occupied by Messrs. Remond and Douglass. I had previously heard Mr. Remond, and had an idea of what I might expect. Years of devoted labor in behalf of his race have established his reputation as an effective, eloquent speaker. Calm, clear, condensed, and logical, he held the interested attention of his audience; and, when dwelling upon the inconsistency of our glowing professions with our practices, the prejudice against color, the indescribable wrongs of the oppressed, he raised them to a pitch of intense feeling.
H. Ford Douglass, with his pleasant countenance and voice, his unassuming manners, genial spirit, ready wit, biting sarcasm, pointed truths, and moving eloquence, won admiration on all hands.
When they portrayed the gross injustice that has been perpetrated upon the colored race by the rulers of this land, the people must have asked themselves,' How long ere slumbering justice shall awake —ere the nation's conscience shall be haunted with terror and remorse?' It is said that, after the barbarous massacre of St. Bartholomew, Charles IX. slept little, and never soundly; waked frequently in great agonies, and required soft music to compose him to rest; and that Henry IV. saw a vast number of ravens perch and croak on the pavilion of the Louvre, which he took as an omen of fearful portent, and was greatly troubled thereat. Can the music of pomp and power hush this guilty nation into slumber, and they remain deaf to sights and sounds more dark and dismal, and of portent infinitely more dire, than raven's croakings?
Anti-slavery in Vermont, now, is not what it was many years ago, when its claims first aroused public attention. Then, an Anti-Slavery Convention drew crowds from all classes. Ministers and church members mingled more freely in the discussions. The first and best impulses of the people beat true to freedom. But when, with far-seeing selfishness, interested politicians, and not less interested watchmen on the walls of Zion, foresaw the changes that must be made in their cherished institutions, if they unflinchingly ‘hewed to the line,' they were found unequal to the contest; — and, alas that it must be said! many, with hearts too tender to resist Humanity's appeals, and reason too reasonable to deny self-evident truths for any cause more potent than the dear renown of popular favor, made sacrifice of their usefulness to
<c02>
the slave on that teeming altar. They are not found at the anti-slavery meetings of to-day; their ostensible reason being, that they are fanatical, disorganizing, infidel; their real reason, they could not maintain their high standing in church or political party.
Powerful must be the influence of that popularity which requires professed Christians to fraternize with Doctors of Divinity, who, with sacrilegious arrogance, can calmly treat the subject of slavery in its relations to society, to government, and to true religion—to human happiness and divine glory—in the light of Bible teachings, moral justice, and political wisdom; and who feel that the necessity for such an effort is a scandal to a Christian people.' inasmuch as’ no article of the Christian faith is better sustained by the Bible than is that of slavery;' who can draw proof from the old curse pronounced upon Ham, that’ freedom and equality are the colored man's social poison, that moral health and intellectual manhood cannot be secured to him while he drinks this poison.' It is little wonder that churches, which are willing to affiliate with such pro-slavery religion, should consider their meeting-houses too sacred for the advocates of the brotherhood of man, or fear that the work of grace might be arrested by the distracting doctrines of abolitionism.' 
That the colored man, despite prejudice and disadvantages, possesses’ moral health and intellectual manhood,' there is abundant proof; and it is equally clear that he has, somehow, come by these qualities without quaffing his’ social poison'; for it can scarcely be said that freedom and equality in this country have ever been held much nearer to his thirsty lips than was the cool water to the parched mouth of Tantalus. 
Still, these meetings were attended by goodly numbers: many young people were present, and a deep interest was manifested. Prejudice against color was disarmed, and an effect favorable to the cause produced.
Tuesday evening, the 30th, a full meeting was held at Randolph, and both speakers gave entire satisfaction. These meetings are anticipated by many with pleasure, and greatly enjoyed. May they be continued here and elsewhere, until
' Oppression rolls its brazen axle down
 Oblivion's cliff, and rises not again.'
I was unable to be present at the Sunday evening session at West Brookfield, but am assured by Rev. J. Claflin that it surpassed all the others in thrilling eloquence and interest.
The following resolution was passed at the close of the meeting:-
Resolved, That the heartfelt thanks of the friends 
present, to-day, and this evening, are due to Messrs. Remond and Douglass, for their earnest and thrilling eloquence in behalf of universal and impartial freedom.
A. H.
MEETING IN BEHALF OF INDIANS. 
A meeting was held on Monday evening, in the lecture room of the School street Universalist Church, in this city, to consider the suffering condition of our frontier Indians, and to ascertain what can be done in their behalf. It was addressed by the Rev. Mr. Miner, 
as Chairman, and by Father Beeson, in commendation of the following resolution:-
Whereas, The design of all just governments, and of all true religion, is to promote the best interests of all mankind; and for this purpose organizations are instituted for the benefit of every class of men, with the exception of our frontier Indians, who are literally left to perish for the want of adequate therefore, 
Resolved, That a general Convention of the friends of the Indian is hereby invited to meet in the city of Boston on the 9th day of January, 1861, and to continue three days, during which the following subjects shall be considered:
1st. The reason why the Indians have not become civilized.
2d. The causes of their fading away. 
3d. A plan for their future government. 
4th. The location and extent of the domain or domains which should be appropriated for their final settlement.
5th. The propriety of aiding all the principal tribes of Indians, to send delegates of their own people to a general convention of their race at some appropriate place during the coming summer, to determine for themselves relative to the foregoing points.
6th. The propriety of asking Congress for an appropriation sufficient to carry the foregoing into effect.
7th. Resolved, That a committee of arrangements for the proposed Convention be appointed.
8th. Resolved, That the entire press of the country be respectfully invited to give these resolutions a place in their respective papers. 
Several gentlemen spoke earnestly on the necessity of doing something for the protection of our frontier Indians.
Whereupon, it was moved to appoint a committee 
 of seven to arrange for another meeting two weeks hence, more fully to consider the subject. The resolution was adopted, and the meeting adjourned.
OBITUARY.

Mr. EMMANUEL NEWTON PAINE departed this life 
on the 29th ult., in North Blackstone, Mass., in the 48th year of his age.
Permit one, who has known him more or less intimately from his youth, and always as a respectful, kind and confiding friend, to inscribe a few obituary lines to his memory. He was the youngest, and for many years the only surviving son of James Paine, deceased, early a cotton manufacturer of some note in his vicinity, of the firm of Kelly & Paine, and subsequently in that of Paine & Ray. This son has also been engaged chiefly in the same business. In his family relationship, as a husband, father, brother, &e., he was eminently affectionate, dutiful and exemplary, and correspondingly loved and honored. In the domestic circle, his loss is felt too profoundly, and leaves desolations too afflictive, to be justly estimated elsewhere. But he has left a great void also in the wider circles of association. Many who have enjoyed his society, sympathy, counsel, aid and services in various positions, will long feel their bereavement. His sterling intelligence, his liberality of ideas, sentiments and principles, his interest in the philanthropic reforms of the age, his friendship for faithful workers in behalf of human progress, his kindness as a neighbor, and his usefulness as a citizen, were all such as to insure him marked respect in life, and a crown of funeral honor.
He had been suffering and declining, under the fatal advances of a bronchial consumption, for several months. But he bore up bravely to the last, struggling to withstand his disease, and to make the most of his receding life, yet prudently arranging his affairs preparatory to the issue. He went abroad, and took out of door exercise, by riding, more or less, nearly to the close. At last, nature suddenly sunk under its pressure, and his released spirit quietly passed on to a higher sphere. He was <Illegible> firm believer in the Fatherhood of God, the Brotherhood of man, the immortality of the soul, the future progress of all rational natures, and their ultimate holy blessedness. May he realize more than all that he hoped for, in the great spiritual world whereof he is now a denizen! May the bereaved ones of every tie, and especially those of the family circle, be consoled and sustained from above under their severe affliction! and may all the numerous sympathizers find the event replete with lessons which shall prepare them for reunion with him in the realms of immortal felicity!
A. B.
Gov. Dennison, of Ohio, has issued a sort of supplementary Thanksgiving proclamation, calling on the people of that State to make liberal contributions on that day for the relief of the destitute in Kansas. The suggestion is a good one for the whole country.
<c03>
GEORGIA RETRIBUTION. 
We have already stated that the Georgia Legislature had taken the initiatory steps towards adopting retaliatory measures, in accordance with the suggestion of Gov. Moore. The following is the substance of the bill which has been introduced into the House, where it was referred to a committee:-
1. That from the first day of January, 1861, the several States of Massachusetts, New York, Maine. Vermont. Rhode Island, Michigan. Wisconsin and Connecticut, which passed laws to defeat the Fugitive Slave Act of Congress, shall be subject to the discriminations of the bill, until such faithless laws be repealed by each State respectively.
2.If any other State pass a law to prevent the recovery of fugitive slaves, the Governor shall by proclamation announce the fact, which shall include such State in the operation of the act, from the date of such proclamation. 
3.Whenever the officers or people of any State shall, by illegal interference, prevent the recovery of a fugitive slave belonging to a citizen of Georgia, the Governor shall, upon sufficient evidence, issue his proclamation stating the fact, when this act shall immediately be enforced against such State until the proper authorities shall pay the value of such slave, with reasonable damages and expenses.
4. A tax of 25 per cent, shall be paid on the value of all products, manufactures or imports of such offending States, as soon as they become the property of a citizen of Georgia.
5.Prescribes an oath to be taken by tax receivers and collectors to report to the Grand Jury all persons who shall fully neglect or refuse to take the requisite oath, specifying the State against which the act is to operate. 
6.Directs the statement to be made under oath, by each tax-payer, as to the goods or manufactures coming from certain States, after January 1, 1861.
7. On ascertaining the fact, the Governor, by his proclamation, may embrace other States within the provisions of the act, absolve those enumerated; and the Comptroller General shall issue instructions to the tax receivers accordingly.
8. Persons wilfully refusing or neglecting to take the oaths prescribed shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction shall be fined at the discretion of the Court; and if it shall appear on the trial that such persons ordered or brought into this State any article subject to taxation by the act, an additional tine may be laid, &c.
9. Taxes arising under the act shall be collected as other taxes, and form a part of the military fund.
10. After the first day of July,1861, the Governor shall call out such military force as he may deem proper, and cause to be seized and secured a sufficient amount of the property of such faithless State, or of the property of any citizen of such State, which may be found in Georgia, to cover the loss and damages of the owner of such fugitive slave or slaves so refused to be given up under the act of Congress. After thirty days notice of such seizure to the Governor of the offending State, who shall not cause said slave or slaves to be returned or the value and expenses paid, then the Governor of Georgia shall confiscate and sell so much of said property as may be sufficient to indemnify the owner of such lost slave or slaves. 
11. No citizen of any State subject to the provisions in this act, shall, after the first day of January, 1861, be entitled to sue in any of our courts, or to have the protection of any of the laws of this State, civil or criminal.
12.The Governor shall issue his proclamation from time to time, declaring what States have offended, and what States have repealed their obstructing laws in relation to fugitive slaves. 
13. No State, county or corporation tax shall be imposed upon any goods, wares or merchandise manufactured in any foreign country, and imported into this State after January 1, 1861, through the ports of any of the Southern States of this Union.

INAUGURATION OF THE REBELLION. 
The New York Sunday Herald has important dispatches from Charleston, under date of November 17th, giving the proceedings of the citizens in inaugurating what they call the Revolution, for which, however, Rebellion would be the better word, though no overt yet has yet been committed. We copy the dispatch entire, as follows:-
CHARLESTON, S. C., Nov. 17.
The people inaugurated the revolution at 11 o'clock this morning. Our citizens are out en masse. Our leading importing merchants have erected a main moth pole near the Charleston Hotel, and the hoisting of the State flag on it has been duly celebrated. The pole was made of Carolina pine, one hundred feet high, and surmounted by the cap of liberty. Cables were stretched across the streets to prevent the passage of vehicles. There was a dense crowd, extending over two squares, on Meeting Street.
The neighboring house-tops were crowded with people. Thousands of ladies of the highest respectability thronged the balconies and windows, waving their handkerchiefs. Impromptu stands were erected, and the principal merchants took seats. The flag was then hoisted, amid the tremendous cheering of the populace, and the greatest excitement ever known here. When the cheering succeeding the hoisting of the flag subsided, Rev. C. P.Gadsden made the following prayer::- 
'O, God! our refuge and strength, the shield of our help and the sword of our excellency, we come before Thee to express our dependence upon Thy succor, and our need of Thy guidance and defence. The liberties with which Thy protection blessed our fathers being imperiled, we ask thy favor and aid. Inspire us with courage, with a spirit of self-sacrifice, with a love of law and order, and with dependence upon Thee. Bless our State, and her sister States, in this great crisis. May they act as becometh a moral and religious people. Consecrate with Thy favor the banner of liberty this day hung in the heavens. May the city over which it floats be in Thy gracious keeping. Shield our commerce on the seas, and protect our homes and firesides. May agriculture bring her stores to our mart, and order and quiet abide in our streets, if it be Thy will. Avert from our land the horrors of war; but whatever we may be called upon to endure, be Thou our fortress and defence. O God! our fathers have declared unto us the noble works which Thou didst in their days. Continue Thy goodness to us their children, and make us that happy people whose God is the Lord, through Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen.’ 
After prayer, speeches were made by Messrs. Barker, Robertson, Canneau, Hammond and Northrup. The Washington artillery paraded, and fired one hundred guns as the flag went up. Bells were rung, and the band played the Marseillaise Hymn. This tired up the French element of our population. After the Marseillaise, the band played the’ Miserere,' from’ Trovatore,' for the Union. 
The flag is white, with a palmetto tree in the centre, and bears the words' Animas assibusque parati.' At the same time, the Charleston Hotel, the Mills House, and other large hotels, flung out the Palmetto flag.
All this occurred in the full blaze of the noonday sun, and the people vowed that the stars and stripes should never wave again in Charleston. Then speaking began. The addresses were short but stirring, and all were from persons engaged in business, and who seldom meddle in public affairs.
This was emphatically a movement of the people, and not of politicians. The speakers all addressed the crowd as’ Citizens of the Southern Republic,’ and said this was a pledge of Southern commerce to support the great movement of independence.
During the speaking, processions poured in from different sections of the city, with music and cannon, each saluting the Palmetto banner. 
On the dwellings there are hung out banners with such mottoes as ‘Now or never;’ ‘No step back-ward;' ‘The argument is ended;’ ‘Stand to your arms;’ ‘South Carolina goes it alone-her trumps, Magrath, Colcock and Connor-with these she claims a march.'
The tri-color flag was hung out from the theatre, with the words inserted-Dieu et mon droit.
Mon droit.
Secession badges have become universal. Even children are all adorned by mothers with the blue ribbon. All classes are arming for the contingency of coercion. Revolvers and patent fire-arms are selling like hot cakes.
Not a ship in the harbor has the Federal flag flying, but far down the Bay it can still be discerned flying over Fort Moultrie.
There was another great demonstration to-night. The stand near the pole was beautifully illuminated. Speeches were made by Captain Thomas, of the State Military Academy, who assured the audience that the Cadets were ready at a moment's notice; also by Chancellor Carroll, and Messrs. Mikell, Cooper, Tennent. Kirkwood and others.
To-day, the citizens are raising a great clamor for the banks to suspend now. It is supposed that it may be done about the middle of next week. The notes 
here, however, are as good as gold. 
The Bank of Charleston to-day hoisted the State flag.
Notwithstanding the stringency in money affairs, the city is lively and business quite brisk.
The Convention will probably sit a week; but the first thing done will be secession. Magrath is much talked of as the commissioner to settle with the government the terms of secession. He is learned, firm and cool.
Public confidence in the success and beneficial results of the revolution grows stronger daily.
Richmond despatches state that Gov. Wise of Virginia is pronounced insane.
<c04>
RICHMOND, Vs., Nov. 17th.-(Special Dispatch.)-It is the purpose of Virginia to maintain an armed neutrality until prepared to act as mediator. Meanwhile she will prepare for the worst, and if the States now threatening to secede adopt her programme, and the North refuse compliance therewith, Virginia will unite in the secession movement. The programme will embrace the repeal of the statutes repealing the Fugitive Slave Law, and a guaranty of its faithful enforcement, and the protection of slave property in the Territories.
Ten thousand stand of arms are being distributed in Mississippi by order of the Governor. Accounts represent the State as almost unanimous for secession.
MOBILE, Ala., Nov. 16th.-A large meeting of all parties was held here to-day, and unanimously agreed in favor of secession. Resolutions to wait the action of other States were rejected and withdrawn.
MONTGOMERY, Ala., Nov. 16th.—The Alabama Baptist State Convention have passed a resolution in favor of disunion.
MONTGOMERY, Ala., Nov. 17th.-At a meeting of the secession party at the capitol to-night, Yancy and Thomas H. Watts were nominated for delegates to the State Convention.
ALABAMA RAISES HER FLAG. ‘We are glad,’ says the Montgomery Advertiser, ‘that the” maids and matrons" of Montgomery, enthused with the spirit that actuated the women of'76. are making a splendid flag to be presented to the Southern Rights men of this city. It is the flag of Alabama.
As it has been described to us, the banner is to have a blue ground, and on its face the representation of a cotton plant. The lower portion of the stalk bears open bolls, the middle half open, and the upper green bolls. Interspersed among the branches of the plant are the cotton blooms, white and red as in nature. At the foot of the stalk lies a representation of a rattlesnake, with head erect, and fifteen rattles. The motto is, “Noli me tangere." On the reverse of the banner is the map of the State, with the word “Alabama” across it. All hail to the flag of Alabama!’ 
How appropriate, that a den of snakes, especially when stirred up, should put forth one of its own species, in defiant attitude, to spit out its venom! But these reptiles will finally sting themselves to death, to the great relief of well-disposed neighborhoods. 
Senator Iverson of Georgia was charged, a few weeks ago, with saying that if Lincoln should be elected President, Southern men who would hold office under him should be ‘outlawed and killed.' The Senator saw fit to publish a card denying that he ever said any such thing; but he says:- ‘I have occasionally, in private conversation, spoken of it (the outlawing and killing) as one of the plans of resistance to the rule of a Black Republican President; but I have generally disapproved it, as many persons in Columbus will bear me witness. Still, I do not hesitate to say, that, in my opinion, any Southern man who would accept office from a Republican President, elected upon the platform of the Republican party, would be no better than a Black Republican, and ought to be condemned and ostracised by universal public sentiment.'
A correspondent of the New York Times writes from Cairo, III., that he has just passed through nearly all the Southern States, and he reports the feeling which he found prevailing. We copy a few extracts: ‘Arms and ammunition, purchased by order of the Governor of Alabama and of Gov. Pettus of Georgia, are being constantly delivered by the steamboats plying on the rivers. The steamer Belfast, as its captain assured me, landed large supplies of rifles, revolvers, &c., both at Prentice, Miss., and at Memphis, Tenn. The former, for the arming of the people of Mississippi-the latter, for transhipment to Montgomery, Ala.’ 
SOUTH CAROLINA. TROOPS. A Washington letter says:-'One of the most obnoxious and blatant Disunionist here, who holds an important appointment, was recently in a mixed company discharging his customary bombast about what South Carolina was going to do. When asked if she should secede alone, where she would get troops, having only about one-half as many voters as New York city, he replied,” From France or England." A diplomat was present, and in answer to the inquiry if France would assist, he replied, “Oh, yes! if South Carolina will abolish slavery!”‘ 
ANOTHER EXCITEMENT IN VIRGINIA.-A free negro has caused some excitement in Lancaster county, Va., by the statement that negroes from the upper and lower ends of the county were to meet at Lancaster, C. H, at a given time, break open the Jail, seize the firearms therein, and commence an indiscriminate slaughter of men, women, and children, and that means of their escape was provided by a vessel lying in the creek. Two gentlemen went up from Lancaster county on Wednesday night, on their way to Richmond, for the purpose of procuring arms.
Exaggerated rumors, says the Savannah Republican, were in circulation regarding a difficulty said to have transpired on the plantation of W. C. Cleveland, near Milledgeville. A negro had been severely punished for saying that he supposed the negroes were to be freed, now Lincoln had been elected, and then the trouble stopped.
The Charleston Courier of the 16th has the following paragraph:- ‘A prosperous voyage is the wish of many friends for the brig James Gray, Capt. Plummer, which will take departure this day. Capt. Plummer has gratified many old friends and made many new friends by his spirited and prompt recognition of the rights, honor, and action of South Carolina. He has the pleasure of carrying with him in his cabin a copy of an excellent and faithful photograph of Caleb Cushing, one of the owners of the James Gray, which was taken during the session of the Charleston Convention, by Quinby & Co., No. 233 King street, and presented by them, through a friend, for that purpose.”
The Charleston Courier says:- ‘The Cushing Testimonial.-A list contributions of ladies exclusively-not exceeding $1 in each case-can be found in the Courier office.'
The Louisville Journal claims to have direct and reliable information' that all North Alabama, the strong Democratic region, is almost unanimously opposed to secession, and no doubt is entertained that the State Convention will be carried by the conservative and Union men of the State.'
The Charleston News asks patronage for a clothing merchant who offers ‘Carolina sable furs and buckskin riding gloves, made by Southern ladies of Southern material.'
On the 4th inst. Gen. Riley, a member of the Georgia Senate, from Lumpkin county, was shot dead in his own residence, at Dahlonega, by T. Davis, with whom he had quarreled some time before.
Two or three fusion journals have the coolness to advise a portion of the Republican Electors to prevent the choice of Mr. Lincoln, by voting for somebody else, even Mr. Douglas, says one writer.
Among the new South Carolina pamphlets announced are, ‘The Doom of Slavery in the Union: Its Safety out of it'; and also, ‘The South should govern the South.'
The South Carolina people shout just now for the ‘lone' star. They will find secession a very lonely affair in all respects before they get through with it.
It is staled that the Governor of Georgia submitted his secession message to the secessionists of South Carolina before it was submitted to the Georgia Legislature. The Georgians are much excited as this step on the part of the Governor.
At Vicksburg, Miss., there is a strong disunion sentiment prevailing, which finds expression in curious trifles. For instance, a few evenings since, a concert room where a performer introduced himself in the air, Columbia, the Gem of the Ocean,' which was not on the bills, he was hissed off the stage. 
NEW YORK, Nov.20—More. Northerners Expelled from the South. Steamship Augusta, from Savannah, Ga, arrived this morning. She brought back twenty passengers, mostly mechanics, whom the authorities would not allow to land; also three cabin passengers, who were advised to leave.
Patrick Hayes, an Englishman, was arrested for incendiary remarks and hurried off to New York in the steamer Marion.
The Washington correspondent of the New York Commercial Advertiser says the President has relinquished all idea of issuing his contemplated address or proclamation to the people of the United States in advance of his message to Congress.
The Washington correspondent of the N. Y. Herald says there will probably be a rupture in the Cabinet on the Secession question.
THE POST-OFFICE IN SOUTH CAROLINA. The postage collected in the State of South Carolina for the last year of which we have official returns amounted to $91,600. The cost of transporting the mails through the State was $192,216. In Massachusetts, the same year, the post-office receipts were $532,184, and the expenses $153,091!
<c05>
From the Traveller.

THE COLORED EMIGRATION FROM SOUTH CAROLINA.
Messrs. Editors: I noticed in a late number of the Boston papers an extract from the Philadelphia papers relative to the large emigration of colored persons to that city from South Carolina. This suggested to me the idea of communicating the following facts to your paper, facts a which you will find, if you take the trouble to inquire, to agree with the tax books of the State of South Carolina:-
That since the first of January, eighteen hundred and sixty, no less than one thousand persons of color have left the city of Charleston for the North, of which number, four hundred and ninety -eight were adults-three hundred males, and one hundred and ninety-eight females. The loss of the State and city of the rolling out of this tide of ‘worthless rubbish,' to use the language of Mr. Spratt, amounts to the city in capitation or head tax—
Paid from the age of 16 to 60—
300 males at $10 a head $3,000
198 females, at $5 a head 990
102 children between the ages of 16 and 21,510
510 To the State a general tax, a public building and road tax, and a tax for the support of Free Schools, which is paid from the age of 18 years by male and female, amounting to
Paid from 18 to 50 years—
548 persons, 18 years and over. 2,055
The value of property disposed of and
money brought away, say. 45,000
The loss in industry is considerable, every male having a trade, the major part being tailors, carpenters and shoemakers, while the rest are millwrights, wheelwrights, blacksmiths, barbers, boat-builders, shipsmiths, masons, moulders, finishers, jewellers, house-painters, harness-makers and stevedores.
With the women, the majority are dress-makers and milliners, with some nurses, cooks, clearstarchers, sempstresses and hairdressers.
By publishing these facts, you will oblige a reader of your paper, and one who knows, not withstanding the Dred Scott decision, that he is A MAN.
A FEMALE DISUNIONIST. On Saturday, the police of New York took in charge a female of imposing appearance, who was parading the streets followed by a troop of urchins. On her head she wore a small black hat, to which was fastened a red flag, covered with various cabalistic signs. It also bore two half circles in black, which were intended, she said, to represent the dissolution of the Union; the smaller circle represented the South, and the larger the North. When taken before a justice, she stated that she was a native of New Hampshire, and that becoming disgusted with the result of the late election, she had left her native State for the purpose of lecturing on the expediency of a dissolution of the Union. Being evidently insane, she was committed to the care of the matron of the city prison.
THE VOTE OF JOHN BROWN'S HOME, AND HARPER'S FERRY. The only town in the county of Essex, New York, which gave a majority against the Republicans, was North Elba, the residence of the family of John Brown.
Harper's Ferry, in Virginia, rendered memorable by Brown's raid, voted as follows: Douglas, 278; Bell, 275; Breckinridge, 77.-Traveller. 
NEW YORK.-The latest returns make Lincoln's majority in the State 51,766. It will finally rest very near 50,000. Cayuga county, Gov. Seward's home, gives Lincoln 4.000, and the city of Auburn 450 majority. Every town in the county gives Lincoln a majority.
ILLINOIS.- The five Congressional districts in Egypt' have given a total majority of 25,800 for Douglas. The four Northern districts have given over 42.000 majority for Lincoln. These figures give the State to Lincoln by 16,200.
Thanksgiving in California and Illinois Nov. 29th. This day has new been set apart in twenty States, of which four are Southern.
Last week, near Fulton, Mississippi, Susanna J. Barnes was beaten to death by one of her father's female slaves. The slave was taken into custody by a constable, but she was taken from him and hanged upon a tree.
RE-OPENING THE SLAVE TRADE.-Among the bills introduced into the Georgia Legislature is one entitled: For the better protection of importers of apprentices.'
The Liberia packet, Mary Caroline Stevens, sailed from Baltimore a few days since, with 91 passengers. Of this number, 33 were from Pennsylvania, and the Colonization Society has 83 more applications from the same State.
California has gone for Lincoln. San Francisco gave him 3000 majority. It was believed that Oregon would go for Lincoln also.
Dr. Thayer, who was driven out of Georgia, a few days ago, by a mob, has returned to his relatives in Grafton. The doctor was not in any sense an offensive man, and the outrage upon him was wholly unprovoked.
Letters from Naples state that Signer Alberto Mario, the well-known Italian patriot, and husband of Mdme. Jessie White Mario, was killed in one of the engagements with the Neapolitans.
‘ THE INSTITUTION.' The Chicot (Ark.) Press of the 1st inst., furnishes accounts of the hanging of four negroes (what for is not stated.) and the flogging of an Irishman for telling the negroes with whom he was picking cotton that they were fools to work for nothing, and ‘using other insidious language.'
UNPAID PLEDGES in aid of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, made in January last, or previously, are now payable, and it is hereby requested that the same may be paid at the earliest practicable day. Donations in behalf of the Anti-Slavery cause will be faithfully consecrated to the redemption of the millions of ‘the suffering and the dumb’ of our land. All payments should be made to EDMUND JACKSON. Treasurer, or E. H. HEYWOOD. General Agent pro tem., 221 Washington street.

SIXTEENTH COURSE.
The Introductory Lecture before the Salem Female Anti-Slavery Society will be given by Rev. JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE, of Boston, on Sunday evening, 25th inst., in Lyceum Hall, at 7 o'clock.
Admittance, five cents.
CAROLINE BALCH, Rec. Sec.
 
WORCESTER NORTH A. S. SOCIETY.
The next Quarterly Meeting of the Worcester North Anti-Slavery Society will be held at Fitchburg Saturday evening and Sunday afternoon and evening, Dec. 8th and 9th.
E. H. HEYWOOD, H. FORD DOUGLASS and other speakers will attend.
JOSHUA T. EVERETT, President. 
MOSES H. MIRICK, Secretary. 
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture in Willimantic, Ct., the last Sunday, or 28thday, of November.
H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak in 
Chicopee, Friday evening, Nov. 23.
Springfield, Sunday afternoon and evening, Nov.25.
A. T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at
Harwich, Sunday, Massachusetts 25.
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH will speak at South Danvers, Saturday evening, Dec. 1.
CHARLES SPEAR AND MRS. SPEAR 
will speak in the Universalist Church, South Reading, next Sabbath afternoon and evening. Subject: The Home and the Prison. 

SITUATION WANTED. 
A young woman acquainted with Book-keeping, both double and single entry, desires a situation as an Amanuensis, or otherwise to do any writing or 
copying. Inquire of R. F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery Office.

BESSIE S. LOCK WOOD, M. D.,
No. 34 AUBURN STREET, BOSTON.
Particular attention paid to the Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Diseases. 
OFFICE HOURS from 11. A. M., till 2, P. M. Nov. 23. 3m.
DIED-In Weymouth, November 2d, MARY WESTON, aged 74; one of the earliest abolitionists.
In Syracuse, EMMA B., wife of John C. Hanchett, aged 37 years.
<c06>

AGENTS WANTED 
TO SELL
HARRINGTON,
A HANDSOME 12me. volume of 570 pages. Price $1 25. The most brilliant Anti-Slavery Novel yet written.
Liberal terms will be given to Agents and a fine opportunity is afforded for those who have no winter employment, to travel and sell this work.
Sent by mail, post-paid, on the receipt of the price.
THAYER & ELDRIDGE, PUBLISHERS, 
114 and 116 Washington street, Boston.
Nov. 9. 1w

IMPORTANT FACTS ABOUT
THE PERUVIAN SYRUP.
INTERESTING TO ALL INVALIDS.
THREE-FOURTHS of all the sickness and suffering in this world are the result of derangement of the physical system, consequent upon a weakness and impaired condition of the natural forces.
The principal vital force is the iron contained in the blood. This is derived from the food we eat: but, if from any cause or derangement, the necessary amount of iron is not taken into the circulation, the whole system suffers, and unless the deficiency is supplied, all the natural powers are weakened, and sometimes to a degree which brings on entire prostration of the physical and mental forces. Then follows every imaginable complaint, all arising, however, from a deterioration or bad state of the blood. 
Among these are Dyspepsia, Nervous Debility, Languor and Depression of Spirits, Scrofula, Piles, Skin Diseases of every description, Tendency to Consumption, Weakness of the Sexual Organs, Prolapsus Uteri, and diseases of the female system generally, and all complaints accompanied by weakness or prostration of physical and mental energy. In all these cases, THE PERUVIAN SYRUP has effected the most astonishing cures and the great secret of the wonderful success is, the simple fact that it at once supplies the deficiency of that indispensable ingredient, Iron in the Blood.
The statements of cures which are published in our pamphlet may be relied on as strictly true in every case, in proof of which, we will, at any time, on application, show the original letters and statements of the persons cured.
EVERY INVALID SHOULD READ THESE FACTS, and avail himself or herself of this invaluable remedy.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CARTER.
No. 39 Summer Street, Boston.
For sale by all Druggists.
Oct. 26. 6w.

PORTRAIT OF
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
A SPLENDID crayon Portrait of Mr. Phillips has just been drawn by Thomas M. Johnston. It is pronounced by the most intimate friends of Mr. P. the very best likeness for which he ever sat. It will be drawn on stone in the very highest style of the lithographic art. and copies will be furnished to subscribers at ONE DOLLAR EACH.
C. H. BRAINARD.
322 Washington street, Boston.

Historical Pictures Retouched.
A VOLUME of Miscellanies, in two parts. Part I., Studies. Part II., Fancies. By Mrs. C. H. DALL, author of ‘Woman's Right to Labor.” A volume at once scholarly and popular, instructive and interesting, which is sure of a cordial reception from all readers of the work on ‘Labor,' and certain to take a place in our standard literature. 16mo., $1.
'Written with a freshness of style, and vigor and independence of thought * *. An important contribution to that branch of social science in which its author is laboring.'—Norfolk County Journal.
‘ By an author whose literary culture, patient industry, and earnest spirit, have deservedly placed her in the front rank of writers.' -Bangor Whig. 
‘These essays evince rare literary culture, patient industry, and strong reasoning powers.'-Portland Transcript.
Published by 
WALKER, WISE & COMPANY.
245 Washington street, Boston. Oct. 26. 3t

CARPETING.
All the Year Round.’ 
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.,
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plays, Kidderminster, &c. Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
-ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept 16 tf

DR. E. A. KITTREDGE 
WOULD inform the public that he has taken a most commodious mansion in Fairmount, Milton, (seven miles from Boston on the Providence railroad) where he is prepared to give Hydropathic and Kinnisipathic treatment. Diseases of Females specially attended to. Office in Boston, 13 Avery Street. 
Patients visited anywhere in New England, as usual. Oct. 12.

SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE.
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR propositions, theological, moral, historical and speculative, each proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture, without comment; embodying most of the palpable and striking self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Third edition. Price 15 cents, post-paid. Eight for a dollar.
[Four editions have already been published.]
A. J. DAVIS & CO.,
Oct. 5—6m. 274 Canal street, New York.

WEIS & ZOEBISCH,
Manufacturers of and Dealers in
EUROPEAN AND FANCY FURS,
184 WASHINGTON STREET. 184
CORNER OF FRANKLIN ST., BOSTON.

E. ZOEBISCH will pay particular attention to Altering and Repairing old Furs.
FACTORY, 6 CENTRAL STREET. 

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair-Dyeing,
MADAM BANNISTER (formerly Madam CARTEAUX) would inform her kind and liberal patrons and the public, that she has removed to 323 Washington st., and 20 West st.; where will be found her Restorative, the most celebrated in the world, as it prevents hair from turning gray, and produces new in all diseases of the scalp. She stands second to none in Hair-Dyeing and Champooing.
Ladies waited on at their residences, either in or out of town. 
Boston, May 1, 1860.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
188 THE LIBERATOR. NOVEMBER 23.
For the Liberator.
BROWN AND GARIBALDI.
We praise thee, Garibaldi!
And in the roll of fame,
Among her noblest heroes,
Shall Europe place thy name.
Among them-far above them:-
Thou dost not fight for gain,
For crown, or lands, or titles,
Or empty glory vain.
The arm that frees thy country,
Italia’s noblest son
Has over all earth’s tyrants
A lasting conquest won.
We honor thee, true hero,
More than great names of old;
Those Greek and Roman warriors,
Whose tales so oft are told.
We honor the true patriot,
Who frees his native land:
We honor all ye brave ones,
Who tyranny withstand.
We watch your progress, eager,
As victory marks your way:
And read how town, fort, city,
Yield to you day by day.
For the hands that help one people
Their freedom to regain,
Will aid to break those fetters
That the poor slave detain.
And that glorious Western hero,
With the hoary, bleeding head,-
Though Slavery killed the body,
Yet his spirit is not dead!
And Brown, and Garibaldi, 
The champions of this age, 
Who led the van of Freedom, 
Shall brighten History’s page. 
For sure as sin is mortal, 
Must wicked Slavery die,
And Freedom smile for ever 
On the earth of the Most High. 
Tenterden (England.) JANE ASHBY. 
For the Liberator. 
‘NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.’
BY AUGUSTINE CALDWELL.
‘United we stand, divided we fall.’ 
Ah, well! let us fall, if that is the fate 
Of turning from those whose actions we hate; 
Far better it is to roll in the dust,
Than to place in a union of slave States our trust. 
A poor, blighted gourd they are at the best; 
A vale of dry bones, a region unblest; 
Delightful, indeed, to have such an arm 
To shield us in danger, and shelter in harm! 
‘No Union,’ our motto-no grasping the hand 
Of merciless tyrants, the scourge of the land; 
To our friendship and love they forfeit their claim, 
And why cherish those who tarnish our name?
No UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS!-we boast to be 
free, 
Then let us, indeed, as we boast truly be! 
But, while linked with them, for the Right who can 
speak? 
Or lend, without peril, a hand to the weak? 
No UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS!-we hate the black 
Name;
Let us cleanse our skirts quickly from tarnish and 
shame;
A land pure and free let us show to the world,
Over which the bright banner of Love is unfurled. 
Salem, Oct. 31, 1860.

AUTUMN
Now sheaves are slanted to the sun
Amid the golden meadows,
And little sun-tanned gleaners run
To cool them in their shadows;
The reaper binds the bearded ear,
And gathers in the golden year;
And where the sheaves are glancing,
The farmer’s heart is dancing. 
There pours a glory on the land, 
Flash’d down from Heaven’s wide portals, 
As Labor’s hand grasps Beauty’s hand 
To vow good will to mortals: 
The golden year brings Beauty down 
To bless her with a marriage crown, 
While Labor rises, gleaning 
Her blessings and their meaning. 
The work is done, the end is near, 
Beat, heart, to flute and tabor! 
For Beauty, wedded to the Year, 
Completes herself from Labor: 
She dons her marriage gems, and then 
She casts them off as gifts to men,
And sunbeam-like, if dimmer, 
The fallen jewels glimmer. 
There is a gush of joy and love,
Now giving hands have crowned us; 
There is a heaven up above, 
And a heaven here around us! 
And Hope, her prophecies complete, 
Creeps up to pray at Beauty’s feet, 
While with a thousand voices 
The perfect Earth rejoices. 
When to the Autumn heaven here 
Its sister is replying, 
‘Tis sweet to think our Golden Year 
Fulfils itself in dying; 
That we shall find, poor things of breath, 
Our own soul’s loveliness in death, 
And leave, when God shall find us, 
Our gathered gems behind us. 

THE LIBERATOR. 
LETTER TO REV. DR. BACON.
REV. LEONARD BACON, D. D.:
DEAR SIR: Your recent Letter to the Editors of the Independent, touching certain alleged misrepresentations of yourself in the Christian Intelligencer, plainly warrants my addressing you through some public medium. I judge so the more, because the alleged misrepresentations are founded upon the refusal, at the late meeting of the American Board, to entertain a proposal which I conceived it was duty to offer, for the appointment of a Committee to inquire and report what further action was necessary, on the part of the Board, in connection with its African missions, to vindicate the honor of Christianity, scandalized by the revival of the execrable slave trade. The occasion, I think, presents a legitimate opportunity for me to say certain things, which the cause of truth and humanity-to which we both profess to be devoted-requires to be honestly spoken. 
1. And first, let me say, that the part which I took at the late meeting of the Board, in endeavoring to procure, from so grave and influential a body, a suitable pronunciation in regard to the slave trade, was deliberately and prayerfully weighed, but not finally determined upon, until I saw clearly that no one else would move in the matter. I am sorry to have to admit, that in the presence of the corporate Board, there seems to be a great fear and reluctance to the introducing of any agitating or unpopular subject; and it requires, therefore, more courage and self-reliance, I should rather say more self-forgetting confidence in truth, than most of us are blessed with, to stem the tide of displeasure, and the danger of being put down with sneers as an incontinent agitator, in venturing such an attempt.
<c02>
I was hoping that the Prudential Committee of the Board,-after the evidence they had last year at Philadelphia, how some of the members felt on this subject, and after the explicit testimony furnished this year* by our African missionaries, as to the disastrous effects of an evil, which, they say, ‘is doing more to counteract our labors, and hinder the Christianization of Africa, than all others combined, the evil of slavery and the slave-trade,’-I was naturally hoping that the Prudential Committee would present a carefully considered special paper on this subject, which, being adopted by the Board, should go forth as the indignant but grave protest of Missionary Christianity against the vilest traffic ever engaged in by any people, civilized or savage. 
At least, I said to myself, one of the Corporate Fathers of the Board, in order to give expression to ‘some of those emphatic utterances on the subject of Liberty, of which the word Jubilee is so suggestive,’ will be likely to offer something worthy of the churches that support the Board, in which all can unite as expressing the voice of a Christian People, outraged by the impunity afforded to such an execrable traffic in ships launched, fitted and furnished for their worse than pirate voyages, in our own American waters.
But in this rational conjecture, I was disappointed. And on the morning of the third day, finding that nothing was forth-coming through any official channel, I obtained the ear of the President, and stated that I had a brief paper of inquiry and suggestion, on the part of some of the churches and ministers that wanted the information, and had no other way of getting it, which I would accordingly read. 
Here at once I was interrupted, and not allowed either to state the point of inquiry, which would have taken but a minute, and which might then have been referred, according to order, to the suitable Committee. Baffled, however, in this, I laid my paper of inquiry and suggestion before the Business Committee, with the request that it might be brought up in order, before the Board. That Committee, after consultation, submitted the paper to the Committee on the African Missions, which latter Committee reported in the evening without any allusion to my inquiry, or to the slave-trade, or slavery. 
Not thus to be frustrated in my honest purpose of having something submitted to the Board touching the slave-trade, immediately upon the silencing of the person (Dr. T. P. Knox of Boston) whom you call ‘a brawler,’ by your asking for a police-man, and while the question before the House was upon the adoption of the Report just made, I gained the floor, and moved as an amendment to that Report,-in strict accordance with all previous usages of the Board, and with universal parliamentary order,-the following recommendation, viz: That the Secretaries be requested to inform this Board in regard to the disposal made of the Memorial to Congress upon the subject of the African slave-trade, which was referred to the Prudential Committee at the last meeting in Philadelphia, with instructions to take such action as, in their judgment, its relations to their work, as a Board of Missions, shall seem to demand; and that a Special Committee of three be appointed by the Chair to consider and report to this meeting what further action is necessary, on the part of this Board, to vindicate the honor of Christianity scandalized by the revival of the execrable slave-trade as a feeder of slavery. 
I was proceeding in order with a few remarks in support of this amendment, when I was interrupted at the instance of several gentlemen on the platform, and finally it was ruled by the President that I was out of order, on the ground that speaking to such an amendment to the Report of a Committee could not be in order. Dr. Anderson, however, at the suggestion of Mr. Child, read from manuscript so much of the Prudential Committee’s Report as touched upon the Philadelphia slave-trade Memorial; upon which, I stated that it would have been more satisfactory had the information been given before, and that I would now take occasion to offer this Resolution; that a Committee of three be appointed by the Chair to inquire and report what further action, if any, be called for, on the part of this Board, to vindicate the honor of Christianity as involved in the African slave-trade. 
In your letter to the Editors of the Independent, you say-’It is true that the Rev. Henry T. Cheever did not succeed in getting up a debate. I cannot recollect his various attempts, nor how they were disposed of, though in one instance I had a doubt whether he was treated wisely, or indeed with perfect fairness.’ 
Now, my brother, I respectfully submit, if you had a doubt in this instance whether I was treated with perfect fairness, why not give me and the slave the benefit of that doubt? He and I-and the credit of the Board no less-greatly needed such a benefit then, with none seemingly to back us, and I not allowed to utter the brief reasons which I had to give, why the wise men from the East in the Board, and the wise men of the West should calmly inquire-and report what further action should be adopted by the Board to vindicate the tarnished honor of American Christianity. 
It was in your power at that juncture, by a very few words in favor of my proposition, to have procured the appointment of such a Committee, that might have saved the honor of the Board, and have reflected to your credit for consistency. Surely, then, it would have been but magnanimous and wise in you to have expressed your doubt of the wisdom and fairness of the treatment given to my proposal. 
At least you might have said-’Mr. President and Brethren, discussion here must be free. This is no place for the gag-law, nor is the Jubilee the time for it. If the brother wishes to ventilate his abhorrence of the slave-trade on this platform, it is in order when he has the floor upon a lawful amendment or Resolution. I will not aid him in getting up a debate here, for I don’t agree with him as to its expediency; but if he has a burden, let him deliver himself. 
Much less time would have been consumed by allowing me to give my brief reasons for raising such a Committee, than was spent in ‘choking them off’; and both yourself and I, and all the Board, would have felt better; and the worthy English brother from Montreal, John Dougall, Esq., would not have had to say to me, sorrowing, as he did upon the adjournment that evening, ‘Sir, I wish to shake hands with you, and say, how different a reception your resolution would have met before the London Missionary Society.’ 
2. A word now as to the meeting of the Board on Friday morning, in regard to which you say, that having left the house, ‘I have no persona! knowledge of what was said and done by Mr. Wolcott. I only know, that if he called Mr. Henry T. Cheever to order, it was not because he was unwilling that the Board should express an opinion on slavery or the slave-trade, but because he honestly believed that Mr. Cheever was out of order, and that a disorderly speech or motion would answer no good purpose.’ 
Here is an implication that, in the opinion of Mr. Wolcott, and of yourself also, I was making a disorderly speech or motion. What, then, were the facts in the case? They are these: Friday, Mr. Wolcott in attendance upon the Board, and taking it for granted that a member of the General Association of Illinois-which had sent up a strong Resolution to the Board upon ‘the divorce of slaveholding from Christianity in the Churches of the Cherokee nation-he would be foremost in calling for what that resolution urges, viz: a free declaration of principles against slavery, as a testimony of the Board to that great Cause which now involves the deepest interests of humanity,’-I sought that brother on Thursday, and asked if he should not take occasion, in connection with the Report on the Cherokee Mission, to make an emphatic utterance on the subject of Liberty. 
See Mr. Bushnell’s letter of date May 10, 186o, Gibson, West Africa, in the Tract Journal, Boston 
<c03>
To my surprise he said, that the acceptance, by the Cherokee Missionaries of the Goodwater Declaration on Slavery, was so far satisfactory that he did not see the propriety of urging a new declaration of principles on that subject at this time. My reply was, that we ought to seize any lawful occasion to procure a testimony from the Board against slaveholding, and that I hoped he, as used to platform-speaking, would lead off in such an attempt when the Cherokee Mission should come up. 
When the Report on that Mission was presented on the morning of Friday, Mr. Wolcott inquired if the Resolutions of the General Association of Illinois had been read to the Board. When it was replied that they had been before the Committee, but had not been read to the Board, I at once moved that they be read, supposing that Mr. Wolcott would address the Board in elucidation of the motives and views of the Association as set forth in the last* of those Resolutions, and would urge what you say, ‘I happen to know he was desirous to obtain from the Board, in connection with a discontinuance of the Cherokee Mission, a new declaration of hostility to slavery.’ 
The Resolutions were read, but Mr. Wolcott said nothing, and the Minute of the Committee was adopted, which declared ‘the requests of the General Association of Illinois satisfactorily answered, and that no further action of the Board was deemed necessary.’ It was then that I seized, what I saw would be the last opportunity, to rise to a point of order, and to a personal explanation. I reviewed the ruling of the previous day, stated briefly the facts in regard to my baffled attempts to offer an amendment to a Report before the Board, and then inquired how it would be possible, if such a ruling prevailed, for any member not on the Prudential Committee, or not entrusted with something by the Prudential Committee, to be ever to in order as to be able to submit any proposition to the consideration of the Board. 
Just then, while the floor was mine, and I was submitting to the Chair, for a new decision, the point of order by which I had been silenced the day before, Mr. Wolcott interrupted me, and made a speech to prove that I was out of order, although speaking to a point of order, and by way of personal explanation, which, by universal parliamentary usage, is always in order. Stopped thus, and deprived of the floor, I could not get it again for that meeting, already near, its close, without the appearance of just such rudeness as that by which I had been interrupted, and so the point of order went by. 
3. I come now, my brother, to what I suppose to be the real reason for the refusal of the Board to entertain my last proposition for the appointment of a Committee to inquire and report at the next annual meeting what more can be done by the Board to vindicate the honor of Christianity, as concerned in the American revival of the African slave trade. The true reason, I apprehend, lies in what was intimated to me, by one of the officers of the Corporation, viz: an unwillingness to allow the American Board to become abolitionized.
Had the action proposed originated with a conservative member of the Board, or had yourself, for instance, proposed the same thing in the same phraseology, the Committee of Inquiry would have been quickly granted, and all but a few fossilized respectabilities would have thanked God that a step had been taken by the American Board, at its great Jubilee in the City of the Pilgrims, in the right direction.
But now, deprecate it as you may, the refusal at this meeting to issue a remonstrance against the reviving slave trade, is construed by the country just as the similar refusal of the Diocesian Convention of New York is construed, as moral cowardice, a virtual betrayal of the interests of humanity, and a shameful shrinking from Christian duty.
And what now-but, thanks be to God, the election of Abraham Lincoln to the Presidency by the people-is to prevent the South from arguing, if there be such a reluctance to pronounce upon the African slave trade by a great Missionary Body that meets, in that same slave trade, its most formidable obstacle to the Christianization of Africa, and that, also, by general consent, embodies in itself the current Christianity of the nation, then we may safely advocate the re-opening of this trade, and may demand that it be made legitimate, and freed from all its present disabilities.
The Thirty-Seventh Annual Report of the Auxiliary Foreign Missionary Society of Brookfield, Mass., pertinently says, ‘We cannot but express our profound sorrow that the Board themselves, while calling their fiftieth anniversary a Jubilee, and thus availing themselves of the charm of that name, during all their recent sessions persistently ignored the spirit of Liberty, from which the charm of that name is derived.’
Mrs. Stowe has fairly put the case when she says, in the same number of the Independent that contains  your letter, ’When a great moral question is made a test-question before the public mind, or a great evil is threatening to spread in a community, and any body of men, professing eminently to be the representative men of Christianity, decline publicly and clearly to express any opinion about it, this want of assertion is immediately received by the powers of evil as the strongest affirmation.’ 
I should like to say much more upon this subject, and to speak of your own attitude towards Abolitionism, and to show how yourself and other brethren have been inevitably put into false positions, by your hostility to being Abolitionists, and to the underlying principle of Christian Abolitionism, viz: that all slavery, as Dr. Symington of Glasgow has lately put it, is sinful-that slaveholding is sin in itself, a wrong, and a crime, and ought, therefore, like every other sin, to be desisted from at once. 
There is always power in a wrong principle, or in an assumed attitude of antagonism to a right principle, to carry those who hold it further than they intended, and to keep them in positions which they would fain disavow. While, on the other hand, there is equal power in a right principle, held persistently, to elevate and advance to positions in morals and religion which once would not have been deemed attainable. Marked instances of this are not wanting in our day, in the case of Political Parties, Societies, and Individuals.
God and truth only are absolutely unchangeable. But it is for us to live and learn, and to be constantly changing by progress, and by growing into the habit of being of the same mind with God. Let us, my brother, and let the great Missionary Society which we both love for the services it has rendered in the cause of God and humanity, bear in mind the principle so happily expressed by Father Keep in his late paper of Reminiscences, that DUTY DONE GILDS THE FUTURE; and that the safety of the Board for the future lies, under God, in faithfully carrying out the sentiments of the People, from whom the Board sprung. 
And I will say, in closing a letter which I could wish might have been made shorter, let us be warned by the late pregnant saying of the present mastery statesman of United Italy, (Count Cavour.) THERE IS IN THE NATURE OF EVENTS A LOGIC WHICH TRIUMPHS OVER THE STOUTEST WILL, AND AGAINST WHICH THE BEST INTENTIONS ARE POWERLESS.
Your co-laborer in the Gospel, and in the cause of Humanity, 
HENRY T. CHEEVER. 
Jewett City, Ct., Nov. 8, 1860. 
3. Resolved, That we regard it as demanded alike by the Gospel and humanity, and an object of intense of desire, in view of the existing state of the national mind, the demand and associations of the approaching jubilee, and the highest influence and success of the Board, that the divorce of slaveholding from Christianity be completed at once in the churches of the Cherokee nation, and that a full declaration of principles against slavery be sent forth to the world, as the testimony of the Board to that great cause which now involves the deepest interest of humanity. 
<c04>
LIBERTY OR DEATH’-ESCAPE OF THE FUGITIVE-A THRILLING SKETCH.
We give another extract from the new Anti-Slavery novel, entitled ‘Harrington,’ just published by Thayer & Eldridge, Boston. Antony, a slave, having been unmercifully scourged by his owner, resolved on having ‘liberty or death,’ and accordingly fled into an adjacent swamp. After many perilous adventures-
Rushing on, haggard with apprehension and desperate resolution, with his teeth set, his large nostrils dilated, and his glaring eyes roving warily about him, he came to a plantation divided from the one he was on by a hedge of the osage-orange, and with a similar hedge skirting the road. To break through this would be difficult, so he took the road and ran on, with the fresh wind of the coming! morning blowing upon him, and increasing his fear, with the thought of the new dangers the daybreak would bring. It was a large plantation, and it took him some time to arrive at its terminus, at which a road diverged from the one on which he was journeying. He reached this road, and there, clad in shabby light clothes, and coming down the path, not three yards distant from him, was a man!
Antony swung up his club, and stood with opened nostrils and glaring eyes, his black face alive with fierce courage. The man halted, and looked at him with a sullen scowl. In the blank pause, all life seemed to have died from the air, and the moon lay faded in a vacant sky, aghast and gray in the pale light of the morning. The man was a large, gaunt fellow, with a harsh and sallow taciturn face, but to the dark, half-demented fancy of the fugitive, he dimly seemed a devil, and the place was still vaguely hell. 
‘See here, nigger,’ he said, in a stern, strident voice, ‘yer a runaway. There’s their name as owns yer on yer collar, and I know Lafitte Brothers, New Orleans, want yer. I’m goin’ down in the first boat, and yer comin’ with me, right away, and no fuss. What yo’ say, nigger? ‘
He drew a revolver from his breast, and held it idly, watching the fugitive with a scowl. Sense flickered through the mind of Antony. Here was a chance to get safely down the river-beyond, a chance to give his captor the slip when he reached the city. He flung his club away.
‘I’ll go with ye, Marster,’ he said, sullenly. 
The man put up his pistol. 
‘What’s yer name, boy?’ he asked.
‘Bill, Marster.’ 
‘Bill, eh? You’re the Fugitive Slave Bill, I suppose,’ said the man, with a dull grin.
‘Yes, Marster.’ 
‘Well, Bill, I collect bills for a livin’, and I reckon I’ve collected you, Bill. Hope I’ll collect something on yer, too. Come along.’ 
Antony followed him. Not a word further was said on either side. Meanwhile, around them the pallor of the sky lightened into daybreak; horns sounded over the plantations; the black gangs were coming forth into the field on every side; the birds darted and sang; the fragrant wind blew freshly from the east, and the life of day began anew. 
Weary, and sore, and aching, with insane fancies flitting through the horrible lethargy which was creeping on his mind, Antony followed his taciturn captor, and just as the rising sun shot a low, broad splendor over the landscape, they came to a solitary landing-place, with a shanty and a wood-pile, on the border of the wide, gleaming river. 
It was all a dim, dread dream. In it came a huge monster, puffing, and snorting, and clanking, vomiting clouds of black smoke, and lifting and washing back the drifting trees and logs and refuse on the shining surge. Then a dream of hurry and tumult, a great heaving mass, a swarm of people, an air blind with light and heavy with smoke, a roar of voices laughing, and talking, and hallooing, the clanging of a bell, piles of cotton and goods of all sorts, the clank of engines, the wallowing of water, ponderous snorting, and heaving, and surging, all mixed together in inextricable confusion, and he who dreamed it vaguely knew that he was sitting, like one drugged, on a heaving deck, with heaps of merchandise around him. Gradually he sank away into a still heavier lethargy, in which everything became even more dim and distant, and from thence he slid into a blank and stupid sleep.
Once again the dream seemed to swim heavily into that death-like slumber-a vague, spectral dream, in which some one gave him a hunch of corn bread, which he ate slowly in a glimmering light, remotely conscious of a dark figure standing near, of distant voices, a far-off snorting and clanking, a shuddering motion beneath him, and formless bulks around him. Presently, it drowsily dissolved into darkness and silence. 
Like one who dreams of awaking, he awoke again, and stupidly strove to remember where he was, and what had befallen him. In the dull gleam of a hanging lantern, he saw masses of bales and boxes, casks and furniture, and miscellaneous merchandise, lying in murky gloom. A few dark, uncouth forms of sleeping men, heavily breathing, were strown about in various grotesque attitudes on the piles of cotton. In the stillness, he heard the regular snort and clank of the engine, the rushing of the water, and felt with a dull giddiness the floor rocking and swaying in long, regular undulations. 
Somehow, a minute afterward, he found himself out on the edge of the deck, sick and dizzy, steadying himself against a heap of bales, and looking: out on a broad, dim river, rolling in mighty, languid surges under a large, low, yellow moon. Logs and trees and masses of chaff and refuse lifted blackly in the tawny light on the long swells. All around the water fled by, churned into a mill-race of seething froth and foam. Beyond was a huge steamboat; black smoke trailing from its double funnels; fire flaring from them and from its escape-pipes; balls of light gleaming from banging lanterns here and there; light streaming out from the rows of oblong windows, and from every hole and cranny; the strong current beaten up into a flood of foam beneath its wheel; and the darks and the lights of an inverted phantom steamboat hung below it in the water. Far away were low, black shores, with here and there a gaunt spectral tree, and dull lights glimmering. He was on the mighty tide of a river which ran through hell.
Sick and dizzy, and with a horror on his mind, he staggered back with the heavy drowse on all his faculties, through the tortuous lane of cotton-bales, and sinking down on one of them, fell into his former lethargy. 
He did not sleep through the night, but lay in utter torpor, thinking of nothing, fearing and hoping nothing, only vaguely conscious of where he was, and of the forms around him. Overstrung for many years with the unnatural toils of a slave, and still more tensely overstrung with the terrible labors of his journey through the morass-overstrung both in body and spirit, as few but slaves ever are-he had sunk back, now that a season of relaxation had come, into lassitude as excessive as were the fatigues and agitations of which it was the reaction. Safe for the present, with no immediate stimulus to urge him into activity, he lay, body and spirit, as in the sentient sleep of the tomb. 
Toward morning, he sank away again into a heavy dreamless slumber. Once during the day he dreamed that he was aroused by some one whom he did not recognize, and bidden to come along and get something to eat. In his dream he tried to shake the stupor from his bleared eyes, which even the dim light among the bales pained, and to obey. But the drowse was heavy upon him, and he could only mumble out that he didn’t want to eat, and the dream instantly dissolved in oblivion. He was left undisturbed, for his captor was not without pity for him, and saw that he was terribly fatigued. 
But late that night, when midnight was two hours gone, and the moon was westering palely from the sky, the trump of Liberty or Death sounded again in the ear of the fugitive, and his spirit arose from its tomb. A hand shook him, a voice shouted in his ear that they were near the city, and instantly springing to his feet, with fresh blood leaping through his veins, with new pulses throbbing in his heart, and all his faculties awake and alive, and armed with the utmost cunning, their fullest courage, and their most desperate resolution, he followed his captor out on-deck. The boat was within a mile of the city, which lay beyond a forest of masts and hulls, and scattered lights hung in the rigging, or glimmering on the levee, dark and silent, with its roofs and spires massed against the purple sky, and glittering in the moon. The night was hot and still, and a heavy languor hung over the great breadth of regular rolling swells. Ships lay at anchor all about the stream, lifting with the lifting of the surge, and here and there a flat-boat with lights on board, and the men plying their long sweeps, lazily steered its way on the drift between the hulls. Antony watched the scene, with his heart fiercely beating at the thought of the coming trial. 
<c05>
Meanwhile, the boat, with her bell ringing, was slowly clanking and snorting on through the foaming and brattling flood around her bows and wheels, and the passengers were pouring forth, men, women and children, on her decks. The fugitive stood silently by his captor, on the lower forward deck, amidst the tumult and crowding of the risen multitude, biding his time. The moment the boat touched the levee, he was determined to quietly slip aside from his companion, and lose himself in the crowd. To this end he stood a little to one side of him, watching his every movement.
Suddenly the clatter of conversation and the trampling of feet were stricken still by a wild yell, above which was heard the slow, impassive snort and clank of the engine, and the brattling wash of the water. Then burst forth a shrill clamor of cries and screams from the after deck, followed by a trampling rush which threw all forward, as by a galvanic shock, into mad confusion; then behind the pouring crowd, suddenly lightened a red flare, followed by a tremendous volume of black smoke, and at once, amidst terrific disorder, up rose a dreadful storm of yells and screams from the horror-stricken multitude. The next instant the uproar of voices was stifled in a multitudinous choking and gasping, as the thick, poisonous smoke swept over the decks, and presently up shot a sheeting burst of clear flame, with shrivelling ringlets of black vapor writhing and vanishing away in it, lighting the ghastly pallor of the hundreds of terrified faces, all turned one way, and throwing its lurid glare on the churning froth and the lifting swell, and on the myriad masts and spars and rigging of the surrounding vessels, which started out suddenly in lines and bars of tawny splendor against a background of gloom. 
Even in that awful moment, Antony did not lose sight of his captor. With his whole soul fiercely bent on getting away from him, he saw him start back and shout with terror. With his eye fixed upon him, he heard the rapid jabber of a terrified man behind him shrieking out that a lantern had fallen and broken, setting fire to a pool of turpentine which had leaked from a barrel on the after deck, and the fire spreading at once to the barrel, it had burst and flooded the boat with flame. Still watching him, he heard the screamed order to reverse the engines, and amidst howls and cries of anguish and despair, and cursing and praying, and the heavy thump of men and women falling in swoon upon the deck, or trampling and fighting over each other in their frantic desperation, while the advancing flame leaped and writhed, crackling and bristling and roaring furiously on-amidst all the horror and Bedlam confusion of that minute-for it was but one-standing still, with his eye riveted on his captor, he heard the ponderous clunk, the long wash and wallow, and felt the boat drift backward to gain the middle of the stream. That instant he sprang backward, and rushing through the crowd, kicked off his shoes, and leaped into the river.
He emerged presently from his plunge, amidst a shower of fiery cinders, with the lifting surges all aglare around him, and struck boldly forward for the levee, seeing at a glance the burning mass drift behind him, and all the illuminated ships at the piers and in the stream suddenly alive with shouting figures. Turning for an instant, and treading water, he saw the boat clanking backward, with her black funnels rising from a leaping and coiling mountain of smoke and flame, her passengers all huddled forward in a dense, shrieking mass, black against the fiery glow, and figures jumping into the water-which was already dotted with dark, swimming forms, and looked like a turbulent sea of flame ignited from the spectre of a burning boat below its surface. Among the swimming figures there was, perhaps, not one but was his enemy-not one who would not hale him back to the bondage from which he was struggling away. Turning again, he swam on, heading against the ponderous current which would bear him down past the city and out to sea. Boats were putting out in all directions from the ships in the stream, and from the shore, to pick up the swimmers, many of whom were swimming in front of him, or clinging to pieces of drift-wood or furniture. To avoid being picked up by any of the boats was a necessary part of his task, for they, too, were manned by his enemies. Reaching a large brig anchored in the stream, with a few sailors standing on the bulwarks and in the rigging, watching the burning vessel, he resolved to cling to its rudder a few moments to recover breath, and as he approached it, looking up through the shadow, made luminous by the wan light of the moon, and the reflected glare of the water, he read on the stern, in white letters, the words, ‘SOLIMAN, BOSTON.’ His heart throbbed wildly; and clinging to the rudder under an overhanging boat, he listened to the talking on the deck above him, and presently heard a voice say: 
‘Devilish lucky we weren’t set afire, Jones, and we just ready to sail.’ 
Just ready to sail! He heard these words with his brain aflame. His chance had come. Setting his knees to the slippery rudder, he began to climb. It was hard work, for the helm was coated with sea-slime, but at length he got his toes upon the slight projection of one of the iron clamps that bound the wood together, and scrambling upward, laid hold of the boat swinging astern, and softly clambering in, remained still, and listened. He had not been discovered. The talking above him was still going on, and presently he heard the tramp of the two men as they moved away forward. Raising himself in the boat, he cautiously peered in at the cabin window. A swinging lamp was burning within, and all was quiet. He put in his head, looked around him for a moment, and then stealthily got in. Going to the cabin door, he peered out; on the deck. Everybody was at the bows, standing on the bulwarks and in the rigging in the wild glare, watching the steamboat, which was now one mass of leaping flame, half a mile away up the river. Cries and screams and shouts were resounding from the water in all directions. Looking at the deck, he saw that the hatch nearest him was open, and nerved to desperation, and almost choking with excitement, he went lightly forward, his bare feet making no sound, and, unseen by any one, so intent was the general gaze on the conflagration, stooped and dropped into the hold. 
He fell on a cotton-bale, three or four feet from the top, and lay in the thick darkness, reeking with sweat, and listening, with a wild jumping in his throat, for any sound that might tell him his entrance had been observed. He heard none. The talking went on above him, and it was all about the burning steamboat. He knew that he must not remain where he was, for there he could he seen, and in a moment he began to grope for a hiding-place. He was in a sort of square well, formed by the cotton-bales around him. Above them was a horizontal space under the deck, and clambering out of the well, he wormed himself into this, a few feet forward, and lay, panting and fatigued, hot, wet, hungry and thirsty, half stifled by the foul and musty air of the hold, and by the smell of the bilge, but safe for the present. 
He lay in a sort of stupor, and gradually heard all sounds die away. For a little while his mind was filled with strange recollections of the passions and events of the last hour; then lying prone in the foul and musty darkness, he lapsed into a sleep haunted with dreams, in which he was again rushing through the swamp, which somehow changed into rolling water, on which a steamer was burning, and he was holding up Madame Lafitte, who suddenly turned and bit him on the hand. Starting up in the thick darkness, he struck his head against the deck, and then remembering where he was, lay still. The hatch had been closed. In the darkness he heard light scampering and , squealing, and felt the ship shuddering beneath him. 
He forgot his dream in the wild whirl of emotion with which he became aware that the vessel was on her way. Presently be felt a sort of pricking in his hand, and touching the spot, found that it was wet, and, as he again heard the scampering and squealing, he knew that a rat had bitten him. Startled a little at the new danger of being set upon by these vermin, and suspicious of poison, he sucked the wound, resolved to keep awake now as long as he could. He did not know how long he had slept, but he could hear the incessant snort. snort, snort, of a steamboat, with the long unbroken wash of the vessel, and knew that the brig was in the tow of a steam-tug, and so not yet out of the river. 
At length, there was a change in the noises. Orders were shouted above, heavy feet were rushing about, there was a bustle of pulling and hauling, griding and flapping, thudding of ropes on deck, chanting of sailors, amidst the receding snort of the steam-tug; and in the darkness, Antony felt the vessel lean and roll and stagger with a sound of swiftly rushing water, and knew that she was standing out to sea. 
Who’ll send me back, after all I’ve gone through? 

<c06>
Who’ll be mean enough to do it? That was his constant thought now, and it came in those words to his mind. He knew the penalties imposed on any captain who took away a fugitive in his vessel. He had thought of them before, but dimly; now they came to him vividly, and he trembled. He was resolved to remain in the hold as long as he could; but he knew the time would come when he must leave his hiding-place, and face the captain. His plan was to tell him all he had suffered, to show him his wounds and scars, to beg him on his knees not to send him back to the hell he had escaped from. Who would do it? Who’ll send me back after all I’ve gone through? Who’ll be mean enough to do it?
Soon the motion of the vessel threw him, already sickened by the horrible smells and closeness of the hold, into agonies of sea-sickness, and he lay on the bales vomiting violently, and feeling as if his soul were rending his aching body asunder. By-and-by, he crawled down into the well-like cavity under the hatch, where there was a little more room to breathe in, and there he lay, without food, without drink, almost without air, for three days. 
Days of sickness too loathsome to be described, too dreadful for permitted language to convey. Days of utter prostration, of griping pain, of wrenching convulsions, of horror indescribable, of tortured death-in-life. Days when the ropy and putrid air was sucked into the feeble lungs as if it were some strangling substance; when the oppressed heart beat slowly with dull knocks as though it would burst the bosom, and the bosom labored as though it were loaded down with tons of iron. Days when sleep came down like a weight of lead upon the brain, and struggled with infernal dreams, and was broken to fight off an ever-returning swarm of rats-invisible vermin that swarmed over his invisible body when it lay still, and were heard squeaking and pattering off in the sightless darkness when he feebly flung about his limbs to beat them away. Days whose mad, disgustful horror was desperately borne for the hope of liberty, for the hatred of slavery-borne till he could bear it no longer, and he resolved to beat upon the hatch, and cry aloud, and let those above him know what a hell of agony raged beneath their feet.
How long he had been immured he did not know. Count time by anguish, and it might have been centuries. Fearful of discovering himself till he was too far from the land from which he had fled to be returned, he had resolved to endure till endurance became impossible. For this he had clung to life, for this he had silently borne the horrors of his tomb, for this he had striven a hundred times against the desire to end his imprisonment by shouting aloud to those above him. Now when heavy torpor and gradual giddiness were stealing upon him, and the instinct of his soul told him death was drawing near, he roused himself for the long-deferred effort. 
The ship was staggering heavily, and he heard the trampling of feet on the deck, as, with dizzily reeling brain, he feebly and slowly crawled up on his hands and knees. His strength was almost gone. An infant newly born could have been hardly more helpless than he found himself. He slowly lifted one hand to lay it on the bales beside him-lifted it a few inches like something over which he had no command-and it fell heavily, and losing his balance, he tumbled down on his side. An awful feeling stole across his mind that he had delayed too long-that his resolution had outlived his physical powers. Turning over on his back, feebly panting, slowly suffocating, he drew in his breath for a wild cry for help. It rushed from him in a hoarse whistling whisper. His voice had left him!
He lay still now, painfully breathing, but resigned to die. Quietly-quietly-the fears and desires of the present, the hopes of the future withdrew, and the vision of all his past floated softly through his tranquil brain. It faded, and he lay rushing on a fast-rushing tide, and dilated with a wonderful and mystic change. Power and beauty and joy ineffable began to glow and spread divinely through his being with the vague beauteous glimmer of a transcendant life afar. All fierce and dark and sorrowful passions and emotions gone-all sense of pain and horror and disgust fled forever-himself happier, greater, nobler than he had ever dreamed-he lay swiftly drifting to the last repose.
What sound was it that jarred so dully on his failing ear? What sudden light was it that fell upon him? What faces were those that looked on him so strangely from above, and vanished with cries that brought down darkness and silence on him once more?
O blue sky of the nineteenth century, what is this? O pale, fresh light streaming into the noisome hold, what is this? O wonder-stricken, silent faces, gazing aghast upon that swart and loathsome figure lying in the shallow well, with an iron collar on its neck; what does it mean?
The men stood staring at the motionless body on the bales below them, and then, lost in a trance of wonder, stared at each other. Their wild amazement at the sight which met their eyes when they had unbattened the batch, had burst forth in one cry, and then left them still and dumb. Presently there was a sound of heavy, hurrying feet, and the captain, a short, powerfully-built man, came flying over the deck, with strong excitement working in his sun-burnt face, reached the hold, looked in, turned livid with rage, slapped his straw hat down on his head with both hands, and rushed away cursing and raving like a madman. It was highly natural. A commercial Christian of the nineteenth century breed, the captain had been educated to think of nothing but his ship and trade, and his special reflection was of the penalties that would ensue if it became known that he had carried away a slave from New Orleans.
Recovering from their amazement, the sailors, with uncouth and profane ejaculations of horror and pity, lifted the inanimate body of Antony, disgusting even to their rude senses, and touching even to their rude sensibilities, out of the hold. They had hardly laid it on deck when the captain came rushing back again, shouting with oaths an order for a look-out up aloft, with the hope of meeting some vessel bound for the city he had left, that would take the slave back. Then giving the prostrate body a furious kick, he rushed away again, storming and stamping and swearing.
At the direction of the mate, the sailors took the faintly-breathing body of Antony forward to the galley, where the black cook busied himself in reviving the fugitive. Half a dozen times a day the captain came to the spot where the feeble man reclined, and glared at him without saying a word. On the third day, Antony being then weak, but able to stand and talk, the captain demanded him to give an account of himself.
Feebly standing before him, with all the vigor gone from his emaciated form, and with the deep marks of awful suffering graven on his wasted lineaments, Antony told his story. As he finished, imploring the captain in earnest and broken tones not to send him back, the mate, who stood by, turned away with his mouth twitching, saying it was a damned shame. The captain hurst into a fit of passion, and stamped on the deck, gesticulating with clenched hands.
‘A damned shame, is it, Mr. Jones?’ he roared, perfectly livid with rage. ‘I should think it was! Rather! A blasted nigger to smuggle his ugly carcass a board my brig! What d’ye think they‘ll say about it at Orleans, and what’ll they do about it, Mr. Jones? And what’ll Atkins say when he hears of it, Mr. Jones! and a load of cotton aboad from the very house whose junior partner owns this dingy curse, Mr. Jones! Look at the name of the house on his neck, man. Blast ye,’ he howled, turning upon Antony, and shaking both fists at him, ‘I’d send ye back, you beggar, if they were to fry ye in your own black blood when they got ye! Send ye back? If I don’t, may I be eternally’-
He finished the sentence by a gasp, and dashed both elenched fists into the baggard and imploring face of the fugitive, who fell to the deck, covered with blood. Shouting and cursing, the infuriated captain leaped on him, and seizing him by the hair, beat his head against the planks; then jumped to his feet, capering like a madman, and brandishing his clenched fists. The mate stood looking away to the horizon, with a mute, flushed face, and two or three of the sailors standing not far distant, dumb witnesses of this brutal scene, glanced at each other with mutinous brows. Striding off a dozen paces, the captain turned again, bringing down his elenched fist with a slap into the palm of his hand, and stamped with his right foot on the deck as he shouted-
‘Keep a sharp look-out, Mr. Jones! The first vessel that heaves in sight for New Orleans shall take him, if it costs me a hundred dollars. And if he gets to Boston, I’ll tie him hand and foot, and send him or fetch him back the first chance, or my name’s not Bangham!’
He foamed off into the cabin. Who’ll send me back after all I’ve gone through? Who’ll be mean enough to do it? Antony had received the answer.
