THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters <illegible> to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be <illegible> (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisement of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $ 1.50 for <illegible> insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements <illegible> terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the <illegible>-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, Our Country are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. No 50. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER15, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1819.
<c01>
Selections.
MESSAGE OF THE PRESIDENT
AT THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE THIRTY-NINTH CONGRESS.
Such portions <illegible> of the Message as more immediately <illegible> to the great subject of liberty, and the rights of <illegible> people, are given here:
<illegible>of the Senate and House of Representation.
To express gratitude to God, in the name of the people for the preservation of the United States, is <illegible> first duty in addressing you. Our thoughts next <illegible> to the death of the late President by <illegible> treason. The grief of the nation <illegible> at finds some solace in the consideration he <illegible> lived to enjoy the highest proof of its <illegible> by entering on the renewed term of the <illegible> Magistracy, to which he had been elected; <illegible> the civil war substantially to a <illegible> loss was deplored in all parts of the Union and that foreign nations have rendered just <illegible> memory. His removal cast upon me a <illegible> weight of cares than ever devolved upon <illegible> of his predecessors. To fulfil my trust, I <illegible> support and confidence of all who are associated with me in the various departments of Government and the support and confidence of the people. <illegible> but one way in which I can hope to gain <illegible> necessary aid; it is to state with frankness the principles which guide my conduct, and their application to the present state of affairs, well aware that the efficiency of my labors will, in a great measure depend on your and their undivided approbation.
The President gives, at some length, his views on the nature of the Union of the States, the relation the several States, to the Federal Union, and their separate functions, and the condition of the country when he was called to be its Chief Executive Officer. He gives reasons for the policy he has pursued with the Southern States,—reasons not without their weight, though they will not be entirely satisfactory to any considerable number at the North, we believe., He thus proceeds:
I know very well that this policy is attended with some risk, that for the its success it requires at least the acquiescence of the States which it concerns; that it implies an invitation to those States, by renewing their allegiance to the United States, to resume their functions as States of the Union. But it is a risk that must be taken; in the choice of difficulties, it is the smallest risk; and to diminish, and it possible, to remove all danger. I have felt it incumbent on me to assert one other power of the General Government-the power of pardon. As no State can throw a defence over the crime of treason, the power of pardon is exclusively vested in the Executive Government of the United States. In exercising that power. I have taken every precaution to connect it with the clearest recognition of the binding force of the laws of the United States, and an unqualified acknowledgment of the great social change of condition in regard to slavery which has grown out of the war.
The next step which I have taken to restore the constitutional relations of the States has been an invitation to them to participate in the high office of amending the Constitution. Every patriot must wish for a general amnesty at the earliest epoch consistent with public safety. For this great end, there is need of a concurrence of all opinions, and the spirit of mutual conciliation. All parties in the late terrible conflict must work together in harmony. It is not too much to ask, in the name of the whole people, that, on the one side, the plan of restoration shall proceed in conformity with a willing ness to that the disorders of the past into oblivion; and that on the other, the evidence of sincerity in the future maintenance of the Union shall be put beyond any doubt by the ratification of the proposed amendment to the Constitution, which provides for the abolition of slavery forever within the limits of out country. So long as the adoption of this amendment is delayed, so long will doubt, and <illegible> and uncertainty prevail.
This is the measure which will efface the sad memory of the past; this is the measure which will most certainly call population, and capital, and security to those parts of the Union that need them most. Indeed, it is not too much to ask of the States which are now resuming their places in the <illegible> of the Union, to give this pledge of per <illegible> loyalty and peace. Until it is done, the post, however much we may desire it, will not be <illegible>. The adoption of the amendment re-<illegible> beyond all power of disruption. It heals the wound that is still imperfectly closed; it removes slavery, the element which has so long <illegible> and divided the country; it makes of us <illegible> more a united people, renewed and strength-<illegible> bound more than ever to mutual affection and support.
The amendment to the Constitution being adopted it would remain for the States, whose powers have been so long in abeyance, to resume their places in the two branches of the National Legislature, and then by complete the work of restoration. Here it <illegible> for you, fellow-citizens of the Senate, and for <illegible> fellow-citizens of the House of Representatives to judge, each of you for yourselves, of the <illegible>, returns, and qualifications of your own members.
This is just and honorable to the President. Having done his utmost to restore the Union on what he regarded as a fair and liberal basis, he commits wholly to Congress the province of determining the question whether the seceded States have qualified themselves to return.
He intimates that the delay in the trial of Jefferson Davis and others has grown out of the fact that no Circuit Court of the United States would be held in Virginia during the autumn or early winter, nor until Congress should have an opportunity to consider and act on the subject of the Courts.
The relations of the General Government towards the four millions of inhabitants whom the war has called into freedom have engaged my most serious consideration. On the propriety of attempting to make the freedmen electors by the proclamation of the Executive, I took for my counsel the Constitution itself, the interpretations of that instrument by its authors and their contemporaries, and recent legislation by Congress. When, at the first movement toward independence, the Congress of the United States instructed the several States to institute governments of their own, they left each Stage to decide for itself the conditions for the enjoyment of the elective franchise. During the period of the Confederacy, there continued to exist a very great diversity in the qualification of electors in the several States; and even within a State, a distinction of qualifications prevailed with regard to the offi-
<c02>
cers who were to be chosen. The Constitution of the United States recognizes these diversities when it enjoins that, in the choice of members of the House of Representatives of the United States, "the electors in each State shall have the qualifications requisite for electors of the most numerous branch of the State Legislature."
After the formation of the Constitution, it remained, as before, the uniform usage for each State to enlarge the body of its electors, according to its own judgment; and, under this system, one State after another has proceeded to increase the number of its electors, until now universal suffrage, or something very near it, is the general rule. So fixed was this reservation of power in the habits of the people, and so unquestioned has been the interpretation of the Constitution, that during the civil war, the late President never harbored the purpose-certainly never avowed the purpose-of disregarding it; and in the acts of Congress, during that period, nothing can be found which, during the continuance of hostilities, much less after their close, would have sanctioned any departure by the Executive from a policy which had so uniformly obtained. Moreover, a concession of the elective franchise to the freedmen, by the President of the United States, must have been extended to all colored men, wherever found, and so must have established a change of suffrage in the Northern. Middle, and Western States, not less than in the Southern and Southwestern. Such an act would have created a new class of voters, and would have been an assumption of power by the President which nothing in the Constitution or laws of the United States would have warranted.
On the other hand, every danger of conflict is avoided when the settlement of the question is referred to the several States. They can, each for itself, decide on the measure, and whether it is to be adopted at once and absolutely, or introduced gradually and with conditions. In my judgment, the freedmen, if they show patience and manly virtues, will sooner obtain a participation in the elective franchise through the States than through the General Government, even if it had power to intervene. When the tumult of emotions that have been raised by the suddenness of the social change shall have subsided, it may prove that they will receive the kindliest usage from some of those on whom they have heretofore most closely depended.
But while I have no doubt that now, after the close of the war, it is not competent for the General Government to extend the elective franchise in the several States, it is equally clear that good faith requires the security of the freedmen in their liberty and their property, their right to labor, and their right to claim a just return of their labor. I cannot too strongly urge a dispassionate treatment of this subject, which should be carefully kept aloof from all party strife. We must equally avoid hasty assumptions of any natural impossibility for the two races to live side by side in a state of mutual benefit and good-will. The experiment involves us in no inconsistency; let us, then, go on and make that experiment in good faith, and not be too easily disheartened. The country is in need of labor, and the freedmen are in need of employment, culture and protection. While their right of voluntary migration and expatriation is not to be questioned, I would not advise their forced removal and colonization. 
Let us rather encourage them to honorable and useful industry, where it may be beneficial to themselves and to the country; and, instead of hasty anticipations of the certainty of failure, let there be nothing wanting to the fair trial of the experiment. The change in their condition is the substitution of labor by contract for the status of slavery. The freedman cannot fairly be accused of unwillingness to work, so long as a doubt remains about his freedom of choice in his pursuits, and the certainty of his recovering his stipulated wages. In this, the interests of the employer and employed coincide. The employer desires in his workmen spirit and alacrity, and these can be permanently secured in no other way. And it the one ought to be able to enforce the contract, so ought the other. The public interest will be best promoted, if the several States will provide adequate protection and remedies for freedmen. Until this is in some way accomplished, there is no chance for the advantageous use of their labor; and the blame of ill-success will not rest on them.
I know that sincere philanthropy is earnest for the immediate realization of its remotest aims; but time is always an element in reform. It is one of the greatest acts on record to have brought four millions of people into freedom. The career of free industry must be fairly opened to them; and then their future prosperity and condition must, after all, rest mainly on themselves. If they fail, and so perish away, let us be careful that the failure shall not be attributable to any denial of justice. In all that relates to the destiny of the freedmen, we need not be too anxious to read the future; many incidents which, from a speculative point of view, might raise alarm, will quietly settle themselves.
Now that slavery is at an end, or near its end, the greatness of its evil, in the point of view of public economy, becomes more and more apparent. Slavery was essentially a monopoly of labor, and as such locked the States where it prevailed against the incoming of free industry. Where labor was the property of the capitalist, the white man was excluded from employment, or had the second-best chance of finding it; and the foreign emigrant turned away from the region where his condition would be so precarious. With the destruction of the monopoly, free labor will hasten from all parts of the civilized world to assist in developing various and immeasurable resources which have hitherto lain dormant.
The eight or nine States nearest the Gulf of Mexico have a soil of exuberant fertility, a climate friendly to long life, and can sustain a denser population than is found as yet in any part of our country. And the future influx of population to them will be mainly from the North, or from the most cultivated nations in Europe. From the sufferings that have attended them during our late struggle, let us look away to the future, which is sure to be lades for them with greater prosperity than has ever before been known. The removal of the monopoly of slave labor is a pledge that those regions will be peopled by a numerous and enterprising population, which will vie with any in the Union in compactness, inventive genius, wealth, and industry.
A brief extract follows on the subject of the National Debt and Finances:-
It is our first duty to prepare in earnest for our recovery from the ever-increasing evils of an irredeemable currency, without a sudden revulsion, and yet without untimely procrastination. For that end we must, each in our respective positions, prepare the way. I hold it the duty of the Executive to insist upon frugality in the expenditures; and a sparing economy is itself a great national resource. Of the banks to which authority has been given to issue notes secured by bonds of the United States, we may require the greatest moderation and prudence, and the law must be rigidly enforced when
<c03>
its limits are exceeded. We may, each one of us, counsel our active and enterprising countrymen to be constantly on their guard, to liquidate debts contracted in a paper currency, and, by conducting business as nearly as possible on a system of cash payments or short credits, to hold themselves in readiness to return to the standard of gold and silver. To aid our fellow-citizens in the prudent management of their monetary affairs, the duty devolves on us to diminish by law the amount of paper money now in circulation. Five years ago, the bank-note circulation of the country amounted to not much more than two hundred millions; now the circulation, bank and national, exceeds seven hundred millions. The simple statement of the fact recommends more strongly than any words of mine could do, the necessity of our restraining this expansion. The gradual reduction of the currency is the only measure that can save the business of the country from disastrous calamities; and this can be almost imperceptibly accomplished by gradually funding the national circulation in securities that may be made redeemable at the pleasure of the government.
Our deot is doubly secure-first in the actual wealth and still greater undeveloped resources of the country; and next in the character of our institutions. The most, intelligent observers among political economists have not failed to remark, that the public debt of a country is safe in proportion as its people are free; that the debt of a republic is safest of all. Our history confirms and establishes the theory, and is, I firmly believe, destined to give it a still more signal illustration. The secret of this superiority springs not merely from the fact that in a republic the national obligations are distributed more widely through countless numbers in all classes of society; it has its root in the character of our laws. Here all men contribute to the public welfare, and bear their fair share of the public burdens. During the war, under the impulse of patriotism, the men of the great body of the people, without regard to their own camparative want of wealth, thronged to our armies and filled our fleets of war, and held themselves ready to offer their lives for the public good. Now, in their turn, the property and income of the country should bear their just proportion of the burden of taxation, while in our impost system, through the means of which increased vitality is incidentally imparted to all the industrial interests of the nation, the duties should be so adjusted as to fall most heavily on articles of luxury, leaving the necessities of life as free from taxation as the absolute wants of the Government, economically administered, will justify. No favored class should demand freedom from assessment, and the taxes should be so distributed as not to fall unduly on the poor, but rather on the accumulated wealth of the country. We should look to the national debt just as it is-not as a national blessing, but as a heavy burden on the industry of the country, to be discharged without unnecessary delay.
This is the President's word about, and for, Great Britain:-
Our domestic contest, now happily ended, has left some traces in our relations with one at least of the great maritime Powers. The formal accordance of belligerent rights to the insurgent States was unprecedented, and has not been justified by the issue. But in the systems of neutrality pursued by the Powers which made that concession, there was a marked difference. The materials of war for the insurgent States were furnished, in a great measure, from the work-shops of Great Britain; and British ships, manned by British subjects, and prepared for receiving British armaments, sailed from the ports of Great Britain to make war on American commerce, under the shelter of a commission from the insurgent States. These ships, having once escaped from British ports, ever afterwards entered them in every part of the world, to refit, and so to renew their depredations. The consequences of this conduct were most disastrous to the States then in rebellion, increasing their desolation and misery by the prolongation of our civil contest.
It had, moreover, the effect, to a great extent, to drive the American flag from the sea, and to transfer much of our shipping and our commerce to the very Power whose subjects had created the necessity for such a change. These events took place before I was called to the administration of the Government. The sincere desire for peace by which I am animated led me to approve the proposal, already made, to submit the questions which had thus arisen between the countries to arbitration. These questions are of such moment that they must have commanded the attention of the great Powers, and are so interwoven with the peace and interests of every one of them as to have insured an impartial decision. I regret to inform you that Great Britain declined the arbitrament, but, on the other hand, invited us to the formation of a joint commission to settle mutual claims between the two countries, from which those for the depredations before mentioned should be excluded. The proposition, in that very unsatisfactory form, has been declined.
The United States did not present the subject as an impeachment of the good faith of a Power which was professing the most friendly dispositions, but as involving questions of public law, of which the settlement is essential to the peace of nations: and, though pecuniary reparation to their injured citizens would have followed incidentally on a decision against Great Britain, such compensation was not their primary object. They had a higher motive, and it was the interests of peace and justice to establish important principles of international law. The correspondence will be placed before you. The ground on which the British Minister rests his justification is, substantially, that the municipal law of a nation, and the domestic interpretations of that law, are the measure of its duty as a neutral; and I feel bound to declare my opinion, before you and before the world, that that justification cannot be sustained before the tribunal of nations. At the same time, I do not advise to any present attempt at redress by acts of legislation. For the future, friendship between the two countries must rest on the basis of mutual justice.
The prevailing tone of the Message is hopeful, its suggestions are statesmanlike; it is written with ability and eloquence, yet without any pretence or display of rhetoric; and as a whole, we are confident, it will gratify the country, and inspire increased confidence in Mr. Johnson’s administration.
It closes as follows-
Where, in past history, does a parallel exist to the public happiness which is with in the reach of the people of the United States? Where, in any part of the globe, can institutions be found so suited to their habits, or so entitled to their love, as their own free Constitution? Every one of them, then, in whatever part of the land he has his home, must wish it perpetuity. Who of them will not now acknowledge, in the words of Washington, that "every step by which the people of the United
<c04>
States have advanced to the character of an independent nation, seems to have been distinguished by some token of Providential agency"?
Who will not join with me in the prayer, that the Invisible Hand which has led us through the cloud that gloomed around our path will so guide us onward to a perfect restoration of fraternal affection, that we may be able to transmit our great inheritance, of State Governments in all their rights, of the General Government in its whole constitutional vigor, to our posterity, and they to theirs through countless generations?
ANDREW JOHNSON.
WASHINGTON, Dec. 4, 1865.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OF WAR.
The report of the Secretary of War states that the military appropriations by the last Congress amounted to $516,240,131 79; the military estimates for the next fiscal year are $33,814,461 83-The national military force on the first; of May, 1865, numbered one million five hundred and sixteen men. It is proposed to reduce the military establishment to fifty thousand troops, and over eight hundred thousand have already been mustered out of service.
The Secretary gives a brief but comprehensive view of military operations during the last year of the war. Referring to the present condition of the country with regard to its ability to raise and equip an immense army, and the consequent inexpediency of maintaining a large standing army, the Secretary says:
"But the present generation of men in this country are now veteran soldiers. For the battle, the march, or the siege, they are already trained. They are as much at home in the tented field as in the farm-house, the manufactory or the shop. No time is required to train them; and the speed of the railroad and telegraph determines the time required to raise an army in the United States.
Second. As to arms and ammunition. The disbanded armies were allowed to take home their arms at a nominal price. Rust is not likely to gather on the musket and sabre borne through the campaigns of 1864 and 1865. The Government retains in its arsenals more than a million of the best quality of arms and equipments. The artillery on hand tasks the department for its means of storage. The manufacture of ammunition requires materials for which we have in some degree relied upon other countries, because they could be had cheaper. For this reason, and to guard against any mischance, three years’ stock of material for ammunition has already been kept in store, and the supply on band is ample for any war that can be waged against us by any nation.
Third. Clothing, transportation and subsistence. After selling and distributing among freedmen and refugees all damaged or irregular clothing, the stock of clothing and material in the quartermaster's depots is sufficient for any armies that may be called into service. The water transportation and rolling stock, mules, wagons and horses held by the Government were adequate to the movement and supply of larger forces, in less time, than had heretofore been known in war. The Government has disposed or is disposing of this transportation, but it remains in this country, and can answer any exigency.
Number of men put into the Army. The aggregate quotas charged against the several States, under all calls made by the President of the United States, from the 15th day of April, 1861, to the 14th day of April, 1865, at which time drafting and recruiting ceased, was 2,759,049, the terms of service varying from three months to three years, as shown in detail by the books of the Provost-Marshal-General’s office. The aggregate number of men credited on the several calls, and put into service of the United States in the army, navy, and marine corps, during the above period, was 2,656,553; leaving a deficiency on all calls, when the war closed, of 102, 496, which would have been obtained in full if recruiting and drafting had not been discontinued.
PAYMASTER-GENERAL’S ACCOUNT.
The total losses and defalcations from July, 1861, to July 1, 1865, if nothing should be recovered, amount to the sum of five hundred and forty-one thousand dollars ($541,000,) and it is believed that not less than half this amount will be recovered. The total expense of disbursement, including all pay and allowances, commutation of quarters, fuel, and traveling expenses, for four years and four months, amount to six millions four hundred and twenty-nine thousand six hundred dollars. ($6, 429, 600.)
Thus it is seen that the costs of disbursement to armies in the field, and amid all the hazards of unexampled war, and including all losses and expenses, are less than three-fourths of one per cent.
THE POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT. The report of the Postmaster-General shows that the revenues of that department for the year ended June 30, 1865, were $14,556,158.70, and the expenditures $13,694,728.20, leaving a surplus of $861,430.42.
The number of mail routes ordered into operation in the States lately in rebellion is 241.
Balances were due from Southern postmasters at the outbreak of the rebellion, amounting to $369, 027.87, few of which have been paid. Means are being employed, through courts and other agencies, to collect the amounts due the government.
The closing of the war brought with it the necessity of restoring the postal service in the Southern States. No time was lost in offering to the citizens of those States all the facilities which they were in condition to accept.
Among the many remarkable facts illustrating the progress of the people of the loyal States during the rebellion, in almost every department of material development and social advancement, having no precedent in history, and confounding the predictions of all having little faith in the vitality of free institutions and the resources of a free people, that of the increase of postal correspondence, as shown by the postal revenues, is not the least interesting and suggestive. The maximum annual receipts of this department previous to the rebellion, from all the States, was $8,518,067.40, which was exceeded in the sum of $6,038,091.30 by the receipts of the last year from the loyal States alone.
MR. COLFAX’S SPEECH. The following is the address delivered by Mr. Colfax on taking the Speaker’s Chair in the National House of Representatives:—
Gentlemen of the House of Representatives:-The reassembling of Congress, marking as it does the procession of our national history, is always regarded with interest by the people for whom it is to legislate. But it is not unsafe to say that millions more than ever before, North, South, East and West, are looking to the Congress which opens its first session to-day with an earnestness and solicitude unequalled on similar occasions in the past. The XXXVIIIth Congress closed its constitutional existence with the storm-cloud of war still lowering
<c05>
over us; and, after a nine months’ absence, Congress resumes its legislative authority in these council-halls, rejoicing that from shore to shore in our land there is peace. Its duties are as obvious as the sun’s pathway in the heavens. Representing in its two branches the States and the People, its first and highest obligation is to guarantee to every State a republican form of government. The rebellion having overthrown the constitutional State governments in many States, it is yours to mature and enact legislation which, with the concurrence of such a basis of enduring justice as will guarantee all necessary safeguards to the people, and to afford what our magna charta, the Declaration of Independence, proclaims is the chief object of government, protection to all men in their inalienable rights. (Applause.) The world should witness in this great work the most inflexible fidelity, the most earnest devotion to the principles of liberty and humanity, the truest patriotism and the wisest statesmanship. Men by the hundreds of thousands have died that the republic might live. The emblems of mourning have darkened the White House and the cabin alike. But the fires of civil war have melted every fetter in the land, and proved the funeral pyre of slavery. It is for you, Representatives, to do your work as faithfully and as well as did the fearless saviors of the Union on their more dangerous arenas of duty. Then we may hope to see the vacant and once abandoned seats around us gradually filling up, until this Hall shall contain Representatives from every State and district, their hearts devoted to the Union for which they are to legislate, jealous of its honor, proud of its glory, watchful of its rights and hostile to its enemies; and the stars on our banner that paled when the States they represented arrayed themselves in arms against the nation, will shine with a more brilliant light of loyalty than ever before. (Applause) Invoking the guidance of Him who holds the destiny of nations in the hollow of His hand, I enter again upon the duties of this trying position, with a heart filled with gratitude to you for the unusually flattering manner in which it has been bestowed, and cheered by the hope that it betokens your cordial support and assistance in all its grave responsibilities. I am now ready to take the oath of office prescribed by law.

FREEDOM-CITIZENSHIP.
We are forced to look sharply after gubernatorial logic in the unreconstructed States. Thus Gov. Humphreys of Mississippi says: "The negro is free, whether we like it or not." Very philosophical. "We must realize that, now and forever." There is nothing like resignation. "To be free, however, does not make the negro a citizen, nor entitle him to political or social equality with the white man." Hold hard there, while we overhaul this rather muddled assertion!
What does make a white man a citizen? His freedom. Why does he vote? Because he is free. What makes him politically equal with the next white man? His freedom. Then if freedom makes white men voters and politically equal, why should n't it make black men voters and politically equal? Freedom is positive. There is n't, there cannot be, one kind of freedom for whites, and another for blacks. If you try that dodge, you tumble head foremost into the smothering slough of privilege, which the nation is struggling to avoid.
We say nothing here of social equality. The regulation of that is no business of any Governor, Congress or Legislature. Hence the stunning question so often propounded with an air of predestinate triumph, "Would you like to have your daughter marry a nigger?" need not here be discussed.
But in this country freedom always implies political equality; and until we turn our institutions topsy-turvy, and discard our fundamental principles, always must continue to do so. Thus Gov. Humphreys, speaking of the black, says: "The Constitution and justice do entitle him to protection and security in his person and property, both real and personal." This is good, so far as it goes. But Gov. Humphreys forgets that the Constitution entitles every man, black or white, to self-protection, and that this is the chief end of ordaining and establishing individual freedom. The Governor would give to the black freedom, and to the white the custody of the black’s freedom, which is about the absurdness proposition which has come to our knowledge in these days of multiplied absurdities. When Gov. Humphreys comes to discuss negro testimony, he sees this. Thus he says that the right to testify is "the common privilege of freedom," and to deny it to the emancipated "the merest mockery." Well, if you give the right to testify, why not all other civil rights? Why is n’t it "the merest mockery" to deny these also? The rule must be justice, says the Governor. Well, then, let us have it, without paltering or prevarication!
Senator Wilson’s new bill will make a sensation when intelligence of it shall reach Mississippi. It disposes, in rather a remorseless way, of all the doubts, queries, qualifications, conditions, hair-splitting, hesitations, hedging, and half-acquiescence’s, of just such gentlemen as Gov. Humphreys. It declares that "to be free does make the negro a citizen." It affirms "equality of civil rights and immunities," and repeals all "inequalities" which may have been established or maintained "by reason of any distinctions or differences of color, race or descent." Gov. Humphreys says that the black is not entitled to political equality; Mr. Wilson’s bill says that he is, that he shall have it, and that legislation which shall deny it must be considered a misdemeanor, subjecting the offenders to fine and imprisonment. This makes up a nice little issue, and the fight is about to begin. There is so much that is good in Gov. Humphrey’s Message, that we hope, for his own sake, he will discover the virtue of consistency, and of consistency on the right side.—N. Y. Tribune.

AN OLD FRIEND WITH A NEW FACE.
Mr. Benj. Rhett communicates to The Charleston News, and commends a plan for regulating the relations between the Freedmen and the Whites of the South, which he says is substantially that adopted by Louis Napoleon for French Guiana, and has proved very satisfactory-to the Whites. Hour him:—
"The plan is as follows: Every freedom, dependent upon his daily labor for his daily breed, is compelled by law to hire himself to some employer for the your. The whole State is laid out in districts; such district has its house of industry, its magistrate and police, whose sole attention is given to the affairs of the freedmen and their employers. An I have said above, every freedmen is compelled by law to contract with an employer. There are three parts to the <illegible> —the employer, and the State; the last represented by the magistrates, enters as one of the parties to enforces the contract, and to receive a <illegible> slim to be <illegible> cut side for times of sickness and old age of the employer. In <illegible> of disagreement between the employer and employee, the
<c06>
magistrate or police are appealed to. If the matter cannot be settled by them to the satisfaction of the parties, then the employer gives notice to the police of his intention to discharge the employe, who is forthwith taken in charge by the police, and conveyed to the House of Industry, where he works for his support until hired by some other party. If the employer discharges the employe, or the employe leaves his place, without due notice to the police, then the party so offending is subject to a penalty fixed by law. No freedman can leave his district and go into another without a written sanction or transfer from the magistrate of one district to the magistrate of another. Thus it will be seen that the above system prevents oppression on the one hand, and license on the other; cheeks vagabondage by providing employment for the year; removing those great inducements to forsake his employer, idleness and vagabondism, by confining his choice to his removal from one scene of labor to another-from his employer to the House of Industry. It prevents pauperism, by the State keeping a reserve fund out of the freedmen’s wages for sickness and old age. Frenchmen who have tried this system assured Col. Roman that it had proved equally effective and far more agreeable than Slavery."
Mr. Rhett ought to rub his eyes sharply, so as (if possible) to rub them open, in order that he may see that this is the year 1865, and that the next in order, now close at hand, is certain to be 1865, What he proposes is the replacement of Slavery to an individual by Slavery to a district or communes. A Black man, under his system, might be able to make $500 a year by hiring and working land, or by buying and driving a team and wagon, yet he would be prohibited by law from so doing; he might be offered $25 per month by a planter living across the road running past his door, yet be obliged to work instead for $10 or less for a planter living on his side of that same road, therefore in the district whereof he (the Black) was so unlucky as to be a resident. A dozen planters, owning among them all the land in a district, might combine to make the one thousand Black laborers living therein work for them at $5 per month, and every one of those laborers would have to take this or starve outright, since they would be precluded from looking elsewhere for employment. If they asked permission to leave, "the magistrate" (one of the planters, of course) would refuse it; if they went without permission, they would promptly be seized by "the police," and brought back to their $5 per month. The bloodhounds and revolvers might be kept in abeyance for a year or two; but they would surely reappear; and "negro dogs" would soon be advertised as of old.
We assure Mr. Rhett that a "system" will be devised and enforced that "prevents oppression on the one side, and license on the other," (or the same:) but he has not hit it. Let him be patient, and listen to what Congress may have to say.—N. Y. Tribune.

ABOUT NEGRO INSURRECTIONS.
Felix Grundy of Tennessee once wisely remarked, that the way to ensure the peace of a State is so to legislate as to make it the interest of all its honest inhabitants to keep the peace. Secure the rights of all, he said, and all will support and maintain the laws. Those people in Louisiana and elsewhere, who are fearful of a negro insurrection, will do well to bear in mind this speech of a Southern man.
Much has been said about the recent outbreak in Jamaica, and people speak as though negro insurrections were something new there, and had only occurred since the blacks became free. But the facts are otherwise. While slavery existed in Jamaica, there was a constant insurrection there. For forty years, the maroons, mutinous and fugitive slaves, held the mountain fastnesses of the island, and carried on a war with the whites, and the government was at last forced to make a treaty of peace with them. In 1760, in 1795, and in 1832, there were special and formidable insurrections of the slaves, subdued with great difficulty. But when freedom was declared, these insurrections ceased, and from the year 1838, when the slaves of Jamaica became free, to the last month, there has been no out break.
Thus merely freeing the slaves was the most effective of peace measures. But the oppression of the planter-class continued, and lasts to this day, as we showed, in part, a few days ago. The form of government is ingeniously adapted to encourage this class oppression in an island where the blacks are to the whites as forty to one; where, in fact, they are almost the "whole of the people"
The Governor is appointed by the crown, and is paid a salary of £5,000, of which £1,500 is paid by the Island, and the remainder by the British government. The Privy Council, or Cabinet, is appointed by the Governor. The Legislative Council of seventeen members forms the upper house of the colonial legislature, and is also appointed by the Governor. The parishes are also presided over by a magistrate, called a custos rotulrum, who is appointed by the Governor for life. The only branch of government in which the people have any voice whatever is the lower house of the legislature, which consists of two members elected from each parish, with an additional one for Spanish Town Kingston, and Port Royal, making forty-seven in all. These are elected by freeholders of the annual value of six pounds starling rental, which reduces the entire number of voters on the Island to three thousand, or one in one hundred and thirty of the population.
No white men, speaking the English language, standing in the same relations to a small minority of wealthy aristocrats, would have borne this state of things as patiently as these Jamaica nagroes have.-N. Y. Evening Post.
THE JAMAICA TROUBLES. The conduct of the whites in suppressing the negro outbreak in Jamaica will leave a deep stain on the English name. As the facts come out, it is found that the disturbance was local, and that it was suppressed on the first day. All the succeeding outrages on the part of the soldiers and authorities read like the acts of devils, and indicate that the black King of Dahomey does not want imitators among the white inhabitants of Jamaica. Negro villages were burnt, men shot and hanged, women flogged, and the official reports states, in language worthy of Carrier or Collor D’ Herbois, that the soldiers "enjoyed the sport hugely.” Indeed, the panic produced one of those brutal massacres which the English are went to dignify with the name of energy, and in which every principle of justices as well as reason and clemency was ruthlessly violated.
The outbreak and its repression are both full of lessons of us in dealing with the emancipated blacks of the South. First, in regard to suffrage: out of a population of ever 400,000, only 2500 were allowed to vote. The governing part of the population had no sympathy with the governed, no regard for their interests, no disposition to treat them with equal and impartial justice. All the evils of class government, intensified by differences of race and color, and resulting in widening yearly the galf between
PRES. LINCOLN ON NEGRO SUFFRACE.
The following is an extract from an unpublished latte from the late President Lincoln, addressed to Gen, Wads-worth, taking strong ground in favor of universal its frage:—
“You desire to know, is the event of our complete success in the field, the same being followed by a loyal and cheerful submission of the South, if universal amnesty should not be accompanied by universal suffrage.
Now, since you know my private localizations as to what terms should be granted to the South, in the contingency mentioned, I will here add, that if our success should thus be realized, followed by such desired results, I can’t see—if universal amnesty is granted—how, under the circumstances, I can avoid exacting in return universal suffrage, or at least, suffrage on the basils of intelligence and military serves. 
How to better the condition f the colored race has long been a study which has attracted my serous and desired an to what course I shall pursue in the premless, regarding it as a religious duty, as the nation’s guardian of these people who have so heroically vindicated their manhood on the battle-field, where, in assisting to save the life of the republic, they demonstrated in blood their right to the ballot, which is but the humane protection of the flag they have so fearlessly defended.”
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
the "superior" and the "inferior" races in Jamaica, are before us for our edification The burst of blind fury at the rising of the negro population shows the feeling with which that population are regarded by the whites.
The "authorities" acted as though they were hunting wolves and hyenas, and all feeling of humanity was extinguished, because the official murderers had never considered their victims as human. Only by acting now towards our negro population with justice, and giving them their natural rights, can we prevent both Southern whites and blacks from sinking into the barbarism of which we have an example in Jamaica.-Transcript.
GEN. HOWARD, AT EDISTO ISLAND, S. C.
[We regard ourselves fortunate in being able to publish the following account of Gen. Howard's recent meeting with the freedmen on Edisto Island. It was not written with any expectation of publication. The writer is a lady of Springfield, Mass., (Miss E. B.) of the best connection, education, and intelligence, and is a devoted teacher in the schools on that island. We cannot expect to have worthier or more reliable testimony on the subject than here.-Independent.]
"I will now go on to describe Gen. Howard's visit. We were up bright and early in the morning, to be sure and be in season, and overtook lots of the people, dressed in their best, entirely unconscious of the fate before them, as happy as possible. We went to the wharf to wait for the boat, and on its arrival Mr. Alden (superintendent of schools) went on board to meet the general. He was accompanied by a portion of his staff, (his brother and Mr. Stimson,) a chaplain, Mr. Tomlinson, the general superintendent of schools, and whom we had seen before in Charleston, and two of the former residents of the island, rebels, Major Whaley, and Mr. Edward Seabrook. Just as the boat landed, a cavalcade of colored men came racing down the road. There were eighteen of them, mounted on all sorts of animals mules, etc., looking like Falstaff’s army. We had excellent chance to see them as they arranged themselves in two rows, that the general might pass through. It was amusing to see their performance in getting it done in order. While they were waiting for the general, some of the persons who had come from the boat reported to one of the cavalry that the rebels were coming back to take possession of their property here, and that two of them were on the boat. The word passed like lightning along the line, and such a change as came over them! They were loud in their denunciations, and declared they would not submit to it. Presently the ambulance and four fine white horses appeared, looking beautifully-a rare sight for us. They were placed at the entrance of the cavalcade, and the visitors entered the carriage. After they were seated, the ambulance started, the men saluting them as they passed, and then closing up the rear! a peculiar way of saluting them-and riding helter-skelter after them. We arrived at the church in season to see the procession enter. The men were arranged on each side of the church-yard, and saluted the general as he passed. Mr. Alden procured us a front seat, very near the general. Mr. Tomlinson commenced the meeting, by saying that Gen. Howard was sent here by the President, to try and make some amicable arrangement between them and their former masters, whereby they could retake possession of their lands and have their former slaves to work for them. He said he came with reluctance, but was obeying orders. After a few more words, he introduced General Howard, who commenced by saying that, as he passed up the river, he saw fields of uncultivated land, which the President wanted cultivated, as he needed all the cotton possible for the welfare and prosperity of the country. I thought that was rather hard upon them, for a great many came here too late for that purpose; and many being un acclimated, have been sick and died, or their families have; and it is not a fair test of their industry to judge them by seeing their lands this year. Then he went on to tell how and why he was sent here, and how unwilling he felt to undertake it. When the purpose of his visit first dawned upon their minds, they were in a state of agitation, and we could see at once how averse they were to the proposition. All around us we could hear "No no!" "We can't do it!" "Never!" etc., etc.; and it made my heart ache for them, they looked so sad and, shook their heads so mournfully, many of them leaving the church. Gen. Howard was much affected, and begged them to stay and hear him out. He went on trying to persuade them to forgive; and then to put it to vote-those to hold up their right hands who were willing, when a few went up; then those who were unwilling, and a few more were held up then. He said the ayes had it, but I could not see much difference. Then he asked them (first telling them as head of the Bureau, be always had their interests at heart,) how many were willing to entrust theirs to him, when all hands went up. Then he told them that a commission of three would be appointed, one selected by them, one by the landholders, and the third the agent of the Bureau on the island, who is necessarily their friend, to settle all differences and arrangements between them and their former masters, make contracts, etc.; that they would be expected to live on the plantations where they worked, and fulfil their contracts; and that if their masters did not treat them well, they always had their agent, or this commission, to redress their wrongs, or Gen. Saxton, or, in extremity, himself, as head of the Bureau; that they were now free as air to go where they pleased and work for whom they pleased; that they must work in order to support themselves; that they must look for the interest of their children, and what would be best for them; that many of the rebels had been pardoned, and retaken their lands on the mainland, and now these men, being pardoned, came forward, and asked why they should be denied the same privilege, because their lands were here; that it was a military necessity, instigated by Gen. Sherman, to place them here, and that, now the war is over, things are changed. It all seemed like sophistry, and as if he was trying to persuade himself as well as them. Still they were not satisfied. He told them it was not yet decided-that it would not be till he heard what they had to say. When he wished them to appoint three of their number to confer on the subject, which they did, and went into another room for the purpose. His brother went with them to read some official papers, which he had been quoting from. After they went out, Mr. Alden asked them to sing one of their hymns for the general, when they commenced, "Wandering in the wilderness in sorrow and <illegible>" a very sad one and very appropriate. At first one voice was heard, and then one after another they fell in, and it was very affecting. We asked the men behind us to sing "Nobody knows the trouble I see;" and he said, " I’ se to torn in my mind, I can't sing;" but a woman on the other side of the house began it, when they all sang, keeping time with their heads and feet, as usual. Just then, one or two came up to speak to their old masters, and the tears rolled down their cheeks (the masters'), and we all got a crying as one after another came for the same purpose. Mr. Alden seized his hat, and rushed out of the church crying, and every one was affected. We were introduced to Mr. Seabrook and Major Whaley, who looked in good condition, and as if they had had a pretty comfortable time of it during the war. Major Whaley is one of the leading lawyers in South Carolina, residing mostly<illegible> in Charleston, leaving an overseer to beat and maim his slaves on his plantations here. A bad man the blacks say; for it is just as bad to let an overseer whip them as to do it himself. Old Jack was one of his slaves, and he has told us awful stories of the cruelty he had received. He said to us: "I talk no word with him." We afterward talked with Gen. Howard, who told us that the rebels had promised to place no obstacles in the way of teachers. Then word came back that the committee were unable to agree, and Gen. Howard addressed them again; and then, at his request, Maj. Whaley get up. He took a look all around upon these blacks, whom he had probably never seen before under such circumstances-free to come and go, and in a church belonging to the whites-and there was quite a sensation visible both on his part and theirs as he looked at them. Then he said he saw faces of his old slaves there, and that he wished to make some arrangement to secure their services. He had capital, and they labor; he had been pardoned for all that he had done, if he had ever done anything wrong. He said this in a tone of pleasantry, with a grin on his face, as though it were a good joke! I thought of the thousands of starved prisoners lying in <illegible> and it made my blood boil. Then he said that he had always wished to see slavery abolished, and that, now the war was over, he would not
<c02>
wish the result to be otherwise than it was. We afterward heard that he had been one of the prominent instigators of the whole thing; had burned his houses before he left, that they might not fall into Yankee hands; had shot down many of his slaves who refused to go with him; and Lad vowed he would hire Irish before he would ever pay them a cent of wages! So much for his honesty! Just as he finished, a black man got up, and said he wished to say something to them. He told them that he had heard what he had said, and that, if he was sincere and honest in saying it, be ought to set off a thousand acres of his land, and give it to the children of the poor black people who had suffered as under slavery, and more in the same strain. I must say my sympathies went with him. But, after he had finished, Gen. H. rose, and said that he was sorry to hear him speak in such an unchristian spirit; that he himself professed to be a follower of Christ, who taught us to forgive our enemies; and said that he had been in twenty-two battles, had lost his arm, and been severely wounded many times; he was willing to suffer more, if necessary, and yet he forgave them, from the bottom of his heart. I thought it would be a little easier for him to forgive them for what he had voluntarily exposed himself to, than for them who were crushed every day of their lives; but perhaps I did not know as well as he. The chaplain made a prayer, the committee reported to adjourn till Saturday, and the meeting closed."
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15,1865.
THE LAST QUARTER.
The Liberator is now on its last quarter, prior to the final close of its publication. It is not only desirable, but necessary, therefore, that those who are indebted to it should promptly remit what is due; as the expenses of the paper have been greatly increased, and its receipts lessened, during the present year; and as every farthing will be needed-and more-to enable us to complete the volume.
The Editor of the Liberator has just returned from a six weeks' lecturing tour at the West, extending to Lake Michigan at Chicago, and to the Mississippi river at Quincy, Illinois, having addressed highly intelligent and respectable audiences in numerous places and in several States, seen and conversed with a large number of representative men, lost no appointment and no railroad connection, travelled at least three thousand miles, been marvellonsly impressed by what he has seen of the fertility, capacity, and boundless promise of the West, and every where treated with all possible courtesy and kindness, both in public and in private. He was most happy to find but one sentiment prevailing among loyal men, respecting what should be done with the so-called reconstructed States; and that was, that they should not be admitted into the Union at the present session of Congress, no matter what parchments they may present or promises make; but the U. S. Government is under the most solemn obligation to keep them on probation until equal rights and free institutions are accepted and enjoyed on their soil, without regard to complexion or race. In the Liberator of next week he will give a somewhat extended sketch of his western visit.
THE AMENDMENT.
Twenty-seven States have now ratified the Constitutional Amendment, abolishing and forever prohibiting slavery in the United States. Many of the papers include Iowa in the list, and so make the number twenty-eight. But Iowa, we believe, has not acted on the amendment yet,-has had, indeed, no opportunity to do so. Its Legislature meets but once in two years, (unless extra sessions are called,) and has not met since the Amendment was adopted by Congress in January last. It will meet on the second Monday of next January, and will, unquestionably, ratify at an early day.
That being done by any one State,-Iowa, New Jersey, Oregon, or California, (the votes of all which are morally sure to be affirmatively,) the Amendment will have been ratified by the requisite three-fourth of all the States, and due proclamation of its adoption as a part of the Constitution of the United States may be expected. We can see no ground for delay. If the States of the late rebellion are really in the Union now, as States,-(which we do not admit)-even then we have the full necessary number. If those States are not in the Union, and, therefore, not to be counted at all, then we have many more than the needful number. In either case, the requirement of the Constitution is fully met, and the Final Abolition and Prohibition of Slavery should not be an open question one unnecessary hour.
The last four "States" to ratify the Amendment were South Carolina, North Carolina, Alabama, and Georgia! Tell us not of the marvels and wonders of other days! What prediction, five years ago only, would have been deemed so wild, so improbable, so insane, as the prediction of this fact? What a change in the relative position of those States to the Union and its Government! What volumes does it not speak of the complete social revolution of those States-of the complete defeat of their confident expectations and designs-of the complete overthrow of their most cherished "peculiar" institution! Far beyond all human wisdom, skill, or power of conception, has the mighty change been. It is for us to recognize it as a most wonderful providence, to accept the whole of its strange significance, and be faithful to the new responsibilities and duties it lays upon us.-S. M., JR.
EDISTO ISLAND, S. C.
We learn, very directly, from Edisto, that efforts were still going on there to induce the negroes to come to terms with their old masters, the former proprietors of the island, and with the prospect that the measure will be carried; and further, that this has been brought about through the influence of Gen. SAXTON. We have uniformly known Gen. Saxton as a wise and firm friend of the freedmen, and cannot believe that he would make himself a participant in any plan for their injury or wrong. Nevertheless, we feel that a very great and crying wrong will be done to those negroes, if those lands are now taken from them, and given back to their rebel masters. Those negroes were placed there, and the lands assigned to them, by order of Gen. SHERMAN, both as a military necessity and as a just consequence of the rebellion and war against the United States, which South Carolina had inaugurated. Secretary Stanton, on his visit to Gen. Sherman at Savannah, confirmed and ratified the act, as was generally understood. Certainly he allowed it; and the act accordingly had the sanction of the government, as it certainly had of the great majority of the people. They, we believe, will not now consent that this virtual promise and pledge of the country to these poorest of the poor shall be violated and broken. That they feel injured, wronged, cheated, there is no doubt. That the rebel-proprietors on that and the neighboring is lands were among the most virulent and active in the work of secession and war, there is no doubt; that they were of the foremost leaders of South Carolina, herself the fore most State in the rebellion, there is no doubt. That there is any justice, reason or right, in now taking them from these faithful, humble friends of the country, and giving them back to those who had most justly forfeited them, and whose hearts still swell with spite and hatred to our government, (all the more because of their own defeat, loss and shame,) we emphatically deny.
We shall look with no little Interest and solicitude for the full and public report, yet to be made. If the facts be at all as they have been published and understood all over the country, in regard to the right of the freed people to those lands, and the recent purpose to <illegible> them, then a most aggravated case of bad faith will be made out against our government which
<c03>
nothing can wash away or excuse. It is a case in which the whole people are deeply interested, and in which they should actively move, and without delay. 
The testimony which was presented in the Liberator of Dec. 1, in regard to the state of things on Edisto Island, is fully confirmed by two communications which appeared in the New York Independent of last week;-communications which appeared in the New York Independent of last week:-Communications entirely independent of each other. One was taken from a letter of the same lady, (Miss E. T. B., of Springfield, Mass.,) whose correspondence had previously furnished the extracts in the Liberator, above referred to. This will be found copied in another part of this paper. The other is from Vicksburg, Miss. and is from a regular correspondent, "Pilgrim," who appears to be journeying through the Southern States. He had seen person "who was present when Gen. Howard undertook his trying task at the Sea Islands." "It was made the General's duty to effect the dispossession on terms satisfactory to both parties. The people on the island of Edisto are gathered en masse. Some of the old masters from Charleston, who had not been upon the premises for four years, came down,-among them Judge Whaley. People sullen under apprehension of had faith. The General states his instructions from the President: the masters, being pardoned, must have their lands; appeals to their confidence as a fellow Christian; but all is glum. Planters demand that the freed people shall give up the land and work for wages, or leave the islands. A committee of black men goes out to consult. Meanwhile, what shall be done with the silent assembly, whose fierceness flashes from their eyes like that of a tiger in a jungle? Judge Whaley talks No response. The General proposes that they sing. No response. "How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land?" By-and-by an old man, bowed, with his elbows on his knees, and his face upon his hands, in a low minor voice began. One and another voice dropped in, until the vast assembly came upon the mournful melody which ran as follows:-
"While wandering to and fro
In this wide world of woe,
Where streams of sorrow flow,
We’ll camp awhile in the wilderness,
Then we'll be going home.
When tears o'erflow mine eyes,
Then to the mercy-seat
I go my Lord to meet.
We’ll camp awhile in the wilderness,
Then we are going home."
"he effect was overwhelming: the hero of many battles could not refrain from tears. The committee comes in; reports that they are willing to give up the ownership of] the land, but that they with either to lease or buy the lands, and will not come so near the old relation of slavery as to be employed by their former masters. The assembly endorses by sullen silence, or bursting sobs and groans. Meeting breaks up. The Judge tries to beckon his late beloved people to him. They hold back. Ho gets one man by the hand. "Why, don't you know me, Jack?" He answers, "I used to know you!" Of his hundred ex-slaves, only a half-dozen of the raggedest and most forlorn of the women are drawn out to shake hands and twitter their obsequiousness. The Judge goes home, calls together his clients, whose hundred thousand acres he represents. Next day he reports that the planters will yield the matter of employment, and lease or sell the lands. What the final result may be is not known. Here is a scene for Carpenter's brush, and for Whittier's pen.
So far the "Pilgrim." The sad scene is brought fully before us by the concurrent witnesses. We trust the freedmen will stand firm, and never suffer themselves to be cajoled, or coerced, however gently, into the service of those black-hearted rebels, whose cruelty to them is equalled only by their treachery to the country, and whose word or oath (unless in rare instances) can never be expected to hold them to fair and just treatment of the working people of the South.
Meantime, we rely upon Congress to exert its just, humane, and unquestionable power,' to ordain justice and secure liberty for the freedmen of the Sea Islands, as well as in all other regions of the South.-m.
THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE.
There are many points of view from which this document may be considered. I propose now merely to glance at the relation it bears to the rights and interests of the colored people of the South.
President Johnson has been for some months pursuing what seemed like a settled course of policy towards the white people of the States lately in rebellion, proposing a few very moderate measures of reform, on the performance of which they might assume the exercise of the full rights and powers of loyal States, including the decision for themselves as to who should and who should not rots, in State and national affairs.
Had this shameful proposal been accepted-a proposal at once dangerous to the nation and, unspeakably unjust and cruel to the colored people of the South-we should have lost half the advantage gained by the subjugation of the rebels, and laid the foundation for a new rebellion. Most fortunately, the judicial blindness of the conquered secessionists delivered us from this danger. They have now passed from the hands of the President into those of Congress.
The apologists of the President called this policy of his "an experiment." If so, it was an unsuccessful one. Rumor says that Mr. Johnson has distinctly admitted this in private conversation. Whether this be true or not, it is certain that the excessively indulgent overtures of the President caused new developments of Southern audacity, instead of the submission proper to a defeated people, and the repentance suited to a guilty one. Simple justice (to say nothing of honorable frankness) demanded that the President should lay before Congress in his Message this experiment and its result, throwing the light of his experience upon the situation, and warning them against another error on the side of undue indulgence. Instead of exercising this justice and this frankness, he said not one word about the matter. We come now to what he did say.
The first thing that strikes us in his statements respecting the South is enormous misrepresentation of fact, combined with assumptions grossly unreasonable respecting the probabilities of the future. It is not true that in those regions "the courts bring security to persons and property"; nor that "the return of the General Government is known only as a beneficence." The state of things there is not "a sure promise of harmony and renewed attachment to the Union." In his profuse exercise of the Executive power of pardon, the President has not "taken the precaution to connect it with the clearest recognition of the binding force of the laws of the United States," for he has pardoned in advance not only of sentence, but arraignment. The evidence of Southern sincerity in the future maintenance of the Union would not "be put beyond doubt by the ratification of the proposed amendment to the Constitution." Even the adoption of the amendment would not "reconcile us beyond all power of disruption"; still less would it "make of us once more a united people, renewed and strengthened, bound more than ever to mutual affection and support." Every letter from the South, alike private and official, shows the reverse of this flattering picture. Considering the state of things existing there at the very moment when this Message was written, it is not merely disingenuousness, not merely untruth, it is perfect mockery to say-" Here is the great land of free labor, where industry is blessed with unexampled rewards, and the bread of the workingman is sweetened by the consciousness that the cause of the country is his own cause, his own safety, his own dignity. Here every one enjoys the free use of his <illegible> and the choice of activity as a natural right."
These are but specimens of the misrepresentations of fact contained in the Message.
President Johnson excuses his systematic avoidance of the bestowal of the right of suffrage on the <illegible> by the silence of the Constitution upon that
<c04>
point. Even if the ground he has taken shall prove to be valid, the reason he alleges for it is unsound. His establishment of Provisional Governors for States, and many other official acts during the short period of his Presidency, have been entirely without warrant from the Constitution. In various matters needful for the welfare of the nation in the novel position in which it now finds itself, he has chosen to disregard the Constitution, and the people have sustained him in so doing. They would undoubtedly have sustained him in deciding upon this other new measure-an official declaration that the freedman should enjoy the full rights of citizens; no measure that he has actually taken was more important than this for securing a reconstruction at once quiet, safe, and enduring. The reason for his not doing it seems to be that he did not wish to do it. The Message is deficient in frankness in this point also 
The personal aversion of the President to this measure must have been very strong, since he feels obliged to make an elaborate defence of his inaction, though there are no grounds to be alleged in excuse for it except such as are obviously inadequate or transparently false. Of the latter sort is his statement that "a concession of the elective franchise to the freedmen, by act of the President of the United States, must have been extended to all colored men, wherever found, and so must have established a change of suffrage in the Northern. Middle, and Western States, not less than in the Southern and South-western. "No more absolute mis-statement could possibly be made. It is absurd as well as false to say, that a Presidential decision respecting States lately in armed rebellion against the nation will modify the position or the laws of other States. The unsoundness of the cause which can furnish no better excuse 
The same slight regard (or disregard) for the interests of the colored people is shown in his next statement, namely, that "every danger of conflict is avoided when the settlement of the question is referred to the several States"-(meaning referred to the white men, formerly slaveholders and rebels, of the several States!) He dwells here upon an imaginary danger of conflict that justice to the freedmen would produce, but evidently thinks nothing of the real danger of conflict which an incorporation of injustice into the new laws would produce; and, as evidently, he does not choose to think of the tyranny which would of course be exercised over the colored people if their destiny were placed in the hands of their old oppressors, the slaveholders, and their bitter enemies, the rebels whom they helped to subjugate. If the Southern blacks should now be reduced, by Southern white legislators, to a state half-way between slavery and freedom, and if this should be accomplished without violent outbreak, the President, apparently, would be content 
Some expressions which follow corroborate the view here taken of the President's present deposition towards the colored people. He says indeed that "good faith requires the security of the freedmen in their liberty and their property, their right to labor, and their right to claim the just return of their labor." But the statement following, in regard to what constitutes the "liberty" here oppose of, is so shamefully inadequate as to deprive the recommendation of the value that at first seemed to belong to it. "The change in their condition, "he says, "is the substitution of labor by contract for the status of slavery." That is, (as he told the colored regiment whom he lately addressed in Washington,) the thing which has been given them under the name of "liberty" is only the opportunity to do the hardest and least remunerative kinds of labor on terms less dissatisfactory than the former ones.
Will it be said that this view of the President's meaning is contradicted by other expressions in regard to the freedmen, such as- "The career of free industry must be fairly opened to them"? I reply, these well sounding words must be interpreted by the deeds that go with them. While the President was writing this Message, he was also trying to put the government of the Southern States into the hands of men who are already reenacting the "black codes" that formerly disgraced the South, putting all sorts of unjust restrictions upon "free negroes," and marking them out as a class for separate and specially stringent legislation. Had his course of policy succeeded, these few words would have fallen fruitless to the ground. What avails it that his talk describes "class legislation" as "contrary to the' genius of free government," when his elaborate system of policy, carried on at the same moment, would certainly have insured and protected class legislation? "By their fruits ye shall know them."
Before closing, I must speak of two shameful insinuations in this Message, one adverse to truth, the other to justice. 
Pressing his favorite policy of giving to Southern whites the control of the stains of Southern blacks, he says- "In my judgment, the freedmen, if they show patience and manly virtues, will sooner obtain a participation in the elective franchise through the States than through the General Government, even if it had power to intervene." Now, Congress is at least at much a part of "the General Government" as the Executive, and Congress certainly and obviously has the right to intervene in this case. The intimation to the contrary in a carefully considered official document is highly discreditable to its author.
The insinuation next (and lastly) to be mentioned is more than discreditable, it in disgraceful. The President says-speaking of a policy of the nation in regard to the freedmen- "I would not advise their forced removal and colonization. Let us rather encourage them to honorable and useful industry... Instead of hasty anticipations of the certainty of failure, let there be nothing wanting to the fair trial of the experiment." It is, then, still an experiment whether, in a land of liberty, millions of people are to be forcibly removed from the places of their birth and residence!
However distasteful to President Johnson the laboring class in Massachusetts might be, he would certainly not insult them and outrage reason and justice by saying of them to Congress,- "I would not advise their forced removal and colonization"-as if this measure were within the power or the right of Congress, to be decided by the assignment of reasons for and against! As if the very suggestion of such a measure as practicable were not an insult and an outrage! The reason why this measure of oppression is alluded to by the President as feasible-the reason why it needs to be met with exposure and rebuke at the outset-is that the moral sense of our countrymen has been so perverted by slavery that many in the country would rejoice and assist in the perpetration of such a piece of despotic tyranny. The very suggestion of a possibility of doing it should be at once repudiated by all right-minded men.
On the whole, the tone of this Message towards the freedmen is painfully like that of its author's speed to the colored regiment In Washington. Vice- President Johnson favored the freedmen, and consented to be their Moses. President Johnson seems inclined rather to be their Pharaoh.-c. K. w.
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. The Legislature of Alabama has adopted the amendment to the national constitution abolishing slavery throughout the country. This makes the twenty-eighth State that has ratified the amendment, and the requisite number to give it effect. It has been ratified by the following States:-Illinois. New York, Rhode Island, Maryland. Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, West Virginia,, Michigan, Maine, Ohio, Kansas, Minnesota, Virginia, Indiana, Nevada, Alabama. Louisiana, Missouri, Wisconsin, Vermont, Tennessee, Arkansas. Connecticut, Iowa, (one house,) New Hampshire, Georgia, South Carolina and North Carolina. The Legislatures of the following States have rejected it- New Jersey, Kentucky, Delaware and Mississippi. New Jersey will, without doubt, adopt it at its coming session. 
<c05>
DID DAVID FORGIVE NATHAN?
The Jewish King David was a man very famous for piety, but not so famous-in fact not eminent at all-in the department of morality. Nathan, who had district ideas in regard to the difference between right and wrong, and who thought oppression not at all excused by the piety of the oppressor, once took a great liberty with his royal master. Speaking in the interest at once of the cause of justice and of the oppressed poor, he accosted David in a manner very unusual from subjects to kings, making severe accusations and reproaches against him. The question is, did the reproved ever forgive the <illegible> Did David ever, even after years had <illegible> the memory of the rebuke, attain the particular sort of magnanimity which would lead him frankly to say of Nathan- "It is our royal pleasure now to let bygones No doubt, Nathan was faithful to his one great idea. As we look back over the part, we are not prepared to any that everything on his part has been as it should have been, but we can forget and forgive. Of late. indeed, his conduct has been good. He has not been captious and fault-finding. His name will stand well in history."
We do not find recorded in the Hebrew Scriptures that any such position as this was taken by the royal sinner toward the reprover of sin. But if David had lived long enough to read the Congregationalist, he might have learned a new trick of State policy. The last number of that paper contains the following editorial comment upon Mr. Garrison:-
"With the close of the present year the Liberator ceases to exist, and Mr. William Lloyd Garrison retires from a work begun by him thirty-five years ago. We have at last reached a consummation, where we can let ‘bygones be bygones,' while we are ready to offer our congratulations to one who has stood through obloquy and reproach, faithful to one great idea. As we look back over this long moral struggle, we are not prepared to say that everything on his part has been as it should have been, but we can forget and forgive, and rejoice with him that through those years of tempest, we have reached the point where we now stand. Since the breaking out of the war, the conduct of Mr. Garrison has been such as to win for him the kind feeling and regard of almost all classes of men. He has not been captious and fault-finding, but has acted throughout like a man who loves his country so dearly, that he is willing to make common cause with others in its behalf. His name will stand well in history."
What a pity that David did not think of patronizing Nathan in that dignified fashion!
The matter thus ingeniously stated by the Congregationalist really contains these other not unimportant elements.
For many years after Mr. Garrison had been pleading the cause of the slave, and pointing out with just severity the sins of State, Church, Commerce, the press and the people in regard to him, the "religious" papers (so called) held a practically pro-slavery position, the same as the business papers, or rather worse, since the former quoted Bible in favor of slavery, while the latter contented themselves with adducing secular and pecuniary considerations in its behalf. The Recorder and the Puritan were then the Orthodox Congregational newspapers of Boston, and strong allies of the slaveholders.
In process of time, the truths uttered by Mr. Garrison converted (in spite of desperate opposition by the clergy) some church-members as well as others; and the number of these increased from year to year. Of course, these persons mourned over the wickedness displayed, in regard to slavery, by churches and newspapers which, they verily believed, were right in other respects. But they were too few to influence the position, either of the papers or the churches, and their efforts to do so brought them only opprobrious language from both. The sons of Zeruiah were yet too hard for them.
In time, however, the number of orthodox anti-slavery people increased so much that, although still unable to move the Recorder, or they Puritan, they felt able to establish a new "religious" paper which should not shelter slavery while opposing the minor kinds of sin. They did establish one, and called it the Congregationalist.
This movement accomplished much, and might have accomplished much more but for one mistake into which its originators fell, namely, giving the editorial charge of it to a clergyman. The trouble was, that, although he had a very genuine feeling for the slave, he had a feeling no less genuine, and far more deeply rooted, in favor of his pro-slavery clerical "brethren," and their pro-slavery church-members. All these were his "brethren in Christ," and he could not bear to accuse them before the world, especially while people out of the church, like Garrison, were accusing them. The result was that the new paper stood bravely for the slave up to a certain point-namely, when justice to him required exposure of the guilt of the church and the clergy. There it-stopped, shall we say?-Far worse! It DEFENDED the church and the clergy, representing them as true Christians in spite alike of their slaveholding and their pro-slavery <illegible> This gave the most powerful aid possible to the slave system, throwing the mantle of Christianity ever it. Thus it enabled the vulgar herd of slaveholders to say to this Editor- "How is it that we are so censurable? We do only what your ‘brethren in Christ' do, without losing their character of brethren in Christ!"
The editor of the Congregationalist has continued, up to the present time, to stand by his order. As against secular slaveholding, indeed, he took the part of the slave, and did it vigorously and heartily; but when it came to the holding of slaves and the defending of slavery by his clerical "brethren"-to be sure, he was very sorry; it was an unfortunate difference of opinion on their part; he feared that their usefulness was impaired by it-but he never would admit that their holding slaves, and buying and selling, and working and flogging them, and defending all this as authorized by the Old and New Testaments, made them any the less "brethren in Christ." Parson South-side Adams, and Parson Blagden, the worst enemies of the slave, were always treated by this editor as dear brethren. They were prized, and praised, and defended as Christian ministers. Their Christian character was upheld, and they were commended, and honored, and consorted with in all the relations of ecclesiastical life, as true specimens of the Christian ministry, in spite of their perversion of the Gospel of Christ to the support of the "sum of all <illegible>" If they had perverted that Gospel to the support of Universalism, or <illegible> or Spiritualism, or Rationalism, the Reverend editor would promptly have exposed and renounced them; but, as they perverted it only in favor of slavery, he stuck to them like a brother, betraying and sacrificing the slave for that purpose.
Mr. Garrison taught, and proved, that the pro-slavery spirit was thoroughly incompatible with the Christian character. He did the work which the Reverend editor shrunk from, though officially bound, in both characters, to perform it. And now the Reverend editor forgives Mr. Garrison! Isn't it ludicrous? –C. <illegible> W.
The <illegible> Legislature has declined to pass the Constitutional Amendment 
The Legislature of California met on the 5th, at Sacramento, and a joint resolution was immediately brought forward in the Senate, providing for the ratification of the Amendment of the Federal Constitution, abolishing slavery.
Gov. <illegible> in his message to the Kentucky Legislature, urges the adoption of the anti-slavery amendment of the Constitution, and says that Mr. Davis should be hanged.
Mr. Seward has sent a congratulatory <illegible> to Governor <illegible> of Alabama, on the acceptance of the amendment to the Constitution by that State, as it completes the number necessary to make it the law of the land. Official information of the ratification of the amendment by 21 States has been received at Washington.
<c06>
DR. HOLMES'S LECTURE.
After an interval of four weeks, the course of Fraternity Lectures was resumed at the Music Hall last Tuesday evening, and the sixth lecture of the course was given by Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes. His subject was "The Poetry of the War," and a very full house bore witness to the attractiveness of the speaker and the subject.
The lecture was one of the most beautiful and satisfying of the present course, and that is saying a great deal. The speaker paid his tribute of honor to the women who have worked in ways so various and so effective for the loyal cause, saying that no poetry could exceed in impressiveness the labors of such hands, inspired by the impulse of such hearts. He referred, in affecting terms, to the many "poems of action" that had appeared on the battle-field and elsewhere, showing beautiful and noble traits of character shining through the bloody work of war. He described a few pieces, possessing real poetic merit, which had found utterance on the rebel side, and then Passed to the consideration of the great harvest of genuine poetry, some from old, others from new writers, to which the country's cause, or the incidents of the contest, have given birth during the last four years. To both new and old he did such justice as the lecture's limits would permit, keeping the audience in fixed attention save where it was broken by applause. He closed by reciting the affecting poem of "The Old Sergeant," written by Willis Forsyth, a writer who had been unknown before the war.
The President of the Fraternity announced, to the great satisfaction of the audience, that Gen. Benjamin F. Butler had consented to give a lecture in the course. The speaker next Tuesday evening will be Rev. George H. Hepworth.-C. K. W.
WE DISSENT. In the last number of the Liberator appeared a letter (copied from the Boston Transcript,) from Professor Francis W. Newman, of England, written with reference to President Johnson and the state of our country generally, and in a strain sufficiently lugubrious and dolorous to satisfy the most morbid of croakers. "I am becoming gloomy now," he says." "The ghastly vision now rises over me, and makes me sick, that you are doomed to follow in the bloody routine of the old world"!- "I now <illegible> forebode that you will have a civil war to decide whether President or Congress is to set the policy of the Union"!- "His [President Johnson's] conversation, as detailed by Major Stearns, and countersigned by himself, is absolutely frightful"!- "Benjamin Butler, like a good surgeon, cut clearly away the whole morbid part; then the healing went on rapidly. Mr. Lincoln was frightened at this, and displaced him"! &c., &c., &c.
"Let us all be unhappy together."
The letter is not one that we should have copied had we been at home; for it is characterized by that one-sidedness of view, unfairness of statement, and oracular tone of criticism, which have marked and marred Professor Newman's lucubrations generally, pertaining to the terrible ordeal through which our nation has passed during the last five years-be meaning, however, to do the cause of freedom and humanity service, and occasionally succeeding; yet rather a hindrance than a help, on the whole.
Nor should we make this reference to the letter were it not that its author is specially complimented in our columns in an original introductory paragraph; and that a bitter and defamatory impeachment of our personal integrity and our anti-slavery fidelity is contained in the following closing sentence:
"Will the Abolitionists, as Mr. Garrison last year, THIS YEAR ALSO, allow dust to be flung into their eyes by the President, and take upon themselves the guilt of paralyzing Congress?"
Our worthy locum <illegible> during our late absence could not have intended to give us this thrust, even by proxy, and must therefore have overlooked it.-[EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR.
SENATOR WILSON'S BILL. Our readers have noticed that Senator Wilson was precisely as good as his word, first uttered, we believe, in a public Anti-Slavery meeting as long ago as last May,-when he declared his intention to introduce, at the beginning of the next session of Congress, a Personal Liberty Bill for the whole South. The promise was exactly kept. On the very first day of the session, (Dec. 4.) he introduced a stringent bill, declaring "null and void" all laws, acts, statutes, &c., of every description, which authorize or recognize any inequality of civil rights and immunities among <illegible> of the States lately in rebellion, on account of "differences of color, race or descent," or by reason of any previous slavery or servitude. This is very thorough, and must, if effectually enforced, sweep away slavery in substance as well as name, and secure freedom and equal rights to all. We shall not allow ourselves to doubt that this bill, or something equivalent to it, will become a law, at an early day. The American people have plainly indicated their purpose not to throw away the benefits resulting from their long and fearful war, nor to allow worn out Southern politicians to worm themselves into power again, and so cheat the nation of its right, its privilege, and its coming greatness. Both President and Congress show that they sufficiently understand the position. They will proceed calmly, deliberately, and wisely we trust, to reconstruct the entire Union. Honor to Senator Wilson, and all other faithful workers for justice and freedom!-M.
SOUTH CAROLINA. The newly elected Governor of this State has addressed a Message to the Legislature, which was singular enough in comparison with those we have been used to see from that quarter. We subjoin a few extracts.
Concerning slavery, Gov. Orr says:
The war decided, that slavery should be totally and absolutely exterminated in all the States of the Union. The convention of this State, with unanimity and promptness, accepted the result of the issue made and declared in the fundamental law, "that slaves having been emancipated by the action of the United States authorities, slavery should never be reestablished in this State."(!)
A large part of the message is devoted to the negro question. The Governor's conclusions are as follows: .
The importance of your legislation, regulating the relative rights and duties of the whites and the freedmen, at your present session, cannot be overestimated.
The vital interests of the State, in my judgment, are dependent solely upon the laws you pass with reference to this population. They must be restrained from theft, vagrancy and crime, and taught the absolute necessity of strictly complying with their contracts for labor. They must be protected in their person and property; and for a few years at least, some supervisory power should be established to ratify their contracts for labor, until their experience and increasing knowledge may teach them to guard against the craft of the unscrupulous. To ensure this protection of person and property, and to guard society against tumultuous disturbances of the peace- against trespasses, retaliations and assassinations it will be indispensable necessary- to modify the rules of evidence so as to permit the negro to testify in all cases where his rights of person and property are involved.
The labor of every negro in the State is needed, if not to till the soil, in some other useful employment- for the culture of cotton and rice; and in all mental occupations, it is very doubtful whether any laborers. In this country or Europe, can supply his place. His long and thorough training in these employments gives him a certain skill and aptitude which a stranger can only obtain by experience. It is, therefore, of the first importance that such a policy should be adopted as will enable the farmers and planters to employ the negro, and that he should remain cheerful and contented. 
This is nearer right than anything we have yet had from the South. With such purposes towards the freed laborers, carried into honest action, a fair beginning would be made, and the full admission of the freedmen's rights, and the return of peace and prosperity to the Southern States, would be near at hand. But we look for no such action from a South Carolina legislature at present. Let them decree the freedmen's rights on the Sea-Islands, and protect them there in the places which Gen. Sherman assign.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
ed them, with the approval of the United States Government. That would be a guarantee of future justice and fair dealing with the negro, which we could safely accept, and would show that South Carolina really means to annul her own part in the rebellion, so far as possible-M.
SENATOR SUMNER'S BILL FOR THE EXTENSION OF THE ELECTIVE FRANCHISE IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA consists of two sections. The first section provides that no person, in other respects qualified, to vote in the District of Columbia, shall be excluded from that right by reason of his race or color.
Sec. 2 Any person whose duty it shall be to receive votes at any election within the District of Columbia, who shall refuse to receive, or shall reject the vote of any person entitled to such right under this act, shall be liable to an action of tort by the person injured, and shall be liable, upon indictment and conviction, if such act was done knowingly, to a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars, or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year, or both; and where the person injured is of African descent, one half the jury empanelled to try the action or indictment shall be of African descent.
Sec. 3. Any person who shall molest any person entitled to vote under this act in the exercise of such right, shall, upon indictment and conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding three thousand dollars, or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to both; and if the person molested was of African descent, one half of the jury empanelled to try the indictment shall be of African descent.
This bill was read once for information, passed to a second reading, and ordered to be printed.
The following is the resolution adopted by the House of Representatives 133 to 36, on the first day of the present session of Congress, in relation to the States lately in rebellion:
Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States in Congress assembled, That a joint committee of fifteen members shall be appointed, nine of whom shall be members of the House and six of the Senate, who shall inquire into the condition of the States which formed the so-called Confederate States of America, and report whether they or any of them are entitled to be represented in either House of Congress, with leave to report at any time, by bill or otherwise; and until such report shall have been made and finally acted upon by Congress, no member shall be received into either House from any of the so called Confederate States: and all papers relating to the representatives of said States shall be referred to said committee without debate.
"A VIEW AT THE FOUNDATIONS, or First Causes of Character, as operative before Birth, from Hereditary and Spiritual Sources. Being a Treatise on the Organic Structure and Quality of the Human Soul, as determined by pre-natal conditions in the Parentage and Ancestry, and how far we can direct and control them. By Woodbury M. Fernald, Author of’ God in His Providence.’ Boston: William V. Spencer, 134 Washington street 1865."pp. 210.
As a matter of mere curiosity and interesting knowledge who would not like to take a view of the foundations, get some distinct idea of the first causes of his own character, his character as differing from that of every other human being? And above all, who that has any heart for home's sweetest affections and felicities would not earnestly desire to know what transmissible peculiarities of his own are likely to affect for good or for evil his own offspring? There are most charming traits of soul, descending from progenitors, which are the richest of all inheritances to, the individual possessor, and a blessing to all around and which he hopefully rejoices to continue to his lineage. On the other hand, there are often moral perversities and strange and undesirable peculiarities which are the last of all things a right-minded person would like to bequeath to his heirs, and especially to those dear ones nearest to his own bosom. Here comes in the practical application of our author's instructions. He shows how those evils of character which travel down from a point far back in the line of ancestry may be modified and ameliorated in respect to progeny by the timely knowledge and forethought of the present inheritor.
Still further, and what is of measureless importance, he points out methods by which evils; and some of them the very worst, that might possibly originate in temporary and changeful conditions of the immediate parentage, may be altogether avoided, and thus the final recipient of life and character be saved from being an exceeding discomfort, if not a positive curse, to himself; and what is more, his own family and society at large be saved from inevitably associated inflictions of evil. It is indicated, moreover, how traits of intellect and heart may be communicated to prospective offspring which would make what in early and fond anticipated is to be "sweet, sweet home," a thousand fold less disappointing than it too often turns out to be. These suggestions are illustrated by striking and convincing facts, taken from undoubted sources of actual experience.
The nucleus of the treatise, we understand, was a lecture delivered before the Ladies' Physiological Society in Boston, and was very favorably received by these candid and diligent seekers after practical truth.
The whole subject is treated with the most delicate regard to propriety, and indeed with that deep sense of religious responsibility which really belongs to it. The dedication is in appropriate harmony with the author's motives and feelings, and is singularly impressive. It is as follows:-
"To all the married, but particularly to those who contemplate entering that holy union, this little treatise is religiously inscribed."
Let it not be inferred from the serious tone of the author, that his book is dull of spirit, and tame in style. Any one, however, who has read Mr. Fernald's admirable work, "God in his Providence," will hardly anticipate anything but the same lively earnestness and fluent style which he found there, and he will not be disappointed.
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR'S PRESENTS. Very soon, loving parents and affectionate relatives and friends will be selecting their Christmas and New Year's presents for their favorite children: and to such we would commend "GOLDEN-HAIRED GERTRUDE: a story for children: by Theodore Tilton. With illustrations by H. L. Stevens." Published by Tibbals & Whiting, New York. Also, "THE FLY," a descriptive rhyme, prettily illustrated, by the same author. Published by Sheldon & Co., New York. These will be sure to please the little folks, for whose amusement and instruction Mr. Tilton has a special talent.
THE YANKEE MIDDY; or the Adventures of a Naval Officer. A Story of the Great Rebellion. By Oliver Optic. Boston: Lee & Shepard. 1866."
"Oliver Optic" is one of the best writers for boys there is, and in more than a score of books which he has written, we think that he has not failed in a single instance to interest them. The book with the above title is no exception to the rest, and cannot fail to meet with a large sale. A more acceptable Christmas present cannot be made to the boys, and we doubt not that it will meet with general favor.
About four hundred editorials on the President's message, from as many journals, have been received at the White House. About ninety-nine percent of these heartily endorse the President's past and commend his proposed future policy.
COLORED JURYMEN. The list of jurors compiled by the city authorities of New Bedford, and publicly posted in the city, includes the names of seven colored persons.
The colored men's petition, asking for suffrage in the District of Columbia, is ready for submission to Congress. It has over seven thousand signatures.
Mr. Patterson of New Hampshire, of the Committee on the District of Columbia, has introduced in the House a Bill for the establishment of equal suffrage in that District.
<c02>
CORRESPONDENCE.
YARMOUTH PORT, Nov. 1, 1865.
FRANCIS AND LOUISA HINCKLEY: MY FRIENDS: My heart is full of yourselves, and the great and grand work in which you are engaged. Chattel slavery is dead, never to be resuscitated in this Republic; but its spirit and its results live. How it has demoralized the whites as well as the blacks! In both, how it has lessened and destroyed respect for property and person! for domestic, social, commercial, and political relations!
The teacher has no right to complain if his pupils practise on him the lesson he has taught them. If he teaches them to lie, steal, rob, and murder, and they practise these lessons on him, has he a right to complain? Is he entitled to sympathy if he does?
The white man is the teacher,-slaves have been the pupils. What else has the white man taught the slaves but that it is right to lie, steal, rob, and murder? What else have Chruch and State, priests and politicians, taught the slaves, but utter contempt for truth, justice, mercy, marriage, parentage, property, person, liberty and life-utter scorn for God and man? You say, "It is not strange that the negro should practise on the white man the lessons of two hundred years." Of all the miracles ever wrought on earth, the most wonderful is, the conduct of the negro towards the white man during the past five years. Educated to every possible wrong and outrage against man and woman, yet how few and trivial, comparatively, are the crimes he has perpetrated! Educated by the teachings and example of all around him, in church and State, to despise truth, justice, purity, conjugal, parental, and filial fidelity, and to trample down all the restraints of morality and religion, of purity, of home, of government, and of God, especially in regard to his relations to white men and women, (for every slave knows that it is right for him to do to the white man or woman what it is right for the white man to do to the black man or woman.) How few have been his violations of moral obligations and duty, compared to those done by his teachers!
How this people have treated the negro! How we have shut him out from all avenues to wealth, to moral, intellectual, social, religious and political elevation, and then have taunted him for his poverty and degradation! Appalling our retribution! We have reaped as we have sown! The moral constitution of the people has been wrecked! The Republic has been drenched with blood!
God bless you, dear friends, for going, with others, to help make restitution to the freed negro, by educating and elevating him, and making him capable of enjoying all that the civil war, on his account, has brought to him! I have not said the above because you do not see and feel as I do in regard to the negro. Your letters and your lives, for long years, demonstrate that you pity rather than blame the negro, and that you are now pursuing the only means by which the nation can practically redress the wrongs it has done to him. My heart and the hearts of millions go out to you, and such as you, in the great work of saving the negro and the Republic from the appalling results of slavery. You are doing the work on which depends the destiny of the Republic, and on which hang the hopes of earth's toiling millions. God, and all the wise, just and true, in and out of the body, help and sustain you in your sublime labor of love!
Will you write me a long letter, and tell me your own experience and observation as to the effects of slavery on the negro, as to the rights of property and person, and as to the domestic and social relations? Is it not a wonder, considering his antecedents, and the teachings he has had from those around him, that the negro is as intelligent, as moral, as industrious, as humane as he is? What is the great call of the hour in regard to the negro? The one great question at the North is negro suffrage. All I ask is, that, whatever be the basis of suffrage for the white man, it shall be the same for the black. No laws based on color! Give all an equal chance in education, in the pursuit of wealth, in social, moral, political, and religious elevation. Let no State be received into the Union, or remain in it, with a government based on color. Such is my mind. But I know the basis of self-government is not the ballot, but the intellectual, social, moral, and above all, the domestic condition of the people. Give to no man, white or black, governing power over others, till he has learned to govern himself. I am not willing that an ignorant, drunken, brutal man should be invested with sovereignty over me because he is white, while others who are intelligent, sober, humane, and loyal are excluded from the ballot because they are black. There be those all over the North who would rather be thrust into hell by a white man's vote, than to be raised to heaven by a black man's vote. I am not one of them.
Garrison, heart and soul, is devoted now to the education and elevation of the freedmen. He has worked thirty-six years to free them from chattel slavery; now he is at work to rescue them from its results.
I send you some tracts, and a pamphlet. The pamphlet is just from the press. It contains the great thoughts of my life: that each human being is-God, man, spirit in the flesh just as Jesus was-differing only in degree, and is equally entitled to our love and reverence in proportion as he embodies the divine attributes. There can be no security for human rights but in reverence fur human beings.
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
COFFIN'S POINT, ST. HELENA, S. C., Nov. 15, 1865.
DEAR FRIEND, HENRY C. WRIGHT:-Your very welcome letter of Nov. 1st was received last evening. It is very refreshing to hear from old friends, particularly from those who sympathize with us in our labors and aspirations. Since we have banished ourselves to this barbarous island, New England seems like the promised land, and its people like the elect of the Most High; and we who have passed our lives in trying to correct some of the wrongs of that latitude are appalled when we encounter the barbarism of this. When we reflect that New England presents the best specimen of the most advanced civilization of the globe, how unbounded look the labors of the reformer! But we are sure to feel like shouting (in this latitude,)
"Give me back my own New England,
With her cloud-capped granite hills!"
I never felt more like saying of old Massachusetts, With all her faults, GOD BLESS HER!
The demon of Slavery has cursed this land and people beyond the power of man to describe or even conceive. The most radical and fanatical and crazy Abolitionist has never overstated the evils of slavery. That is one thing that cannot be done. We may comprehend the enormity of some of its details, but its combined evils, direct and indirect, are too mighty for man to conceive. I am often made sad, and some-times almost discouraged, in view of the terrible havoc it has made of the homes, hearts, and brains of the negro. His worst traits of character are directly, traceable to its influence; and I feel sure I should have been as stupid, as vile, and every way as low, if I had been similarly treated. The white oppressors are but little above him, and in some respects are doubtless beneath him.
You ask me to give you the result of my "experience and observation as to the effects of slavery on the negro as to the rights of property and person, and as to the domestic and social relations." His respect for the rights of property are mostly on the surface or in daylight, when his movements can be seen. It soon becomes a settled conviction with all persons who have transactions of a business character with the freedmen, that the only way to protect our property from constant theft is to lock it up, or keep it in sight. The only way to know that you are honorably dealt with as to a day's work is to examine it yourself. The only way to know that your animals are not used and abused by them is to keep them out of their reach. The only way to prevent their raising corn and melons, for their own use, on land which you pay them for raising cotton upon, is to pull up the plants when they appear. And after submitting to all manner of unfaithfulness and deception in the work-
<c03>
ing of your crops, because you can't help yourself-they will cap the climax by pilfering from the crop at harvest-time.
The negroes' domestic and social relations are sad and cheerless, not to say disgusting. We can surely never expect elevated characters to issue from such homes and families. Mrs. Fanny Kemble Butler well describes their houses and homes in her "Journal of Life on a Georgia Plantation." "Filthy, cheerless, beastly are as appropriate adjectives as I can apply to their domestic and social relations."
Of course, I speak what I know of the negroes here. They may not be so all over the South. Heaven knows, I hope not.
Like all ignorant and dishonest people, they are suspicious of their employers, and are ever ready to accuse them of unfair dealing, and a desire to cheat them of their dues. Yet they will trust a Yankee much sooner than their old masters, or any of their own number.
Though this dark picture is the rule, of course there are exceptions. I have had money returned me by a good woman, who said I had paid her more than was her due-which proved to be the case. I have had them tell me the truth in some instances when it was against their interest to do so, and they must have known that I could not have detected a falsehood. They frequently make me presents of peanuts and sweet potatoes, and seem to take as much pleasure in such deeds as persons of the more popular color.
Although they are frequently turbulent in speech, they are not at all given to violence, and cases of assault are very rare. As a people, I should think they were much less given to drunkenness than the whites. Obscenity and profanity are scarcely ever heard among them.
They are intensely devotional in their habits, and if they could be wisely taught at their religious gatherings, much might be done for them. But the most foolish dogmas of the most ceremonial religionists are the prevailing doctrines among them, and but very little else is taught them by their white or black preachers; and they are so suspicious in matters of this kind that much wisdom is needed to correct their errors and follies in doctrine as well as practice.
You ask, "What is the great call of the hour in regard to the negro?" I answer, in a word, the hope for the negro, as well as for the whole South, lies in EDUCATION and EMIGRATION. Education in its broadest sense; Emigration from the North on the grandest possible scale. Intelligent New England farmers are the class most needed here. But I tremble for the negro if South Carolina,-as at present constituted,-is to make laws for his government. She expects soon to be permitted to do it, and I fear she may. Heaven help him if she does-for she is without compassion or sense of justice in his behalf. If Congress goes with President Johnson, and admits these rebel States this winter, the future of the poor negro will be fearful indeed.
Since writing the above, we have had a pleasant call from Mr. Dennett, correspondent of The Nation, and author of the letters under the head of "The South as it is."
So you may see some account of us in The Nation. Mr. Dennett was superintendent of a plantation on Port Royal Island, year before last, and understands the negroes pretty well. He said, to-day, that the best specimens of the race he had ever seen were in North Carolina, where the whites labored with them, and they were farmers, owned in small lots, eight or ten together. Mr. Dennett's letters in The Nation are exceedingly valuable as pictures of the present condition of the South. I believe he is a very worthy and capable man, and is doing the North excellent service by his statements of facts.
Although I have not gone much into detail in what I have said of the negro, you will understand that I consider the results of slavery upon him, in every relation, as disastrous and deplorable in the extreme. Yet you must not infer that I am hopeless of his advancement and great elevation, or that I am not on as good terms with him as it is possible to be. The plantation which is entrusted to my care is the largest on the island, and has some two hundred and forty negroes (men, women, and children) upon it. Their progress must necessarily be very slow, and to us, who see them from day to day, is scarcely perceptible in some directions. But they are very anxious to learn to read and write, and, all things considered, are making excellent progress. Our friend, Miss Myra Allyn, from our own town, is daily teaching them. She is deeply interested for them, and is earning a well-deserved success. She has more scholars than it is possible for her to manage alone, however, and wife and myself continue to lend her some assistance each day. Miss Allyn thinks that young and old learn as readily as Yankees would do under similar circumstances. Her experience in teaching at the North has been quite extensive for the last ten years.
The women seem more degraded and less ambitious to learn than the men. But all are anxious to obtain land for themselves; and Mr. E. S. Philbrick, who owns several plantations here, is now selling them land enough to make them independent of any future owner of these plantations. They will have plenty of land for their provision crops, and some to spare for cotton. Mr. Philbrick charges them but five dollars an acre for the land, though we whites can't get it for less than ten.
The negroes have had quite a surplus of money-those that have been employed by Mr. Philbrick, particularly-and have always expended it very wisely. They have a great passion for horses, and have expended great sums for them in the last two years, amounting to not less than $2,500 on this place alone. In their rising condition, which is perfectly natural, they wish to possess those things which distinguish the whites from them, and which add to their pleasure and make them "gentlemen." Horses, guns, lands, and, I fear, idleness, also, are objects of their ambition.
I have written this amid much stir and confusion, and you will please overlook its many imperfections. I have only endeavored to give you the truth, "nothing extenuating, and setting down naught in malice." I agree with you in regard to the ballot, but don't see where you can draw the line between those who can, and those who cannot govern themselves. Please accept my thanks for the publications you have sent to me. Use this as you see fit, and let me hear from you as often as you can. 
Truly yours, JAMES F. HINCKLEY.
PEACE CONFERENCE. An informal conference concerning "peace," and to organize efforts for the immediate abolition of war, was held on Tuesday, in Room No. 4, 158 Washington street, Boston. Mr. J. P. Blanchard was chosen Chairman, and E. S. Richards Secretary. There was a good attendance. A letter was read from Judge A. W. G. Carter of Cincinnati, in reply to an invitation to attend the meeting, and favoring the calling of a convention and the establishment of a National Peace Committee.
Remarks were made by E. H. Haywood, E. J. Butts of Milford, Hon. Amasa Walker of North Brookfield, and Henry C. Wright of Boston, which latter gentleman moved the appointment of a committee of five to call a National Convention.
Mr. Heywood favored the enlargement of the Committee to twelve, and that they be instructed to confer with the American Peace Society.
Mr. L. K. Josalyn advocated the formation of a new American Peace Society in Boston, and further remarks were made by Mr. Steward of Hopedale; after which, Mr. Wright's motion prevailed, and the committee called for was appointed.
Lt. Gen. Grant is very severe, in his report, on Gen. Butler, to whose conduct he attributes the failure of our army to take Richmond and Petersburg early in that movement which began in May, 1864.
Gen. Butler, it is said, as soon as he ceases to be an officer of the army, will reply to the insinuations against him in Gen. Grant's report.
<c04>
TO THE THIRTY-NINTH CONGRESS.
O people-chosen! are ye not
Likewise the chosen of the Lord.
To do His will and speak his word? 
From the loud thunder storm of war
Not man alone both called ye forth,
But He, the God of all the earth!
The torch of vengeance in your hands
He quenches; unto Him belongs
The solemn recompense of wrongs.
Enough of blood the land has seen,
And, not by cell, or gallows-stair,
Shall ye the way of God prepare.
Say to the pardon-seekers: Keep
Your manhood; bend no suppliant knees,
Nor palter with unworthy pleas.
Above your voices sounds the wail
Of starving men; we shut in vain
Our eyes to Pillow's ghastly stain.
What words can drown that bitter cry?
What tears wash out that stain of death?
What oaths confirm your broken faith?
From you alone the guaranty
Of union, freedom, peace, we claim:
We urge no conqueror's terms of shame.
Alas! no victor's pride is ours,
Who bend above our triumphs won,
Like David o'er his rebel son.
Be men, not beggars! Cancel all
By one brave, generous action; trust
Your better instincts, and be just!
Make all men peers before the law,
Take hands from off the negro's throat,
Give black and white an equal vote.
Keep all your forfeit lives and lands,
But give the common law's redress
To Labor's utter nakedness.
Revive the old heroic will,
Be in the right as brave and strong
As ye have proved yourselves in wrong.
Defeat shall then be victory,
Your loss the wealth of full amends,
And hate be love, and foes be friends.
Then buried be the dreadful past,
Its common slain be mourned, and let
Its memories soften to regret.
Then shall the Union's mother-heart
Her lost and wandering ones recall,
Forgiving add and restoring all.
And Freedom break her marble trance
Above the Capitolian dome,
Stretch hands, and bid ye welcome home!
The Nation. JOHN G. WHITTIER. 

LETTER FROM PRESIDENT JOHNSON TO GOV. HOLDEN.
WASHINGTON, Dec. 1st. The Raleigh (N. C.) Standard, of Wednesday last, contains the following important intelligence:
"Governor Holden received the following telegram from President Johnson, which is laid before the public for their information:-"
WASHINGTON, Nov. 27,1865.
To HON. W. W. HOLDEN, PROVISIONAL GOVERNOR OF NORTH CAROLINA:
Accept my thanks for the noble and efficient manner in which you have discharged your duty as Provisional Governor. You will be sustained by the Government.
The results of the recent elections in North Carolina have greatly damaged the prospects of the State in the restoration of its governmental relations. Should the action and spirit manifested by the Legislature be in the same direction, it will greatly increase the mischief already done, and might be fatal.
It is hoped that the action and spirit manifested by the Legislature will be so directed as rather to repair than increase the difficulties under which the State has already placed itself.
(Signed) ANDREW JOHNSON,
President of the United States.
Alabama is the twenty-seventh State that has ratified the Anti-Slavery Amendment to the Federal Constitution. New Jersey, California and Oregon will soon add their votes in favor of this important measure. The meaning and scope of this amendment will be seen by its provisions, which we reprint by request:
"ARICLE XIII.
"Sec. 1. Neither Slavery nor Involuntary Servitude, except as a punishment for crime, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction.
"sec. 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this Article by appropriate legislation."
COUNT DE GASPARIN'S LETTER. The principal positions in Count De Gasparin's recent letter to President Johnson are: First, that no Southern State shall be admitted to Congress until the terms of her admission, and of reconstruction generally, have been settled by Congress itself; second, that no safe and permanent reconstruction is possible, except on the basis of negro suffrage. It is needless to say that these points are elaborated with great ability, and with an understanding of our internal affairs quite remarkable in a foreigner. Count De Gasparin takes pains to inform his readers that he is not a "radical."
THE INTERESTS OF THE COLORED MEN. A meeting of colored men, similar to that held in this city last week, assembled in New York on Monday, and Frederick Douglass was named as the probable delegate to Washington to look after the interests of the colored men; and an appeal to the Executive to appoint colored Ministers Plenipotentiary to the black republics of Liberia and Hayti was mentioned as one of the duties that are to devolve upon the colored delegates in the Federal City.-Boston Journal.
NEGRO FOR SALE. Jacob Walker, a negro, who has been convicted of larceny in Kent County, Maryland, is to be sold for the term of two years to the highest bidder for cash, in the Jail Yard in Charles-town to day, Dec. 9,1865. This is to be done under an old statute, it being argued that the amendment abolishing slavery in the State Constitution expressly permits slavery or involuntary servitude for crime whereof the party shall be duly convicted, and that Congress, in enforcing the amendment to the National Constitution, which is in the same words, has no power to annul such State laws as may punish crime by the enslavement of the criminal.
"GOOD-BYE, OLD ARM!" In a hospital at Nashville, a short time ago, a wounded hero was lying on the amputating table, under the influence of chloroform. They cut off his strong right arm, and cast it, all bleeding, upon the pile of human limbs. They then laid him gently upon his couch. He woke from this stupor, and missed his arm. With his left arm he lifted the cloth, and there was nothing but the gory stump! "Where's my arm?" he cried; "get my arm; I want to see it once more-my strong right arm." They brought it to him. He took hold of the cold, clammy fingers, and looking steadfastly at the poor dead member, thus addressed it with fearful earnestness: "Good-bye, old arm! We have been a long time together. We must part now. Good-bye, old arm! You'll never fire another carbine nor swing another sabre for the government"-and the tears rolled down his cheeks. He then said to those standing by: "Understand, I don't regret its loss. It has been torn from my body that not one State should be torn from this glorious Union." He might have added:-
"Some things are worthless, some others so good
That nations that buy them pay only in blood;
For freedom and Union each man owes his part,
And here I pay my share, all warm from my heart."
This is what that man gave. What is your share and mine?-Chaplain McCabe.
NEGRO SUFFRAGE IN WASHINGTON. The Board of Aldermen of Washington have unanimously passed the resolution from the Board of Council-"That in the event of any bill being introduced in Congress for the admission of the colored men of that city to the right of suffrage, the Mayor be and he is hereby authorized and directed to call councils together within two days' notice, for the purpose of taking into consideration measures for holding a special election to ascertain the sentiments of the people on the subject."
It may be stated in this connection, that many of the property holders of Washington are anxious that the corporation charters shall be surrendered, and the government of the city placed in the hands of a Board of Commissioners, appointed by the President of the United States as at its early history, their object being to quiet the agitation of the suffrage question, as well as to secure economy and greater benefits in the expenditure of the money collected from them by the present system of taxation.
The National Thanksgiving was observed by the several loyal States.
<c05>
SENATOR SUMNER'S RESOLUTIONS ON RECONSTRUCTION. WASHINGTON, 4th-The following was introduced to-day by Mr. Sumner in the Senate:
"Resolved, That in order to provide proper guarantees for security in future, that peace and prosperity shall surely prevail and the plighted faith of the nation be preserved, it is the full duty of Congress to take care that no State declared to be in rebellion shall be allowed to resume its relations to the Union until after the satisfactory performance of five several conditions, which conditions precedent must be submitted to the popular vote, and be sanctioned by a majority of the people of each State respectively, as follows:
The complete reestablishment of loyalty as shown by the honest recognition of the unity of the Republic, and the duty of allegiance to it at all times, without mental reservation or equivocation of any kind.
The complete suppression of all oligarchical pretensions and a complete enfranchisement of all citizens, so there shall be no denial of rights on account of color or race, but justice shall be impartial, and all be equal before the law.
The rejection of the rebel debt, and at the same time the adoption of a just proportion of the National debt and National obligations to Union soldiers, with solemn pledges never to join in any measure, direct or indirect, for their repudiation, or in any way tending to impair the National credit.
The organization of an educational system for the equal benefit of color or race.
The choice of citizens for office, whether State or National, of constant and undoubted loyalty, whose conduct and conversation shall give assurance of peace and reconciliation.
Resolved, That in order to provide these essential safeguards, without which the National security and National faith will be imperilled, States cannot be precipitated back to political power and independence, but they must wait until these conditions are in all respects fulfilled.
FROM KENTUCKY-GENERAL PALMER SUSTAINED. Lousiville, Ky., 9th. In the Jefferson Circuit Court, in the case of the Commonwealth of Kentucky v. General Palmer, for aiding slaves to escape. Judge Johnston dismissed the indictment on the ground that the requisite number of States had adopted the constitutional amendment abolishing slavery before the indictment was brought, therefore all criminal and penal acts of the Kentucky Legislature relating to slavery were of no effect. The Common wealth's Attorney filed an appeal from Judge Johnston's decision, and the Court adjourned, sine die. 
General Palmer has issued a proclamation declaring that slavery has ceased in Kentucky. He also advises the colored people to promptly apply to the courts for redress if public conveyances shall disregard their rights to travel at pleasure, provided they conform to reasonable regulations.
WASHINGTON, Dec. 8. Reports are now arriving at the Bureau of Refugees and Freedmen, &c., giving encouraging accounts of the manner in which the Bureau is carried on in the Southwestern States. Hospitals and camps are being provided for the sick freedmen, and a large number are already established. Homes have been furnished and work supplied to great numbers of the idle and suffering. The number of those supported by the government is daily diminishing, as the freedmen gradually fall into employment.
A PRIVATE BOX IN A CHURCH. Near Bedford. England, is a little village church, where the lord of the manor has a private box or apartment overlooking the chancel. A little flight of steps outside the church leads to the double door of this secluded oratory, which is furnished with a fire-place and sundry comfortable chairs and foot-stools. The proprietor is a very devout man, and never missses morning service. When the service commences, he opens the sash window, which is exactly opposite the reading-desk, and behaves with the strictest decorum until the prayers are over, and the psalm immediately before the sermon sung to the end. Then just as the minister enters the pulpit, he shuts down the sash and devotes himself to reading the letters by the morning post, which have in the meanwhile been brought to him by a servant. 

POINT LOOKOUT. The military operations at this place are fast coming to a close. The Quartermaster, Captain H. E. Goodwin, and a small squad of soldiers, under the command of a captain, are the only officers and men now there. The cottages have nearly all been turned over to the owners. The stockade, which at one period enclosed some sixteen thousand Confederate prisoners, is still standing, as also are the long lines of empty hospital structures and extensive store-houses.-Washington Intelligencer.

CORRECTION. Gen. Howard telegraphs-to correct a report that he had said that he was not apprehensive of any great amount of suffering among the blacks at the South this winter-" I do expect much suffering among the freedmen and whites this winter, especially in South Carolina, Georgia and Alabama, unless their wants be met. However, nothing alarming has been reported."
Six persons were drowned on Thursday of last week, in Maine, in the vicinity of Bangor, by the breaking of ice on which they were skating.
VALUABLE PREMIUMS.-Messrs. FOWLER & WELLS of the PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL offer as Premiums, for new subscribers, STEINWAY'S PIANOS, MASON & HAMLIN'S MELODEONS; WHEELER & WILSON'S EMPIRE, WEED'S, and WILCOX &GIBBS'S SEWING MACHINES; KALTON'S KNITTING MACHINES; Choice LIBRARY BOOKS, and CABINETS of BUSTS. A new volume of the PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL commences with January. It is a beautifully illustrated monthly, devoted to Physiognomy, Ethnology, Physiology, and Phrenology, and is the only serial of the kind in the world. Terms: $2 a year. Sample numbers 20 cents. Now is the time to subscribe, and to form clubs. Send stamp for particulars to FOWLER & WELLS, 389 Broadway, N. Y. Dec. 15.
TO LYCEUM MANAGERS!-MRS. FRANCES E. W. HARPER, of Boston, has prepared two lectures upon "The Lessons of the War," and "The Claims of the Negro," which she will deliver to Lyeeume, &c., as requested. Application may be made direct to MRS. HARPER, No. 16 Blossom Street, Boston. She has permission to refer to Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Esq., Rev. Messrs. R. C. Waterston, John T. Sargeant, Rev. Leonard A. Grimes, C
Charles W. Slack, Esq., and Mrs. J. C. Johnson, 78 Temple Street.

MARRIED-On Wednesday, Dec. 5, at Philadelphia, by the Rev. Dr. Furness, WENDELL P. GARRISON, of New York, and LUCY, daughter of J. Miller McKim, Esq., of Philadelphia. No cards.

AYER'S AGUE CURE,
FOR THE SPEEDY CURE OF
Intermittent Fever, or Fever and Ague, Remittent Fever, Chill Fever, Dumb Ague, and Periodical Headache or Bilious Headache, and Bilious Fevers; indeed for the whole class of diseases originating in biliary derangement, caused by the malaria of miasmatic countries.
FEVER and Ague is not thy only consequence of the misematic poison. A great variety of disorders arise from its irritation, in malarious districts, among which are Neuralgia, Rheumatism, Gout, Headache, Blindness, Toothache, Earache, Catarrh, Asthma, Palpitation, Painful Affection of the Spleon, Hysterics, Pain in the Bowels, Colic, Paralysis, and Derangement of the Stomach, all of which, when originating in this cause, put on the intermittent type, or become periodical. This "cure" expels the poison from the blood, and thus cures them all alike. It is not only the most effectual remedy ever discovered for this class of complaints, but it is the cheapest, and moreover is perfectly safe. No harm can arise from its use, and the patient, when cured, is left as healthy as if he had never had the disease. Can this be said of any other cure for Chills and Fever? It is true of this, and its importance to those afflicted with the complaint cannot be over estimated. So sure is it to cure the Fever and Ague, that it may be truthfully said to be a certain remedy. One Dealer complains that it is not a good medicine to sell, because one bottle cures a whole neighborhood.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & Co., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all Druggists.

CLARK'S SCHOOL VISITOR.
VOLUME X.
A DAY SCHOOL MONTHLY.
THE VISITOR will commence its tenth volume with the January number, 1865. This is the only Day School Periodical published at SEVENTY-FIVE CENTS A YEAR!
Magazine form, beautifully illustrated. Now type, now features; Readings, Music, Speeches, Dialogues, Stories, Puzzles, Enigmas, Robusses, &c., from the very best writers
The VISITOR has the largest circulation of any Educational Journal published. Now is the time to form clubs.
The Publisher, in order to reach all parts of the country, will send the VISITOR one year FREE, to one person (who will act as an agent) at any post-office in the United States.
Address, with five cents for particulars,
J. W. DAUGHADAY, Publisher,
1308 Chestant Street, Philadelphia.
Exchanges copying the above, and sending a marked copy, will receive the" Visitor" for one year.
Nov. 10.
<c06>
A NEW RELIGIOUS MAGAZINE.
THE RADICAL
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY S. H. MORSE, BOSTON, MASS.
THE publication of THE RADICAL was commenced in obedience to a recognized need for ea popular Magazine which should be devoted to the discussion and presentation of the advanced religious convictious of the present time. The encouraging response which has already greeted the publisher, from a large number of people, in all parts of the country, is the assurance that the publication was well timed.
 THE RADICAL is a Magazine presenting the thoughts a able and disinterested writers. It has no sectarian bias but welcomes truth from whatever source it may come "It is," as a city journal has stated, "a Magazine for all people who are not too closely wedded to their own idea to tolerate freedom of inquiry and earnest discussion."
The following writers, among others, are engaged as regular or occasional contributors:
Rev. JOHN WEISS. ROBERT MOORE.
Rev. SAMUEL JOHNSON. MYRON B.BENTON.
Rev. D. A. WASSON, Rev. D. H.MONTGOMERY.
Rev. ROBERT COLLYER. Rev. J. C. LEARNED.
Rev. J. K. HOSMER. Rev. J.B.MARVIE.
Rev. JOHN. W. CHADWICK. Rev. M. D. CONWAY.
Rev. JOHN SAVARY. Rev. SAMUEL LONGFELLOW.
Rev. EVERETT FINLEY. Rev. EDWARD C. TOWNS.
Rev. SILAS FARRINGTON. HENRY JAMES.
Rev. FRED. MAY HOLLAND. T.W.HIGGINSON.
C. K. WHIPPLE. Rev. O.B. FAOTHINGHAM.
Rev. F. E. ABBOT. Rev. W. H. FURNESS, D. D.
S. H. MORSE, EDITOR.
TERMS: Single subscriptions, Two Dollars a year. Single copies 20 cents. United States bills preferred.
The world has much to say about the temporal and the eternal. By this it means a division of worlds. This side the grave means temporal. The side beyond the grave means eternal. Politics, Art, Literature, Philosophy, Science, are of this world-also morality, and are all temporal. Its Religion, as Coleridge said, is "other-worldliness." Shall we not flad a better distinction? Shall we not so interpret religion that we can let the other world rest until our fortune of life finds us there as dwellers-making this world as sacred as the next shall be; life as little to be despised here, as it shall be in any hereafter? Phillipsohn, the able Jewish writer, makes it his chief argument against Christianity, that it renders this world mean and contemptible by its dismal strain of immortality- dismal to his cultured soul, because it reveals in the great mass of mankind who are chanting it, a thought so entirely selfish. So far as Christianity can be made responsible for this "dismal strain of future life," it must go under condemnation. Jesus, however, was not a "Christian." He cut the One-world apart as regards this world. His "this world" meant surface, pretension, illusion, show, hypocrisy, sham. His" Eternal life" was quality of life, and not duration or plan of existence. "Love God with mind and heart, and your neighbor as yourself." That was all he said. Tear down the partition wall, and you have One World and Eternity already with you. To live in this great Eternity, and, forgetting little or great private aims, (which are temporal, for they must be set aside for the common weal,) to work with a whole devotion to truth as to universal ends, is that marriage of Man with God, which in all places and forever must be, for man, his Religion! Herein are all callings of life ennobled. The True, the Beautiful, the Good: devotion to these as they everywhere appear, revealing the True, Beautiful, and Good Providence, is Religion. This Religion can be subtracted from no department. It is the one Reality. It is the Life of Art, of Philosophy, of all Literature, of Politics, even: so far as these have life, Religion supplies. It is the Life of all life that shall not perish!-ED.
Address, S. H. MORSE, at HARVERHILL, MASS. Send 20 cents for specimen numbers.
PROSPECTUS,VOL. IV.
OF
THE MODERN AGE.
IN behalf of "modern civilization," the revolutions of Science, and the inspirations of mankind, we venture to ply our puny oars anew in the waves of the world's advancement. While we shall not shrink from the criticism of any and every name and institution that stand in the way of the interests of the masses, the readers of THE AGE are assured that its pages shall not be enlisted in more partisan controversy. They shall speak in the calm interest of TRUTH, as the botanist examines plants, as the astronomer surveys the stars, as the chemist agitates the elements in his crucible, or as the geologist studies the granite foundations of the world.
We purpose to devote THE AGE, in part, to Social and co-operative Science, including the elevation of Northern and Southern Labor, the Enfranchisement of Men and Women, and the Philosophy of Spiritualism; to note new discoveries, and publish occasionally articles on Geology, Astronomy, or other kindred Natural Sciences. In addition to its original matter, we shall carefully select from sources quite inaccessible to many readers.
In seeking to maintain the Scientific and Liberal tone desired by the Publisher, two qualifications will be generally required of writers for the New Monthly; viz: candor and ability. If, in endeavoring to realize our ideal, offences may come to the few, let them coma alone from the faithful point of the PEN of TRUTH.
Doubtless there are men and women of talent and of comparatively liberal means, on whose interest in the permanent success of a journal of the aims of the MODERN AGE we may depend for their private subscriptions, their personal influence among friends, their absolute donations, or contributions from their pens. They are well aware that a journal scientific and radical (not erratic) at all points, can only be sustained by positive effort, and the material and mental aid of the sterling friends of progress. We trust to the inspiration of a high purpose-that we shall not be forced to relinquish our vital work for the want of co-operation.
The friends of Freedom, thinking and aspiring young men and women everywhere, thirsting for knowledge, for human and self-improvement, are invited to co-operate with the Editors in the circulation of a Journal devoted to the interests of Man in the higher departments of his career, independent of race, color, sex, creed or country, and in the SPIRIT OF UNIVERSAL FRATERNITY.

SUBSCRIPTION TERMS, IN ADVANCE.
One copy, one year $ 1 50
Five copies, one year. 6 00
Ten copies, one year. 10 00
Single number. 15
Address B. J.BUTTS,PUBLISHERS, Hopedale MASS OR H. N. GREENE, EDITRESS, " "

FOR THE YEAR 1866!
"THE COMMONWEALTH,"
(BOSTON, MASS.,)
Is an independent Republican 
ANTI-SLAVERY JOURNAL,
Giving attention, also, to LITERATURE, ART and NEWS.
Close observance will be had of the issues pertaining to the settlement of the great civil contest.
TERMS: $3.00 per annum. Subscriptions received for six months. Specimen copies sent gratis on application.
CHARLES W. SLACK,
EDITOR AND PUBLISHERS,
 8 Broomfield Street, Boston.

WM. LLOYD GARRISON, JR. WOOL COMMISSION MERCHANT,
No. 6 Charming Street, Boston.
WITH every facility for selling Wool to the best advantage,-a good store, situated in the centre of the Boston, trade, and an extensive acquaintances with manufacturers,-I respectfully solicit consignments.
No market offers greater inducements to the Wool Grower than this. It is the headquarters for New England manufacturers; here are their agencies, and here it is most convenient for them to buy. My terms for selling are as follows:
WHEN ADVANCES ARE NOT REQUIRED,
One per cent per pound, and one per cent. (and government tax of one-tenth of one per cent.) on sales.

WHEN ADVANCES ARE REQUIRED,
Five per cent, (and government tax) on sales. These charges cover all expenses after the Wool is received in store, for three months,-labor, storage, insurance and selling. If required to carry it over three months, additional expenses will be charged. Interest on advances and other disbursements reckoned at the legal rate of this State.
I shall aim to keep my consignors thoroughly informed; and all Wool sent to me will be carefully graded to suit the market. Letters, asking information, will be promptly answered Address P. O. Box 1861.
References:
Messrs. HALLOWELL & COBURN, Boston.
Messrs. HALLOWELL, PRESCORY & Co. New York.
Messrs. DAVIS, FISS & BANKS, Philadelphia.
Boston, August, 1865,
PRINTING MATERIAL FOR SALE.
TWO fonts of Long Primer, of about 300 pounds each, one somewhat worn, the other quite good, and small fonts of Minion and Small Pica, are for sale as this office, very low, for cash. Also, imposing stones, stricks, galleys, &c.-the usual material of a newspaper office.

A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
OTTAWA, La sulle Co., Illinois.
Special attention gives to securing and collecting claims for Eastern Merchants.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
A PROPHEOY IN RHYME.
In the year 1865, citizen of New Hampshire, on reading Mr. Polk's annual message of the year, took one passage in it for the text of the following lines, which have had the good fortune to be fulfilled which is not the common fate of poetical predictions :
“That system of self-government which seems natural to our soil. “Furnishing another example that self-government is inherent in the American breast, and must prevail.”

INFERENCES AND REFLECTIONS OCCASIONED BY THE ABOVE PASSAGE.
Let groaning Africans rejoice,
Redemption draweth nigh ;
The Southern Seer's consoling voice
Bids every tear be dry.
His oracle Has spoken well ;
'Tis thus that Heaven has willed ;
That voice is Slavery's final knell,
Her destinies fulfilled.
The “soil” her cruel footsteps tread
Possesses native power
To bow Oppression's lofty head,
And haste her final hour.
The Northern breeze o'er Dixon's line
It wafting health and light;
Averted eyes perceive the sign,
And shun the unwelcome sight.
“Self-government inherent” lies
Within the native breast,
That, bursting from its cell, shall rise,
And claim its high behest.
The institution! of our land,
With one exception, bear
That deep impression, broad end grand,
Which Pilgrim structures wear.
God's seal is on them, and His arm
Is stretched for their defence;
Their influence with a heavenly charm
Shall drive the exception hence.
Well, Prophet, thou hast spoken right,
However short thy ken,
For soon will Freedom's growing light
Pour in on sable men.
And Freedom's word they yet shall wield,
Yet Reason's strength employ,
Their chains shall fall, their stripes be healed,
Their sorrows turned to joy.
No thanks, O Seer, to thee are due,
For words so just and right;
Thy utterance, though wise and true,
Reached far beyond thy sight.
So once, Caiaphas prophesied,
In words not understood,
When God's own Son he crucified,
And stained his soul with blood.
O, Slavery, thou shalt die at last,
Though thou in Texas hide;
Thy knell shall peal on every blast
That sweeps thy deserts wide.
Thy friends, by artifice and wile,
May lengthen out thy day;
‘Tis but reprieve thy doom, meanwhile,
Grows heavier by delay.
Keen ridicule, in taunting jests,
At thy pretensions sneers ;
The curse of God upon thee rests,
And shakes thy land with fears.
Dark ignorance its baleful shade;
Has cast upon thy coast;
And vices, here unnamed, degrade
The men that are thy boast.
Crime, shame and poverty are thine,
A trinity of woe;
Dost doubt?-go thread Ohio's line,
Thine eye will tell thee so.
The curse of men that feel thy sting
Still deepens day by day ;
Those whispers low shall thunders bring,
And sweep the scourge away.
The light of Heaven shall o'er thee flow,
Nor leave thee place or name;
Known only in those realms of woe
From whence thy presence came. E. S. Y.
This alludes to the depopulating influence of slavery, seen in many places where it exists.
N. Y. Evening Post.

REST.
[The following lines were found under the pillow of a soldier who was lying dead in a hospital near Port Royal South Carolina :]
I lay me down to sleep,
With little thought or care
Whether my waking find
Me here or there.
A bowing, burdened head,
That only asks to rest,
Unquestioning, upon
A loving breast.
My good right hand forgets
Its cunning now
To march the weary march
I know not how.
I am not eager, bold,
Nor strong all that is part;
I am ready not to do
At last, at last.
My half day's work is done,
And this is all my part;
I give a patient God
My patient heart,
And grasp His banner still,
Though all its blue be dim;
These stripes, no less than stars,
Lead after him.

"SHE IS SO DEAR TO ME."
BY M.L. ADDEY.

Ah me, she is so dear to me, so dear,
Two lips with peachen tinges stained, and sweet,
Two wee white hands, which stay me when I go,
Sweeping in soft lines from twin arms of snow,
That claps about my neck whene'er we meet,-
Ah me, she is so dear to me, so dear !
Ah me, she is so dear to me, so dear,
She seems; another life within my own,
Another life that hides itself in me.
Blow kindly, Fortune, till we reach the sea!
Our one true life from our two lives has grown.
Ah me, she is so dear to me, so dear!
For that she is so dear to me, so dear,
For that in life each life on each, relies,
To be away from her is tasting death,-
Tie loss of hope and life and light and breath;
And absence starves affection till it dies.
Ah me, she is so dear to me, so dear !

SONNET.
SUGGESTED BY GOUGH'S' LECTURE ON “HABIT.”
The power of Habit! who can estimate 
Its influence on the heart, the hopes, the will?
Like <illegible> snow flakes, fall they silently,
Each in its tiny place, till mountains great 
Of frigid vanity the valleys fill
When to the frowning clouds flood outpour,
The fragile mountains melt, they rush and roar,
And madly revel in stark misery
Bad habits ! are not they a <illegible> height
Of vain and <illegible> 
Snow-white without, also how false within!
Just retribution storms, and all is night!
<illegible>! fies!'oh, tempted coul, from every sin:
<c02>
The Liberator.

SOME POPULAR DELUSIOS,
THEIR CAUSE AND THEIR CURE.
[CONTINUED.)
Whoever ventures upon the independent course here suggested will be met at the outset with certain terms of reproach, and certain accusations and objections. This is unavoidable. A priesthood will always defend their idol, and endeavor to destroy the credit of those who expose their false pretensions in regard to the idol. If, however, we look long enough at these reproachful epithets and accusations to discover precisely what they mean, and how far they are well founded, these obstacles will lose much of their terror.
He who stays away from “meeting “ on Sunday to take a walk, or a ride, or a sail, will be called a Sabbath breaker.
Many to whom this name is applied are so ignorant of the Bible as to admit themselves to be Sabbath -breakers, and not to have the least suspicion that they are falsely accused, and that the Bible-Sabbath has no more to do with Sunday than with Monday. Every one may convince himself of the utter falseness of the claim that either Sabbath-keeping or Sunday observance is enjoined upon Christians by the Bible, by tracing in that book the history of the Jewish Sabbath, and seeing for himself that the Christian Scriptures neither enjoin, imply, nor recommend any Sabbatical observance whatever. The Scripture doctrine upon this subject in accurately stated in the following Six Propositions, namely:-

I.
There is one, and only one weekly Sabbath, enjoined, described, or in the remotest manner alluded to, in the whole Bible, whether Hebrew or Christian, the Saturday Sabbath. “The seventh day is the Sabbath.” No other day is so designated; no other day can be the Bible Sabbath (Exod. xx. 11).

II.
This Sabbath was strictly a ceremonial and Jewish institution (Levit. XXIII.; Deut. v. 15). An especial “sign” between God and the " children of Israel" (Exod. XXXI. 13,17; Ezek. xx. 12).

III
.
As confirmatory of this, Jesus studiously and repeatedly violated the Sabbath; (compare Matt. xii. 1, 2, with Exod. xvi. 28, 29, and Number. xv. 32, 36 ; also, John v. 8, 9, 10, with Jerem. XVII. 22;) and justified this violation by the direct assertion of his right, and (by necessary implication) of his intent to abolish it. “The Sabbath was made for man, and nut man for the Sabbath; therefore the Son of man is Lord also of the Sabbath!” (Mark ii. 27, 28.)

IV.

While the Sabbath was thus openly and constantly broken by Jesus and his apostles, they never, on the other hand, enjoined, or even encouraged its observance in any manner whatever, either by example, by precept, or by slightest intimation ; nor can a single passage be found among all the New Testament writers, condemning the neglect of this law, or reproving the "Sabbath-breaker."

v.

On the contrary, the Sabbath law was wholly and unequivocally abrogated for the Gentile world, by the first great council of the catholic church, held at Jerusalem under the immediate direction of " the apostles and elders ;" which council decreed that "the keeping of the Law " was an unnecessary thing, and a burden not to be laid upon those who were not Jews. (Acts xv. 24, 28, 29.)

VI.

Hence the subsequent Epistles, with one voice, regard the sanctification of the Sabbath as a provisional type, fulfilled and superseded by the gospel dispensation; the “rest which remained to the people of God” being not that of “the seventh day,” (nor that which "Joshua had given" in Canaan,) but that into which they " who have believed do enter," when they " have ceased from their own works. “(Heb. in. 3, 4, 8,9,10.) “For by the works of the Law shall no flesh be justified.” (Gal. ii. 16; Rom. iii. 28; ix. 32. &c.)
They uniformly speak of the Christian being “delivered from the Law,” the Decalogue included (Rom.vii. 6,7); which Decalogue, though “written and engraven in stones,” was thus entirely “ done away.” (2 Corinth, iii. 7.)
In the most explicit and impervertible terms, they affirm that “the Sabbath-days" were the mere "shadow of things to come” (Coloss. ii. 16); an obsolete “ordinance” which had been " blotted out "'by the new covenant; and they strongly condemn their "observance" (Gal. iv. 10),as among the "beggarly . elements " of Jewish bondage.
Thus they decide obedience to the Fourth Commandment, and the “estimation” of its Sabbath, to be a “weakness in the faith” (Rom. xiv. 1, 5), even while placing it on the broad ground of the liberty of pivate judgment, and the right of each to act in conformity with his own persuasions. W. B. T.
The term Sabbath-breaker, as I have said, is commonly applied to those who use Sunday for their business or pleasure without making any special claim of a right so to use it; but he who vindicates that right, and appeals to reason and Scripture in confirmation of it, is considered to have committed a far graver offence; he who stays away from the Sunday meeting because he believes it right and best to do so, and because he sees how that day may be better employed, is very sure to be called an Infidel!
The word Infidel means simply disbeliever. As ordinarily used and applied, it is a term of reproach, intended to convey the idea that he of whom it is used is a bad and dangerous man. Nevertheless, its actual meaning is only that the ideas of that person respecting religion vary materially from the ideas of him who calls him so. I mean to say, that when one man calls another an infidel, a third person cannot have the slightest accurate idea of what is the belief of the second, until he knows what is the belief of the first. All he can possibly know about it, until thus enlightened, is that the two are different, and that the first wishes to represent the second as a bad man on account of this difference. In the days of the Crusades, nothing was more common than the reproachful use of the word Infidel It was used alike by Christians and Saracens, each against the other, and with directly opposite meanings. A blind man of that period, hearing one person call another an infidel, might feel sure that the accused was of a different party from the accuser, but he could know nothing else about him without further instruction. It would remain utterly doubtful whether he were a Christian or a Mussulman. And the word is ordinarily used in precisely the same manner, with the same reproachful spirit and the same indefinite meaning, at the present day. The only proper and definite use of the word is to designate one of that very small
These propositions are copied from an admirable volume with the following title: “The. Obligation of the Sabbath: a Discussion between1 Rev. J. Newton Brown and William B. Taylor. Philadelphia: A. Hart, 1853.' 12mo., pp. 300 In this Work, Mr. Taylor gives thorough proof, from the Bible, of the propositions copied above. The true doctrine of the Sabbath is also stated, and proved, in the following works, namely:-
“The Sabbath: by Henry Grew. Philadelphia: 1850.” pp. 23.
“Archbishop Whately on the Sabbath Question. Boston: 1845.”-pp. 36.
This tract consists of extracts from “Essay V., on the Abolition of the Law,” from Archbishop Whately's volume, entitled -" Essays on some of the Difficulties of the Writings of St. Paul."
"Stone him to Death 1 or, the Jewish and Christian Dispensations compared end contrasted with the Fourth Commandment. New York: W. A. Townsend & Company. 1859." pp. 107. This little work is a reprint of two able articles from the Westminster Review; "Septonary Institutions," (Oct., 1850,) and "Sunday in Great Britain," April 1656.
The most elaborate work upon the Sabbath, in which the modern as well as the ancient history of that institution is traced in an able and faithful canner, la'" Sabbath Lave and Sabbath Duties, considered in relation to their Natural and Scriptural <Illegible>Principle of <Illegible> Liberty. By Robert Cox. <Illegible>; Maclachlan and Stewart. 1853."-Svo., pp 598. This book traces to the English puritans, about the class of the distant country,
<c03>
party who adopt and prefer the title of “Infidel,” and desire to be known by that name. Then, and not otherwise, will the word have a meaning at once accurate and just.
Since, then, with the single exception just mentioned, the use of the word Infidel communicates no definite information whatever, except that the accuser differs In religious opinion, from the accused, and wishes to bring a reproach; against him therefore and since it really shows only a bigoted and illiberal spirit in the former, and not at all the existence of any vice or error in the latter and since many of the best and noblest men, and many of the greatest reformers in morals and religion have been thus stigmatized by the popular opinion of their time one need not be greatly disturbed by finding himself thus stigmatized now. It is natural enough that people who lack arguments should use reproaches. Those who have truth on their side, and who can show reasons for their belief, need not be disturbed in mind, still leas diverted from their course, by such reproaches.
Let us look now at another branch of our subject.
Perhaps no one root bears so many of the branches of delusion above referred to, as the assumption, confidently made by the clergy, and implicitly believed by the mass of the people, that the Bible, throughout, is the Word of God ; written from His dictation, miraculously preserved by Him from all error, whether of fact or doctrine, and given by Him as the one infallible and sufficient rule (or human guidance.
The assumption thus confidently stated is not only an utterly unproved hypothesis, but the very term with which it commences makes a false and delusive implication. "The Bible." As if the' Bible were one thing, instead of a collection of many things! As if its contents were uniform instead of heterogeneous in character. As if it were even one book, instead of two collections of books I As if it contained one religion only, instead of two diverse, and in some points diametrically opposite, systems of religion !
Come with me, reader, to a great public library. In one of its alcoves, let us say Above G, there are collected the works of fifty or sixty authors, persons of the most various talents and conditions in life, who wrote in different languages, and on a vast variety of subjects, at times extending over a period of fifteen or sixteen centuries. These books contain History, Poetry. Fables, Tales, Sermons, Songs, Dreams, Voyages and Travels, Philosophy, Satire, Dramatic and Didactic compositions, and Records of Religious Systems, battles and ware, crimes and punishments. It appears that you have read some of there books, and superficially glanced over others. Now I seriously ask Do you believe in the contents of Alcove G. as absolutely true, and infallibly correct in every particular?
What a question 1 Before you can answer it intelligently, you must have read all these books, and learned something of their authorship, and of the various periods'-in which they were written; and you must have carefully compared them, to find whether their statements arc probable and reasonable, whether they agree with other testimony, and whether they agree together. Very few persons are competent to give an affirmative answer to such an inquiry, even after careful examination.
But suppose you make the requisite examination, and find among these writers not only much that is good and true, but various irreconcilable discrepancies and contradictions, and some unreasonable and repulsive doctrines, combined with statement* which the progress of science has shown to be incorrect. Will it then be possible for you to answer the question affirmatively?
Suppose, in addition, that your examination reveals the fact that two opposing systems of religion are contained there, one setting forth the doctrines of the Mohammedans, and the other the. adverse tenets of the Fire Worshippers. Will not this state of things absolutely prevent your saying that you believe in all the tenets of Above G. as absolutely true?
It is not at all uncommon to hear the question asked Do you believe the Bible? or to hear the confident assumption made Of course you believe the Bible ! And the answer to this question or tills assumption generally expresses a perfect conviction of the truth and correctness of everything contained in that book. Not one in a hundred of those who make this answer have the faintest conception of the amount of knowledge required to express any intelligent opinion upon the subject. Not one in a hundred of them understands that the question which they presume so hastily to settle includes all the difficulties and uncertainties of the question about Alcove G.
But if you consider (making the laborious investigations indispensably necessary) when and by whom the various works constituting the Old Testament were written, when and by whom they were collected, when and by whom the various memoirs, narratives and letters constituting the New Testament were written, and when and by whom they were collected, when and by whom the two collections thus existing were bound together in one volume, and, finally, when and by whom the hypothesis was invented that these two diverse collections of writings constitute one infallible rule obligatory upon Christians, you will find many difficulties in the way of honestly saying you believe all the statements therein contained. What right have you thus to believe, without more evidence than you possess upon the subject?
If you further take note of many positive and irreconcilable discrepancies, between different authors and different parts of the same author, in the books in question, it will appear not difficult merely, but impossible, to accept all of them as true
If you further observe that the two principal parts which have been strangely brought together to constitute this one book, called the Bible, are the history, records and laws of two antagonistic religions, a still further difficulty will present itself in the way of receiving both as true.
The Old Testament consist of the history, records and laws of the Jewish religion, an antiquated and obsolete system, which, though greatly in advance of the heathenism that preceded it four thousand years ago, is so clearly understood to be at variance with Christianity, that missionaries are sent to the Jews just as to the various sorts of heathen, and the desire of Christendom is to convert them from Judaism, just as much as to convert the Hindoos, the Turks, or the Chinese, from the false systems of religion which they follow. To persist in being a Jew is to refuse to be a Christian. The Jew who becomes a Christian is cursed, hated and renounced by his Jewish brethren. He is contemptuously and opprobriously “cast out of the synagogue” Is it not folly, then, as well as falsehood, to try to represent the synagogue and the Christian church as belonging to the same system? To bind up in one volume the book of laws which has given the Jew his Jewish peculiarities, and that very different book of laws which has given the Christian hit Christian peculiarities, and say that these two constitute one perfect and infallible rule, absolutely binding upon every Christian ? Taking these things into consideration, an intelligent acceptance of both these systems as constituting one rule for the present time will appear absurd as well as impossible.
There is much uncertainty respecting the date, and I much respecting the authorship, of the various book a constituting the Hebrew Scriptures, commonly called the Old .Testament A large number of them give no account whatever of their own authorship. Not one of those books declares itself to be written by any particular person until we come to Nehemiah. The ordinary belief la regard to the authorship of these anonymous works is founded mainly on so very uncertain a thing as Jewish tradition; and, in cases where modem science has carefully applied itself to the examination of evidence, (as in regard to the pentatouch, assumed by the Jews to be the work of moses,)the weight of testimony contradicts instead of supporting, the assumption. The dates at which the five
<c04>
ing even the century, or the general period of Jewish history, in which they were composed. The; researches of the most competent and trustworthy critics make it probable that they were written by several unknown persons and at various periods, and that they were collected in their present form not till several hundred years later than the time ordinarily assumed for them. But whoever undertakes to look at this evidence for himself, trying to get as near as possible to the original sources information, and to find the reasons of the different views taken by different persons, will be likely to find himself first puzzled by the slight amount of evidence and the wide range of conjecture, and next amazed at the hardihood of the manufacturers of those accurate chronological tables of the whole field of Scripture history which decorate the margins of to many of our Bibles.
The New Testament contains four biographical sketches of the founder of Christianity, Jesus of Nazareth, called Christ; a narrative of the proceedings, after his death, of the twelve men whom he specially commissioned to publish his doctrine; and sundry letters, relating to that doctrine, written by several of his early followers.
There is much uncertainty respecting the authorship, and touch respecting the date, of these documents. Most of them were probably written by the persons whose names they bear, and all, no doubt, were written according to the best of the knowledge and belief of the authors. The biographical sketches, (called Gospels) are supposed to have been written at periods varying from eight to seventy years alter the death of Jesus ; the Acts of the Apostles somewhere between thirty-five and sixty years after that event; and the Epistles from twenty-five to seventy years after it.
Jesus himself left no writings whatever, and none of his disciples seem to have been able to comprehend his character, or to fathom the depth of his thought. They often, by their own admission, failed to understand his words; and they often, no doubt, formed erroneous ideas respecting them, without becoming aware of their error, lie is represented as repeatedly complaining of their slowness, dullness and blindness, and he declared himself unable to communicate to them many things that he desired to make known, on account of their inability to understand them. From these men, however, incompetent as they were, proceeded the only records that undertake to describe his life, his teachings, and his death. All our means of knowing what Jesus said, did, and meant, are comprised in the record of four admiring but confessedly incompetent followers, writing down, after a lapse of many years their recollections of what they understood him to have said, done, and meant. Even thus, writing down from memory things which they often failed to understand, they have given us some of the noblest trails and some of the grandest thoughts that have ever appeared in any human being. The great and majestic truths respecting the Heavenly Father and his relation to man, which Jesus is represented to have uttered, may be confidently attributed to him, since they are collectively above and beyond the scope of any previously existing religion, and since the writers were manifestly incompetent to have framed them. On the other hand, when we find incorrect statements or objectionable sentiments put into the mouth of that venerable personage, it is just and reasonable to remember that the error may have sprung from a failure of discernment or memory in the historian. Of course, the man Jesus had a human liability to error; but the lower grade of intelligence and spiritual discernment among his disciples, combined with the length of time which elapsed before their recollections were written down, give plausible grounds for referring any alleged error to them rather than to him.

LETTER FROM HENRY C. WRIGHT.
The Ballot is it a Natural Right 1 Shall it be withheld from the Loyal, and given to the Disloyal 
TAUNTON, Dec. 2, 1865. 

WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
MY DEAR FRIEND Is the ballot, or suffrage, a natural right? As much so as is “supreme, irresistible, absolute, uncontrolled authority or sovereignty” of man over man. The ballot is the symbol of sovereignty. It means power in the voter to make laws, define crimes, annex penalties, and execute them; i. e., discretionary power over life and liberty, over person and property. Has God invested man with such power over man? So far from it, no man has a natural right to make laws, even for himself, much less for others. The laws of life, to body and soul, in all relations, are fixed by God. These can never be repeated. nor modified ; nor can they be violated with impunity by individuals or nations. Obedience to them is essential to their growth and life. God makes the law, and he says to all, “Obey and live; disobey and die” From this there can be no appeal, no escape.
Each human being is, by God, appointed sole interpreter of these laws for himself. No one is authorized to interpret them for another, and to enforce his inter predations upon him. The sole just business of human government is, to interpret these laws, and apply them; and to educate all the people to interpret and apply them to all relations. All enactments of human governments that conflict with these laws of life are null and void. If there is a sovereign God, as believe, this must be true. Therefore, no man can rightly assume dominion, or sovereignty, over man. Therefore, the ballot cannot be n natural right. It is a conventional right; and, no form of government can be republican that grants it or withholds it on account of color. 
Has Congress, as now constituted, a right to exclude Georgia, or any other State, from the Union, because it denies the ballot to the negro? The same that thieves have to imprison a thief; or pirates to hang a pirate; and no more. Twenty-four States are represented in Congress. Eighteen of these States base their governments on color, and deny the ballot to the negro. Can these States reject Georgia because she denies the ballot to the negro They will not; it is idle to expect it. They deliberately and wilfully do the same atrocious wrong to the negro. They will not condemn and punish Georgia for following their mean and infamous example. What Congress requires of one State, it should require of all. Otherwise, it violates the principle on which the republic is founded i.e., the equality of all men and States before the law.
What, then, shall be done with the rebel States? Keep them out of the Union till they have ceased to be rebellious against -impartial justice and equal rights. But keep them not out because they deny the ballot to the negro, but because thy deny it to the only loyal people of those States. Never admit a State that denies the ballot to any man because he is loyal to the government. Reject Georgia, South Carolina, Alabama, and every other State that denies the ballot to a man. because of his past and present loyalty to the republic. Let Congress reject every man who comes as the representative of treason. Thus far, the Representatives elect represent only, the treason of the South. In their election, the loyal had no voice. They were excluded from the ballot because they were loyal. But those who represent the loyal most represent the negro; for the negroes constitute, in the main, the loyal people of the South.
Congress should make it a question, not of negro suffrage, but of loyal suffrage, and exclude all State that do not come baaed on loyalty, and with a Constitution with a distinct recognition of equality before the law, without regard to color, a* the basis of existence.
But the slave, if freed, will not work. Who says this? Those who think work a disgrace, and who had rather steal than work. such are the vagabonds who raise the cry against the negro that, if free, he will not work? Who raise the cry of amalgamation? The very men whose polluted blood runs in the veins of over two millions of negroes <illegible> and <Illegible>
<c05>
Such are the men who cry out against the enfranchisement and elevation of the negro. They call themselves Democrats They had rater steal than work. They have ever been anxious to make the negro the mother of their children; but without legal marriage. These men have sought the death of the republic by murdering half a million of our loved ones. Shall we now give them power over our destiny to destroy us, white we refine the ballot to our friends to save us? If we do, we deserve the doom that awaits us. God save the Republic from the disloyal HENRY C. WRIGHT.
P. S. I thank God that I live to see this day. Equality before God and the Law! is the great watch word of civilization and progress. LIFE AND LIDERTY INALIENABLE ! This, to, is sounded throughout the civilized world. Man cannot forfeit his right to be at a man cannot forfeit his right to the life and liberty of a man. To assume that man may be held and used as a chattel is "the sum of all villany." To assume that man's "life, liberty and happiness" may be sacrificed to institutions, creeds, caste, country, color, codes or constitutions, is to assume that the permanent may be sacrificed to the transient, the substance to the shadow.
Down with all governments and religions, all creeds and constitutions, and with all ordinances and observances, that cannot exist without killing or enslaving man! Man sacred! Alter or abolish all his incidents, if need be; but let man be sacred! See and worship God in man! not in Bibles, Sabbaths, baptims, churches, priesthoods, or institutions. Man, the image and glory of God! Let man be sacred as God is!
Dear Garrison, I thank God for the Liberator! No book or paper, no creed nor code has done so much to inspire man with a tender reverence for man; to divert reverence from his incident, and to concentrate it on the man, the woman, and the child. This republic exists, avowedly, to protect man, not his incidents. The incidents are of no value, except as they contribute to the elevation, safety and happiness of man.
Will Congress heed this in its reconstructive policy? Will it now practically assert that man is sacred, and never to be sacrificed to title, station, wealth, or institutions? Are hats for heads, or heads for hats? Are institutions for men, or men for institutions? Congress is to give its answer this winter in its action on reconstruction. H. C. W.

BOARD OF TEADE MEETING.
A special meeting of the government of the Board of Trade was recently held at their rooms, the President of the Board, George C. Richardson, Esq., in the chair.
The Secretary read a communication from Alanson Penfield of Washington, asking the Board to cooperate in promoting the assembling of a national cotton-growing convention, early in December, to take measured for insuring a large cotton crop the next season,
Mr. Edward S. Tobey offered the following resolutions upon the subject, and supported them in a speech of considerable length:-
Whereas, by the recent civil war. many of the Southern States have become greatly desolated, and a large part of their capital destroyed ; and no inconsiderable portion of the laboring classes are destitute of employment, whose labor, unless now aided by capital, must be lost to the country,
Resolved, That the commercial and financial interests of the United States alike demand that speedy and efficient measures be immediately employed to organize and develop industry in the Southern States, in order to increase the production of their staples, and especially of cotton.
Resolved, That, while we recognize the fact that the causes and principle which more or less affect the ability of the banks to redeem their circulation in specie, the quantity of cotton raised in this country must in a degree determine the time when specie payments can be safely resumed, and that to hasten that time is the part of sound political economy and a wise statesmanship, and is indispensable to the permanent prosperity of the entire country.
Resolved, That in view of the fact that efforts by private enterprise to draw capital and intelligent labor to the Southern States, must in their results be remote and contingent, and however ultimately useful they may be, cannot be relied upon materially to increase the agricultural products of next year, or even for several years to come, it is vitally important to the interests of the nation that the Government should, within the sphere of its legitimate powers, aid forth with in sustaining and organizing such portion of the laboring classes now in the Southern States as cannot be reached by private capital, not only on the ground of a considerate humanity, but also to save their labor to themselves and to the country.
Mr. Edward Atkinson said the plan presented by Mr. Tobey was merely a palliation, and not a cure of the evils existing at the South. The difficulty was that Northern labor and capital was not sate I away from the military posts in the Southern States. No one could go there and settle away from the military stations, except at the risk of his life. He mentioned several instances which had come to his knowledge, showing the danger to be confronted by Northern men in attempting to carry on plantations in Georgia, Texas and Northwestern Missouri, and said the testimony from the South was of one unvarying character upon this subject. In Mississippi, since the revocation of General Slocum's order concerning the State militia, the freed men had gone back to the control of their former overseers, and could not be considered free. What was needed was legislation by the Southern States for the protection of free labor. He would not make the Freedmen's Bureau a great business enterprise, but would use it simply to secure justice between man and man. Not until the freedmen were secured in their rights as men could the cotton crop become valuable. It was the evident intention of the Southerners to get back their lost power by the passage of vagrant laws, and the exercise of their political influence. The first requirement was the establishment of the rights of man, and this secured, a good cotton crop would follow.
Mr. Tobey said he would not deny the facts or figures presented by Mr. Atkinson. "He had proposed the measures under consideration simply because labor could not b" reorganized at the South without Northern aid. He had no confidence in 
Southern legislation. The legislatures of the Southern States might pass laws in good faith, but they had no power to enforce them. He wished the Freedmen's Bureau to continue with military power to protect labor. A good crop could not be secured in 1866 without the interposition of the Federal Government; and Mr. Tobey desired that this course should be pursued, rather than wait for Southern action, while the freedmen were perishing from lack of shelter and food.
Mr. Atkinson said his principal objection to the resolutions was that they did not declare the first requisite to be the protection of capital and labor at the South. A Northern man now going there knew that he would be in an insignificant minority. If justice was done in those States, by giving the whole population their rights, Northern settlers would have a majority to back them.
The question being taken on the passage of the resolutions, they were unanimously adopted.-Boston Daily Advertiser.

CHOATE. PRESCOTT. AND THEODORE PARKER
Mr. Parker claims precedence among the three in mental and moral greatness. We should not have conceded this in his life time, but the new light thrown upon his character by the correspondence published in these volumes constrains us to make the award. Mr. Choate had more genius; a keener insight, by intuition, into men and books; an imagination of imperial sweep; a sudtile magnetism, flowing from heart or brain, to take individuals captive, or away bodies of men at will; but with the gifts of genius, be had more of its eccentricities, and faults, a lower type of conscience, less sincerity of character, more selfish aims, and less sympathy with his race and the philanthropic movements of the age. Mr. Prescott was more exact in his scholarship, more amiable in character, more humane in judgment, a more genial and lovable man; but in spite of uniform cheerfulness in misfortune, and a devotion to literature under discouragements which would have chilled the enthusiasm of ordinary men, there? was much of the Sybarite in
<Illegible>
<c06>
enthusiasm of the scholar with the unselfishness of the reformer. He touched life at every point, and sympathized with it everywhere. There was scarcely a department of knowledge his curiosity did not explore or a sphere of life into which his love of man did not lead him. He was a scholar of generous aims and large attainment, but the scholar was subordinate to the man; and if his <illegible> theology is put out of sight, our generation furnishes no better type of the vigorous and many sided life of New England, or of its broad philanthropies, than Theodore Parker. 
Whether for good or evil, it can hardly be questioned that Mr. Parker, for a <illegible> of years <illegible> A wider influence than any man in New England. or any preacher in the land. His position was not won by the power of his religious teaching. It was due to his generous sympathies, his love of man, and his unrelenting hatred to oppression and social wrongs. The poor never applied for help in kind words and wise counsel. The fallen woman was not spurned. The trembling fugitive found shelter and sympathy and defence. If Mr. Parker's theology was vague, his philanthropy was sublime. He was indifferent to fatigue, or expense or odium in behalf of the hunted slave, for whose return to bonds the laws of the land were perverted and its great men leagued with the oppressor. He will be remembered by future generations, not for his the ology, which is narrow and incomplete; nor for his philosophy, which is strangely deficient in idealism and spiritual depth, and cannot outlast his age ;or for his learning which will be talked of as among the doubtful traditions of the past ; but his emory will be fragrant as a zealous preacher of he "higher law" in the State, when some preachers of a better faith denounced it: as a champion of he helpless, when any evangelied men like the <illrgible> and the Levite, passed by on the other side: as an uncompromising loe to slavery, when statesman, divine and merchant joined in the cry:" Great is Diana of the Ephesians" It was a proof of manhood that be was incorruptible when thousands bowed to Baal. To his persistent efforts or the rescue of Craft, Shadrach, sims, and Burns; to his anathemas against the oppressor; to his indignant appeals to justice and right, New England is largely indebted for that education of the conscience. and that unflinching moral courage which prepared her to act a leading part in the suppression of the rebellion.

The Most Wonderful Invention of the Age
MORRILL'S
PETROLEUM STOVE.
One of the Most Brilliant Triumphs of American Genius,
IT COOKS, WASHES AND IRONS WITHOUT COUL, WOOD, OR GAS!
DOES the work easier, quicker, better, and wish as little expense as any known method; and in its use, without a radiator, does not <illegible> affect the temperature of the room, while it may be used with a radiator to heat a room in a very short time. It is also perfectly free from soot, ashes and <illegible> and makes no unpleasant smell.

Warerooms No. 36 Bromfield St., Boston, Mass.
Baking in these stoves, instead of threnody imperfect process, is rendered a certainty ; the bread comes but of the even in thirty minutes, with a fair brown crust, <illegible> burnt nor dough, for the heat can be <illegible> regulated. Potatoes joints of meat are Done to a turn."
Broiling ;-Mr. Morrill, the inventor, to use his own language, 

CHALLENGES THE WORLD
to produce a method by which a steak can be broiled that will compare with the Patent Brother," which always leaves the Steak juicy, making even a tough one tender. At a drop of the fat or juice can possibly be wasted, although is broiled by the pure sweet blaze coming in actual contract with the meat. Ironing is accomplished quite as satisfactorily; the heat being communicated to the intertor of the iron, there is no roughness or dirt to trouble, as in iron heated on the face; and in the summer the heat is confined to the iron alone, instead of sweltering the ironer. Washing-day is bereft of half its troubles, the stove, light and portable, can be carried out-doors even, in good weather, and the steam and disagreeables of washing in the house aroided. In fact, every kind of household labor can be accomplished with more certainty and economy and with far less labor, than with coal or wood. To those confined to rooms requiring cooking done at home, these stores must prove an invaluable blessing, the Petroleum costing less by one fourth than gas at two dollars per thousand feet, while the work is performed infinitely better. Young men but all day, wanting a quick heat on returning to their rooms, families with children needing instant fire at night, mechanics wanting early breakfasts, and HOT BISCUITS in thirty minutes' time after lighting the fire, housekeepers wanting heat in rooms wit hunt flues, country houses, in fact, all who value their time or money, or the health, comfort and convenience of themselves, wives and families, must eventually buy these stoves.
If you wish to save time, trouble and expense, buy the

MORRILL PETROLEAM STOVE.
[Front Dr. J. Cheever, of charlestown, Mess.
CHARLESTOWN, MAY 24. 1865.
MR. MOORE Having fully tested the <illegible>Stove purchased of you two months since, and premised at that time to give you my opinion of it, after becoming fully satisfied with, its ments or demerits-, as the case may prove, I now, without hesitation, pronounce it far superior to any cooking apparatus I have ever seen. It not only proves to be alt yon recommended, but infinitely more, for not half of its advantages were named. In fact, it does not fail in any particular in being all that can be reasonably desired by any one after acquiring a little experience in its use. JOSEPH CHEEVER. M. D.
[From Mr. Edward Perkins. <illegible> of the large <illegible> Establishment, Nov. 37 and 39, Congress, Street, Boston.] BOSTON, May 17. 1865.

TO THE AGENT OF THE MORRILL PETROLUM STOVE CO.:
DEAR SIR-Having fully tested the new Petroleum Stove made by your Company, I am happy to bear testimony to its merits. I have them in use in my eating house, and find them superior to anything I know of for cooking purposes. It bakes biscuits and broils steaks <illegible> and indeed performs most admirably all that as claimed for it.
Wishing you every success, I remain yours, truly, EDWARD PERKINS.
[From Rev. T. C. <illegible> Pastor of the Mehtodis <illegible>
South Reading, Mass.]
SOUTH READING, Mass., May 29, 1865.
To THE PETROLEUM STOVE Co. :
Allow me a place upon your circular to make the following statement:-
For several weeks my family have been testing the uses and economy of your “single burners." and find tat for the common purpose of a family it executes everying else of the kind we have ever seen. In point of economy, it has cost us <illegible> than one are and one -fourth cents per hour. My wife can do her ironing in less time than with a comment stove, and avoid the necessity of being tortured with excesaive heat. We have absented ourselves from the house for hours, and returned to find cur beef or beans <illegible> baked, and ready for the table ; and for baking all kinds of pastry, steaming, broiling, and toasting, I do not hest <Illegible> to say that I never have seen its equal. I intend to use it as a heater for my study. sparing it to the kitchen a short time when called for to prepare our means I have had no experience in the use of the " double <illegible> but should judge its utility must be in a corrsponding ratio.
T. C. POTTER,
Pastor of M. E. Church.
[From Rev. J. P. Cushman, Pastor of <illegible> Church, Brighton, Mass.]
BRIGBTON, June 2. 1865.

O. F. MORRILL:
DEAR SIR-After a brief experience with your stove. it gives me pleasure to say that it gives great satisfaction.
For baking, it answers better than any stove or range with which we are acquainted: for broiling, it is perhaps unsurpassed, and the arrangements for ironing prove very convenient, while the escape from the heat given out by an ordinary fire must, in the summer, make your stove a great comfort in the kitchen. 
J. P. CUSHMAN.
 Very truly yours,
 BOSTON August 10,1865.

MESSRS. MORRILL & Co.:
GENTLEMEN-I am often asked how I like my "Petroleum Stove." I would here state that it works admirably and like it much. I have been a housekeeper more than forty years, and have, during that time, used nearly half the same number of cooking apparatus, such as ranges, cook-stoves. &c., but have never found any thing equal to this for summer use, and well in winter. We can get breakfast with it-viz: boil tea-kettle, make tea and cook steak, while a person would be building a fire in a range. We have used ours since early in June, and have never found the least difficulty whatever. Certainly there is nothing that equals it in baking biscuit, bread, or pies.
Yours, truly, V. H. HEWES.
No. 3 Tremont Place.

$2000 A YEAR 
MADE by any one with $15-Stencil Tools. No experience necessary. The President, Cashiers and <illegible>
