THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittance are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1,00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:- FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILERICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printer.
VOL. XXXIX. No. 42. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1503.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<C01>
A 'DEMOCRATIC' CANDIDATE!
Extracts from Gen. Benjamin F. Butler's letter, accepting his nomination as candidate for Governor of Massachusetts:-
Upon the question of slavery, which appears to control the political action of a majority in Massachusetts in preference to objects affecting their more immediate interests, I believe I can be equally explicit, having no opinions to conceal. In my opinion, slavery exists nowhere by natural right, but only because of some positive enactment embodied either in the constitution or statue law of the community in which it is found.
Again, I believe it to be the essential element of the democratic creed,-as promulgated at Cincinnati, in 1856, as well as plainly deducible from the doctrines of the "Fathers of the Republic,' one to which every living democratic statesman has, at some period, pledged himself,-that the people of every community, who associate themselves upon the Territory of the United States, and obtain sufficient numbers to be organized into a Territorial Government, have the right, by their legislation , under the Constitution, to manage all their domestic institutions in their own way-or in other words, to determine for themselves the status of society under which they will live, and that this right continues until the formation of such territory into a state, when it is conceded by all. Then, slaves being decided to be property by the Supreme Court, in the states where slavery exists by local law, are protected as such in the Territories, as far as in the several states, giving the master the right to hold them while there is no territorial legislation on the subject, with the further right to remove them within a reasonable time after legislation is had, that divests him of his property by a law declaring them free. This would put the rights of the South upon their true constitutional basis, leaving the public domain fairly open to competition and emigration; permitting the question of 'bond or free' to be settled by the natural laws of interest and profit, or by the newly-formed community, as soon as it is of ability to settle any other question of governmental policy: retaining in the slaveholder, who had brought his property upon the public land, under the protection of the Constitution, the right to take it away, if in danger of being divested of it by territorial legislation. More than this the South ought not to ask; more than this the North ought not to grant. Of course, from the reasoning, no one would hold that by carrying his slaves into unoccupied and unorganized territory, the master waives his right to him, so that by this act he would be emancipated. Upon this subject, I deem the public mind to be substantially settled in the full determination to leave slavery to be dealt with by the laws of the several localities where it has its existence. With it, we in Massachusetts have nothing to do, save to let it alone, or to treat it in our political, as we do in our business relations, wherein we buy and sell the products of slave labor, and furnish our own fabrics for its support, thus recognizing the institution as an existing fact, for which we in no way disturb ourselves, save to sell our brogans and negro cloths, for the use of the slave, as dearly as possible, and to but its cotton and sugars as cheaply as we can. These opinions upon the subject of the rights of the master to his slaves in the territories are in view of the action Congress ought to take in the matter, and are wholly independent of the judicial aspects of those questions which will be doubtless settled according to their legal merits, when they arise in the various matters of controversy. After deliberate reflection upon these topics, I see nothing to alter, and therefore prefer again to use the identical words. Our nameless opponents, not subscribing to these principles, but claiming 'irrepressible conflict' between the Northern and Southern systems of labor, and insisting upon Congressional interference against the local institutions of a part of the country, are most directly sapping the foundations of the Union by an utter disregard of the Constitution. While they confined themselves to resolutions and speeches, harmless enough, except from the irritation and bad blood which they might engender between the different sections of the country, there was not much to startle or alarm the patriot. That they mean to carry them into action is seen from the fact that ever since the Convention of which we are now writing, by a strict party vote, in the Massachusetts House of Representatives, they have attempted to organize the military force of the State in opposition to the militia of the United States, the laws, and the Constitution. Passing over the palpable, deliberate insult to the volunteer militia of Massachusetts, in associating the Indian and negro with them, on an equality, in an organization largely partaking of a social character, they further propose, by compulsory enactment, to require the negro and Indian to be enrolled and drafted to serve side by side with the white man! That this cannot be done under the Constitution of the United States is obvious. That the service is repugnant to the feelings and sentiments of the people of this Commonwealth is clearly shown, because in the analogous organization of the fire companies, no negro has ever been enlisted, although there is no restraining enactment. Why, then, compel the soldier by law to serve with a black man, when the firemen will not do so voluntarily? That this was knowingly attempted by the Legislature in violation of the Constitution of the United States is true, from the fact that their favorite leader, who has christened that party with the only name it has ever borne-his own-declared in the Constitutional Convention of 1853 as follows:-
'Now, in my opinion it is impossible for us so to provide in the Constitution of Massachusetts, that every sole-bodied citizen, irrespective of color, shall be admitted into the militia of the State, as is desired by these petitioners, for it would be in direct contravention of the Constitution of the Untied States.'
At the time of the utterance of this doctrine, he was under salutary influences; what has been the effect of his present unhappy party associations, upon his opinions upon constitutional law, remains to be seen. 'The present administration of the State Government' has therefore two wings; one of which believes that the intelligent naturalized citizen, whether English, German, Irish, Pole or Hungarian, is not fit to bear arms in the militia; and the other that the full-blooded negro is eminently fit. You may think, gentlemen, that I have given a very considerable prominence to this unconstitutional act of disunion; but I look upon it as the 'baby figure of the giant mass of things to come at last.' Not satisfied with this so unjust discrimination in favor of the negro, and against the naturalized citizen, yielding to the fear of the rattle of the dead bones of know-Nothingism, they have forced through an amendment of our State Constitution which deprives the citizen of that most substantial of all the eights for which our fathers contended, the right to vote in the choice of his rulers for two years after he has become a citizen of the United States, and entitled to all other privileges of the native born. Let us labor together, therefore, pledging the democratic party to an 'irrepressible conflict,' until this disgraceful injustice and wrong is tricken from our frame of government!
<C02>
BAD TASTE IN BOSTON. 
During the repetition of Mr. Everett's eulogy on Daniel Webster at Boston, petitions for the removal of the Webster statue were circulated among the audience, and, it is said, were numerously signed. It is scarcely probable that such a mean mark of disrespect to the favorite orator of Massachusetts, and such an untimely and indecent insult to the memory of Daniel Webster, can meet the approval of any reputable portion of the citizens of Boston. It is only another illustration of the vulgarity and virulence of the ' Down-East' abolitionists. 
Simultaneously with this exhibition of bad taste on the part of the Bostonians towards their greatest living orator and their greatest dead or living statesman, comes a proposition to erect a statue to the late Horace Mann on the State House grounds, immediately opposite to that of Webster. It is possible that Mann, like many other New-Englanders of extreme theories and ill-rounded judgments, deserves a statue, although his reputation is not very great out of his own State; but he differed as far from Mr. Webster in mental dimensions as in principles, and in the comprehension of the constitutional duties and powers of the Federal Government. More over, he was a life-long opponent and enemy of Webster, on a small scale; and this new proposition, coming from the source and in the manner and time it does, is evidently only another exhibition of pique against the latter, which the Legislature, in their devotion to the extreme anti-slavery party, will. probably indulge. There is only one further tribute which the modern Athens can pay to modern Art, worthy of the development in that quarter of modern ideas, and that is, the erection on the same spot of an ebony statue of a strapping negro. After having placed Webster in such company, it is probable that even the Abolitionists would be contented.—N. Y. Journal of Commerce. 

THE NE PLUS ULTRA OF FANATICISM.
From the (Washington) States. 
In our issue of Monday, we published a petition, which is industriously and extensively circulated in Massachusetts, to the Senate and House of Representatives of that Commonwealth, praying for the removal from the State-House grounds of the statue of Daniel Webster. This statue was placed there only a few weeks since, and is represented by competent judges to be one of the finest specimens of modern art—an ornament and an honor, in view of its world-renowned original, to the capital in which it stands.
Its removal is desired, as the petition alleges, because Mr. Webster's last years were spent in defending the Fugitive Slave Bill, and whose last counsel to the Commonwealth was, to conquer her prejudices against slave-hunting and bondage ' with alacrity'! 
Where is fanaticism to find a stopping-place in Massachusetts, if it can proceed with impunity beyond this disgraceful demonstration? It might with just as much propriety petition for the demolition of the Bunker Hill Monument as for the removal of the statue of Mr. Webster, for the reasons assigned; or even for the demolition of the incomplete Washington Monument in this metropolis. 
How far this wild spirit of abolition has taken possession of the citizens of Massachusetts, we have no means, at present, of ascertaining. We shall not be surprised, however—from the antecedents of the citizens of that State, such as sending Sumner and Wilson to the State, and an entire delegation of Sewardites to the House, together with the elevation of Banks to the gubernatorial chair,—if it shall be found sufficiently potent to accomplish its disgraceful purpose. 
Such movements are distressful auguries as concerns the future of the Union. They indicate, in a manner not to be misunderstood by the most ordinary observer, that there is no abiding militant sentiment of patriotism in the communities in which they are either countenanced or sustained. They are in direct antagonism to the Constitution and the laws of the land, and are exploited by the advance guard of Sewardism.
While there are as true men in Massachusetts as there are in Virginia, it is nevertheless certain that this venerable Commonwealth is rotten to the core as concerns devotion to our system of government. But instead of manifesting the slightest penitence for her enormous political sins, she revels in her guilt, and seems to employ all her energies in making herself as infamous as it is possible for her to do by the most skilful human contrivances. Her retrogradation to the most intolerant fanaticism which marked her early colonial history can certainly not be at a great distance from the goal at which she has been so resolutely aiming. 

THE 'GREAT' VILIFIER.
Mr. Yeadon styled Mr. Everett ' the great laudator' of Washington. Wendell Phillips may be called the great vilifier in general. One of the daily papers attributes his periodical overflow of bile to monomania, but the man is not mad yet. What he may come to, it would not be safe to predict. He gave the opening lecture last week, in a course at Boston, on no subject in particular, and every thing in general, the hour being spent in spitting upon every body and every thing, but the little clique of mutual admirers to which Garrison, Theodore Parker, Phillips, and two or three more belong Even poor Dr. Bellows of our city, who was thought liberal enough to be let off easily by the Boston critics, was handled without mercy. Of Daniel Webster, he said: 
'It any noble soul in the State will stir our mother Massachusetts to behead his image, we will sacredly cherish the name of that true Massachusetts boy.'
And a Boston audience cheered the sentiment with loud and prolonged applause. We know not which most to pity, the man who can thus insult the memory of the noblest statesman New England has produced, or an audience that would cheer him in his infamous discourse.—New York Observer. 

WEBSTER'S CONTEMPT FOR THE 'HIGHER LAW.'
'When nothing else will answer, they [the abolitionists] invoke religion, and speak of the "higher Law'! Gentlemen, this North Mountain is high the Blue Ridge higher still, the Alleghanies higher than either; and yet this "higher law" ranges further than an eagle's flight above the highest peaks of the Alleghanies! No common vision can discern it; no common and unsophisticated conscience can feel it; the hearing of common men never learns its high behests; and, therefore, one would think it is not a safe law to be acted upon in matters of the highest practical importance. It is the code, however, of the abolitionists of the North.' 
FREE DISCUSSION OF SLAVERY TO BE SUPPRESSED.
'Neither you nor I snail see the legislation of t he country proceed in the old harmonious way, until the discussions in Congress, and out of Congress, upon the subject [of slavery] shall be in some way SUPPRESSED. Take that truth borne with you.'
<c03>
SELECTIONS.
DANIEL WEBSTER.
As the fame of this distinguished man has been rapidly waning since his decease, his admirers, we might say his worshippers, are making a strenuous and desperate effort to keep alive his memory a little longer. They have placed a statue of him on the grounds of the Massachusetts State House at Boston, which has thus become the property of the State. 
But the heart of the mass of the people is not in the work, and an effort will be made to have the statue removed, which it is quite likely will be successful. The people are asking why so distinguished an honor should be conferred upon him. What did he accomplish in his life, especially the last years of it, that he should now be ranked among the few rare worthies that the country has produced? What great, bold, decisive mark did he make upon his age? What great, Lasting good for mankind did he achieve? 
He made great speeches. He said some good things in his palmy days. He spoke eloquently against the foreign slave trade, using the boldest imagery to depict its horrors; and had he died then, he would have left on imperishable name and fame; but he afterwards took back his noble words, when he faltered and sustained a law which allowed the victims of the slave traffic, or their descendants, to be hunted down and returned to that bell of slavery from which they had escaped.
He counselled the people to conquer their prejudices, (i.e. their love of humanity,) and perform 'with alacrity ' the ' disagreeable duty ' of turning slave hunters when called upon. Is such a man worthy to be honored as a saint, a patriot, or a hero? No, and the effort to embalm his memory in the heart of mankind will be unavailing. His sun went down in a cloud, and it cannot now be cleared away. There is not lime enough in all the quarries in the world to whitewash his character to that degree of excellence which his friends claim for him.
The acts which tarnished his fame near the close of his life cannot now be washed away or atoned for. They were done coolly, deliberately, without excuse, grossly outraging the common sense of the people. He sneered at the anti-slavery movement, stigmatizing it as a rub-a-dub agitation. He maligned the purest-minded men and women of the country. His lust for power was his controlling principle. The Union was worth more to him than liberty.
What was the moral character of Mr. Webster? It did not come up to the average. He was notoriously a debauchee. He served certain interests, and received there for immense sums of money. He worked where he was best paid. His profession would not support him, though he received enormous fees for his services. He died a bankrupt. We are told that we should forgive men their errors. This we are ready to do when the peccadilloes are trifling and unimportant; but when giant wrong is done by giant minds, involving liberty and happiness, forgiveness is not so easy a virtue. 
The people of New Hampshire have been solicited to contribute money for the purchase of a costly portrait of her ' illustrious son,' to be placed in the State House at Concord." We believe they can make a better investment. What meritorious acts did he perform for the State? He might have honored her in his youth, but he dishonored her in his age. When he might have won undying fame, he went after the gods of place and power, and reaped a harvest of disappointment. His friends may try to up hold his fame by getting up monuments and pictures, but as for going in such hollow pageantry, we can't and we won't!—Milford, (N. H.) Republican.

THE WEBSTER STATUE. 
The Boston correspondent of the New York Tribune thus wrote to that paper a short time since:
As I have alluded to the Webster statue, let me say that we are waiting for a fair day, in order to have Mr. Everett's eulogy repeated, in front of the: State House, where seats have been provided for 6,000 persons. The Legislature has once heard it, even tramping through the mud from the State House to the Music Hall for the purpose; but they are eager to hear it again. But not even Mr.; Everett's finely-turned periods and finished style of elocution can make people satisfied with the statue, as a work of art or as a likeness. And there are plenty of growls from the Abolitionists. The Liberator says the statue must be removed, but I don't! think it will be, unless there shall be danger of disunion, in which case Mr. Everett gives us reason to believe that it will ' descend from its pedestal to stand in the front rank of the peril.' Be sure, if it ever does this, it will never get back again. The idea of relying upon Mr. Webster or his brazen image for aid in time of peril is very ludicrous. There is nothing heroic in his history, as in the history of John and Samuel and John Quincy Adams, ' who were true representatives of Massachusetts character. It is disgraceful to the State that this a prominence should be given to a man not a native of the State, and who, whatever may have been his ability and his early services on the right side of the political questions of the day, betrayed the people he represented in his last days, and cast his great influence into the scale of oppression. But 'complimentary flunkeyism ' is the order of the day. A great part of the time of many leading Republicans is taken up in burning incense under the noses of living Hunkers, or tramping about in processions in honor of dead ones. My friend Sourkrout, who desires to check this tendency, has handed me a copy of an oration upon Mr. Webster, which he is ready to deliver if requested. I dare not quote the whole of it, and I fear you will think what I do give you is of a sacrilegious character! He says—the blasphemer: 
'Daniel Webster was born in New Hampshire, from which place, having been starved out by his creditors in early life, he came to Boston, where he was owned for 30 years by a few corporations, who then finding him damaged and expensive to keep, sold him for $50,000 to a New York Company, who soon put him off to the Slave Power for a promise of the Presidency. The last purchaser, having got the. article, did not pay the consideration, and there being no means of enforcing the contract either in the Federal or State Courts, Mr. Webster retired to Marshfield, where, having " set" on Mr. Winthrop, he died, and was buried with great pomp. He was then duly canonized by Mr. Everett, and his statue by Powers, an execrable caricature, was set up in the State House yard, causing much speculation among the members of the General Court whether it was meant for Pericles, Pompey 's Pillar or the Razor Strap Man in a mood of rapt contemplation; or if it is Webster, whether it is Daniel, Noah, or the Professor. Opinions differ. A respectable tailor attracts good custom by advertising that he did not make the pantaloons on this statue. Mr. Webster was a good lawyer, a moderate statesman, a poor diplomatist, and at one period of his, life an orator. From this latter complaint, however, owing to full feeding, he recovered. His private life was adorned with some virtues. 
He was a
<c04>
first rate judge of chowder, the English classics, and old otard. He was an expert fisherman (though; timid in a boat), a poor shot, and bad the best hog in Plymouth County. He attended church with considerable regularity, and his respect for the Methodist clergy was great. He hated a lean ox, an unfilled can, and Abbott Lawrence. He loved brook trout, Peter Harvey, and his country. He left to his family a splendid legacy of unpaid debts, and a sincere love of good liquor. He was a good looking man. Powers to the contrary notwithstanding. The great army and innumerable company of American insolvents will continue through all time to hail him as their august apostle, and will treasure his memory and copy his example with affectionate fidelity and respect. To all good little boys, and Presidential aspirants, the chief lesson of his life is, Own Thyself.'
Thus far Sourkrout. I do not indorse him. On the contrary, I am shocked, as you will be, by his irreverence. But; taking his estimate and Mr. Everett's together, you will obtain a very accurate view of the character of the man whose effigy we have just set up and consecrated.

LETTER FROM THEODORE PARKER. 
A friend in Boston sends us for publication the following extract of a private letter from THEODORE PARKER, dated at Montreux, Switzerland, Sept. 13. It will be read with much satisfaction by his numerous friends. However his body may have been affected by disease, his mind would seem to have lost nothing of its vigor.—Anti-Slavery Standard. 
'Wendell Phillips has written a brave letter to the Chief Justice of Massachusetts, and the President of Harvard University. He makes a strong case against the Judge, whose function is to execute the laws, and who decided that a place for the sale of liquor was a nuisance by statute, or liable to the common law of nuisance, and so might be abated by any body who would. 
What a fuss the Bostonians have made about 'Saint Rufus '! How differently they treat HORACE MANN! But I am glad to hear that twenty thousand dollars have been raised for his family. I care less for the monument. I don't like such things much, and, when I die, want only an old-fashioned blue slate grave-stone, with my name and appropriate dates, to cost three or four dollars. I should hate to be buried under a great mass of stones. No President of the United States since Madison, perhaps none since Jefferson, ever did such service to the nation as HORACE MANN, either officially or privately. I wonder men don't look and inquire, first, what a man has been, and, second, what he has done, before they make such a fuss over his dead body. 
That status of Webster in the yard of the State-House, what a disgrace it is to the State! If I had been Governor, I would have vetoed the bill for putting it there, although it turned use out of office the next day. But we will give it ' notice to quit' before long. This winter, fifty towns will petition for its removal; and next year, 250. A committee will have the matter in charge, and hear the petitioners. Wendell Phillips and others will go up and show cause for ejectment. 
The statue debases the people. Thus the character of Daniel Webster must be discussed anew, and the dead not be allowed to rest. How foolish are his friends, to provoke this discussion about so questionable a reputation! That great ugly piece of canvass in Faneuil Hall, which the friends of Webster put up there long ago, will, by and by, be set aside, and the Adamses will come back to their old places. 
I wish I could have preached a sermon on HORACE MANN. He had faults, which were as obvious as his great tall forehead and his magnificent virtues. It was a grand life he lived, devoted to the highest interests of mankind, and he died faithful to his principles, and altogether triumphant. 
I should also like to have preached the funeral sermon of JOHN AUGUSTUS, a truly remarkable man, living in comparative obscurity, and never wishing or asking any fame. He came to me, a day or two before I left America, as full of his special philanthropy as a broker's head is of stocks. I have no more respect for mere intellectual greatness than I have for mere bulk and muscles and bones. I ask, what use did the man make of his head or his arms? It does me good to find such a man as JOHN AUGUSTUS—such women as Matilda Goddard and Dorothea Dix of America, and Florence Nightingale and Mary Carpenter of England. I thank God, and take courage. 
My ecclesiastical brother, Henry W. Bellows, D. D., complains of the 'SUSPENSE OF FAITH,' which he says is characteristic of these times! Poor man! it is only faith in ecclesiastical blow-bags that is suspended. Faith, or PIETY, the love of God and Morality, the keeping of God's natural laws, is not suspended, and never will be. But, alas! when neither the American Church, nor any other, has ever had much 'faith ' in that form of religion which consists in piety and morality. 
But better times are coming—that is, good men and women are making better times—and even bad men help the work, while they mean no such thing Thus the Fugitive Slave Bill turns out an Anti Slavery measure, moving the North as nothing before had done: so does the Kansas-Nebraska Bill so the Dred Scott decision. The revival of the slave trade, which has already taken place, will create an open anti-slavery political party in the South which, like the Republican party, will go through changes like a catterpillar, and come out winged and handsome as a butterfly at the end. 'Nothing by leaps,' everything goes step by step, and we slope up to the tallest heights. It is curious that progress is never in a straight line, for any length of time; there are windings and windings, and carvings backward, but still the general course is on and up! '
From the Anti-Slavery Standard. 

WENDELL PHILLIPS'S FRATERNITY LECTURE. 
We regret the impossibility of finding room this week for the lecture delivered by WENDELL PHILLIPS, at the opening of the Fraternity course, in Boston, on the 4th last. We shall publish it next week, from a copy revised by Mr. Phillips himself. He has uttered no braver or more seasonable word since the hour that he first dedicated himself to the cause of freedom and humanity. The Boston correspondent of the Springfield Republican says:
'We are having a reaction from the extreme of 'complimentary flunkeyism ' with which we have been deluged. Wendell Phillips's lecture before the Fraternity could not be considered complimentary towards Dr. Bellows, or Dr. Adams, or Mr. Everett, or Mr. Choate or Mr. Webster. Dr. Bellows was paid off with usurious interest for his recent flings at Phillips and Parker, and the orator's onslaught upon Choate and Webster was terrific. I had the pleasure of hearing Mr. Phillips. His voice seemed more musical and his manner more graceful and his presence more magical than ever. I think the feeling of even that radical audience was one of
<C05>
wonder and astonishment at his audacity in that daring to criticise the Boston idols, rather than of entire approbation of the criticism itself. Yet there was scarcely any dissent. I think the conservatives were charmed, even if angry; the radicals strengthened, and the indifferents went away in a more thinking mood than usual. 
These Fraternity lectures bid fair to be a great success, as they were last year. The managers paid Parker $500 for four lectures last year, and most of their other lecturers $100 each—none less than, $75, and yet made money. The list of lecturers is a curious commentary upon the boast the conservatives make that they have all the talent. Look at it—Phillips, George Sumner, Whipple, Emerson, Beecher, Frederick Douglass, Chapin, Mrs. Lippincott, Bayard Taylor, Curtis, Higginson, Garrison and Cart Schurz! And about the only attractions of the Mercantile Library course are the two lectures by Beecher.

METHODISM AND SLAVERY.
To the Editors of the N. Y. Tribune:
SIR: Half a million of Methodists will thank you for your article upon the above subject in the Tribune of Monday last. The picture drawn by you is eminently just and truthful, both as respects the original position and present attitude of the M. E. Church as regards slavery. We are deeply corrupted by that moral gangrene all along our Southern border, and are now called upon by the Slave Power either to remain quiet, and let slavery become ' national' in the Church, by running riot even among our class-leaders, and stewards, and local and travelling preachers on the border, in open violation of the discipline of the Church, or suffer terrible consequences. The slaveholders and their sym- pathizers will secede, and we shall have to break up housekeeping! They will take all the furniture, book-rooms, and churches with them, or sue us and take them from us. 
But there is a slight error in the calculations of the writer in Harper's Weekly to whom you allude. It is not true that' most of the Methodist Episcopal churches in the North are at present mortgaged for large sums of money.' It may be the case in this slavery-ridden city, but is by no means the case, as a general thing, away from the seaboard. From a very large acquaintance with our church affairs in the interior of this State, I am prepared to affirm that not one church in ten is under any mortgage at all. And such I believe to be equally true of the rural districts of New England and the West. They will not be likely, therefore, to be sold on ' foreclosure,' much as the threatened seceders might desire it. 
Neither is it true that, out of New York and Philadelphia, ' the bulk of the persons ' who bear the chief pecuniary burdens of the Church are opposed to a new rule, excluding all slaveholders. In the Free States, the number of such is so small, that, if they too should ' flare up ' with the slaveholders, and refuse to help pay interest, we have friends enough outside the Church—readers of the Tribune —' sinners,' who have too high a sense of justice and right to tolerate a slaveholding Methodism—who would promptly supply all such lack of service. We are ready any day to part with all such degenerate sons of the Wesleys as had rather leave the M. E. Church thin leave slavery. And we shall be rich in moral character and purity the day they leave. 
And even if a church here and there should be sold out under foreclosure, as our border masters threaten, who would buy it? Do they suppose our churches are to fall into the hands of slavery by this ' process? Never! The very idea is preposterous. As well might the dairymen of Northern New York talk of selling out the sugar mills of Mississippi. 'Slavery has no use for Methodist Churches on the shores of Erie or Ontario, nor in Iowa or Massachusetts. And she could never get hold of them if she had. Recent decisions have even settled it as the law of this State, that the legal voters of any congregation are the real corporators, and can control the revenues of Methodist Churches, even in spite of preachers and Conferences, and so against any claims set up by an oligarchy of slaveholding seceders. 
And, back of all that, the voice of the Church is, out with the rotten carcass of slavery, and if it costs us our mammoth book-rooms and a few border; churches, let them go. We can live without them, or build others. I trust there is too much of the (Spirit of God yet left in the M. E. Church for her to falter in the approaching crisis, for fear of pecuniary disadvantages. It would be too much like renting houses for rum-shops and brothels, because they would yield leas revenue if used for honorable purposes.  H. MATTISON.

THE AMERICAN ABOLITIONISTS. 
Acknowledging the receipt of the Annual Reports of the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society, for the years ending May, 1857, and May, 1858, the London Anti-Slavery Advocate says:
We have read these documents, which were published simultaneously, and are issued under one cover, with warm admiration of the lucidity, dignity, impartiality, and comprehensiveness shown in their compilation. From the darkness of the theme, they are full of a mournful and sometimes a romantic interest, not to be found in many elaborate histories, and such as the annals of no other association for a benevolent object could arouse in detailing the events of so short a period. If it were not for our faith in the ultimate triumph of all honest and persevering warfare with gigantic systems of iniquity, we should almost despair of the success of a society which ventures to publish so terrible a history of the crimes and victories of the power with which it has to contend, and which brings in such force the unanswerable logic of facts in pool of the rottenness of the American Church, and the want of principle and moral courage of a large portion of the American people. The actual doings , of the abolitionists occupy a far smaller space in these pages than we think then entitled to. Indeed, from the beginning to the end of this bulky pamphlet, there is a remarkable freedom from the puffing and exaggeration which so often disfigure similar documents. It would be impossible for any upright t inquirer to investigate the words and actions of the American Anti-Slavery Society, without recognizing a high-minded integrity and self-respecting singleness of purpose, as rare as they are admirable, in their mode of conducting their operations. 
THE AMERICAN BOARD 
The American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions constitute the largest missionary organization in this country, receiving the patronage generally of the Orthodox Congregationalists, Presbyterians and several minor denominations. They have just been holding their annual meeting in Philadelphia, and the reports of their missions in all parts of the heathen world are encouraging. 
The great curse of slavery—that ' thorn in the flesh which alone prevents America from being the proudest nation on the earth—of course is felt in this great religious body. The African slave trade
<c06>
stands directly in the way of the success of its African missions, one of which, the Gaboon mission, was withdrawn principally on its account. Rev. Dr. Cheever, of New York, therefore presented the form of a memorial, to be signed by the Board, and addressed to the Congress of the United States, praying them rigidly to enforce all laws against the trade. Then a storm arose! Is it not strange that just as soon as slavery is attacked, so many politicians and conservative ministers will rack their brains to concoct arguments in its defence—as though she did or ever could do any good! The witchery of the abominable hag is past comprehension. Men that would be the last to look to for consistency on anything else, would rather be martyred than to allow a single word to be uttered against their beloved slavery!
The result of Dr. Cheever's applications was a long debate, in the course of which returned missionaries poured out their bitter testimony about the effects of this evil upon their missions and character, and in spite of opposition, the memorial was referred to the Business Committee for further action. If they smother it, this Society will greatly tuffer; if they report it, and it is adopted, an advance will be made in the progress of anti-slavery sentiment.—Maine Evangelist.
The following is the Memorial drawn up Dr. Cheever, and presented to the Board for adoption.:—
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States.
The memorial and petition of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions respectfully represent as follows:
That your memorialists are an incorporated body, by an Act of the Legislature of Massachusetts of 1812, and that they are engaged in propagating the Gospel in foreign heathen lands and among the Indian tribes of this country, by supporting missionaries, diffusing a knowledge of the Holy Scriptures, establishing schools, and in all proper ways extending the blessings of civilization and Christianity. The Board, however, is neither an ecclesiastical nor denominational body, and is not supported by denominations as such, but by individual Christians, ministers of different denominations, and laymen.
Your memorialists further represent, that they have for many years sustained missionaries in Africa, among the Zala and Gaboon tribes, which have had encouraging success. It is known to your memorialists, and to all who are conversant with the history of Africa, that one of the principal obstructions to the progress of civilization and the extension of Christianity in that country is the domestic slave trade, which owes its origin and prevalence chiefly to the foreign slave trade, which introduces intoxicating drinks and implements of cruelty and death, stirs up contention among the tribes, produces vast and desolating wars, and leads to the most debasing vices and crimes, so that it is a well established fact, that the excess of barbarism, on the Western coast especially, is the effect of the foreign slave trade, and that in the interior, beyond the reach of that influence, the negroes are far more civilized, industrious and peaceable. Along the shores of Africa, wherever the foreign slave trade is carried on, the natives form the worst and most wretched population of the whole continent. There is more drunkenness than elsewhere, greater cruelty, and lower morality, more crime, more misery of every kind, than is ever seen where the foreign slave trade does not prevail. It is the policy of the slave-traders to corrupt the natives by intoxicating drinks and other appliances, that they may have power over them, and that they may more successfully carry on their iniquitous traffic.
In view of these considerations, and of all that pertains to the welfare of the African tribes, especially of those over which the Board exercises a beneficial influence, your memorialists, in common with a large portion of the people of the United States, feel a deep concern at the re-commencement, on the part of the citizens of this country, of the African slave trade. Cargoes of Africans have been brought into the country by American citizens, in defiance of the law which stigmatizes such traffic as piracy, and of treaties with a foreign power and the unfortunate victims of this wickedness have been sold, and with their posterity consigned to perpetual bondage. This piratical, illegal and injurious traffic is openly countenanced and encouraged by a portion of the citizens of some of the States of this Union; the perpetrators who were taken flagrante delicto, citizens of the United States, are contriving to re-open and carry on the foreign slave trade, and a party is forming favorable to a repeal of the law that attaches a death penalty to the crime, which law was founded upon the broadest principles of philanthropy, religion and humanity, and is in exact consonance with the divine law.
Your memorialists, as American citizens and as Christians, feel impelled, in view of the crime and sin alluded to, and their disastrous effects upon their own country, as well as upon the missions established by them in Africa, earnestly and respectfully to entreat your honorable bodies to cause the law of the land against the foreign slave trade to be vigorously enforced, the honor of the nation to be preserved, and the country saved from the disgrace of renewing a traffic held in abhorrence by the civilized world, and from the displeasure of the Supreme Ruler of the Universe. The cause of missions is dear to the hearts of the Christian people of this country; they look to the constituted authorities with much anxiety at the present crisis; they have a deep sense of the solemnity of the obligations which treaties, superadded to the claims of natural justice, have imposed on the government of their country; and they justly apprehend the continued displeasure of the Great Ruler of Nations, if a traffic so abhorred of God and man is suffered to exist. It is their prayer, and the prayer of your memorialists, that the blessing of God may rest upon the Congress of the United States, and that he will so enlighten the minds and guide the deliberations of those who are called into the councils of the nation, and that the faith and honor of the people and their government shall be preserved by all portions of their fellow-citizens, saved from the guilt of piratical depredations upon the unoffending inhabitants of a distant continent, and that the judgments of an incensed God may be averted from their beloved land.
And, as in duty bound, will ever pray.
Dr. Cheever's memorial to Congress, which he wanted to have the American Board of Missions adopt, against the African slave trade, was referred by the Board day of the meeting, made the following report, which was adopted without discussion:—
'While the Board regret with sentiments of unqualified condemnation the African slave trade, and cannot but feel the liveliest regard and alarm at the disposition manifested in this and other countries to revive it, in one form or another, especially in view of the fact that it is interfering and is likely to in-sere, in the most serious manner, with the proper missionary work of the Board; yet, inasmuch as there is not sufficient time, at this advanced stage of the meeting, properly to deliberate and determine
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrates that it can only continue through the free States are tending.'
-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
upon the course proper to be pursued in so grave a matter; therefore,
Resolved, That the whole subject, with the memorial that brings it before the body, be referred to the Prudential Committee, and that they take such action as in their judgment its relation to their work as a Board of Missions shall seem to demand.ï¿½
In presenting his Memorial, Dr. Cheever made an earnest and forcible speech. We can find room for only the concluding portion of it:-
In the Assembly of 1855, the Presbytery of Winchester, in Virginia, notified the Assembly and all the Churches, that the exceptions stated in the resolutions of the Assembly were considered to cover the vast majority of cases, if not every case of slaveholding in the land; and in an address to their constituents, published after the adjournment of the Assembly, united in by the body of representatives from the Southern States, the same thing was a vowed in terms more unqualified, and at greater length. Since that time, the kingdom of salvation by slaveholding suffereth violence, and all are pressing into it, and the violence, and all are pressing into it, and the violent take it by force. It is now asserted that the obligations of guardianship, the demands of humanity, and the dictates of the highest piety, as well as the laws of the slaveholding States, require the perpetuity of the system, and constitute, for every case of slaveholding, a case of good intention, justificatory motives and circumstances, and of religious expediency and necessity. The state of conflict in our country, the aggressions of the Slave Power, the impious doctrines advanced and avowed in behalf of Slavery as a righteous system, the most unfortunate and disastrous complicity of the Board hitherto with it, as well as the claims of the millions crushed by it, forbid that the Board should any longer refuse an open attitude against it, or should neglect any of the precious opportunities offered in the providence of God effectually to oppose it, or should relinquish their power over it and their hold upon it, until they have administered all those means of grace to it which God has given in his word, all those agencies of reproof, correction, and instruction in righteousness, and all that authority of discipline committed to the Churches against such a sin for its removal. If the Board deliver up this authority and power, which is greater than the strength of Samson against Dagon, they will play the Delilah to the Philistines, without even the eleven hundred pieces of silver; nay, their treasury will be emptier than ever, and their moral dignity will be degraded irreparably by such a transaction. On the other hand, if they let this iniquity off; if, instead of opening the prison door and letting the oppressed go free, they let the iniquity and those who practise it go free; if they let this moral monster in the Church of Christ escape out of their hands, whom God has denounced as worthy of death, and whom God has laid bound before them in the very act and character of his wickedness for their authoritative application of the sentence of God's Word, then they will be more guilty than the besotted Ahab, King of Israel, when, out of pretended humanity, peace, and worldly wisdom, he released, unscathed, the enemy of his country and his God. ï¿½Thus saith the Lord, Because thou hast let go out of thy hand a man whom I appointed to utter destruction, therefore thy life shall go for his life, and thy people for his people.' The Board have no right to let slavery escape, or to refuse to execute God's commission against it, and, least of all, on the ground of the difficulty of confronting it and dealing with it, when in his good providence he has laid this giant sin on his own altar before them, and given them the Sword of the Spirit to plunge into its heart. Let them stand and exercise this royal prerogative against sin. A grander occasion, a more solemn and illustrious opportunity of striking such a blow, could not be asked by them. It is as a Mount Carmel in the gaze of the world, who have seen us traveling up hither as to a challenge of the trial of power between God and Baal. Let the Board, before renouncing its guardianship of these churches, apply the truth of God and the discipline of Christ's house to them, and put away this sin, and then, if the path of duty is plain to give them over to some other pupilage, it can be done with honor, in faithfulness to Christ, but not till then. The Board ought not to relinquish their trust with these churches till they can do it with clean hands- till they have either cast out the demoniac possession that afflicts them, or have brought them to Jesus, and laid them at his feet for this purpose. But here they are advised to give over these uncured sufferers, whom Satan hath bound and tormented these many years, into the hands of doctors who do not regard the possession as the work of Satan, or as any affliction or iniquity at all, but on the contrary, as the ministry of an angel of light, and a desirable instrumentality of God's most holy missionary providence. You propose, if you agree to this, transferring over your patient to these new guardians-in effect, to say: ï¿½Take him; we can make nothing of him; he is more plague than profit-a very obstinate, incurable devil, whom the world and the Christian Abolitionists will not suffer us to keep any longer as a saint. But you can take him as a child of God, and nourish him with food convenient for him, and harness him for a work of glory in your own missionary field. With you it is a work of love; with us it is nothing but toil, difficulty, embarrassment and danger.' We cannot, in faithfulness to our trust, in honor to God's Word, or with any dignity or safety to ourselves, pursue any such policy as this. We are driven to the wall, and cannot refuse to ï¿½stand up for Jesus,' in the true meaning of that watchword here, where that watchword was issued from the dying lips of that young soldier of Christ, who is known to have spoken it in reference to this very conflict against slavery, and to have meant by it, with all the dying emphasis of those principles for which he had been excluded from his former church, and had gathered around him a new band, ï¿½Stand up for Jesus in protection of the cause of the dumb and down-trodden slave, with the gospel of the abolition of this wickedness.' That was what young Tyng meant; and when we see young and old, Young Men's Christian Associations, churches, assemblies, Missionary Societies, holding back from its reality, rejecting and denying its true meaning, and yet boasting of it in another sense, we tremble at the last words of Malachi, and cannot but feel that except God turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and of the children to the fathers, in this thing, he must come and smite the land with a curse.

AN OVERSIGHT.
When Edward Everett delivered his oration on Webster for the first time, it contained a paragraph stating Mr. Webster's sentiments in regard to the final universal prevalence of free labor in the United States, coinciding closely with that of Mr. Seward in his irrepressible conflict between opposing and enduring forces,' meaning that ï¿½the United States must, and will, sooner or later, become either entirely a slaveholding nation or entirely a free-labor nation.' Everett's statement in regard to Webster is as follows:-
'He (Mr. Webster) not only confidently anticipated what the lapse of seven years since his decease has witnessed and is witnessing, that the newly acquired and newly organized territories of the Union would grow up into free states; but, in common with all or nearly all the statesmen of the last generation, he believed that free labor would ultimately prevail throughout the country. He thought he saw that, throughout the operation of the same causes which have produced this result in the middle and eastern states, it was visibly taking place in the states north of the cotton-growing region; and he inclined to the opinion that there, also, under the influence of physical and economical causes, free labor would eventually be found most productive, and would therefore be ultimately established.'
Attention was called to this coincidence shortly after the delivery of the oration, but it is stated that when it was repeated before the Legislature, the passage above quoted was omitted. Mr. Everett undoubtedly had it pointed out to him that he had committed an oversight in making any such statement in reference to Mr. Webster, and with his characteristic cowardice he afterwards suppressed it. This is exactly of a piece with his conduct in regard to Charles Sumner, when, it will be remembered, he apologized in the most abject manner for having subscribed to a testimonial for Mr. Sumner after he had been beaten by Brooks. Mr. Everett ascribed his carelessness at that time to the effect of an opiate. How he can excuse himself in the present instance we do not know. But it is certainly remarkable that he has found occasion to apologize for almost the only acts of his life which have given any evidence of his having any heart.
Edward Everett, many years ago, at an age when the hearts of men, if ever, beat with lofty aspirations, on Plymouth Rock, expressed the alacrity with which he would shoulder his musket and help to suppress a slave insurrection. He has never apologized for that. When in Congress he said,
<c02>
'Domestic slavery is not is my judgment to be set down as an immoral or irreligious relation.' He has never apologized for that. When Governor of Massachusetts, he announced in his inaugural message that the discussion of slavery was an offence indictable at common law. He has never apologized for that. He has gone about the country for years delivering a eulogy on Washington, in which he omits all reference to the great patriot's opinions on slavery, and to his manumission of his slaves. He has never apologized for that. And now in his eulogy upon Webster, he dare not rebuke him for his advocacy of the fugitive slave law, and the fatal recreancy of the 7th of March, affirming the duty of catching fugitive slaves to be ï¿½an affair of high morals and high principles,ï¿½ and endeavoring to persuade the people of Massachusetts toï¿½ conquer their prejudicesï¿½ against the performance of this duty. He has never apologized for that. But he can lick the dust and eat his own words when he has by some accident made a slight show of sympathy for a Senator from his own State struck down by a ruffian, or has given publicity to sentiments of the subject of his eulogy in favor of freedom.-New Bedford Republican Standard.

CLASSICAL INVESTIGATIONS.
The questions at present agitating the city of Boston are, whether Mr. Daniel Webster was like Demosthenes; and whether, if like Demosthenes, it was creditable to him to be like Demosthenes; or whether it would not have been better for historical reputation to have been unlike Demosthenes, i.e., whether Demosthenes was a patriot or a trimmer; whether Ctesiphon, the son of Leorthenes, when he proposed a golden crown to Demosthenes, was patriotic or parasitical; whether AEschines was right in rib-roasting Ctesiphon; whether it was fair to vicariously flog Demosthenes in the person of Ctesiphon; whether the Athenians were right in sending AEschines to Rhodes, where he had to open a school for a living. Mr. Wendell Phillips, in a lecture which he recently delivered, declared that Mr. Daniel Webster was like Demosthenes, and that the resemblance did him no credit. The Boston Evening Courier, which, we believe, boasts a Greek Professor among its conductors, immediately retorts that Mr. Webster was, to be sure, very much like Demosthenes, and proceeds, through two columns and a half, the most classical which we remember to have seen in a daily newspaper intended for tea-table reading, to vindicate Demosthenes, and to blacken the memory of AEschines, the son of Atrometus, who will unquestionably, if permitted to do so, leave his sphere, come down to Samos, take ship for Boston. and drum a midnight tattoo upon the head-board of Professor Felton. This combat has become very deep and desperate, and promises to distract the polished people of Boston very much as it distracted the fierce Democracy of Athens two thousand years ago.
Mr. Phillips is of the opinion that Demosthenes was not entitled to the golden crown. The Boston Courier is of opinion that he was. Issue is joined upon this point, and the argument proceeds with as much vehemence, at least upon the part of the editor, as if the crown aforesaid were the subject matter of the dispute, instead of being, in this age of silver pitchers, an article of honor entirely out of use. Mr. Phillips declares that Demosthenesï¿½ fled from battle,' and that he gave counsels that ï¿½brought the city to ruin.ï¿½ On the ether hand, the Courier assets that Demosthenesï¿½ did not run, awayï¿½; that the charge was copied from theï¿½ uncritical Plutarch,ï¿½ who, the way, is a most unfortunate writer, as nobody credits him if they have the least motive for discrediting him; that ï¿½he fought in the ranks,' while AEschines stayed at home, and did not fight at all: that he devoted himself ï¿½heart and soul to the welfare and glory of his country.' Unfortunately for the completeness of the parallel, it does not appear that Mr. Webster ever ï¿½fought in the ranks.' The question is not whether he fought and ran away, which is a pity, inasmuch as he would unquestionably have fled in the most classical style, and would have been, if not Demosthenes, at least like Horace. He did not run away, because he did not ï¿½go in.' This opens a very interesting subject of inquiry. If Mr. Webster had entered the army, we will say as a Major, would he have proved himself a classical character by running away? This is a point which, alas! can never be settled, which is very discouraging to the biographical mind. But let us no longer weary our readers by discussions so exceedingly incapable of conclusion. We intended to cover our ignoble retreat by a blazing Greek quotation, but we abstain, partly because we cannot remember one, and partly because we have no Greek types-not even an iota. The Courier has here the advantage of us, and its pages bristle like one of Dr. Parr's.
Mr. Phillips, who is not an ardent admirer of the late Mr. Webster, proposes that somebody should ï¿½behead his image,ï¿½ just us in France, long ago, they were wont, when the real culprit had escaped, to decapitate his effigy in straw. This suggestion the Courier pronounces ï¿½base and cowardly,' and, because it was applauded, it calls the audience brutal.' But if we consider the question as one of art only, can Mr. Phillips be severely blamed? Who have more savagely criticised this unfortunate image than Mr. Webster's most devoted admirers-the very humble servants of his illustrious shade? It was all wrong, from shirt-collar to shoe-the buttons were wrong-the coat-tails lacked the genuine fall-the pantaloons were gross forgeries, and the boots disgusting to the weeping eye of friendship. The head was especially bad, and filled all beholders with indignation. Our proposition, made long ago, was to place the image heels in air, when we thought that the likeness would at once become apparent to the most fastidious. Mr. Phillips proposes to cut off the head altogether. Perhaps Mr. Phillips is right.-New York Tribune.

The Liberator.
BOSTON, OCTOBER 21, 1859.
A RIDICULOUS FORGERY.
We copy the following from a late number of the Boston Atlas and Bee:-
ANOTHER ATTEMPT AT SUICIDE. Poor Senator Douglas will certainly kill himself. He is sawing away at his throat with his dull epistolary knife. Let us put up prayers for the safety of his windpipe. His last is the greatest-the broadest-the most states-manlike-the most chivalric. He writes to Lucy Stone! He tells Lucy that he sympathizes with her, and wishes he could be present at her Convention, but can't. Here is the epistle, made public through the columns of the Bath (Me.) Sentinel:-
ï¿½WASHINGTON, July 14, 1859.
ï¿½MRS. LUCY STONE:
DEAR MADAM,-Your kind letter of the 8th inst., wishing me to be present at a Convention of the ladies of the Northwest, to be convened at Chicago on the 12th of September next, to devise measures for the promotion of the happiness and protection of the interests and rights of the female sex, has just been laid before me. You are right, dear madam, when you say that I take a deep interest in all that concerns the ladies of our great and glorious country. And I need not now, after so many years of faithful labor in the cause of popular sovereignty, assure you that you have, in your endeavors to obtain the liberty of governing yourselves in your own way, subject only to the Constitution of the United States, the full confidence of my undivided sympathy. I regret, dear madam, that business of great importance will prevent me from being present at your Convention.
ï¿½I have the honor to remain, &c,
S. A. DOUGLAS.ï¿½
This alleged letter from Senator Douglas has been circulated throughout the country by journals of every stripe, not one of which has questioned its genuineness! To us it was a transparent hoax as soon as read it, (which we meant to have exposed at an earlier date)-first, because we were certain that Lucy Stone was morally incapable of writing such a letter to such a man; secondly, because its publication originated ï¿½away down Eastï¿½; lastly, because no such Convention was to be held at Chicago. Read the following:-BOSTON, Oct. 12, 1859.
DEAR MR. GARRISON: I am surprised to learn that the letter going the rounds of the papers, purporting to be from Stephen Arnold Douglas to me, is being received as a veritable correspondence. The hoax seemed to me so barefaced that I never gave it a second thought. I have never written to car received a line from Mr. Douglas, and it is not to such that the Woman's Bights cause appeals for helpers.
Yours for truth, LUCY STONE.
<c03> 
AMERICAN BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS FOR FOREIGN MISSIONS.
The record of other events of pressing interest in this week's paper leaves us but small space for the proceedings of the late anniversary of this great representative of the pro-slavery church of America. Its Annual Meeting was held in Philadelphia, commencing on the 5th inst., and continuing four days. Its receipts for the year have been $350,915, its expenditure $376,418, and its present debt is $66,374.
The Annual Report, presented by the Prudential Committee to the Board, announced that the Choctaw mission had been discontinued. It will be remembered that this is one of two establishments heretofore supported by the Board among the American Indians, the missionaries of which have always insisted upon admitting slaveholders to their churches as Christians, while the Board have always conceded that they may do so. The general increase of anti-slavery principle in the country has brought out more and more protests against this unchristian position of the Board, and has of late threatened them with not only a diminution of their revenues, but a secession from the ranks of their supporters. These troubles are the true reason of the relinquishment of this mission, and also the avowed reason. The Prudential Committee pretend no other motive for this movement than their desire to get rid of trouble; and their continuance of the equally pro-slavery Cherokee mission shows that they have neither repented nor reformed. Indeed, their acquiescence in slaveholding as a thing perfectly in unison with the theory and practice of Christianity is shown by the fact that they declare with emphasis, in the very act of casting off this mission, that ï¿½whatever may be said of other attempts to Christianize the aborigines of our country, there has been no failure here'! And the New York Observer echoes this assertion, and complains, in a leading article, of the act in question, under the heading-'A Christian Mission discontinued.' It is most appropriate then to inquire of the Board-Why do you abandon official servants who have both obeyed your directions and successfully performed your work? Do you abandon the preaching of the Gospel because it is complained of?
The Choctaw missionaries have indeed good reason to complain of the manner in which they have been treated. They have always occupied a consistently pro-slavery position, have always avowed it when questioned, and have always, until now, been fully sustained in it by the Board, although the Board, even while sustaining it, made severe reflections, in general terms, upon the character and influence of slavery. The missionaries might, with perfect justice as far as the Board is concerned, make appeal against it to the pro-slavery churches of the country. The few American churches which deserve the name of Christian ought to make emphatic and immediate protest against both the missionaries and the Board.
There was much debate as to whether this action of the Prudential Committee should be left undisturbed, or whether the subject should be referred to a special committee, to report next year. Dr. Anderson, the Senior Secretary, strongly objected to any interference with the action of the Prudential Committee. Dr. Cheever, on the other hand, wished the Board to retain the mission, and explicitly to forbid the admission of slaveholders into the churches. He offered the following resolution, which was laid on the table by a UNANIMOUS vote, after Dr. Bacon had strongly opposed it, deprecating agitation in the most earnest manner:-
Resolved, That in the opinion of the Board, the holding of slaves should be pronounced an immorality, inconsistent with membership in any Christian Church, and that it should be required that these Missionary Churches should immediately put away from them this sin, and should cease to sanction it even in appearance.
The action of the Prudential Committee was then confirmed, and the Choctaw mission is severed from the Board.
At a previous stage of the meeting, Dr. Cheever had presented a memorial against the foreign slave trade, which he desired that the Board should send to Congress at this most important crisis, when Southern church-members are uniting with Southern politicians in their attempts to extend and legalize it. This memorial, with a portion of Dr. Cheever's able speech in support of it, will be found in another part of the Liberator.
The Business Committee, to whom this important memorial was referred, advised its reference to the Prudential Committee. This report, which was equivalent to a recommendation of the strangulation and burial of the memorial, was adopted without discussion.
One feature of this meeting deserves special comment, the shameful public acquiescence of an English clergyman in the pro-slavery position of the Board. Rev. John Waddington, pastor of a church in South-wark, London, who has been travelling in this country to collect funds in aid of that church, and who, the more readily to attain that object, has constantly fraternized with the pro-slavery public sentiment, both among the clergy and laity, publicly using a certificate of commendation from men so actively opposed to all reform as Rev. George W. Blagden of the Old South Church in this city, and George Lunt, Esq., Editor of the Courier, was present, and spoke in this meeting.
In this position, one of the most important in the whole country in which to raise his voice for the slave,-and in which, one would think, any man with the education of an Englishman and the heart of a Christian would have been forward to protest against the continuance of slaveholders in the Cherokee churches, to vindicate Christianity from the shameful assumption that it allows slaveholding, and to support Dr. Cheever in his almost single-handed struggle,-Mr. Waddington raised his voice for the cessation of agitation. Speaking immediately after Rev. H. T. Cheever, who had advised the Board to act so as to deserve the contributions of Christian abolitionists, he recommended the avoidance of ï¿½any side issues to distract or disturb'; and, as if this were not pointed enough, he added that-'In the Mission Societies, our only feelings in favor of abolitionism should be feelings in favor of abolishing the kingdom of Satan, and establishing that of the Savior.' And this among a set of men who, to his knowledge, claim, that Savior as the authenticator of slavery!-C.K.W.
DR.ROCK'S LECTURE. On Monday evening, a lecture was delivered by Dr. John S. Rock, at Chapman Hall, on the character and writings of Madame de Stael. The speaker secured the earnest and undivided attention of an intelligent audience, giving an interesting account of the prominent events of Madame de Stael's life, with some critical remarks on her writings, and bringing into special notice that antagonism between her ideas and the despotic system of Napoleon Bonaparte which rendered her banishment necessary for the success of his purposes.
Dr. Rock has a good voice, a good delivery, and a manner which indicates self-possession without conceit. He advertises himself as prepared to deliver three lectures, or any one of them, wherever desired, and we commend him to the notice of Lyceum Committees whose lists of lecturers are not yet made up.- C.K.W.
THE VIRGINIA INSURRECTION. The particulars of a misguided, wild, and apparently insane, though disinterested and well-intended effort by insurrection to emancipate the slaves in Virginia, under the leadership of Capt. John, alias ï¿½Ottawstomieï¿½ Brown, may be found on our third page. Our views of war and bloodshed, even in the best of causes, are too well known to need repeating here; but let no one who glories in the revolutionary struggle of 1776, deny the right of the slaves to intimate the example of our fathers.
<c04>
LETTER FROM MISS CAROLINE F. PUTNAM. 
MACHIAS, (Me.) Sept. 17, 1859.
Time and tide, with some other accessories to locomotion, have wafted us to this distant place, where our geographical notions take a slight shock when the post that brings us Boston letters is spoken of as the Western mail. But terra firma reaches a good way further East, as the telegraph line stretching on towards Halifax indicates. Only a well-reputed forest country, like Maine, could afford such mast-like timbers, as support the wire through all this region. All the farms are fenced with the same durable white cedar wood. There is nothing, alas! of the forest primevalï¿½ left for us to see. One must go to the Aroostook for that. Fire and the lumberman have laid that beauty low, one or two generations back.  The long stage ride by which we came was for miles through a wilderness wasted ages ago, as they told us, by fire, and where tales of bears are not only of yesterday, but the very hour of our passage, the men of Jonesboroï¿½ were out on a hunt for an audacious bear, which the day before killed a calf, in a yard then in our sight. We kept a good look-out for his shaggy majesty, which we were nothing loth to see, but of course in vain. A pretty, shy young partridge alone, of the rarer denizens of the wood, rewarded our pains.
Our cause has residing here one of its ablest and most accomplished advocates in the corps editorial, Mr. George F. Talbot. To his keen-pointed pen belong some of the fine philosophical leaders which have contributed to make the Anti-Slavery Standard fully deserving of its reputation of being second in ability, culture and honor to no journal in America. Your readers will not forget his masterly essay on Webster, written for theï¿½ Liberty Bell.'
This town has furnished the reading world with a political and belles letters essayist of quite another stamp, being the birth-place of Mr. George S. Hillard.
A full audience listened to Miss Holley in the Methodist Church, and on Sunday, two excellent meetings were held in East Machias, at the Congregational Church, where Rev. Thomas T. Stone, now of Mass., formerly preached. Mr. Stone seems to have truly broken the ï¿½bread of lifeï¿½ to some souls here, who speak of him with the most grateful affection. At the evening meeting, Mr. Talbot also spoke with eloquent persuasion and impressiveness. No wonder Anti-Slavery walks hereaboutsï¿½ in silver slippers.'
On Monday, our dear friends the Talbots treated us to a delightful excursion to Englishman's River at the sea-side. We thought it no exaggeration when one of our small party afterward spoke of the day as having been ï¿½one of superlative happiness.'
Some idea is beginning to dawn upon us of the wonderful sea-board of Maine, full of bays, friths, rivers, coves and inlets thrusting up to almost every man's door. Each village has its lovely point or islands, where picnics and ï¿½chowder partiesï¿½ lure every body to the free enjoyment of a day's out-door, healthful life. The tides, too, with all their seeming caprice, are a source of wonder and interest to our inland-bred eyes. With what regular and majestic impulse they obey the great law of their movement! One sees, as it were, the Spirit of God moving on the face of the great deep.
We hear of an encampment at Cooper, in this county, of a party of the Coast Survey, under Prof. Bache, who is a grandson of Benjamin Franklin. I saw, with some curiosity, a few days ago, among Franklin's published letters, one, written in England, introducing the bearer, Mr. Thomas Paine, to his son-in-law, Mr. Bache, of Philadelphia.
The custom-houses we see every where remind as of the odious retinue of government officers, whose chief duty it is to keep watch and ward of the interests of Democracy and its twin-self, Slavery.
Mr. Hill, our kind host in Gouldsboro', tells the following. Election day, the Republicans were taunting the Democrats with the design of their party to re-open the foreign slave trade; a charge the Democrats for the most part vehemently repelled as slander; a when the old light-keeper, fresh from his newspapers, came up and boldly averred that the slave trade ought to be unrestricted; that niggers were as much property as any thing else, and the trade in them just a as lawful!
CALAIS, 30th. The authoress of ï¿½Ida May,' Mrs. Pike, has just left us, after giving us an hourï¿½s entertaining and animated conversation. She resides in this place, and her husband, a member of the State Senate, gathered a fine audience for Miss Holley last evening. Mrs. Cooper, with whom we have a delightful home, and Mrs. P., with another Maine lady, spent a winter in South Carolina, as invalids, a few years since, when Mrs. P. learned much which suggested to her the narratives of ï¿½Ida May' and ï¿½Caste.ï¿½ She has given us this afternoon many reminiscences of that Southern winter-some shocking atrocities which she could not shut her eyes to. How do so many Northern ladies visiting South? Once the Mayor of Aiken, S. C, waited on these ladies with a warrant! They were addressed, ï¿½Ladies, you are suspected of being Abolitionists!' Their landlord soothed the alarm of the town by favorable reports of their demeanor, and they were suffered to remain.
This morning, Mrs C. took us in her carriage to ride over the river St. Croix, along a fine road in New Brunswick. The country and the views were pleasant, but the best thought of all to us was, ï¿½This is the air ï¿½slaves cannot breathe," and the soil that none but freemen tread.ï¿½
George Downes, Esq., thrilled us with the recital of a fugitive slave case even Calais has known. Some years ago, a trembling black man, who had succeeded in getting on all the way from Georgia, came to his office, with a line from a friend, asking him to aid the man immediately, as the hunter was on his track. With indescribable emotions, he realized for the first time in his life the shame of living in a land where liberty was less sacred than under a monarchy. He took the poor man, so near the goal of his hope, to the door, and, pointing, said to him, ï¿½You see this road; take it, and go straight on to the bridge, and when you are half way across that bridge, you are safe!' But, alas for the poor man! the master came on to Calais, and, making a vile rum-seller his accomplice, the poor fellow was got drunk, put in a carriage, and brought back over that line which so cruelly reversed his fate. And so he was delivered up to his master, and went back to torture and despair.
You will rejoice to know the Petition finds favor in this county.
We came from Eastport up the banks of the St. Croix, having those blessed shores, so dear to the heart of every hunted fugitive slave, nearly all the way in view. At Eastport, our friend, Mr. George N. Richardson, took us to stand upon the extreme eastern point of land in the United States. Eastport is a fairy queen, abiding in regions of enchanted beauty. Rev. Mr. Edes invited us to walk, and from a height, we took in a series of exquisite views. It seemed to us land and water and sky never were blended into such a sweet picture before. I should think Eastport would become the pet and pride of artists.
Oct. 4th. It is now two weeks since we journeyed, with some of the pleasant companions of the Englishman's River day, twenty miles to Dennysville, much of the way through woods of the every where abounding fir tribe. Dennysville is now, as when Audobon visited it, twenty-five years ago, a delightful village'; and, like him, we are indebted to the same charming people, the Lincolns, for happy memories and refined hospitality. It is with great pleasure we acknowledge all the kindness and courtesy that have been extended to us from so many cultivated and delightful homes in this county. Indeed, the social life here is unusually winning and attractive, uniting a pleasing simplicity of manners with a high degree of intellectual culture and literary taste, all pervaded by an atmosphere of frankness and moral courage. C.F.P.
<c05>
A BASKET OF CHIPS FROM THE UPAS THERE OF SLAVERY.
Sr. JOSEPH, (Missouri,) Oct. 6, 1859.
The tree has not yet fallen, but the axe of progress, wielded by the strong arm of advancing civilization, is scattering the ugly chips in every direction. The foul birds who have builded their nests in the tree are fluttering in their fright, and flapping their dark wings in despair, as the axe nears the heart of the tree. Soon the tree will fall, and though, when it does, it may shake the earth around, and strike terror to the hearts of the timid and fearing, it will in the end be for the best: for after every storm there is a calm, and after every national fever, health again resumes her seat, and reigns supreme. Then hail the coming fever, that the reaction may be to a state of health and happiness!
For a few weeks back, I have been out with my basket, surveying the ground where the workmen are hacking at the tree. I have gathered a few chips, and I hope with them to add a little heat to the fire that is burning out the bowels of despotism, and also a little more light to the lamp that is shining in unselfishness, that the world may move faster, and not grope so slowly to her sure destination on the mounts of Wisdom and Humanity. Here is my basket: examine the contents.
A short time ago, every one will remember, a slave-trader named Wright visited this section of Missouri for the purpose of buying human beings, and taking them to the Southern market. He bought one ï¿½boy,ï¿½ between 25 and 30 years old, a few miles above here, in Andrew county, and started for this city with him in a buggy, leaving the poor fellow's wire and children to weep over the separation, and curse inhuman laws made by unfeeling white men, that would separate and divide a family, to make more productive the cotton fields and sugar plantations of the South, and pour more gold into the already overflowing coffers of heartless ï¿½Southern chivalry.' But justice sometimes speedily overtakes the guilty wretch, and strikes him down in the midst of his wickedness, when he thinks his path is clear. Wright did not reach this city alive. With the white man's own pistol, which the poor slave adroitly took from his large coat-pocket unobserved, he shot down in the buggy the man who was robbing him of liberty and happiness, and separating him by large rivers and broad lands from the bosom of his family, and then fled. The next day, the news spread like wild-fire, and whisky-shop and bawdy-house loafers turned out by dozens and hundreds to catch the ï¿½-niggerï¿½; and many an imprecation was hurled at him, fleeing from slavery, and many an oath registered, that if he were caught, he would be burned alive at the public square. Several days elapsed, however, and when he was is finally caught, the excitement had allayed somewhat, and he was placed in jail, to await his trial at the coming session of court. But just before the court day arrived, in which famous Missouri justice and Missouri intelligence were to assemble, to punish and teach the benighted denizens around, the negro, in company with several white men confined in the jail for various things, made his escape. And then such a howl as went up from slavery's den! He is at large yet, all their efforts to recapture him having been unsuccessful. Ere this, he is probably in free Canada, where he no longer winces under the cruel lash of a brutal ï¿½whiteï¿½ master.
Money, however, is offered by slavery's minions for the re-capture of the human being who dared to run away from servitude, and seek to bask in the sunshine of freedom. An advertisement in the West, of this city, offering a reward of $200 for his capture, reads, ï¿½The said negro had on when he left CHAINS, which, if removed, have left marks on his legs.ï¿½ How does that sound, eh? ï¿½Marks on his legs,' made by heavy, galling chains, because he dared brave human justice, and stand up for true, by removing the only obstacle to his freedom, in the shape of a brutal, besotted, unfeeling ï¿½owner.' Had he lived in the days of Greece and Rome, his name now would rank with heroes. But ï¿½he's only a nigger!ï¿½
Two or three weeks ago, anotherï¿½ chip' fell from near the heart of the tree. A Mrs. Wash, of this city, a sister of the slave-dealer spoken of, is a woman who owns slave, and who, with her husband, moves in the best circles,' and I believe she is a church member; she was, I know, a short time since. For weeks and months previous to the denouement, which took place about three weeks ago, her neighbors have been startled at all hours by heart-rending shrieks and agonizing yells, proceeding from her premises. A slave girl, about sixteen years old, gave vent to these, in consequence of beatings she was accustomed to receive almost daily from her mistress, the sight of which would have curdled the blood of the inventor of the Spanish Inquisition. But they ceased; the shrieks and groans were heard no more; silence reigned, where before were noise and confusion. Silence reigned-the silence of death. No more the poor girl's shrieks will ascend to Heaven; no more her sighs be treated with contempt; no more her prayers be answered with blows; Mrs. Hatch had killed her servant, her slave. At the last beating, she was not able to apply the blows with force enough, and she called in a hired man to help her in her fiendish work. The two together sent the poor girl's spirit to a land of rest, where no slave-driver shall crack the whip, and the slave recoil therefrom. That night, when all was still, when they thought no eye was watching them, those two fiends scooped out a shallow grave in the corner of Mount Moriah cemetery, especially devoted to negroes-even Death places an aristocratic barrier of distinction betweenï¿½ master' and ï¿½slave,' in the eyes of the former-and hurriedly buried the murdered negro girl. The next day, Mrs. Wash was terribly exercised, to all outward appearances; she said her girl had run off, or, maybe, been stolen by the abolitionists, and another excitement was raised in our city. Officers were on the hunt, and citizens volunteered their services, and soon it was being carried on with vigor in all directions. But a suspicion was soon excited that all was not right, a search in another direction was instituted, and were the girl had been hid from human gaze while the sun was making its circuit, she was exhumed from her hasty grave, and, O horror! what a sight! There were long purple marks across her back, some clotted with blood, and some bruising the flesh but not breaking the skin, while her head was beaten almost to a jelly, and swelled to an enormous size! O how that sight pleaded in silent eloquence to the bar of God against the impious, inhuman institution of slavery! Would you know what has been done with this Mrs. Wash? Nothing! Not half the excitement was created by this new discovery, as by the report that the slave had ran off or been stolen. She goes at large, and may, with the assistance of some minion hired man,-and if not with the sanction of society, certainly with no expressed disapproval, murder another young girl at pleasure; for Southern laws do not make the killing of negro slaves murder; it is treated as a misdemeanor, and (sometimes) punished as such.
The following advertisement I clip from a recent number of the West, published in this city. The first signature to the advertisement is the name of the husband of the female murderer; some more victims are wanted for her bloody appetite:-
Fifty Negroes Wanted.-We want to buy fifty young negroes, between the ages of ten and twenty-five years-men, women, boys and girls-for which we will pay the highest price in cash.
MILTON H. WASH,
WM. M. CARTER.
The slaves are leaving this part of the State very rapidly. In fact, hardly a steamboat or train of cars leaves here for the South without having on board more or less of the southward-bound ï¿½chattels.ï¿½ This is the way Missouri is becoming free-her slaves are being taken South, to make room for free institutions. She is made free by the separation of families-by
<c06>
the wailing of infants, the tears of stricken mothers, and the blasted hopes of fathers and husbands!
The Journal, of this city, in speaking, on Tuesday last, of a lot of about 150, on their way South, said, ï¿½They were of all ages and sizes, from forty-five down to the infant at the mother's breast.' But it is one of slavery's effects. It cannot live in peace; it must have war or tears and groans to feed its branching roots, and nourish its rough and uncouth trunk and branches.
The reader will please notice the cases of Mr. Wright and Mrs. Wash, and then read the following, and not have their faces mantle with shame that such profound ignorance and beastly stupidity can have a foothold among men and women claiming to be intelligent and enlightened. It is an extract from a letter written from Missouri to an Iowa paper, which willingly gave its aid in circulating its tying absurdities. Speaking of slavery, and the happiness that existed, it says-
ï¿½Here the farmer and his negroes in happiness dwelt together, worshipping God together in the bonds of the same religion.'
Oh, what lying, brazen impudence! What heartlessness! Go read it to the slave who killed his master that he might not be separated from his family, and sold South! Whisper it to the freed spirit of the slave-girl, brutally murdered by her mistress!
But further on, the same writer says-
'Many a time have I sat in raptures listening to their religious devotions, where tropes of oriental grandeur and singular beauty were, in deep, earnest eloquence, spoken in plaintive strains to these warmhearted people by their most remarkable genius-with no care upon their minds, no suspicion hissing its reptile tongue between the master and the servant. The old times of Abraham and Ishmael were brought back to the mind as a real condition of men, and not a mythological dream.ï¿½
And yet, the writer has not a word to say against the laws which prohibit ï¿½these warm-hearted people,' with their ï¿½remarkable genius,ï¿½ from making use of their bodies in any way but such as shall please their master, or any use at all of their souls. Not a syllable must they be taught to read, not a word to trace with the pen, under heavy penalty to him who seeks to rescue their souls from ignorance. He would have them remain in happy ignorance of every thing surrounding them, excepting a free indulgence of their baser passions, and a blind obedience to a many times besotted master's commands.
Yet there are some who are not so contented with their lot as this paragon of wisdom would have us believe they are; some who can even read and write a little, and even preach, and who consequently desire a taste of liberty, as the following advertisement of a runaway ï¿½boyï¿½ preacher will show:-
'$100 Reward.-My negro boy, Henry, left me on Wednesday, the first of June. Said boy is between 35 and 40 years old, 5 feet 10 or 11 inches high, weighs about 150 pounds, copper color, straight hair, and has the appearance of an Indian about the head. I will give $20 reward if taken in this or any of the adjoining counties, or $100 if taken in any free State. Said boy is a Baptist preacher, and reads print very well.
JOHN B. WATHEN.
What comment can touch that? Let it rest!
Reader, do you like my basket of chips? May they kindle a fire in your soul that will enable you to continue on, and, if you have not already commenced, to commence now unceasingly and unselfishly to labor with mind, heart and hands for the eradication of the deadly up as tree of slavery!

ï¿½MINISTERIAL FEARLESSNESS.ï¿½
FRIEND GARRISON:
I am afraid the editor of the American Messenger is becoming heretical. In the August number of that paper is an article on ï¿½Ministerial Fearlessness,' in other words, moral courage. He says, ï¿½This courage moved Daniel to brave the wrath of the king, and John the Baptist to reprove Herod: and the ministry of our quieter times need it as well, to rebuke a reformatory morality claiming to be the religion of Christ.' Indeed! Is morality ï¿½reformatory'?
I think the self-styled Evangelical Church does not so regard it. I listened to Rev. P. C. Headly of Greenfield, not long ago. He said-'Total depravity, sometimes developing itself in open profligacy, and sometimes into a lovely morality, is total depravity still.' And again, with a sneering inflection upon the word moral which would have done credit to an actor, he said: ï¿½Your moral man-his influence upon society is worse than that of the open profligate.' Such has been the general drift of the ï¿½evangelical' preaching, praying, exhorting and literature which have come under my notice from childhood up. I count myself not to the speaking at random or in bitterness; and I could multiply facts going to show that such is practically the working theory of the nominal evangelical church.
Neither outward conduct nor the state of heart which results therein is of the slightest account compared with intellectual convictions moulded to a certain prescribed standard. Here and there among its teachers are exceptions; men of true lives and earnest hearts, worthy of the greater credit that they have the ï¿½ministerial fearlessness' to stand up among such dry bones, and proclaim a living gospel. But they are exceptions to the general rule, serving only to confirm it. Nay, you will always find them the objects of suspicion among their own brethren in the ratio of their fidelity to the wants of the present hour, and love of the slave. ï¿½Well enough as far as it goes, but it is only works.'
No thoughtful man expects to be ï¿½saved,' or justified, by his works. Salvation is a condition of mind which will naturally manifest itself in goodness, truth, justice, mercy, and every unselfish virtue.
No man out of his grave, in a moral point of view, can by his ï¿½good works' come up to his own ideal of perfection; cannot even stand acquitted at the bar of his own conscience, the monitor of God within, much less at the tribunal of absolute right, justice and holiness. If I am ever justified, I expect it as an set of universal mercy. ï¿½When ye have done all those things, say we are unprofitable servants; we have done [merely] that which was our duty to do.'
But a faith without works is simply no faith at all, and the religion that dreams of serving God except by serving humanity, or in any other way than by a personal, active, earnest and unselfish love towards the most wronged and despised of all men, is a tissue of pious absurdities, too ridiculous to excite contempt And any system of faith or practice not founded on this idea is a libel upon the whole Scripture system of morals, and an utterly miserable failure. ï¿½Divinity in humanity,' in its broadest sense, must become the active theory and watchword of the Church; and I am thankful that we have in Worcester at least one 'evangelicalï¿½ minister who in some good degree sees this truth, and has the ministerial fearlessnessï¿½ to proclaim it.
I refer to Mr. Richardson, of the Salem Street Church, one of whose latest sermons was so replete with truth on this point, and ably presented withal, that I shall never cease to thank him in my heart for having preached it-ï¿½The Love of God, and how to attain it.'. He showed that the love of God was the love of man-that the two forms of expression were synonymous, and might be substituted for each other, and even went to the extreme of saying, ï¿½If the love of God was something different and aside from this, we knew and could know nothing at all about it.' It was humanity throughout, and must go far to correct the popular heresy which places our intellectual conception and acceptation of certain theologic dogmas in the place of that ï¿½faith which works by love.' As his position and that of the Salem Street Church have called forth considerable, perhaps too well deserved criticism in your paper, I think it only simple justice to accord to him that boldness and independence of spirit, so far at least as speaking is concerned, which it after requires even to <illegible> the truth
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
to a 'faithless and perverse generation,' and to the church an uncommon degree of common sense in being willing to listen to a decent practical gospel in the place of those bewildering and unprofitable metaphysical subtleties which become attractive just in the ratio or our moral blindness, selfishness, and departure from the plain, practical, but radical and uncompromising truth proclaimed by Jesus of Nazareth.
And as I sit and listen, I cannot doubt that, following the light, both he and they will detect and remedy their own inconsistencies and errors, and become thorough and radical opposers of all oppression, and jealous anti-slavery workers; which may God hasten, not for the slave's sake only, but theirs!
P. S. Since writing the above, I have seen a very good illustration of my point: Near the close of a somewhat earnest discussion in the Salem Street Church, on the discontinuance of contributions to sustain the A. B. C. F. M., or rather to omit the same for once, a member rose and declared it his conviction that 'this coming here to quarrel,' (which he called a meeting which had been, as far as I could see, impartially presided over, and a discussion in which both parties had exhibited a Christian spirit,) was not calculated to promote the prosperity of the church, or our own growth in grace.'
As not a fourth part of the members of that church have, as I think, ever been present at any one meeting where the slavery question has been discussed, and of these not over twenty-eight have ever felt sufficient interest to vote, and only seven of these voting to 'cut off the supplies,' I am warranted in the belief that the member above alluded to, (whose remarks seemed to me to contain more unchristian acrimony than any that had preceded,) is not wholly alone in the opinions he expressed. Whether the proportion of voters would have been materially different and the women been allowed to participate, is not certain; if they have been graciously permitted to have any mind at all on the subject, they have been obliged to 'ask their husbands at home,' on the principle that is 'a shame for women to speak in the church—this is that gospel which came to 'break every yoke'—where there is 'neither Greek nor Jew, male not female.' Is any thing rotten in Denmark? A. P.B.

PENNSYLVANIA ABOLITIONISM.
The annual meeting of the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society was held at West Chester on the 6th and 7th instant—it’s estimable President, James Mott, in the chair. The attendance was large, the proceedings spirited and high-toned, and the speeches on the occasion very eloquent and effective. Among the speakers were Lacertian Mott, Mary Grew, J. M. McCoy, Rev. Dr. Furness, Rev. O. B. Frothing ham, Rev. Samuel Longfellow, Charles C. Burleigh, Aaron M. Powell, and Robert Purvis. RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED:
1. Resolved, that the American slave system, in the atrocity of its nature and the extent of its injuriousness, is an evil without a parallel in the constitution or code of any civilized nation.
2. Resolved, That the chief distinction of this country is, that it leads the world in defence of slavery; that it leads the world in defence of slavery; that in the ability, zeal and consistency with which it contends for the right of man to make merchandise of his fellow-man, it has a peer in no other nation on the face of the earth.
3. Resolved, That, vast as is our national territory—its rivers and lakes, it mammoth caves and world-renowned waterfalls—these are all as nothing, compared with the colossal heights of our national hypocrisy; our boast being that this is 'the land of the free and the home of the brave, 'an asylum for the oppressed of all nations' —a Christian land, where every one is at liberty to worship God according to the dictates of his own conscience; while at the same time one-sixth of our people are abject slaves, and those that hold them in this condition, and the nation that permits it, claim that they are performing a Christian duty, and obeying the dictates of political justice.
4. Resolved, That a chief reason of our hostility to slavery, and our purpose to labor for its overthrow, is to be found in the fact that the evil is a national, and not a sectional one; that Pennsylvania, as well as Carolina, is involved in its support; and that we, being partners in its guilt, must to that extent be sharers in its consequences.
5. Resolved, That the degradation to which our relation has subjected this State, in the consent it has obliged her to give to slaveholders and judicial persecution—to the conversion of her Hall of Independence into a slave barracoon, and its chambers into places for the execution of the Fugitive Slave Law-constitutes a chapter in the history of the Commonwealth at which her sons must ever blush, and hang their heads with shame.
6. Resolved, That the time past should suffice us to have wrought the will of the slaveholders; that decency and self-respect forbid that this State should any longer be hunting-ground for slaveholders; that hereafter Pennsylvania soil should be consecrated to liberty; so that every fugitive from oppression, whether he escapes the toils of an European despot or the infinitely more galling tyranny of a American slaveholder, as soon as he sets foot on Pennsylvania soil, shall stand forth 'redeemed, regenerated and disenthralled by the irresistible Genius of Universal Emancipation.'
7. Resolved, That the first political duty of Pennsylvanians—a duty which they owe alike to their country and their kind—is to seek, by all reasonable means, the delivery of their State from its guilty complicity with slavery; and that, in order to this, they should oppose the election to office of any man not favorable to such deliverance, and should, with tireless importunity, besiege the Legislature of this State with petitions to this effect.
8. Resolved that forms of petitions, similar to the following in phrase or substance, are hereby recommended for general circulation and signature:—
To the senate and House of Representatives:
We, the undersigned, inhabitants of Pennsylvania, respectfully ask that you will pass a law, securing to every resident of the State, not charged with crime, the enjoyment of personal liberty, and prohibiting the surrender from our borders of any human being claimed as a slave.
9. Resolved, That a Committee be appointed, of not fewer than one hundred persons, whose business shall be personally and with the aid of others, whose co-operation they may secure, to circulate these forms of petition, procure signatures, and put them in the way, in due time, of being presented to the Legislature: and that the President of the Society be and hereby is authorized to constitute this Committee, and make the same known by publication in the Anti Slavery Standard.
10. Resolved, That so long as the Constitution of the United States requires the rendition of the fugitive slave, so long will a promise of allegiance to the Constitution be a great moral wrong, which finds no excuse or palliation in the fact that it is necessary to the use of the elective franchise, or that it is the first step in the paths of professional usefulness or political power.
11. Resolved, That in the name of the slave, crushed beneath its despotism-in the name of God, whose laws it defies—we denounce that compact to deliver up to his pursuer the fugitive slave as' a covenant with death and an agreement with hell,' which it is the highest duty of the American people to repudiate at once and forever.
12. Resolved, That, standing as they do upon the eve of another Presidential campaign, the people of Pennsylvania owe it both to self-respect and consistency that they give no countenance to any attempt, no matter by whom made, or upon what plea, for the construction of a platform which shall ignore to any extent the anti-slavery issues now pending upon the country for consideration.

<c02>
13. Resolved, That the satisfactory information received at this time of the abundant supply of cotton by free and compensated labor, requires of us the renewal of ear purpose, in our Declaration of Sentiments, that ' we will encourage the labor of freemen rather than that of slaves, by giving the preference to their productions.'
14. Resolved, That while we would not invidiously distinguish one Abolitionist above another by words of especial eulogy, there are, nevertheless, circumstances in the case of THEODORE PARKER which entitle his character and services at this time to particular mention.
15. Resolved, That Mr. Parker's intrepidity and fidelity to the cause of freedom have commanded our warmest admiration, and commended him to a place in our sincerest regards; that we deeply regret the illness which has obliged him to leave his home and his friends for a sojourn in a foreign land; that our earnest sympathies are extended to him in his trials and privations, with our sincere hopes for his early recovery, and restoration to those active labors for humanity which have heretofore been so signally effective.
16. Resolved, That we commend to the patronage of the friends of our cause the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society, and National Bazaar, as an important department of anti-slavery effort, wherein all may find opportunity for effective labor in behalf of Freedom.
BEWARE OF IMPOSTORS.
Our friends cannot too closely scrutinize those persons who come to them for assistance, claiming to be fugitives. Two or three counterfeit cases have come to our knowledge within a few days.
A young colored man is now in Boston, representing him to be a fugitive slave from Georgia. He has recently been at Springfield and Worcester, where he gave his name as William Johnson, and obtained assistance from benevolent persons in both places. Here he calls himself Charles Counselor, and that is his true name. He says that he is the slave of Capt. Rudd, of Savannah, who commanded the Minnesota ship-of-war. He is of medium height—brown complexion—pleasant countenance and address—stammers slightly when speaking, and can read and write well. He was never a slave, nor was his father and mother ever slaves, both of whom are now living in Philadelphia. Recent statements from reliable sources assure us of this.
Another of these cases has just occurred. A colored man, giving his name as Young, of good appearance, rather under the average height, and apparently about 30 years of age, came to this office for help to get to Canada, representing himself as a fugitive slave just from Maryland. While the case was undergoing examination, a person (well-known to us) came into the office, and recognized Young as a man whom he had known well under another name, residing in Middletown, Connecticut, as a barber, and more recently in Providence.
Young is not of very dark complexion, appeared alarmed, spoke very quick, and altogether seemed, better acquainted with places in this vicinity than a recent fugitive would be likely to be. His will doubtless attempt to practise his imposture in other places.

ATTEMPTED INSURRECTION IN VIRGINIA.
Insurrection at Harper's Ferry—Public Works seized by the Insurgents—'Pottawatomie ' Brown the Leader-Threats to Burn the Town—the Railroad Trains stopped-U. S. Troops and various Military Companies Ordered Out—whites and Blacks Engaged in the Insurrection—Citizens Imprisoned, and several reported Killed—Great Excitement in Baltimore-' Osawatomie ' Brown and his Associates Shot—the Insurrection summarily Suppressed—&c., &c.
BALTIMORE. Oct. 17. A dispatch just received from Fredericton, and dated this morning, states that an insurrection has broken out at Harper's Ferry, where an armed band of abolitionists have full possession of the government arsenal.
The express train going east was twice fired into, and one of the railroad hands and a Negro killed, while they were endeavoring to get the train through the town.
The insurrectionists also stopped two men, who had been to town with a load of wheat, and, seizing their wagon, loaded it with rifles, and sent them into Maryland.
The insurrectionists number about 250 whites, and are aided by a gang of Negroes.
At last accounts, fighting was going on.
Another account, received by train, says the bridge across the Potomac was filled with insurgents, all armed. Every light in the town was extinguished and the hotels closed. All the streets were in possession of the insurgents, and every road and lane leading thereto barricaded and guarded.
Men were seen in every quarter with muskets and bayonets, which arrested the citizens and pressed them into the service, including many Negroes. This done, the U. S. arsenal and government pay-house, in which was said to be a large amount of money, and all the other public works were seized by the mob. Some were of opinion that the object was entirely plunder, and to rob the government of the funds deposited on Saturday at the pay-house.
During the night the mob made a demand on Wager Hotel for provisions, and enforced the claim by a body of armed men.
The citizens were in a terrible state of alarm, the insurgents having threatened to burn the town. The following has just been received from Monocracy, this side of Harper's Ferry:—
The mail agent on the western bound train has returned to Monocracy, and reports that the train was unable to get through.
The town is in possession of the Negroes, who arrest every one they can catch, and imprison them. The train due here at 3 P. M. could not get through, and the agent came down on an extra engine.
2:30 P. M. The western train on the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad has just arrived here. Its officers confirm the statement just received touching the disturbances at Harper's Ferry. Their statement is to the effect that the bridge keeper at Harper's Ferry, perceiving that his lights had been extinguished, went to ascertain the cause, when he was pursued and fired upon by a gang of blacks and whites. Subsequently the train came along, when a colored man, who acted as assistant to the baggage-master, was shot, receiving a mortal wound, and the conductor, Mr. Phelps, was threatened with violence if he attempted to proceed with the train.
Feeling uncertain as to the condition of affairs, the conductor waited until after day light before he ventured to proceed, having delayed the train six hours.
Mr. Phelps says the insurrectionists number 200 blacks and whites, and that they have full possession of the U. S. Armory.
The party is commanded, or led, by a man named Anderson, who had lately arrived at Harper's Ferry. Mr. Phelps confirms the statement that the insurrectionists had seized a wagon, and, loading it with muskets, had dispatched it into Maryland.
The military of Frederick had been ordered out.
Dispatches have been received from President Buchanan ordering out the U. S. troops at this point, and a special train is now being got ready to convey them to the scene of disturbance. He has also accepted the volunteer services of Capt. Snick’s Company, of Frederick, and has likewise ordered the government troops from Old Point Comfort to proceed immediately to Harper's Ferry. This intelligence is authentic.
The mail train going west got as far as Sandy, when Mr. Hood, the baggage master, and another party, started on foot to the bridge. They went over the bridge, and were taken and imprisoned, but subsequently went before the captain of the insurrectionists, who refused to let anything pass.
All of the eastern bound trains lying west of Harper's Ferry have been taken, persons from this side of the river tying them together and taking off the slaves.
The mail train bound west has returned to Monocracy. There are from 500 to 700 whites and blacks concerned in the insurrection.
The U. S. Marines at Washington are under orders for Harper's Ferry.
There is great excitement in Baltimore, and the Military are moving. Several companies are in readiness to take the train, which will leave soon.
4 P.M. An account from Frederick says a letter has been received there from a merchant at Harper's Ferry, sent by a boy who had to cross the mountain and swim the river, which says that all the principal citizens are imprisoned, and many have been killed; also, that the railroad agent had been shot twice, and that the watchman at the depot had been shot dead.
WASHINGTON, Oct. 17—4 P. M. On the receipt of the intelligence from Harper's Ferry, orders ware issued for the companies of military at Old Point, and
<c03>
The corps of marines at the Washington barracks, to proceed thither without delay. The marines, 93 in number, left in the 3: 15 P.M. train, with two 12-pound howitzers and a full supply of ammunition. It is reported that they are under orders to force the bridge to-night at all hazards. Col. Faulkner accompanies them.
It is reported, on good authority, that some weeks ago. Secretary Floyd received an anonymous epistle, stating that about the 16th of October, the abolitionists and Negroes, and other disaffected persons, would make an attempt to seize the arsenal and hold the place; but the statement was as indefinite and improbable as to cause no fears of such an outbreak.
BALTIMORE. Oct. 17—5 P. M. A train filled with military, including the Law Grays, City Guards, Shields Guards, and other companies, left here at 4 o'clock for Harper's Ferry. Representatives of the press accompany the military.
7 P. M. A despatch from Martinsburg, west of Harper's Ferry, received via Wheeling and Pittsburg, confirms the report that the insurrectionists have possession of the Arsenal at Harper's Ferry, and says they have planted cannon at the bridge. All the trains have been stopped. A body of armed men was getting ready to proceed thither to clear the road. There was great excitement at Martinsburg.
RICHMOND, Oct. 17. It is reported and believed that the Governor of Virginia has ordered volunteer troops to Harper's Ferry.
9 P. M. There is great excitement here. Company F, with full ranks, has just left the armory, expecting to take a special train to-night. This is a new company, with a similar uniform to the Grays. The Grays leave for Harper's Ferry early in the morning. The Governor left to-night for Washington.
BALTIMORE, Oct. 17—9 P. M. The American's special reporter telegraphs from Plane No. 4, 45 miles from Baltimore and 31 from Harper's Ferry, at 8 o'clock, that the train consists of 17 cars, with 400 troops, under Major Reynolds, with a road-master and laborers to repair the track, and telegraphers to mend the line. Three companies from Frederick were in an advance train. Col. Harris, of the U. S. Marines, who commands the expedition, follows in a special train. They will not reach Harper's Ferry before 10.0 clocks.
MONOCACY BRIDGE, Oct 17—10 P. M. The train arrived here at 9 o'clock. Lather Simpson, baggage-master of the mail train, gives the following particulars:—
I walked up to the bridge, was stopped, but was afterwards permitted to go up and see the captain of the insurrectionists. I was taken to the armory, and saw the captain, whose name is Bill Smith. Was kept prisoner more than an hour; saw from 500 to 600 Negroes, all armed. There were from 200 to 300 white men with them. All the houses were closed. I went into a tavern kept by Mr. Chambers. Thirty of the inhabitants were collected there, with arms. They said that most of the inhabitants had left, but they declined going, preferring to protect themselves. It was reported that five or six persons had been shot.'
Mr. Simpson was escorted back over the bridge by six Negroes.
The train with the Frederick military is lung at Point of Rocks.
A train with the Directors of the Pennsylvania Railroad on board is on the other side of Harper's Ferry.
It was believed that the insurrectionists would leave as soon as it became dark.
Orders have been received here that the train shall stop at Sandy Hook until Col. Lee, who is' following in a special train, arrives.
There is any number of rumors, but nothing certain.
BALTIMORE, 17th. A report says that the town at Harper's Ferry has been taken possession of by companies of Charlestown. Shepard town, Va., and Frederick. The rioters are entrenched in the armory. They hold Mr. Lewis Washington and Col. Dangerfield as prisoners.
The insurrectionists are commanded by Captain Brown, of Kansas notoriety. They numbered originally seventeen white men and five Negroes. Several of them were shot. Two men of the Martinsburg Company were shot dead whilst charging on the armory.
A portion of the insurgents have left, under the command of Cook, with a large party of slaves, and are supposed to be moving toward Pennsylvania.
Allen Evans, alias Aaron Stevens, one of the insurrectionists, is lying here, dying—shot through the breast. He is from Connecticut, but has been in Kansas. He says the whole scheme was got up by Brown, who represented chat the Negroes would raise by thousands, and Maryland and Virginia is made Free States.
Col. Shriver, of Frederick, has just had an interview with Brown, in the armory. He asked to be allowed to march out with his men, and avowed the intention of defending himself to the last. They are very strongly posted in the engine-house, and cannon cannot be used against them, for fear of injuring the prisoners, whom they still hold.
Some sixteen persons are known to have been killed. Fountain Beckman, railroad agent, was shot dead from the armory.
Three rioters are lying dead under the bridge, shot by the Shepard town troops in their charge on the bridge.
HARPER'R FERRY, Oct. 18—8 A. M. The armory has been stormed and taken, after a determined resistance. Col. Shut approached with a flag of truce, and demanded surrender. After expostulating some time, the rioters refused to surrender.
The marines advanced to the charge and endeavored to break the door down with sledge hammers, but it resisted their efforts.
A large ladder was then used as a battering ram, and the door gave way.
The rioters fired briskly, and shot three marines, the marines firing in turn through the partly broken door.
The marines then forced their way through the break, and in a few, minutes resistance was at an end. 
The rioters were brought out amidst the most intense excitement, many of the militia present trying to get an opportunity to shoot them.
Capt. Brown and his son were both shot. The latter is dead, and the former in a dying state. He lies in the armory enclosure, talking freely. He says he is Old Osawatomie Brown, whose feats in Kansas have had such wide notice; that his sole object was to free the slaves, and justifies his action. He says that he had possession of the town, and could have murdered all the people, and that he has been murdered in return.
J. G. Anderson was also shot down in the assault. He was from Connecticut.
The dead body of a man killed yesterday was found within the armory.
Brown declares that there were none engaged in the plot but those accompanying him.
The prisoners are detained in custody within the armory enclosure.
BALTIMORE, Oct. 18. There is intense excitement in this city, and nothing is talked of but the insurrection. Gen. Stuart, through Gov. Wise, has communicated an order to Gen. J. W. Watkins, of this city, to prepare, equip, and mount immediately a body of men for service in the mountains near Harper's Ferry, where many of the insurgents have taken refuge. The troops will leave this afternoon.
Gov. Wise passed the Relay House this morning, en route for the seat of war.
Three artillery companies from Fort Monroe arrived this morning, and are quartered at Fort McHenry, waiting orders.
HARPER'S FERRY, Oct. 18, noon. Soon after the storming of the armory, four dead bodies of insurgents, shot yesterday, were found within the enclosure. Capt. Brown and his son were dangerously wounded. Only two of the insurrectionists are UN wounded; their names are Edward Coppice, a white man from Iowa, and Shields Green, colored, from Iowa. The party originally consisted of 22 persons, of whom 15 are killed. 2 mortally wounded, two are here unhurt, and 3 went off with slaves on Monday morning.
Soon after the assault on the armory, some firing took place from the hills on the Maryland shore, supposed to be from Cook and his party, who left on Monday morning. It was returned with a general volley, but both parties were too distant to do damage. A company of armed men has gone in pursuit of the fugitives. There are probably 1000 armed men here. They have been pouring in all night from all parts of the surrounding country.
The Secretary of War has telegraphed to Col. Lee that Mr. Old, District Attorney for this district, will proceed forthwith to this place, to take charge of the legal proceedings against the prisoners, and bring them to trial.
The train is now getting ready to convey horses and men tromp here for the purpose of pursuing the rioters into any State or locality where they may hare fled. This order was issued by the President, at the request of Gov. Wise.
WASHINGTON, Oct. 17. In view of the possibility of the disturbance at Harper’s Ferry extending to this vicinity, the Mayors of Washington and Alexandria have taken precautionary steps for its suppression The President, through the Mayor of Washington, ordered a strong detachment of volunteer militia to be posted at the national and company armories, which was promptly done.
Two hundred stands of muskets and a supply of ammunition were also placed in the City Hall.
<c04>
BALTIMORE, Oct 18. An eye-witness who has returned from Harper's Ferry, describes the scene there as follows:-
The attack was made by a detachment of the Charleston Guards, which crossed the Potomac above Harpers Ferry, and reached a building, where the insurgents were posted by the canal on the Maryland side. Smart firing occurred, and the rioters were driven from the bridge. One roan was killed, and another was arrested. A man ran out, and tried to escape by swimming the river. A dozen shots were fired after him. He partially fell, but rose again, threw his gun away and drew his pistols, but both snapped. He drew his bowie knife and cut his heavy accoutrements off, and plunged into the river. One of the soldiers was about ten feet behind; the man turned round, threw up his hands, and said-'Don't shoot!' The soldier fired, and the man fell into the water, with his face blown away. His coat skirts were cut from his person, and in his pockets were found a captain's commission, to Capt E. H. Leman, from the Provisional Government. The commission was dated October 15, 1859, and signed by A. W. Brown, Commander-in-Chief of the Army of Provisional Government of the United States.
A party of five insurgents, with Minnie rifles, and posted in the rifle armory, were expelled by the Charlestown Guards. They all ran for the river, and one, who was unable to swim, was drowned. The other four swam out to the rocks, in the middle of the Shenandoah, and fired upon the citizens and troops upon both banks. This drew upon them the muskets of between two hundred and three hundred man, and not less than four hundred shots were tired at them from Harper's Ferry, about two hundred yards distant. One was finally shot dead; the second, a Negro, attempted to jump over the dam, but fell short, and was not seen afterwards; the third was badly wounded, and the remaining one was taken unharmed. The white insurgent, wounded and captured, died in a few moments after, in the arms of our informant: he was shot through the breast and stomach. He declared that there were only nineteen whites engaged in the insurrection.
For nearly an hour, a running and random firing was kept up by the troops against the rioters. Several were shot down, and many managed to jump away, wounded.
During the firing, the women and children ran, shrieking, in every direction, but when they learned that the soldiers were their protectors, they took courage, and did good service in the way of preparing refreshments, and attending to the wounded. Our informant, who was on the hill when the firing was going on, says all the terrible scenes of a battle passed in reality before his eyes. Soldiers could be seen, pushing, singly and in couples; and the crack of a musket or rifle was generally followed by one or more of the insurgents biting the dust. The dead lay in the street where they fell; the wounded were cared for. A body of 40 mounted men left Baltimore this afternoon for Harper's Ferry, to pursue the rioters. It is reported that many hare escaped, and are secreted in the mountains.
WASHINGTON, Oct. 18. The Secretary of War this morning received a telegraphic dispatch from Col. Lee, dated 7 o'clock, saying that he called upon the rioters, who were barricaded in the engine-house, on the Arsenal grounds, to surrender, promising to protect them until the wishes of the President could be ascertained.
The proposition was made in order to save the lives of the prisoners who were in the possession of the insurgents. This message was sent through Lieut. Stewart, of the first cavalry. The insurgents declined to surrender, whereupon the detachment of marines, who were near by, forcibly broke into the engine-house, killing two of the rioters and capturing the remainder. Two of the marines were wounded, one of them mortally. Osawatomie Brown, the leader of the rioters, was also mortally wounded. Several officers of the Arsenal, as well as the other prisoners, escaped unhurt. The War Department has dispatched an order for the troops at Norfolk, who are at Fort McHenry, to remain there until they receive further orders.
BALTIMORE, Oct. 18, 4 P. M. The insurrection has been completely suppressed. All the outlaws have either been killed or are under arrest. All freight and passenger trains are now running with entire regularity and security. No damage has been done to any portion of the track of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, or any of their trains or other property. As near as can be ascertained, about sixteen of the ringleaders have been shot.
BALTIMORE, Oct. 18—7 P. M. The Baltimore Infantry troops have just arrived, and are now marching to their armories. Their services were no longer required at Harper's Ferry, the government and Virginia troops being amply sufficient for all emergencies.
The report of the American commences with a notice of the originators of the outbreak:—the principal originator of this short but bloody insurrection was undoubtedly Capt. John Brown, whose connection with scenes of violence in the border warfare in Kansas, then made his name familiarly notorious throughout the whole country. Brown made his first appearance at Harper's Ferry more than a year ago, accompanied by his two sons, all three of them assuming the name of Smith. He inquired about land in the vicinity, and made investigations as to the probability of finding ores, and for some time boarded at Sandy Point, a mile east of the Ferry.
After an absence of some months, the elder Brown reappeared in this vicinity, and rented or leased a farm on the Maryland side, about four miles from the Ferry. They bought a large number of picks and spades, and thus confirmed the belief that they intended to mine for ores. They were frequently seen in and about Harper's Ferry, but no suspicion seems to have existed that 'Bill Smith' was ' Brown,' or that he intended embarking in any movement so desperate or extraordinary. Yet the development of the plot leaves no doubt that his visits to the Ferry, and his lease of the farm, were all parts of his preparation for an insurrection, which he supposed would be successful in exterminating slavery in Maryland and Western Virginia.
Brown's chief aid was John C. Cook, a comparatively young man, who has resided in and near the Ferry some years. He was first employed in tending a lock on the Canal, and afterward taught school on the Maryland side of the river; and after a brief residence in Kansas, where, it is supposed, he became acquainted with Brown, he returned to the Ferry and married there. He was regarded as a man of some intelligence, and known to be anti-slavery, but was not as violent in the expression of his opinions as to excite any suspicions. These two men, with Brown's two sons, were the only white men connected with the insurrection who had been seen about the Ferry. All were brought by Brown from, a distance, and nearly all had been with him in Kansas.
The first active movement in the insurrection was made at about half-past 2 o'clock on Sunday night. Mr. Williamson, the watchman at Harper's Ferry bridge, whilst walking across toward the Maryland side, was seized by a number of men, who said he was their prisoner, and must come with them. He recognized Brown and Cook among the men, and, knowing them, he treated the matter as a joke; but, enforcing silence, they conducted him to the Armory, which he found already in their possession. He was detained until after daylight, and then discharged. The watchman who was to relieve Williamson found the bridge lights all out, and was immediately seized Supposing it an attempt at robbery, he broke away and, his pursuers stumping over him, be escaped.
The following is a fragment of a letter found in Brown's pocket:
‘Capt. Brown—Dear Sir: I have been disappointed in not seeing you here ere this to take charge of your freight. They have been here now more than two weeks, and, as I have had to superintend the providing for them, it has imposed upon me no small task, and, if not soon taken on, some of them will go back to Missouri. I wish to know definitely what you propose doing. They cannot be kept here much longer, without risk to themselves, and, if any of them conclude to go back to the State, it will be a bad termination to your enterprise.'
The foregoing occupies a page of fine note paper straw tinted, is written in pencil, and not dated; and was evidently written by a person of education; the freight he had was, no doubt, that usually carried on the underground railroad.
BALTIMORE, Oct. 19. We have just received the following important intelligence from Harper's Ferry
Last evening, a detachment of marines, and some volunteers, made a visit to Brown's house. The first visit was to the school-house, and not to Brown's house, as stated yesterday.
They found a large quantity of blankets, boots, shoes clothes, and 1500 pikes, with large blades affixed they also discovered a carpet-bag, containing documents throwing much light on the affair, printed constitutions and by-laws, of an organization showing or indicating ramifications in various States of the Union.
They also found letters from various individuals of the North. One from Fred. Douglass, containing ten dollars from a lady for the cause. Also a letter from Gerri Smith about money matters, and a check or draft for one hundred dollars, endorsed by a cashier of a New York Bank; name not recollected. All these are in possession of Gov. Wise. Gov. Wise has issued a proclamation, offering $1000 reward for Cook, and a large number of armed men are now scouring the mountains in pursuit of him
<c05>
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
Collections by C. L. Remind.
In Danvers, Mass.,-$5 00 
At Vermont Convention,-166 0
Cool Springs, Ohio,-2 56
Columbia, Ohio,-1 05
Salem, Ohio,-4 50

Collection by Mrs. F. H. Drakes.
Parley King, South Danvers, 5 00 
Mary King, " 0 50
Banner Sanger, " 1 00
Wm. Ashby, Newburyport, 1 00
Richard Plummer, Newburyport, 1 00 
Harriet P. Harris, Exeter, N. H., 2 00
Moses Clifford, N. H., 0 25 

THE WEYMOUTH ANTI-SLAVERY FAIR 
WILL OPEN AT 
Mr. Walden’s Hall, Weymouth Landing, on the afternoon of OCTOBER 25th.
[Hours of starting from the Old Colony depot, Boston, half-past 8 and half-past 2. Horn of return, half-past 10 and half-past 4.]
In the list of contributions, for many of which we are indebted to the kindness of friends in Worcester, Boston and elsewhere, especially in New York State, are a lot of gentlemen's buckskin and far gloves, ladies' sleeves and collars, children's aprons, drawers, capes, toys. A few of the fine Weymouth-made comforts and basket-bed quilts. A few splendid crochet toilette and table covers, sofa and chair coven, glass preserve saucers to accompany a tea or dinner-service. Needle-books, mats, stands, watch-cases in variety too great to specify.
But above all the rest, is the rare occasion now offered to our friends for the timely selection of New Year's Presents for ornamenting the library, chamber or parlor, or enriching the port-folio, consisting of oil and water-color drawings framed and ready to hang up, line-engravings, lithographs and mezzotints, not to be found in the print-shop the works of distinguished English and French artists. The mere inspection of them will amply repay the Alight admission-fee.
There will be a social tea-party on the evening of the 27th, and a social dancing party on the evening of the 28th, both to close at seasonable hours. Refreshments will be constantly provided for distant friends at all hours of the day to suit their convenience; and it is hoped that all who hate slavery, (and who in this neighborhood does not?) will take advantage of the pleasant autumn season, and come together from the four Weymouth’s, from Boston, from Abington, from Plymouth, Hingham, and all the towns between, from Brookline, Canton, and throughout Nor folk county,—for invigorating social intercourse and anti slavery co-operation.
The Ladies-Managers are in correspondence with eloquent and distinguished friends of the Enterprise, far and near, with the prospect of being able confidently to invite their friends to a festival of the mind and heart as well as to a series of social meetings for rest and amusement.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON and WENDELL PHILLIPS will be present and speak on the occasion, and EDMUND QUINCY has consented to preside at the Tea Party, (Thursday evening, 27th.)
Admittance to the Fair,-12 cents.
Admittance Tea-Party,-05”
Admittance Social Dancing Party, 50”
Weymouth, Oct. 5, 1859.
TO ALL THE FRIENDS OF THE ANTI-SLAVERY CAUSE.
MARIUS R. ROBINSON, of Ohio, is an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and as such is commended to all friends of the Society, and of uncompromising anti-slavery. As editor of the (Ohio) Anti-Slavery Bugle, and as a clear, earnest, and impressive speaker, his services have been of the greatest value to the cause, and have entitled him to the fullest confidence and respect of its friends. In full apprehension of the principles of Anti-Slavery, in faithful application of them, and in a fair and courteous spirit to opponents, he is surpassed by no one.
Mr. Robinson is at present laboring in Western New York. He will receive subscriptions to the National Anti-Slavery Standard, and other Anti-Slavery papers, and donations to the American Anti-Slavery Society.
For the Executive Committee.

WOMAN'S RIGHT TO LABOR.
MRS. DALL'S LECTURES. MERCANTILE HALL. Mrs. Dally will deliver a course of Lectures at Mercantile Hall, Summer Street, on three successive Monday evenings, to commence
MONDAY, Nov. 7. At half-past 7 o'clock.
Nov. 7—Low Wages and Hard Work.
Condition of women employed in slop-work. Way of safety, honorable independence. Dress-makers and governesses. Mayhew's Letters. Noble women among the fallen. Women never forbidden to labor, only ladies. Historical argument. Unhealthiness of French factory labor. Women sold as ' beasts of burden' in England. Metal workers. An absurd fiction in the statement that all men support all women.
Nov. 14. Practical opposition, and the work now ' open.
Avocations already open. False ideas of society keep respectable women out of them. Practical opposition not ended. Penn. Medical Society. Census of Great Britain and the United States. Nantucket. Dr. Franklin's sister-in-law. Olive Rose. Baron Toermer and Felicie de Fauveau.
Nov. 21. New work to be done in Boston.
Drowning of Daughters. New means to prevent it. Medical specialities. Dr. Heidenreich. Marian, the Bible, woman. Training School for Servants. Knitting factory, &c. &c. Mr. Buckle's position to be questioned. A Labor Exchange. Will you tread out the nettles?
There will be no tickets. Editors, Reporters, Clergymen and other lecturers will find free admission.
Single admission 25 cts. Doors open at half-past 6 o'clock.
WORCESTER COUNTY SOUTH ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.—A special meeting of the Worcester County South Division Anti-Slavery Society will be held in WORCESTER, at BRINLEY HALL on Sunday, October 23d, commencing at half-past 10 o'clock, A. M., and continuing afternoon and evening.
A general attendance of the members is particularly requested; and all friends of freedom are invited to attend.
ADIN BALLOU, ANDREW T. FOSS, CHAS. L. REMOMD, and SAMUEL MAY, Jr., will be present.
WILLIAM A. WILSON, Secretary.
CUMMINGTON, Mass.—An Anti-Slavery Convention will he held in the Independent Meeting house at East Cummington, on Saturday and Sunday, November 5th and 6th, commencing on Saturday at 1 o'clock, P. M. All friends of impartial liberty, and of an honest, uncompromising Anti-Slavery agitation, are requested to attend, and confer together on the best methods of promoting the Anti-Slavery cause.
Among the speakers expected are ANDREW T. FOSS, CHARLES LENOX REMOND, CHARLES C.BURLEIGH:
N. B. It may be needful to postpone to a later day; in which case, notice will be given next week.
CAPE COD ANNUAL MEETING.—The Annual Anti-Slavery Convention, for Barnstable County, will be held at HARWICH, in EXCHANGE HALL, on Saturday and Sunday, November. 5th and 6th. It will commence at 2 o'clock, P. M., on Saturday.
The names of speakers to be given hereafter.
All who have been accustomed to sustain these Conventions in years past, by their presence and cooperation, and all friends of freedom, of whatever name, are requested to attend. All advocates or apologists for Slavery are invited to come. Are we for Liberty or for Slavery? Let none refuse to reply, and let none evade the issue. ELAM BAKER,
FRANKLIN ROBBINS, Committee.
J. H. ROBBINS,
ESSEX COUNTY. —The Essex County Anti-Slavery society will hold its quarterly meeting at MANCHESTER, in the hall near the public house, on Sunday, October 30, commencing at half-past 10, A. M. A full and punctual attendance of members is requested, and all are invited to attend.
ANDREW T. Foss and CHARLES L. REMOND, with other speakers, are expected to be present.
MOSES WRIGHT, Secretary.
All communications for the undersigned should be sent to 21 Cornhill, Boston.
SAMUEL MAY, JR.,
General Agent massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society.
MARRIED-In this city, Oct.16, by Rev. Mr. Young assisted by Rev. Mr. Thompson, Rev. John W. Lawns, late of Warren Mr., to Mrs. JANS THOMAY, of Boston.
<c06>
Ayer's Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford as effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by these who suffer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:-
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS ERUFTIONS AND ERUFTIVE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES, BLOTCRES, TUMORS,SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALOLA OR TIC DOUCOUREUT, DEBILITY, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION, ERYSIPSLAS, ROSE OR Sr. ANTHONY'S FIRE and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which, fester in the blood at that see son of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, 'spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something most go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla any thing else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which load the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO.
LOWELL, MASS.
Price, $ 1 per Bottle; Six Bottle for $5.
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery. Foul Stomach, Erysipelas, Headache, Piles. Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, Liver Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt Rheum, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Price, 25 cents per Box; Five boxes for $1.00
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statement, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE MBTCALF & Co., Boston.
BREWER, STEVENS * CUSHING,
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO. Concord, N. H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every where. 6m may7
WEBSTER'S
UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY.
NEW PICTORIAL EDITION.
15OO PICTORIAL ELLUSTHATIONS.
9000 to 10,000 NEW WORDS in the Vocabulary.
Table of SYNONYMS by Prof. GOODRICH.
With other new features. Together with all the matter of previous editions In one volume of 1750 pages. Pries $6 50. Sold by all Booksellers.
G. C. MERRIAM, Springfield, Mass.
Sept.9.6t.
CARPETING.
'All the Year Round.'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET.
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminster, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities) Rugs. Mats, Bookings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
ALSO
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WCHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES
For cash or approved credits.
Sept. 16 tf

BOARDING-HOUSE.
ROBERT R. CROSBY would inform his anti-slavery friends, and such others as desires pleasant rooms and good board, that having opened house No.23 Eliot street, a few doors from Washington street, he will be happy to entertain such as may be pleased to favor him with their patronage.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY. 
THE OLD CANON.
BY MISS EMILY B. PAGE.
Where the rocks an gray, and the shore is steep, 
And the waters below look dark and deep,
Where the rugged pine, in its lonely pride,
Leans gloomily over the murky tide;
Where the reeds and rushes are long and rank,
And the weeds grow thick on the winding bank;
Where the shadow's is heavy the whole day through-
Lies at its moorings the old canoe.
The useless paddles are idly dropped,
Like a sea-bird's wing that the storm has lopped,
And crossed on the railing one o'er one,
Like the folded hands when the work is done;
While busily back and forth between, 
The spider stretches his silvery screen,
And the solemn owl, with his dull 'too-hoo,'
Settles down on the side of the old canoe.
The stern half sunk in the slimy wave,
Rots slowly away in its living grave,
And the green moss creeps o'er its dull decay,
Hiding the mouldering dust away,
Like the hand that plants o'er the tomb a flower,
Or the ivy that mantles the fallen tower;
While many a blossom of loveliest hue
Springs up o'er the stern of old canoe.
The currentless waters are dead and still—
But the light wind plays with the boat at will, 
And lazily in and out again, 
It floats the length of its rusty chain, 
Like the weary march of the hands of time, 
That meet and part at the noontide chime; 
And the shore is kissed at each turn anew,
By the dripping bow of the old canoe. 
O, many a time, with a careless hand, 
I have pushed it away from the pebbly strand, 
And paddled it down where the stream runs quick— 
Where the whirls are wild, and the eddies an thick— 
And laughed as I leaned o'er the rocking side. 
And looked below in the broken tide, 
To see that the faces and boats were two. 
That were mirrored back from the old canoe. 
But now, as I lean o'er the crumbling side, 
And look below in the sluggish tide, 
The face that I see there is graver grown, 
And the laugh that I hear hat a soberer tone, 
And the hands that lent to the light skiff wings, 
Have grown familiar with sterner things. 
But I love to think of the hours that flew, 
As I rocked when the whirls their white spray threw, 
Ere the blossoms waved, or the green grass grew 
O'er the mouldering stern of the old canoe. 

THE BORE OF THE SANCTUM.
BY J. G. SAXE
Again I hear that creaking step!
He's rapping at the door!
Too well I know the boding sound
That ushers in a bore.
I do not tremble when I meet
The stoutest of my foes,
But Heaven defend me from the friend
Who comes but never goes! 
He drops into my easy chair,
And asks about the news; 
He peeps into my manuscript,
And gives his candid views;
He tells me when he likes the line,
And when he's forced to grieve;
He takes the strangest liberties,
But never takes his leave!
He reads my daily paper through
Before I've seen a word;
He scans the lyric (that I wrote,) 
And thinks H quite absurd; 
He calmly smokes my last cigar.
And coolly asks for more; 
He opens everything he sees-
Except the entry door! 
He talks about his fragile health, 
And tells me of the pains 
He suffers from a soon of ills
Of which he ne'er complains;
And hew he struggled once with death
To keep the fiend at bay;
On themes like those away he goes
But never goes away!
He tells me of the carping words
Some shallow critic wrote,
And every precious paragraph
Familiarly can quote.
He thinks the writer did me wrong,
He'd like to run him through!
He says a thousand pleasant things-
But never says 'Adieu!' 
Whene'er he comes-that dreadful man— 
Disguise it as I may, 
I know that like an autumn rain.
 He'll last throughout the day. 
In vain I speak of urgent teaks; 
In vain I scowl and pout; 
A frown is no extinguisher-
It does not put him out! 
I mean to take the knocker off;
Put crape upon the door; 
Or hint to John that I am gone
To stay a month or more.
I do not tremble when I meet
The stoutest of my foes; 
But Heaven defend me from the friend 
Who never, never goes! 
THE DEFEATED WIFE.
BY J. G. PERCIVAL.
He comes not—I have watched the moon go down, 
But yet he comes not. Once it was not so. 
He thinks not how these bitter teats do flow, 
The while he holds his riot in the town. 
Yet he will come and chide, and I shall weep, 
And he-will wake my infant from its sleep, 
Te blend its feeble wailing with my tears. 
Oh! how I love a mother's watch to keep 
Over these sleeping eyes! that smile which cheers 
My heart, though sunk in sorrow, fixed and deep. 
I had a husband once who loved me—now 
He wears a frown upon his brow, 
And feeds his passion on a wanton's lip, 
As bees from laurel flowers a poison sip. 
But yet I cannot hate. Oh! there were hours 
When I could hang forever on his eye, 
And Time, who stole with silent witness by, 
Strewed, as he hurried on, his path with flowers. 
I loved him then—he loved me too. My heart 
Still finds its fondness kindled, if he smile; 
The memory of our loves will ne'er depart; 
And though he often sting me with a dart, 
Vanomed and barbed, and waste upon the vile 
Caresses which his babe and mine should share— 
Though he should <illegible> me—I will calmly bear 
His <illegible> and should sickness come lay
Its <illegible> hand upon his, then
I would with kindness all his wrongs repay,
Until she penitent should weep and say
How injured and how faithful I had been.

INVOCATION.
Dear God and Father of us all,
Forgive our faith in cruel lies,
Forgive the blindness that denies!
Dust down our idols-overturn
Our bloody altars-let us use
Thyself in Thy humanity!
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR. 
NEW BUBLICATIONS. 
TIRODORS PARKER AND HIS THEOLOGY: A Discourse delivered in the Music Hall, Boston, Sunday, Sept. 26, 1850. By James Freeman Clarke, pp. 23. Boston: Walker, Wise & Co., 21 Bromfield street.
An Introductory Notice' to this sermon (anticipating the objection which was sure to come from a large number of the people who call themselves 'Liberal Christians') formally releases the Unitarians and the Unitarian Association from all responsibility far it, declaring that it represents had compromises no one but the author. We should presume as much from the character of the Discourse; far very few Unitarian clergymen of Boston have been, or are disposed to be, either so friendly or so-just to Mr. Parker. Most of them have constantly practised the theological backbiting' that Mr. Clarke here rebukes.
The Discourse opens with a beautiful and affecting recognition of the many and great excellencies of Mr. Parker's character, and of the friendship which, in spits of material theological differences, has existed between him and Mr. Clarke for twenty years. This friendly offering was most fittingly made at a time when Mr. Parker, absent to search of health, was aspersed by venomous and calumnious attacks, from his 'brethren' in the Unitarian ministry.
Certain occasions, said Mr. Clarke, remind as of certain men; and, as the statues of Brutus and Cassius were 'mimed' from the funeral of Junia, being 'all the more conspicuous because they were not then, so we have especially felt the need and mourned the absence of Theodore Parker during the late ovations in honor of Mr. Choate and Mr. Webster. His courage, his plainness of speech, his promptness in saying the right thing in the right time, his custom of exposing shams and untwisting sophistry were alike needed and missed when clergymen were prostituting their influence and eloquence to commend suck men to the admiration and imitation of the community. 
Mr. Clarke spoke strongly of the demoralizing influence of such praises as we have heard bestowed upon these two eminent men, the glorification of great intellect, even where it has pursued unworthy ends by unscrupulous means; and, speaking of Mr. Parker's custom of seizing such occasions to emphasize the exposure of wrong and the inculcation of right, he concludes this part of his Discourse by saying—
'The man who worships truth for its own sake, and speaks, whether men will hear or whether they will forbear, is like a cool wind from the North blowing away the miasma of stagnant air in tropical lands. Such an one was Theodore Parker.'
Mr. Clarke next passes from the region of feeling to that of thought— from Theodore Parker the Man to Theodore Parker the Theologian—and states the question for consideration, now to be, not ' Do you like or dislike the man ' but ' What do you think of his doctrines? An they true or an they false? 
He proceeds to say—
'The first question in Theology concerns the Sources of Knowledge. From whence does our religion come? Where are we to go for it? In what place ahall we find it?
Then an many answers to this question. Here an a few of them:—
The Deist answers, "We go to Nature."
The Roman Catholic or Protestant Churchman answers," We go to the Church and its Traditions." The Biblical Protestant answers, "We go to the Bible.
The Mystic answers, "We go to the Soul, In its mysterious and higher moods, when abstracted from outward things.
The Christian answers, "We go to Christ, as seen in Scripture, Christian History, or Christian Experience."
Such answers an given, with more or less distinctness, by these different classes. Theodore Parker gives a wholly different reply. Admitting all these as subordinate helps, the primal, adequate and authoritative source of knowledge he declares to be the Individual Reason; not the faculty which argues, but that which sees—the intuitive organ common to all mankind. This is not a mystic vision, for it is rational and intellectual; it is not a special inspiration, for it is common to all men; it is not a Christian Experience, for it does not need the mediation of Christ for its action. It is an inward eye, with which, as soon as it is open, we can perceive the three great facts—God, Virtue, Immortality.' 
Mr. Clarke proceeds to say, that no where before has such a clear statement, fortified by such solid reasons, been made in regard to the intuitive Religious faculty, as by Mr. Parker; that such a statement is just, and also necessary, since the existence and activity of this faculty are constantly denied, in the supposed interest of Christianity, by both orthodox and heteorodox theologians; and that the distinction which Mr. Parker was accustomed to make between Religion and Theology is also a natural and necessary one. Mr. Clarke adds a statement of his general agreement with Mr. Parker in the positive part of his theology; and he heartily thanks him for what he has said in defence and exposition of the infinite perfection of God, the adequacy of man for all his functions, and the absolute or natural religion; for his testimony against Atheism on one side, and a narrow Orthodoxy on the other; and for his inculcation of a religion consisting equally of piety and humanity. 
Mr. Clarke thinks that Mr. Parker's love of simplicity and love of system have led him into an erroneous view of Christ and Christianity, namely, the denial that the first is a supernatural teacher, different in kind from other men, and the second a supernatural revelation, different in kind from other religions. The following reasons require him to affirm that which Mr. Parker denies:—
1st. Christ's own idea of himself and his religion, asserting for both a special and peculiar illumination, such as no man and no religion had previously displayed, and claiming a correspondent authority, 
2d. That just such a manifestation of the divine life as we find in Jesus—a manifestation of God in man, additional to that which we find in nature—was to be expected.
3d. That there is an actual revelation in Christianity, special to itself, and found nowhere else, namely, the love of God to the sinner. This particular manifestation of the love of God, Mr. Clarke thinks, is wanting in Mr. Parker's preaching. He finds in Mr. Parker's writings no recognition of sin as disease, or of such a cure of that disease as Mr. Clarke thinks to be offered by a special revelation of God in Christ.
Mr. Clarke proceeds to criticise Mr. Parker's rejection of the miracles ascribed to Jesus, and what he considers the excess of his reaction against a superstitious bibliolatry, and, near the close, he makes the following summary:—
'These are my views, of course very briefly stated, of Theodore Parker, and of his opinions. We two have known and loved each other for some twenty yean; but during all that time, he has never loved my opinions nor I his. My faith in Christ, as the central figure of the Human Race, the type of Humanity, and perfect manifestation of a personal God, has seamed to him overstrained, mystical, and without value. His exclusive reliance on Intuition, and his negative treatment of the New Testament, have seemed to one-sided and destructive. My soul but felt the need of something more. By it I was not fed nor filled. In view of it, a certain shudder ran over me, as though the world was growing empty of life in the atmosphere of that theology. But the man was not cold; the man was not empty of life or of love, but filled with both. I have honored his manly courage, beam touched by his tender humanity, and grieved at the blow with terminated his labors hen; for my Savior, my Christ, is one who will honor and approve the manly seat which honestly disowns him, but lives for virtue, more than the painted hypocrisy which utters all orthodoxy and practises all <illegible>, If Christ be God the Son, second Person in the Trinity, I had rather stand before his bat with Theodore
<c03>
Parker, who denies him, but follows in his steps, serving humanity, than with any Orthodox Doctor who writes South-side books to turn our sympathy "or the oppressed into approbation for the oppressor, For the Christ of the New Testament (whatever be his rank in the universe) is one who cares nothing or his own personal position or honor, has no self-feeling to be wounded by any denial of his rights, and can never be offended by any mistake as to his office or authority. His holy anger it only for those who offend or injure his little ones—his poor, his oppressed, his outcasts, his wretched, his forlorn.'
Mr. Clarke says in this sermon, (p. 22,) controverting what he supposes to be Mr. Parker's doctrine— 11 do not believe in the passing away of Christianity before a more perfect faith. Christianity is to be die religion of the human race.' Again he says, (p. 23)directly attributing this position to Mr. Parker—' He ought not to any to this religion of Christianity, "Give way something better; you were a help once, but are a hindrance now." And in a previous passage, (p. 13,) Mr. Clarke had expressed the same judgment of Mr. Parker's doctrine, fortifying it by a quotation from him, as follows:— 
'For example. It no doubt simplifies Theology to put Christianity in the same class with ail other religions, only in advance of them; and to put Christ with Confucius, Zoroaster, and Mohammed, differing from them in degree, but not in kind. This Mr. Parker has accordingly done. Christianity is, with him, the natural unfolding of man's religions nature, like "the five other historic forms of religion," and "must, are long, prove a hindrance to human welfare; for it claims to. be a Finality, and makes the whole of human nature wait upon an accident of human history, and that accident0 the whim of same single man." He thinks that Christianity, like all the other forms of religion, must ultimately fail before the Absolute Religion,'
I was very greatly surprised to see words quoted from Mr. Parker which seemed to confirm the sentiment of the above extract, because this sentiment was in direct opposition to my remembrance of the purport of his preaching, after a regular attendance upon it for the thirteen years of his ministry in Boston. On turning to the passage quoted, the source of the mistake into which Mr. Clarke has fallen was at once manifest namely, that Mr. Parker, being often called to speak of the thing popularly known as Christianity, and erroneously complimented with that name by the teachers of the popular American religion, has sometimes avoided a troublesome periphrasis by giving it its self-assumed, though inaccurate name, and has carelessly used this name in a connection which allows his meaning to be brought in question. As the point is important, I shall quote freely from his writings, both early and late, to show these two things: that he sometimes used the word Christianity in its popular acceptation, as well as in what he considered its more appropriate meaning; and that, in this latter sense, he maintained that Christianity was identical with the Absolute Religion, and thus true and permanent, 
The first sermon published by Mr. Parker, the famous South Boston sermon, preached in May, 1841, is entitled ' The Transient and Permanent in Christianity.' In this occur the following passages:— 
No doubt, an age will come, in which ours shall be reckoned a period of darkness—like the sixth century—when men groped for the wall, but stumbled and fell, because they trusted a transient notion, not an eternal truth; an age when temples were full of idols, set up by human folly; an age in which Christian light had scarce begun to-shine into men's hearts. But while this change goes on; while one generation passes away, and another rises up; Christianity itself, that pure Religion, which exists eternal in the constitution of the soul and the mind of God, is always the same. The Word that was before Abraham, in the very beginning, will not change, for that word is Truth. From this Jesus subtracted nothing; to this he added nothing. But he came to reveal it as the secret of God, that cunning men could not understand, but which filled the souls of men meek and lowly of heart. This truth we owe to God; the revelation-thereof to Jesus, our elder brother, God's chosen son.
'To turn away from the disputes of the Catholics and the Protestants, of the Unitarian and the Trinitarian, of Old School and New School, and come to the plain words of Jesus of Nazareth, Christianity is a simple thing; very simple. It is absolute, pure morality; absolute, pure religion; the love of man; the love of God acting without let or hindrance.
'Compare the simpleness of Christianity, as Christ sets it forth on the Mount, with what is sometimes taught and accepted in that honored name, and what a difference! One is of God; one is of man. There is something in Christianity which sects have not reached; something that will not be won, we fear, by theological battles, or the quarrels of pious men; still we may rejoice that Christ is preached in any way. The Christianity of sects, of the pulpit, of society, is ephemeral—a transitory fly. It will pass off and be forgot. Some new form will take its place, suited to Die aspect of the changing times. Each will represent something of truth, but no one the whole. It seems the whole race of man is needed to do justice to the whole of truth, as ' the whole church to preach the whole gospel "Truth" entrusted for the time to a perishable Ark of human contrivance. Though often shipwrecked, she always comes safe to land, and is not changed by her mishap. That pure ideal Religion which Jesus saw on the mount of his vision, and lived out in the lowly life of a Galilean peasant; which transforms his cross into an emblem of all that is holiest on earth; which makes sacred the ground he trod, and is dearest to the best of men, most true to what is truest in them, cannot pass away. Let men improve never so far in civilization, or soar never so high on the wings of Religion and Love, they can never outgo the flight of Truth and Christianity. It will always be above them.'
Mr. Parker's next publication, in May, 1842, was a volume of 504 pages, entitled 'A Discourse of Matters pertaining to Religion.' We find in his, p. 282 of the original octavo edition, the following:—
Now Christianity really differs specifically from all other forms of religion in this respect; it is ABSOLUTE RELIGION and ABSOLUTE MORALLITY.'
We find in the same volume these additional statements, to the same effect:—
These an not the peculiarities oftenest insisted on, and taught as Christianity; it is not the mystery, the miraculous birth, the incarnation, the God-man, the miracles, the fulfilment of prophecy, the transfiguration, the atonement, the resurrection, the angels, the ascension, the " five points;" other religions have enough such things—but it is the absolute RELIGION Christianity that is peculiar. Alas, such is not the Christianity of the Church, at this day, nor at any day, since the crucifixion; but is it not the Christianity of Christ, the one only Religion, everlasting, ever bleat?' p. 288.
Christianity, as the absolute Religion and Morality, necessarily sets out from the absolute source, the spirit of God in the soul revealing truth.' p. 410.
No wonder the old cry is raised, THE CHURCH IN DANGER, as its crazy timbers sway to and fro if a strong man treads its floors. But what then? What is true never fails. Religion is permanent in the nee; Christianity everlasting as God. These can never perish, through the treachery of their defenders, or the violence of their foes. We look round us, and all seems to change; what was solid last night is fluid and passed off to-day; the theology of our fathen is unreadable; the doctrines of the middle-age ' divines' it deceased like them. Shall our mountains stand? "Every when is instability and insecurity.' It is only men's beads that swim; not the sun that ma round. The Soul of man remains the same; absolute Religion does not change; God still speaks in Beaton, Conscience, Faith; is still immanent in his children. We need no new forms; the old. Baptism and the Supper, an still beautiful to many a soul, and speak blessed words of religious significance. Let them continue for such as need them. We want real Christianity, the Absolute Religion, preached with faith and applied to life; BEING GOOD AND DOING GOOD.' p. 503, 4.
The same ideas are found in a much later production of Mr. Parker, 'A Discourse on the Function of a Teacher of Religion in these Times,' preached in June, 1855. It says, expressly marking both the points above indicated—
Then is one great scheme of thought called "Christianity," or, more properly, the "Christian Theology." It is common to all sects in Christendom. Of this, the" liberal" have least, the illiberal most; but they differ only quantitatively—in amount, not kind. This is the common soil of Christendom, whence grew each great truths as Catholicism and Protestantism, with the various offshoots of each. From this common inheritance, the minister is to take what he thinks true and useful, to reject what he thinks useless-
<c04>
less, to remove out of his way what he finds baneful.' p. 13
'Natural religion mast be applied to life in all departments of industrial activity; farming, manufacturing, buying and selling, must all be conducted on the principles of the Christian Religion, that is, of natural Justice,' p. 40. 
' There is the slave to be sat free— bound not leas in the chain of " Christian Theology " than with the Constitution and the law. The American Church is the great blood-hound which watches the plantations of the South, haying against freedom with most terrific howl. "Christian Theology" never breaks a fetter, while Christian Religion will set all men free!" p. 45.
According to my remembrance of Mr. Parker's preaching, he has never uttered any sentiments at variance with these. Occasionally, for the sake of convenience, using the words Christian and Christianity in their popular signification, he has always taught that the thing properly signified by those words is in accordance with the Absolute Religion. If we now tarn to that passage of his bat publication which Mr. Clarke has supposed to convey a different meaning, I think it will plainly appear that Mr. Parker hen uses the word 'Christian' in the popular sense above spoken of:—
'All the six great historic forms of religion—the Brahmanic, Hebrew, Classic, Buddhistic, Christian, Mohammedan—profess to have come miraculously from God, not normally from man; and, spite of the excellence which they contain, and the vast service the humblest of them has done, yet each must en long prove a hindrance to human welfare, for it claims to be a Finality, and makes the whole of human nature wait upon an accident of human History— and that accident the whim of some single man.' p. 85.
We find this interpretation corroborated by the following passages in the same book:—
'The value of Christian miracles, not the question of net, was discussed at Boston as never before in America. Prophecy had been thought the Jachin, and Miracles the Boaz, whereon alone Christianity could rest; but, said some, if both be shaken down, die Lord's house will not fall!' pp. 53, 4. 
'To me, the name of Christianity it most exceeding dear, significant of so great a man, and of such natural Emotions, Ideas and Actions as are of priceless value to mankind.' p. 146.
'I intended this season to deliver before it [the Fraternity] ten easy Lectures on the first three centuries of the Christian era, and show how the Christianity of the Christians, alas! not the more humane and natural religion of Jesus, developed itself.' p. 169. 
If Mr. Parker has elsewhere declared opinions really opposite to these, he has contradicted himself When he has seemed to express such opposite opinions, I think it will be found that he has carelessly or for the sake of brevity, used the word Christianity in speaking of the popular theology which calls itself by that name. 
I think it is now proved, by the foregoing extracts from works published by Mr. Parker in 1841, 1842 1855 and 1859, that he does not hold the opinion at tributed to him that Christianity, the thing properly so called, is a temporary thing, or that it is, or will ever be, a hindrance to human welfare and progress The ascription of this opinion to him seems to me the great error of Mr. Clarke's sermon; but, in tome Other points, what I understand to be his doctrine! are not accurately stated, and not so fully stated at even the limits of a sermon would allow. Thus, in the first passage above quoted from the sermon, after giving the theories of five different classes of theologians as to the place where we should seek religion knowledge, Mr. Clarke says—' Theodore Parker give a wholly different reply.' True, his very next sentence varies from this by coming nearer the fact, and allowing that Mr. Parker admitted all these as subordinate helps. Still, Mr. Clarke's statement does not clearly express the fact that Mr. Parker's system includes whatever truth may be derived from all these sources, with the addition of one other source, which they do not acknowledge. 
It u true that Mr. Parker claims the individual reason, the intuitions of the human soul, as the most reliable source in which to seek, and the ultimate source in which to verify, religious truth: but a full statement of his idea would expressly declare that he also recommended to men to search for such truth in all quarters, and especially in the Christian, He brew and ethnic scriptures. The recognition of this fact will show that the truths of the Bible, all of them belong to his system, and are not to be held up in contrast with it. 
The habit of simplifying and methodizing certainly tends to cause omission of particulars. Mr. Parker's critic should show that the tendency in him proceeded to actual omission of what he should have included.
The radical error of Mr. Parker is stated to lie ii these two assumptions, namely: that Jesus is to b classed with other men, and Christianity with other religions, as differing not in kind, but only in degree
Mr. Clarke opposes to these assumptions the three following specifications, to which I append what think Mr. Parker would say, and might justly say in reply:—
1. The claim of Jesus for himself and his religion asserting special and peculiar illumination, such a no man and no religion had previously displayed, an asserting a correspondent authority. 
Answer.—This however, is not, strictly speaking the claim of Jesus, who left no written statement be hind him, but the ideas of four men respecting what Jesus claimed; namely, the documents, written a different periods during the first century and a half of the Christian era, and standing in the names of Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. It is certain that Matthew, Mark, Luke and John had some very erroneous ideas respecting the office and the claim a Jesus. 
2. Just such a manifestation [supernatural] of the Divine life as we find in Jesus was to be expected 
Answer.—Just such a manifestation [natural] was to be expected in some man, at some time, under the Providence of a divine and perfect Father, who offers inspiration to whoever will fulfil the condition of it. 
3. Then is an actual revelation in Christianity which we find no where else, namely, the love of God to the sinner.
Answer.—No man has ever preached more emphatically the love of God to the sinner than Mr. Parker One of the common accusations against him is that he teaches that God loves sinners, instead of reserving all his love for saints. And he has as much right to preach that doctrine as any of the Super naturalists, on this double ground; all the truths of the Bible belong to him, as much at to them; and, moreover, this love in God, being one constituent element of God's perfection, belongs to the absolute Religion Moreover, this actual revelation in Christianity which Mr. Clarke correctly says is special to itself is not therefore, nor necessarily, supernatural, in the ordinary understanding of that term. The peculiar (and, as it seems to me, fanciful) statement of it scope and purport, two pages later in the sermon which says—'The power of soul is supernatural al ways, and is always working miracles like those of Christ, though in lower forms'—and which classes the works of Dorothea Dix and Florence Nightingale as miracles—to not the idea of the supernatural current either in Mr. Parker's writings, or in theological controversy, or in common use.
To my mind, the difference between Mr. Clark and Mr. Parker upon this subject of Miracle seam to be one rather of nomenclature than of understanding. The Christian Inquirer, speaking, not long age of this very point of supernaturalism, said—
'Ours, we an free to confess it, is a religion o faith; a religion of the Bible and of authority; religion having its point of departure from Christ; reasonable religion, to be sure, but yet one which the human reason never did and never could discover or diffuse by its own unaided powers; a revealed authoritative, supernatural and super-rational faith. 
I have italicised the word <illegible> because just here is the point of diversity between Mr. Parker on one 
<c05>
side, and Mr. Clarke and the Inquirer on the other. Man's powers are never unaided. God is immanent and active in man's mind and soul not leas than in the grass and the trees. Mr. Parker has always taught, emphatically and earnestly, that glorious Christian doctrine which the Quakers call 'Immediate Inspiration.' But he calls this action of the Divine spirit in the mind and soul of man a natural, not a supernatural influence. 
I must touch in the briefest manner upon two or three remaining points in Mr. Clarke's sermon. He says that Mr. Parker shows leas respect for the words of Paul than the Swedenborgian for those of Swedenborg. I reply, therein he does well, for the Swedenborgian errs in accepting Swedenborg as an absolute master. 
He asks-Can we not admit that Bible to be an infallible composition, and yet believe that it is divine? I reply, No For wherein it is erroneous, it is certainly not divine. 
He asks Can we not admit that it contains some error, and yet ascribe to it the authority of a guide? I reply—A guide, as such, has no authority. Wherein it shows the right way, we shall do well to follow it. If in any point it directs us amiss, (which Mr. Clarke admits of the Bible,) we shall assuredly do well not to follow it in that point. 
On the whole, I do not find in this sermon a better statement of theology and religion than that which it controverts; I do not find its statement respecting Christianity so just and satisfactory as that which has proceeded, for thirteen years, from Mr. Parker's pulpit,—C.K.W. 

LETTERS FROM HON.HENRY L. DAWES.
NORTH ADAMS, Mass., Sept. 26,1859.WILLIAM C. NELL, Esq.—Dear Sir: Yours of the 12th, enclosing a copy of the Resolutions recently adopted by a convention of colored citizens of New England, assembled at Boston, was received here in my absence from home, or it would have been sooner acknowledged. I am greatly obliged to the Convention for the complimentary notice it was pleased to take of myself in one of its resolutions.
The disabilities imposed upon free colored persons by the constitutions of many of the so-called free States hate very properly found place in the deliberations of the Convention. Indeed, the position which' the free colored citizen shall hereafter occupy at the North, has seemed to me to be a question deserving more attention from all those it has hitherto received. It lies, in my opinion, directly across the path of the emancipationist, and must be encountered and correctly settled before any permanent or healthy progress can be made. Toe growing disposition in the new States that are forming in the great west, with such rapidity and on such a magnificent scale, to disfranchise, disable, and drive out the free negroes from their borders, should be firmly met and counteracted by those who make it the corner-stone of their political creed, that ALL MEN are created equal.'
That a state whose constitution imposes upon any class of men who hare committed no crime the disability that they ' shall never have the right of suffrage'—' shall never bold any real estate '— shall never make any contract'—'shall never work any mine '—' shall never maintain any mine '—or ' come, reside or be within the State '; that such a State is called a free State, passes my comprehension. It is all a false pretence and a fraud. Then is no real difference between the spirit which would incorporate such provisions into the organic laws of a State, and that which infamously declares that the ' negro for no rights which the white man is bound to respect.' It is high time, therefore, for those who believe that men, have inalienable rights, to meet and grapple this monstrous heresy. It well engaged the attention of so intelligent a convention of colored citizens assembled in New England, the only portion of the Union where the rights of man,' without distinction of color or race, or class or condition, are secured to him by constitutional guarantee ties. It must, sooner or later, and better sooner than late, arrest the serious attention of the statesman who hopes fur the perpetuity of the principles upon which the framework of our government was founded. Respectfully yours,
H. L. DAWES.
SIR JOHN FRANKLIN 
The mystery which for more than ten years has enveloped the fate of Sir John Franklin and his exploing party has been cleared up by the steamer, Fox, despatched last winter by lady Franklin, on a final searching expedition. The logbooks and journals of the lost vessels have been found, containing a record of every day in the voyage to the day the vessels were abandoned, viz., April 11, 1848. Sir John Franklin had died in June of the previous year. After leaving the ships, the unfortunate mariners had proceeded southward, and had subsequently sunk under the rigors of the climate and the pressure of privation. The Fox not only brought back the ship's journal, and the statements of the Esquimaux touching the missing men, but also various relies, clothing, and other of their personal possessions.
The London Times says: ' The great navigator died in no sudden shock or great disaster; he was crashed by no iceberg; he did not starve miserably on some wandering ice flow, nor did be drift away in storm and ice haze, which cast a veil so thick around him that the survivors can only say,' After that, we never saw him more.' No, he died surrounded by comrades and friends, and in the discharge of his duty. At Point Victory, on the Northwest coast of King William's Island, a record of the proceedings of the Franklin Expedition was found, dated April 25, 1848, and signed by Capt Crosier and Capt. Fitzjames. The story it told appears to have been simple and sad enough—Sir John Franklin died nearly ten months before—on the 11th of June, 1847. The Expedition seems then to have worked on as well as it could, and, as soon as the ice permitted to have proceeded with its mission, but month after month of battle with frost and ice f and mow passed away—difficulties were no doubt encountered which none of us who sit at home can realize, and on one fatal day, the 22d of April, 1848, the Erebus and the Tenor were abandoned by their crews, 15 miles N. N. W. of Point Victory. The ' survivors,' which is a term that indicates other: losses than that of the great seaman who led them, a to the number of 105, two days after the abandonment of the vessels, reached the island, erected a cairn, concealed the records, and were then about to proceed for the great Fish River, under the command of Capt. Crosier. Franklin died more than twelve yean ago. Since that day, they have all shared the fate of their chief, dropping down one . after another till the last man perished.'
The Rev. Abram Pryne, of Wayne county, Pa., having challenged Parson Brownlow to another discussion of the slavery question, that redoubtable champion of African bondage says in reply: "
'I am pleased to learn from your late challenge, "l that you wish to have our discussion over again, as from this I may legitimately infer that neither you nor your friends are satisfied with what passed at Philadelphia. If I should ever recover my speech, I will take great pleasure in putting you through , again, at as many points as you may desire; but if I am compelled, through bodily infirmity, to give up this pleasant toil, I will carry with me into my comparative seclusion the proud consciousness of having, in my day, ' borne the heat and burden of the day ' in fighting two of the moat God-forsaken organizations ever known to this country—Abolition and Democracy! And when I come to the evening of life, when my work is well nigh done, and I can see the downfall of them two organizations, I can with beautiful serenity exclaim, in the language of old Simeon, ' Lord, now lettest thouthy servant depart in peace, for mine eyes have seen <illegible>.'
MALANCHOLY POISOINING CASE—A few days ago, Mr. Robert Roes and his daughter, at East Franklin, Vt., were poisoned to death by drinking, bed bug poison, supposing it to be beer. It seems that another daughter of Mr. Ross had promised to send them some beer, and the person delivering the poison having failed to state what it was, they naturally supposed it was the promised beer, and both drank of it at the same time. They survived in intense agony for 12 days, when they both died and were buried in the same grave.—Manchester Republican.
The venerable Dr. Lyman Beecher reached his 84th year en Wednesday, the 12th inst. His health is generally good. 
<c06>
IT IS NOT A DYE!
MRS.S. A. ALLENTS WORLDS'S
HAIR RESTORER,
The only the preparation that has a 
EUROPEAN REPUTATION.
Warranted not to contain doleterious substances
This placement and valuable preparation has been used for many years by hundreds of the most distinguished and wealthy persons, who have previously tried all the nostrums of the day with out success, some even injuring their hair and health. this is entirely different from, all others.

IS THERE ANY VVIRTUEIN 
Mrs. S.A. Allen's Hair Restorative?
'We can answer this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived benefit from it.
Persons personally known to s have come voluntarily and told us of good results to either themselves of friends, who have used it before it became known in St. Louis. 'St. Louis Presbyterian.
MRS.S.S.ALLIENT'S HAIR RESTORATVE!
given universal satisfaction, wherever t has be used. It can be used wit perfect safety, and its perfect <illegible> from all soiling, renders it a very desirable article for the toilet.'
Ch'n Witness and Ch. Advocate, Boston, Mass.
MRS. S.S.ALLIEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is the worthy confidence.'
Philadelphia Christian Chronicle.
Incomparably the best preparation we have ever used. N. Y. Evangelist.
All are completed to acknowledgement MRS.S.A.ALLEN'S AS the Hair Restorer.' N. Y. Independent. 
MRS. S.A.ALLEN'S WORLDS HAIR RESORER as taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind. Michigan Christian Herald.
Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.' Knoxville Presbyterian Witness.
There never has been a prescription of remedy for improving the hair, published in the Advocate which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing as in tat of Mrs. S.A.AALEN'S Buffalo Christian Advocate.
'Another objection to dyes is the un-life color and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way to have grey assume its NATURAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will be effectual and et not a dye—Mrs. S.A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER will do this U.S. Journal.
'I these times when every cosmetic is warranted us the greatest discovery of the present day, t is refreshing to come across that which is what PRETENDS to be. A really excellent articles is Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLDS HAR ESTORER. As an assistance to nature, it is f great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Its properties are perfectly harmless, it being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilities the natural growth of hair.' Saturday Evening Gazette , Boston,
'Those of our reader as whose hair is turning grey or losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will find in Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER a preparation that will speedily cane the air to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair POSESSING NONE OF THE BURNING QUALITIES OF A DYE.' Philadelphia Mercury.
There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. Why is this? Simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Is sales are constant and most extensive, and we begin to think that it is denominated most appropriately the ' World's Hair Restorer.'
Newark Register.
We have reason to be assured that Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrates that its efficacy is generally appreciated.' Rahway Register.
'Mrs. S.A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. The most successful remedy of the ay. We know of instances where its good effects have been remarkable.' Weekly Visitor, Franklin N.Y.
From individual cases tat have come under our own observation, we are satisfied that 'Mrs. S.A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' performs all that it promises, ad that instead (as is the case wit other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless waste of time ad money, it is just what it is represented to be, and will perform all its jus what it is represented to e, and will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform. We therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character.'
St. Louis Ledger.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.—As we were travelling in Massachusetts a short time since we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. After some conversation she spoke of her hair, informing us that two years ago, at least one half of it was grey, and that she had feared that before ten the whole would have turned or fallen off. But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair, and a length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen's Restorer. Se did so and applied it according to directions, ad before a yea has passed, she assured us that she had as luxurious even and beautiful head of air, as when she as but sixteen ears old. Her statement was confirmed by other members of the family while we were informed that in the same happy and signal effect ad been produced by applying Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer. Providence Daily Tribune.
Among the very few preparations that we deem deserving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit 'Ms. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAR RESTORER.' It has been thoroughly tested, and found to be all its inventor claims for it; ad to deny the excellence would e to deny the assertions made in its favor by sores and hundreds of the most respectable persons.' Rahway Advocate and Register.
Mrs. S.A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER in the best preparation extant for the various diseases incident to the hair and scarp, and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers, however grey, to their natural color. It having been before the public for many years and its efficacy in restoring, invigorating and beautifying the hair fully established, by hosts of persons throughout, the country, has led to the manufacture of many worthless imitation, which have been successfully palmed off in numerous instances, upon the public as genuine.' Brooklyn Morning Journal.
This preparation is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautiful the hair. It possesses none of the burning, cauterizing powers of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glossy appearance almost instantaneously. The Restorer is easily applied and will not stain the finest linen The effect is sure in every instance, if applied according to the directions.' Mercury, Philadelphia.
'We are satisfied that the statements made in advertisement of MRS.S.A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER are correct.' Boston Olive Branch.
Its remarkable success is satisfactory evidence.' Norfolk Argus.
'Those unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success.' Boston Transcript.
'It is just what it purports to be ' Cleve. Leader.
We might swell this list but if not convinced TRY IT.
We export these preparations to Europe even, and they are superseding all others there as well as in the united States.
It does not soil or stain. Sold y all the principal wholesale and retail merchants in the U.S., Cuba, or Canada.
DEPOT,355 BROOME STREET.N.Y.
where address all the letters and inquires.
Some dealers try to sell articles instead of this, on which they make more profit. Write to depot for circular, terms and information. genuine is signed, Mrs. S. A. Allen, written in ink. Bew are of counterfeits.
See next issue of this Paper for n re information; or send to Dept for Circulators.
SOLD EVERWHERE
