<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three <illegible> at ten cents per line; less than a sqaure, $1.50 for <illegible> insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, Our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. NO. 15. BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1865. WHOLE No. 1784.
THE GREAT JUBILEE MEETING AT.FANEUIL HALL,
IN HONOR OF THE FALL OF RICHMOND,
April 4, 1865.
THE MAYOR. Fellow-Citizens: We are assembled this afternoon to celebrate victories in the field, but we all know that those victories could never have been achieved had there not been many men in civil life to do the work of preparation for them. We have with us on this occasion the Chairman of the Military Committee of the Senate of the United States, our own Senator Wilson, who in season and out of season, and all the time, has been devoted to this cause. I now have the pleasure of presenting him to you.
Senator Wilson was received with nine hearty, enthusiastic cheers, and addressed the assembly as follows: 

SPEECH OF HON. HENRY WILSON.
Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen: The long and dreary night of this civil war is ended forever. (Applause.) The star of treason has sunk down in eternal night. (Cries of “amen,” and loud applause.) The sun of the Union is to-day in mid-heavens. (Cries of “Good.”) The earth beneath our feet seems to throb with awakened pulsations. Everything about us and around us seems to partake in the general joy and in the devout gratitude to Almighty God which fills all our hearts. The baleful star of War has cast its last lingering beams upon our land, and the star of Peace is on the forehead of the skies, casting its mild radiance over fields that have been swept for four years with the storms of civil war. We have to-day a country, a united country, and above all, and more than all, a free country, forevermore. (Prolonged applause.) Thirty-five years ago, in the Senate of the United States, Daniel Webster met this doctrine of nullification, secession and disunion. He grappled with it and crushed it intellectually, and no man, from that day to this, has maintained it, who has not made himself intellectually contemptible. And yet, the followers and disciples of that school appealed from the verdict in the intellectual contest pictured on that canvas (Webster’s reply to Hayne) to the arbitrament of war, and now, thank God, the army of the Potomac stands to-day on the doctrine of nullification, secession, and disunion. (Applause, and cries of “Good.”) It is ground to powder, crushed out, and will never more show itself in re-united America. We have no more a confederation of independent States, but we have now the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, and they shall be united forever. (Renewed applause.) Gen. Grant, (great applause,) at the head of the glorious old army of the Potomac, an army that has fought more battles, given more toil and blood to the country than any army ever gave to the world, (loud applause,)—at the head of that army, Gen. Grant, as at Donelson, has “moved on the enemy’s works.” (Applause, and cries of “Good.”). The banners of the Union wave over the rebel capital to-day; their stars gleam with a brighter luster in the Southern heavens; and Lee, at the head of that army which has carried the flag of the rebellion for four years, broken and retreating, is unable to maintain the defences of Richmond, and therefore unable to find a spot where he can defend himself on the North American continent (applause); and Jefferson Davis, and Breckinridge, and Benjamin, and their guilty compeers in treason, with the brand of American patriotism stamped upon their foreheads, are seeking for a hiding place, and can find none in America. (Great applause.)
Now, gentlemen, we come together to-day to celebrate a victory, the grandeur and magnificence of which we can hardly comprehend. It closes the contest, and hereafter, it is but a matter of petty details. The great battle has been fought, the great battle won; and all we have to do now is to gather up the broken wrecks. and dishonored fragments. (A voice—“Three cheers for the Union,” which were given with enthusiasm, and supplemented by three more for Gen. Grant.) But, gentlemen, in this hour of triumph—a triumph we have looked forward to long and anxiously, a triumph we have hoped for, toiled for, prayed for, for four years—in this hour of triumph, we are conscious, we see it, we feel it, we realize it, that the guilty cause of all this agony, of all this sorrow and death, is crushed out, stamped out under the iron heel of the American nation. (Applause.) I have sometimes thought, as I have seen and felt and realized the bitter disappointments of these four years of struggle, that God himself directed, guided and controlled all the movements of our countrymen for the salvation of the nation; and now, standing here to-day, I say that it was only as we were just, only as we were true, only as we did justice to a proscribed and hated race, we were able to advance our banner and win our victories. We had to put the musket into the hands of the negro, we had to summon him to the battle-field, under the incentive of perpetual freedom for himself and his wife and children, we had to allow him to fight with our great armies and on our great battle-fields, and then, when we had put a constitutional amendment beyond all peradventure that shall make the country free, then it was that a Massachusetts black regiment entered the city of Charleston, the home of the rebellion (applause); then it was that Gen. Weitzel, at the head of the 25th corps, made up of black men, entered the rebel capital and raised the banner of the Union there (Prolonged applause.)
I say to you to-day, gentlemen, that the great victory is achieved. Our country is victorious. I never doubted it, in the darkest hour. But I tell you here, to-day, that we are not through with the struggle; we are not through with the duties that<illegible> upon us. We must organize our country. We must secure and hedge around personal liberty in every possible way. We must do justice; and the sooner we resolve to do justice to all our countrymen, of every clime and race, the sooner we shall have a great, united and free republic, the admiration of the world (Applause.) To that duty, gentlemen, we must address ourselves as lovers of human liberty, as American patriots, as men who embrace in our affections the people of our whole country, however bounded, the people of the whole country, of every clime and race. (Applause, and cries of “Good.”) We have fought together, suffered together, and been victorious together; and, having won these glorious triumphs together, let us enjoy the fruits together forevermore (Applause.)
But, gentlemen, the intelligence that is coming to us now of this great victory is bearing to us the sad news of the death of noble heroes. I have heard this afternoon with sorrow of the death of a noble <illegible> of Massachusetts—Gen. Russell. Entering the army in the first regiment of Indiana, in which State he happened to be in business when the war broke out, he won his way into the regular army as captain, was made Colonel of a black regiment, commanded a black brigade, was made a Brigadier General, and has fallen in this great struggle—one of the truest, noblest, bravest men who have given
<c02>
up their lives in the sacred cause. Other names are coming to us; and we have the legacy of the wives and orphans of the heroes who have perished to save the country, and we must all remember them. (Loud applause.)
We have the maimed and worn heroes of this awful struggle, and we must remember them also. (Renewed applause.) Although we have won a great victory, and feel that all is within our grasp, we have, gentlemen—ay, and ladies, too—committed to us, by the fortunes of war, by the blessing, I will say, for so it is, of Almighty God, duties to perform for humanity, for our country, that will require the same vehement, passionate and intense devotion which this nation has displayed during the last four years, and which has won for it the admiration of the civilized and Christian world. (Loud applause.)
THE MAYOR. We have had one song for our country, the next song should be for the old flag.
“The Star Spangled Banner” was then performed by the choir and band, the audience joining in the chorus, after which the Mayor introduced Hon. Robert C. Winthrop, who was most enthustically received. Mr. Winthrop spoke as follows:

ADDRESS OF HON. R. C. WINTHROP.
I was greatly honored and obliged, Mr. Mayor, by the invitation I received last evening, from the City Council, to be present here this afternoon and participate in the proceedings of this meeting. Invited or uninvited, however, I could not have found it in my heart to be absent from Faneuil Hall at such a moment. (Applause.) But I felt when the committee called upon me, as I feel now, that I have no articulate speech adequate to such an occasion. Others around me may find it easy to give expression to the emotions which belong to the hour, and I can listen to them with admiration and with envy. But for myself, all the words I can command seem poor and powerless in presence of the great fact which has at length been announced to us by the electric wires. No single voice can do justice to that announcement. It is a moment for combined voices, for the united cheers and huzzas of a whole people. It is a moment for grasping each other’s hands with a fresh feeling of brotherhood and nationality. (Applause.) It is a moment for waving the old Union Flag, with a renewed assurance that by the blessing of God, it is to be the flag of the sons as it has been the flag of their fathers. (Applause.) It is a moment for illuminations and fireworks, for drums and trumpets and salvos of artillery. It is a moment when one might almost be pardoned for adopting the somewhat inflated style of a certain King of Denmark, in that great tragedy which has been recently rendered familiar to many of you, I doubt not, by the striking performance of a most accomplished American actor:
“Let the kettle to the trumpet speak, the trumpet to the cannoneer without, 
The cannons to the heavens, the heavens to earth.”
Faneuil Hall rejoices this day over the rescue of that Union and Liberty of which it was the cradle. (Applause.) It is a moment for music, for singing Hail Columbia and the Star Spangled Banner—yes, and Old Hundred, too. For, oh, my friends, let us not forget that it is a moment, above all other moments, for deep, devout, reverent thanksgivings to God, who hath at last given us this crowning victory. And I could almost have wished that instead of Old Faneuil Hall, (glad as we always are to meet beneath its roof,) it had been the old South—represented to-day by one of its pastors—with all its mingled associations of piety and patriotism, which had been thrown open to us this afternoon, and that we had all gone there, not to listen to such rhetorical commonplaces as I am uttering, but to unite in solemn Te Deums and Jubilates, and to offer up on bended knees the homage of grateful hearts to the high and mighty Ruler of the Universe. To Him, this day, our first, best thanks are due. To Him be all the glory. We may not, we cannot, indeed, forget, at such an hour, the human instruments of the great triumph which has been achieved. We cannot withhold our acknowledgments from the indomitable Grant (applause,) the modest but sturdy Meade (applause,) the dashing, heroic Sheridan (applause,) the incomparable and glorious Sherman (shouts and applause,) marching from point to point with a stride like that of destiny itself. We cannot forget the chivalrous Farragut and his noble compeer, Porter, and others whose names are emblazoned on these walls. (Applause.)
Nor would we omit any just tribute to President Lincoln and his Cabinet—[at this point the entire audience burst forth in cheers and huzzas, the ladies waved their handkerchiefs, and it was several minutes before the speaker could proceed,]—to Seward, or Stanton, or Welles. Still less would we withhold our heartfelt recognition of the toils and trials of the common soldiers, who have poured out their blood and perilled their lives in this terrible struggle. (“Three cheers for the soldiers.”) My friend in the corner cries, “three cheers for the common soldiers;” with all my heart. (Three cheers were lustily given.) And the sailors, too. (Cheers were also given for the sailors, all joining in the enthusiasm of the moment.) But no one can look back on the past four years, and remember how often the battle has wavered and fluctuated, and how long it has hung in suspense, without feeling that a higher than human power has overruled all events, and has at length, in the fullness of time, vouchsafed to us this final success. I say final, my friends, for I can no longer doubt that the end of this great tragedy, the very last scene of the last act, is close at hand. (Cheers.) I have no fear (have any of you, my friends?) that there are to be any more Richmonds in the field in our day and generation. (Laughter and applause.)
I cannot doubt that union and peace, and freedom, too, are at length certain to be secured. But I cannot attempt, my friends, either to review the past, or to speculate on the future. Let me only express the hope, in conclusion, that in all our rejoicings, now and hereafter, we shall exhibit a spirit worthy of those who recognize a Divine Hand in what has occurred. Let no boastful exultations mingle with our joy; no brutal vindictiveness tarnish our triumph. Let us indulge no spirit of vengeance or of extermination toward the conquered, (applause,) nor breathe out threatenings and slaughter against foreign nations. The great work of war accomplished, the even greater work of peace will remain to be undertaken, and it will demand all our energies and all our endurance. Let us show our gratitude to God by doing all that we can to mitigate the sorrows and sufferings of those upon whom the calamities of war have fallen. Let us exert ourselves with fresh zeal in ministering to the sick and wounded, in binding up the broken hearts, in providing for widows and orphans, for refugees and freedmen, in reuniting, as far and as fast as we can, the chords of friendship and good will wherever they have been shattered or swept away, and thus exhibit our land in that noblest of all attitudes—the only attitude worthy of a Christian nation—that of seeking to restore and to maintain peace and brotherhood at home and abroad. Thus only can our triumph
<c03>
be worthily celebrated. (Loud applause and three cheers for Mr. Winthrop.)
Loud calls were then made for Frederick Douglass, who was upon the platform, and the Mayor said: All in good time. I know that Mr. Douglass will favor us; but now we have arrived at that stage of the meeting when we should sing “ Sound the loud timbrel o’er Egypt’s dark sea,” and I will therefore call on the Rev. Mr. Rue. Rev. George A. Rue and Mr. John S. Brown then ascended the platform, and sang the anthem, “Sound the loud timbrel o’er Egypt’s dark sea,” with thrilling effect, and amid the moist boisterous enthusiasm. The performance was loudly encored and repeated amid even greater demonstrations of approval, followed by repeated calls for Frederick Douglass.
THE MAYOR. Mr. Douglass has promised to speak before he leaves the Hall, but does not wish to speak at this moment. I now have the pleasure of introducing to you Judge Russell, of this city.

SPEECH OF HON. THOS. RUSSELL.
You are quite right, if you want a speech, in calling upon my eloquent friend, the friend of liberty and humanity, Frederick Douglass. I only came from the anxious gloom of a sick chamber to breathe for an hour the free air of Faneuil Hall, and to sun myself in the light of your glad faces. So does America come forth from the darkness of four long years to rejoice in the broad daylight of victory, to look for the rainbow of peace. The occasion is too grand for speech. Nothing can add to the simple announcement, “We have taken Richmond.” Only to some of us it is a little improvement to read, that it was taken by Weitzel. (Cheers.) Now we know at last the meaning of the oft-quoted motto, “Liberty and Union.” Henceforth it means nothing less than this: Union forever, and Liberty for all. This is more than the triumph of our generals or the victory of our armies. It is the triumph of a principle; it is the fulfilment of a decree. High above the sound of our rejoicing, above the eloquence of music, yes, above the thrilling strains in which the fall of oppression has just been commemorated—louder than the conquering artillery of Grant, we hear a voice that says: “Be still, and know that I am God”—for “not unto us,” not unto any of the children of men, not to the chiefest of our Generals, but unto Him, who gave us strength to endure, and patience to wait, and faith to hope; to Him who raised up leaders to guide us to the land of promise, and inspired the people to trust in those leaders and in Him; to the Power that gave loyalty and humanity to the women of the North, and taught them to bind up the wounds and strengthen the arms of our soldiers; to Him, who overruled every disaster for good—yes, unto Thee, O God of our fathers, be all the praise! (“Amen.”) Yes, the night has passed, with all its fearful visions of disunion, of anarchy, of intervention—who dreams of foreign intervention now—if we can only restrain ourselves from intervention? All these horrors have passed, but not from our memory. By the recollection of common perils, of common hardships, of a common deliverance, let us be truer Americans, forever, and truer men. How many narrow prejudices have we cast off for all time? Who, for instance, who of us, that have safely stayed at home, will ever sneer at any one of the heroes who entered Richmond under the lead of Weitzel? (Applause.) Nor will we, in the future, inquire too carefully what shades of difference have heretofore marked the politics of our Generals, or of those who stood by their side. We are politicians and partizans no more. On such a day, in such an era, we cannot afford to be anything less than Americans. The country belongs to us all, we all belong to the country. One word more. In this day of thanksgiving, let us not forget those who died without the sight of the glories that delight our eyes. “Let us think of those that sleep” on the hard fought fields of the Peninsula, at Antietam, at Gettysburg, at the Wilderness, in all the bloody contests of the war, dying nobly, whether in defeat or victory. Honor to those who triumph; honor no less to those who sowed in tears what we now reap in joy.
“In glory shall they sleep, in endless sanctity.”
We would that they could have lived to see this hour. In many a home the sad thought will cast its shadow even now, that he who was the light of that home cannot share our thanksgivings. But who thinks that our fallen heroes do not share our triumph? Who shall tell us that when Sheridan, in the hour of defeat, followed his own great example —a better he could not follow—and grasped the standards in his own hand, and with his own voice recalled victory to our arms—who shall tell us that Welles, and Lowell, and Cass, and Shaw, and Putnam, and Abbott, and all their brave associates in arms, did not cluster round that beloved flag? Who shall doubt that they heard the triumphant roar of our cannon; that they, too, entered the rebel city; that even now, bending from the skies, they see of the travail of the soul and they are satisfied? (Applause.) And could they speak to us to-day, what would be their cry? What would they ask? Victory achieved; Union restored; liberty secured; America triumphant—one thing more they would demand—JUSTICE FOR THE SOLDIERS, BY WHOM OUR VICTORIES WERE WON. (Loud applause.)

NEGOTIATIONS FOR PEACE.
Ever since the first whisper of secret negotiations for peace, we have had an utter dislike and dread of all such modes of obtaining the end we desire. These movements have been suspicious from the fact that they were unofficial, informal, and clothed in mystery. There is no reason why private, irresponsible parties should be entrusted with the making of peace; if duly authorized and accredited agents of government are needed anywhere, it is in an affair of such moment as this. Nor does it comport with the dignity of the President or of the nation, that the business should be left to volunteer agents, who, in their eagerness for peace, are quite as likely to sacrifice the interests of their country as they are to achieve a diplomatic victory. The mystery which rested on the Niagara movement first awakened our suspicions. The editorials in the Tribune, that professed representative of radical Republican sentiment, alarmed us still more. The hints thrown out as to the proposed basis of peace were such as no one could contemplate without dismay. Still, we knew nothing definite in regard to the plans of peace. At length, to our great relief, it was announced that the negotiations had failed. A mass of correspondence was published, which left the subject as much in the dark as ever. But the secret is now out. A confidential letter of Horace Greeley to the President, proposing the entertainment of terms, has been published by an English journal, whose correspondent at Washington succeeded, by some unexplained means, in obtaining a copy. The following is the letter:
[As Mr. Greeley’s absurd and reprehensible “plan of adjustment” was published in the Liberator of last week, with a strong disclaimer, it is unnecessary to print it again in our columns.]—Ed. Lib.
<c04>
This explains all. We now see that the President was absolutely compelled to allow the proposed negotiations. With such a letter before him, claiming to represent the general sentiments of the public, and attributing to the President the needless prolongation of the war, in already having refused Vice-President Stephens an interview, Mr. Lincoln could not do otherwise than allow Mr. Greeley to try his hand. So gloomy a letter as the above we have never before seen from a Republican pen. It sounds as if it had been transferred bodily from the columns of the World. According to Mr. Greeley, our country was almost bankrupt, almost dying; the people shuddering at the prospect of fresh conscriptions, more wholesale devastations, and new rivers of blood, and longing for peace with an intensity that was likely to endanger the ensuing elections. The President was plainly told that he did not realize how intensely the people desired any peace consistent with the national dignity and honor. But what kind of peace was it that Mr. Greeley regarded as consistent with our dignity and honor? We cannot look back upon the fearful precipice on which we were then standing, without shuddering at what might, but for the overruling of a Divine Providence, have now been our fate. Look at the terrific chasm into which one, at least, of our political leaders was at that moment endeavoring to push us. Consider the terms on which he proposed to reinstate in power the vilest aristocracy that ever cursed our planet. The only advantage for which the letter stipulates is the abandonment of slavery; the carrying into effect of the President’s proclamation of emancipation. Everything else is in favor of the rebels. First, they are to have a complete amnesty for all political offences. Jeff. Davis is not to be hung, but to be restored to all the rights, honors and privileges he had before the war. He is to come back into the Senate chamber; he is to be a candidate for the Presidency; he is to become once more lord of the cotton plantation at Davis’s Bend. As with Jeff. Davis, so with all the rebel crew; not a man of them is to be punished; not a man of them is to be sent into banishment. The wretches that have starved and tortured our soldiers, reducing them to idiocy by the slow gnawings of famine, and sweeping them into the grave by hundreds and by thousands murdered in cold blood—these men are still to live, still to rule and curse their country.
Next, as a bribe for these wretches, it is proposed that we saddle ourselves with an addition to our war-debt of four hundred millions of dollars, to be given to the rebel legislatures, professedly as a compensation for slaves, to be disposed of at their discretion, loyal and rebel States being treated precisely alike. Four hundred dollars for every decrepit old man or woman, and the same for every helpless infant! The fact that the slaves were already free by the President’s proclamation was to go for nothing; it was nothing that they had been already paid for by the stern sacrifices of war; they must be redeemed over again, and the nation impoverished to keep up the pomp and splendor of the cotton lords. In point of fact, this offer of four hundred millions would be be equivalent to the assumption by us of the southern war-debt to that amount.
The plan of Mr. Greeley contains no provision whatever for extending the right of suffrage to the emancipated slaves, but instead of this a larger amount of power to the governing class. Heretofore, the Southern aristocracy were allowed to have a three fifths vote for their four million chattels, but now that these chattels have become free, the vote is to be according to the total population, swelling the number of southern representatives, yet all to be chosen by the whites as before, or in whatever way the States themselves may elect. With such a vast accession of power, the South, aided by the Democratic party of the North, could carry whatever measure it pleased, nullify the design of emancipation, and perpetuate a vigorous serfdom as intolerable as slavery itself. There would have been no possible way in which the North, after the conclusion of such a peace could have interfered in behalf of an oppressed people or prevented any amount of tyranny to which they might fall victims.
And then a National Convention, in which the Northern and Southern Democracy would have been vastly in the majority; and this Convention empowered to make whatever changes it might deem advisable! Blood and treasure spent for nought; the South more firmly seated in power than ever; its debt, contracted in the infamous cause of rebellion, raised to a footing of respectability, and a new lesson given to the world of the impunity with which the subjects of a republican government may make war upon it whenever they choose. Such a peace as that proposed would have turned back the dial of human progress for centuries. It is only by the interposition of a kind Providence so mercifully and so manifestly guiding us through all this war, that we have escaped the direst calamities. We owe our salvation, under Providence, to the obstinacy of the rebels rather than to the sagacity of our leaders. The Times says if all that was privately written or said by public men a year ago “were to be published now, more surprising sentiments would be brought to light than any embodied in Mr. Greeley’s letter.”
In justice to the President, it must be said that there is no evidence of his having favored any of the compromises which have been recommended since the issuing of his imancipation proclamation. On the contrary, the letter before us is proof that he has steadily resisted the importunities of his friends in favor of peace on any other basis than that of absolute submission.—American Baptist.

MR. GREELEY AS A PEACEMAKER.
The letter from Horace Greeley, which is printed in another column, shows that the peace conference at Niagara, last summer, was undertaken by the President at the solicitation of Mr. Greeley. The letter exhibits what will be deemed one of the most remarkable of the vagaries which its author has run into during the inception and progress of the war. He is at present the earnest advocate of the same policy which he recommended last summer; in substance, we mean, for it is not known that he has proposed any definite “plan of adjustment,” although he urges the use of pacific measures, suited to the present exigencies. He implores that a proclamation be issued, which he hopes will prove to be effective in disarming the rebels, and restoring peace without further bloodshed. It is clear that Mr. Greeley was grossly mistaken, in several material respects, when he proposed that the President invite the rebels to return, and to offer them the terms which would, probably, induce their acceptance of them. We think that he is also quite as much mistaken in his conception of the efficacy of a proclation at this time, as he was in proposing negotiations in July.
The first, and a fatal error in Mr. Greeley’s scheme for the pacific restoration of the Union, was his belief that the rebels desired peace, upon any other terms than the recognition of their independence. He says he accepts the statement of his “irrepressible friend, Colorado Jewett,” as “evidencing 
<c05>
the anxiety of the Confederates everywhere for peace. So much is beyond doubt”—in the judgment of the writer. Almost while Mr. Greeley was writing this letter, it was being demonstrated by the highest officers of the rebel government at Richmond, that they would not make peace upon any other terms than the precedent condition of the recognition of the Confederacy. The interview of Jacques and Gilmore with Davis and Benjamin resulted in the frank and explicit avowal of those officers that independence was the sole condition of making peace. Their spirit was a very different one from that which Mr. Greeley supposed they had. His proposals of terms of peace proceeded from a false estimate of favorable conditions. If there remained any doubt on this point after the conference of Jacques and Gilmore, it was entirely removed by the subsequent conference of the rebel commissioners with the President and Mr. Seward. Therein the defiance and the contumacy of the representatives of the Confederacy were re-affirmed. Hence, the proposal of Mr. Greeley, had it been made, would have been rejected. As a peace offering, it was valueless. As a stroke of political strategy, it might have had some efficacy. But he scorned to use it in that manner and with that motive.
The second and no less fatal mistake in the proposed scheme was the misconception of the temper of the people of the North. At the time the letter was written, the grand campaign of Gen. Grant was well advanced. Lee, in spite of his prodigious efforts, was pressed steadily back to the confederate capital. Sherman was sweeping rapidly on in his conquest of Georgia. Gold was at its highest range of premium, but the condition of the national finances was not a hopeless one; it excited apprehension, but not discouragement. The popular heart was at that time beating high with hope. It was encouraged by our successes; it confided in the new commanders; its faith was greater than at some other periods of the war. There was nothing in the situation to warrant the dismal forebodings of the volunteer peace-maker who ventured to remind the President “that our bleeding, bankrupt, almost dying country also longs for peace, shudders at the prospect of fresh conscriptions, of further wholesale devastations, and of new rivers of human blood.” The nation was bleeding, but it made its sacrifices with heroism and not pusillanimously. Eleven days after this letter was written, the President issued his call for five hundred thousand men, and the people set about filling it. Was the nation bankrupt? Let the forty days subscription to the national loan and the hundred millions subscriptions in December, and the forty millions in September, answer this averment? Was the nation almost dying? Let the election the 8th of November, which was the proclamation of the unswerving national faith and determination, respond to the impeachment of it. There were other assertions made in July like this, but they came from men who declared the war to be “a failure,” who had no hopes of restoring the Union, who were ready to acknowledge the independence of the Confederacy. Mr. Greeley’s letter would have sent a thrill of delight through the hearts of the rebels and those of the rebel sympathizers in the North, had it seen the light last July. We shall not say that the North did not desire peace then. Doubtless it did heartily desire it, but never upon the terms proposed, for it rejected similar ones afterwards; that is, rejected the whole policy of negotiation.
It is a very cool proposal to make in behalf of a “ bankrupt country,” that it assume an obligation to pay four millions of dollars, for property which has been lawfully seized from its owners by the rights of war. If the President’s emancipation be valid— which Mr. Greeley maintains—this little four hundred million plum is a bonus to pardoned treason; Mr. Greeley is too generous. The people would never consent to his liberal plan. They would rather take the motto, “Millions for defence, not a cent for tribute.” The plan was impracticable, for it would have obtained the assent of neither of the belligerents. It proceeded from a grave error of opinion, and had it been tried, would certainly have proceeded to failure. The volunteer erred so much in this instance, that his recommendations at this time must be taken with some distrust.—Utica Herald.

AMNESTY.
The mischief which is done by the well-meaning but foolish clamor that the President shall offer fresh terms of peace is incalculable. That the malignant Copperhead opposition should seek to embarrass the situation by representing him as averse to peace is natural; but that loyal papers should persistently poison the public mind with the impression that the President is reluctant or obtuse in the matter is most unfortunate. To destroy public confidence in the chief executive by incessant complaint that he does not act wisely; to insinuate that peace is at every moment possible if only the President chose; to declare that the rebels are merely waiting for a kind word from him before laying down their arms, is to be guilty of the greatest injustice to him, and the gravest injury to the country.
The President has already several times declared to the rebels and the world all that he has the authority to say upon the subject of peace. On the 8th of December, 1863, under the act of Congress which authorized him to promise pardon and amnesty to rebels, with such exceptions and conditions as he chose, the President issued his amnesty proclamation. By this act, be pardoned all rebels who should solemnly take and faithfully keep the oath of allegiance to the Government, restoring all rights of property except as to slaves, and excepting from the pardon certain classes of persons who have held civil or military positions, and who have treated our colored soldiers, seaman, laborers and officers otherwise than as prisoners of war. Last summer he repeated the substance of this offer in saying to whom it might concern that submission to the laws and emancipation were the conditions of peace. On the 6th of December, 1864, the President in his Message renewed the offer of amnesty of the previous year, announcing, however, that the time might come when public duty would demand that the door of grace should be closed. On the 3d of February, at Hampton Roads, he repeated the conditions plainly: the restoration of the national authority, no modification of his position upon the slavery question, and no cessation of hostilities without a final disbanding of the insurgent armies.
What more can or ought the President to do? “What we desire of the President,” says one man, “is that he clear it [the subject] of all ambiguities, by publicly setting forth precisely what the Southern people hitherto in revolt against the Federal authority are to gain or save by promptly throwing down the weapons of rebellion and returning to loyalty and peace.” This is exactly what the President has done, and repeated, and reiterated. It is just <illegible> well known to-day to every man who cares to know it as it could be if it were announced twice a week. His amnesty is addressed to the rank and file of the rebel army, to the deluded people of the South. It
<c06>
could not be clearer or more complete. More than he offers he ought not to offer, nor would public opinion justify. As a citizen of the United States, he may believe as we do, that there is no desire of blood or revenge in the hearts of loyal men. But as President, he certainly ought not to say that Davis, Hunter & Co. shall not be indicted, tried and punished for treason. The pardoning power is not a dispensing power.
There is no conceivable good end to be accomplished by insisting that with every step of General Sherman, the President ought to say to the rebels, “There! will you give it up now? Do, please.” The rank and file of the rebel armies and the citizens of the Southern States know perfectly well that when they take the oath of allegiance in good faith, they are not molested, and are in no danger of a trial for treason. If they do not know it after four distinct proclamations of the fact, a fifth will not help them. To say that our armies open a way to reach the people with the fifth is idle, because as fast and as far as they go, the amnesty goes with them. When the President is ready to offer other conditions and exceptions, he will say so. Until then, humanity and national dignity require him to do exactly what he is doing.—Harper’s Weekly.

ENGLAND AND THE UNITED STATES.
A long debate took place in the British House of Commons on the 13th ult., occasioned by a call for information concerning the defences of Canada. The relations of England and the United States were discussed by Messrs. Forster, Disraeli, Bright and Palmerston. In the course of his remarks, Lord Palmerston denied that the people of the United States had been ill-treated by England, and added that the admission of the belligerent rights of the South was “the result of necessity and not of choice.” He continued as follows:
The honorable gentleman (Mr. Bright) says there exists in this country a jealousy of the United States. Sir, I utterly deny that assertion. (Cheers.) We feel no jealousy of the United States. On the contrary, I am sure that every Englishman must feel proud at seeing upon the other side of the Atlantic a community sprung from the same ancestry as ourselves rising in the scale of civilization, and attaining every degree of prosperity—aye, and of power, as well as wealth. (Hear, hear.) I, therefore, entirely deny that there has been in this country any feeling of jealousy as regards the United States. The North wished us to declare on their side; the South wished us to declare on theirs; and as we maintained a perfect neutrality between the two, some slight degree of irritation arose on both sides against us. (Hear, hear.) But I am equally persuaded with the honorable gentleman, that among the great bulk of the people of the United States there are feelings deeper than that irritation—feelings of good-will towards the country with which their ancestors were connected (hear, hear); and I am satisfied that when this unfortunate contest shall have ceased, whatever its termination, the natural feeling of good-will and relationship which ought to prevail between the two nations will take the place of any temporary irritation which the war may have occasioned. (Hear, hear.)
I am quite satisfied, also, that England will not give to America any just cause of complaint; that war will not proceed from us, and if war does not proceed from our side, and if, as the honorable gentleman thinks, it does not proceed from theirs, then we may have a well-founded expectation that, in spite of adverse appearances for the moment, and in spite of the prognostications of many, the friendly relations between this country and the United States will not incur any real danger of interruption.” “Nevertheless,” Lord Palmerston continued, “the honor of England demands, and our duty as a government binds us to do everything— moreover, that we shall have the sanction of the British nation in doing everything—that we can to defend our fellow-countrymen in Canada.” In conclusion he said:
“We have no complaint to make of the government of the United States—(hear, hear)—they have acted in a fair and honorable manner in all the matters that may have arisen between us. No doubt there are claims which they have put forward, not urging them at present, but laying the ground for their discussion at some future time. No doubt, also, we have claims upon them which we do not put forward at present, but have announced to be claims which at some future time may be discussed. But I should trust that we both feel it to be for the interest—aye, and for the honor of the two countries, that peace should be preserved, and that matters of this sort ought to be capable of a friendly and amicable adjustment. (Cheers.) All I can say is, that the government, as long as they continue to be chargeable with the conduct of affairs, will do everything that the honor and interests of the country will permit them to do to maintain inviolate the relations of peace and friendship between the two countries.”

EFFECTS OF EMANCIPATION.
On the 5th ult., Hon. Mr. Cresswell, of Maryland, made an eloquent and effective speech in the U. S. House of Representatives, in favor of the Anti-Slavery Amendment to the Constitution. In the course of his speech, Mr. C. said:-
In my own State, the freedmen properly appreciate their position. In fact, the slaves, for the most part, knew beforehand from actual intercourse with those of their race previously manumitted what would be expected of them after their emancipation. I have heard no complaints of their idleness or dissipation. All of them with whom I have conversed seem to understand that they must work for an honest livelihood. They were never better behaved. Obedient, cheerful and happy, they seem anxious by their good conduct to reward the efforts of those who labored to make them free. I regret nothing that I have done for them. On the contrary, I rejoice that I have been able to contribute to the restoration of the rights of humanity to a downtrodden race. When passing along through life I encounter these poor freedmen, and hear one of them say, “Master, God bless you,” I feel none the worse that the prayer of a fellow-mortal, black though he be, upon whom I have aided in conferring something more of happiness, has been offered up in my behalf.
The helplessness of the blacks used to be a favorite topic of conversation among the slaveholders of Maryland, but since emancipation has been in course of development, very little has been heard from them on that subject. When Jeff. Davis’s statesmanship had begun to bear fruit, and a fearful suspicion had gradually dawned upon the enlightened understanding of his followers, that instead of making slavery supreme, he had simply knocked out its brains and given its carcass to the dogs, fear made them tell the truth, and we then discovered that helplessness was chargeable more to the masters than to the slaves. “Gracious Heavens!” they exclaimed, “if we lose our slaves, how

“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States because the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”—J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
shall we get along? Why, we never worked a day in our lives. And when, in the course of events, the loyal white people of Maryland for nearly three years had been marching their fathers and sons and brothers to the war, many of them to return no more, and when at the board of almost every loyal family the place of some loved could be filled only by the cherished memory of a gallant soldier who had nobly died for his country, those who had suffered thus, seeing the slaveholders actually profiting by the scarcity of white labor, began to ask, Why are not the burdens of this war made equal? Why are not the slaves put into the army and allowed to fight? At the mere asking of such grossly unconstitutional questions, a wail went up from the salve-owners (except a few, to whom all honor) that rent the heavens. They cried out, “Oh! spare us, spare us; our work must be done, and our slaves must do it. Go on with the draft, and let the white men who are unable to pay commutation go to the war.” But notwithstanding these most affecting entreaties, the able-bodied male slaves nearly all volunteered. After they had gone, the owners were indiscreet enough to complain, because, as they said, all the strong men having been taken they would be taxed with the support of the women and children, the helpless and infirm, and they piteously asked to be relieved from so much unrequited expense and care. This alleged grievance coming to the cars of one having the power to remedy it, he, at once made it known that he would relieve the owners from the charge of all the negroes whom they were unwilling to retain, and would provide for their transportation by sending a steamer to any accessible point that might be designated. Strange to relate, not one application was made for transportation. There was an instantaneous conversion of all who before complained; and like good Christians, they forthwith acknowledged the obligation resting upon them to protect and provide for the imbecile creatures over whom Providence had placed them. But the most ludicrous refutation of all such complaints was given the other day. Even before the election for the adoption of the Constitution had been held, the slave-owners, profiting by the signs of the times, began to ransack the statutes of the State in search of some legal device that would enable us to secure for a few years more the services of the infant slaves. Scarcely had they fished up an old apprentice law, Which the lawyers told them would answer their purpose, when, lo and behold! they gathered up the little darkies of both sexes and crowded them into all conceivable kinds of vehicles, until they looked like over- populous nests of blackbirds, and then conveyed them with all possible haste before the Orphan’s Court, and had them bound out to their former masters. Many of the owners, although the result of the election was then unknown, actually manumitted the children before the 1st of November, and had them bound immediately, in order that they might deprive their parents, who were still slaves, of the right of being consulted after their emancipation as to the disposition of their own offspring.
    You will not wonder at my confidence in the improvement of the negro race when I relate an incident which came under my own observation. Our struggle for emancipation was fierce and closely contested. For a long time the result was in doubt. The soldiers vote finally settled it in our favor by a majority of less than four hundred; but the advocates of slavery, unwilling, although fairly beaten, to surrender a field which they had held so long without dispute, did their utmost, after the election, to defeat the voice of the people, by a resort to protests, and injunctions, and writs of mandamus, and every other device which the ingenuity of counsel could invent. The Governor’s proclamation, declaring the triumph of the friends of freedom, in spite of rebel votes and the “law’s delay,” did not reach the southern section of the State until Monday, the 31st of October, when a steamer from Baltimore brought the official document. A Union meeting was held that day at Cambridge, in Dorchester County, at which it was made known, to the infinite disgust of every faithful follower of Jeff. Davis, that the next day would see Maryland a free State. I know not how the word passed; I saw no flashing beacon, nor flaming brand, nor speeding courier; but as I travelled in open carriage that night to fill an appointment next day, more than fifty miles away, it seemed as if the very air had borne the glad tidings before me. All Africa was abroad; some on horseback, some in wagons, but nearly all on foot, moving along, singing and joyful. When, later at night, I was journeying wearily through the sighing pines, my curiosity was excited by the fact that ever and anon a bright light would suddenly burst upon me. Knowing that country people were usually at that hour abed, these lights were a mystery to me. Turning to my companion, I asked an explanation. He replied, “The lights you see are at the meeting-houses of the negroes, who have met for the purpose of holding watchmeetings to welcome in the 1st of November.” The mystery was explained. The negroes had assembled at midnight, in their rude churches hastily built by the roadside, in the woods, or down at the marshes, to watch for the advent of their day of jubilee, in order that they might receive their earliest experience of heaven’s priceless gift to man—thrice blessed liberty—while on their knees before the Father of all. Surely, a people who will thus dedicate the first moments of their freedom to God, are worthy to be free.
    If, then, the power of amendment extends to the abolition of slavery, and that it does is too clear to admit of a suspicion of a doubt, with what propriety can any slaveholder ask for compensation? They entered the Union with a full knowledge of the existence of that power, and they held their slaves afterwards subject to the right of the people of the United States, in accordance with the forms prescribed, to prohibit human bondage. How, then, can the slaveholders complain of injustice if the people shall choose to exercise their notorious privilege of amendment? But the case is infinitely worse when we advert to the many efforts at conciliation made in the beginning of the rebellion, and find that before the insolence of the Slave Power had culminated in actual war, the Congress proposed, by the necessary majority, an amendment, to the Legislatures of the States, whereby the people were to be deprived of all power of interference with slavery in the Stales by amendment of the Constitution of the United States, and that this proposition, which, if accepted, would have been a perpetual guarantee, was scornfully rejected. Nothing would satisfy the propagandists of slavery but war, terrible war. And now, after the nation has been compelled in defence of its life to expend its treasures by thousands of millions, and sacrifice hundreds of its best and bravest on almost every hill-top, and in almost every valley of the South, who is so craven as to speak of compensation for slaves, when their emancipation was made necessary by the rebellion of their masters?
    Who is so weak as to believe that the rebels can be appeased by concessions to slavery, or that the war can be ended otherwise than by destroying their military power? Have they ever given us reason to entertain any such expectations? Their President, their Congress, the chiefs of their armies, every one of their officials, high or low, who has spoken upon the subject, has always insisted that they will tolerate but one plan of adjustment, namely, that which provides for separation and disunion. Where is the evidence that the rebels will stop the war and return to the Union if we will not destroy slavery? I challenge its production. It nowhere exists. The issue is sharply defined between the rebellion and the United States. On the one side is disunion for the sake of slavery; on the other is freedom for the sake of Union. In the beginning of the war, the rebels, to justify their resort to arms, seized the priestess of prophecy, and compelled her to adopt the sentiment that the Union could not continue with the States part slave and part free. They construed the words literally, and then, by their own voluntary acts, verified the prophecy as they interpreted it. They have demonstrated that the conflicting systems of free and slave labor cannot be reconciled under a republican form of government, but rather that they will develop into political antipathies, which will ultimately, like smoldering, but inextinguishable fires, burst into the full blaze of civil war.
    Others may doubt and fear, but I believe that slavery is doomed. In my judgment, if the people of the Southern Confederacy, so called, were made independent to-morrow, they could not preserve their favorite institution. If this Congress were to promise to protect it for them, could that promise be redeemed? Could you ever again enforce a Fugitive Slave law? No human power can again so far stifle the voice of nature as to hush into submission the denunciations of slavery, which rise like exhalations from all parts of the land. Civilization everywhere speaks for liberty. Russia, by her grand act of emancipation, has banished serfdom from Europe. England, France, Denmark, Sweden, Holland, and
<c02>
Portugal, have all crossed the ocean to liberate the bondman. Less than seven million slaves remain within the bounds of Christendom; and for four millions of these, we stand responsible in the sight of God and man. Knowing all this, the enlightened, determined and irrepressible sentiment of the nation cries aloud, “Away with slavery, away with slavery!” So long as we hesitate and delay this great work, we can have no peace. Whether we would or not, we must establish freedom if we would exterminate treason. Events have left us no choice. The people have learned their duty, and have instructed us accordingly. Let us do our part, and, as their, heralds, proclaim universal freedom. Having thus declared a policy, plain, but imperishable, our armies, while winning a glorious and enduring peace, will secure by the same crowning victories the enfranchisement of the human race, and so brighten the future with blessings for the oppressed and enslaved of all the earth, that posterity, amazed at the magnitude of their achievements, will record that as they marched,
“High in front advanced,
    The brandished sword of God before them blazed Fierce as a comet”.
    ‘‘The brandished sword of God !” aye, “the brandished’ sword of God!” He has led this holy crusade for country and for freedom. When men despaired because they could discover no solution of the dreadful enigma which slavery propounded; when even the churches quailed before it and prostituted the Bible to the propitiation of the monster, God came to the rescue, and solved the riddle by destroying the sphinx. If God is nowhere else recognized in the Constitution, nevertheless He will speak in every word of this amendment. His providence has nursed it into being. Out of the hard discipline of civil war, He has evoked and made intelligible to all men a thought divine, which will ever serve as a guiding inspiration for the nation in its toilsome search to discover by the lights of experience the true philosophy of free government.
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1865.
    I REPEAT THE DECLARATION MADE A YEAR AGO, THAT WHILE I REMAIN IN MY POSITION, I SHALL NOT ATTEMPT TO RETRACT OF MODIFY THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION, NOR SHALL I RETURN TO SLAVERY ANY PERSON WHO IS FREE BY THE TERMS OF THAT PROCLAMATION, OR BY ANY OF THE ACTS OF CONGRESS. IF THE PEOPLE SHOULD, BY WHATEVER MODE OR MEANS, MAKE IT AN EXECUTIVE DUTY TO REENSLAVE SUCH PERSONS, ANOTHER, AND NOT I, MUST BE THE INSTRUMENT TO PERFORM IT.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
    The Thirty-Second Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the city of New York, on TUESDAY, May 9th, at 10 o’clock, A.M.
    The Executive Committee urge upon all the members of the Society a prompt attendance at this meeting. The questions to come before it are of the greatest importance. Some members of the Committee propose, in view of the almost certain ratification of the Anti-Slavery Amendment of the United States Constitution, to dissolve the Society at this annual meeting; while others would postpone such dissolution until the ratification of that Amendment is officially proclaimed; and others, still, advocate continuing the Society’s existence until all the civil rights of the negro are secured.
    Besides this, whichever of these views receives the sanction of the Society, there is the further question whether the Standard shall be continued.
    On these and other accounts, our deliberations will be most interesting and important, and ought to assemble all the members and earnest friends of the Society.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, 
C. C. BURLEIGH,Secretaries.

MR. GARRISON AT FORT SUMTER.
    The readers of the Liberator did not fail to notice Mr. Garrison’s announcement last week that, by invitation of the Secretary of War, he was about to go to Charleston, South Carolina, to witness the re-raising of the Flag of the United States on Fort Sumter, on the 14th inst., four years from the day when, under the fire of rebels and traitors, Major Anderson and his little band were compelled to lower it, and see the infamous flag of rebellion lifted to its place. They will also be gratified to hear that, at the suggestion of Senator Wilson, of this State, the invitation was extended to George Thompson, Esq., and that this true friend, not less of our country than of the anti-slavery cause, has accepted it, and accompanied Mr. Garrison on this new and peculiar mission. Senator Wilson, himself, a representative man of the long contest of the nation with its subtle enemy, the Slave Power, was also of the party. The best wishes of all friends of the Liberator and of the anti-slavery cause go with them, and heartfelt thanksgivings to the good God for all the evidence which will meet their eager eyes of the Nation’s deliverance from the blighting power of that monstrous wickedness, to the overthrow of which they have, in their several posts and spheres of duty, given the best years of their lives.
    At the very time when this paper is in the hands of the majority of its readers, probably the services will be proceeding at Fort Sumter, in Charleston harbor, to which these our friends, with many other loyal citizens of the land, have thus been invited.
    What abolitionist can think of the presence of William Lloyd Garrison at that spot, on that occasion, and this too by express invitation of the national authorities, without feelings of profoundest awe at that wonder-working Providence which controls human affairs, or without emotions which in vain seek adequate expression?
    Thirty-five yean ago, “in a small chamber, friendless and unseen,” Mr. Garrison commenced with the humblest means and surroundings, the labor of abolishing American slavery! Scarce an individual in the land was there, who did not deem the work to the last degree foolish and visionary, and most believed it impossible. As fast as he and his work became known, so fast was he met with ridicule, scorn, abuse, persecution, and ere long with attempts to take his life. Denunciation, as a disturber of the peace, as a fanatic, as a traitor, as an infidel, fell heavy upon him from the political and religious journals, and all the high places of the land. All who befriended and aided him, or who even suggested that there was justification or excuse even for him, were visited with like condemnation, and subjected to the severest penalties which political and social proscription, or religious intolerance, combined with power, could inflict. The work they were doing was condemned as not less cruel to the slaves, than illegal and treasonable towards the nation and its government. The whole force of the learning, talent, wealth, and even religion of the land, with the fewest possible exceptions, was lifted up to crush their work and them. “Everywhere,” as with Christianity in its early days, the anti-slavery cause was “spoken against,” and the name of Mr. Garrison and his friends “cast out as evil.” But on these painful and humiliating remembrances we care not now to dwell.
“Snatched from the world’s pursuing wrath,
Unharmed when death o’erhung our head,—
Like ransomed Israel on the shore,
Here then we pause, look back, adore.”
    In such circumstances of all but universal hostility, of determined purpose on the part of all whose power was deemed irresistible, to destroy and crush it utterly, how did the anti-slavery cause live? How did it prevail to gain a foot-hold, a hearing, consideration, and now at length, in the space of no more than thirty-five years, its TRIUMPH, with the general consent of all the wisdom, conscience, intelligence and patriotism of
<c03>
the land? The answer is but one, and all know, all feel it. “ Not by might, not by power, but by my Spirit, saith the Lord.” It was simply because the almighty power of Truth, Justice and Right was with it, and with its unselfish, devoted advocates; because the sure arm of the Infinite was on their side; and they even in the darkest hours believed and said, “If God be for us, who can be against us?”
    Such was the estimation in which the anti-slavery cause, and Mr. Garrison, its chief representative, were, until a very recent period, held. But a mighty change has taken place. And for this change, the thirty years’ education of the people, through the anti-slavery movement, was the necessary and pre-destined preparation. Four years ago, that Slave Power, whose evil nature Mr. Garrison had so accurately described, but whose infamous designs on the life of the nation not even he at first foresaw, made manifest to the world its real character and aims by lifting up the bloody hand of rebellion, the hand of an assassin and robber, against the nation and its legally constituted authorities. In that hour, multitudes saw and confessed what before they would never admit, that Slavery was the inherent, necessary enemy of our Republic; from its nature opposed to all freedom, not less than to the freedom of its immediate victims. From that hour, the work of opening the blinded eyes and unstopping the deaf ears has been going forward—and with a celerity of progress unexampled before in any nation’s history. The flower of our young men, springing to arms for the defence of the nation’s life, have seen for themselves what Slavery is, and does, and has attempted to do, and their conversion to anti-slavery is sealed beyond all possibility of change. The Government, no friend to Slavery at any moment, but constitutionally restrained from touching it, while slavery itself continued seemingly loyal, waited but for the nation to see for itself the real cause of the rebellion; and then, and quite as soon as a controlling majority did see that slavery was the felon which had created and sustained the rebellion, it struck Slavery a deadly blow, January 1st, 1863, from the effect of which it has never recovered. The nation has approved and ratified that act. Vast numbers who, like Mr. Everett, at first distrusted its expediency, have come to see and acknowledge its justice and absolute necessity, and to render to the whole anti-slavery policy of the Government an unqualified support. The re-election of Mr. Lincoln in November last placed the nation on the side of uncompromising anti-slavery action, and gave assurance that the work of rooting out Slavery forever would be fully accomplished.
    The nation is therefore no longer at variance with Mr. Garrison; and Mr. Garrison can no longer be, and has no desire to be, without cause, at variance with the nation. Although but comparatively few may be magnanimous enough—as some have nobly been—to admit and avow the essential correctness and far seeing wisdom of his course as an abolitionist, yet there is no real dissent from his principles and position on the part of any considerable number in the land. The people and the Government have pronounced upon Slavery the verdict of Guilty, and have sentenced it to a malefactor’s death. With the greatest promptitude, and even gladness, the States have ratified the Anti-Slavery Amendment of the Consituttion, and it can be but a little time before the full number required for its adoption will be obtained.
    Mr. Garrison is no longer a proscribed, but an honored man, in the land of his birth. Whereas, as the advocate of a most unpopular cause, he was misrepresented, reviled, and held as the nation’s enemy, now, since his every word has been more than verified, and because men understand his faithful and resolute anti-slavery life, he is respected and revered. He bears a name and has acquired a reputation,—to be enjoyed while yet he lives,—which the most greedy of fame might covet. To-day he is recognized by the candid and thoughtful as having been a true, simple-hearted, and far-seeing friend of his country, wisely fore-warning against the impending consequences of the nation’s great crime, and nobly laboring at the risk of his life, and with sacrifice of all that men usually strive after, to save her from it. A nation, schooled by the terrible lessons of loss, suffering, and humiliation, which this four years’ war has forced upon her, taught by adversity a higher wisdom than ever it could have gained in prosperity, taught to measure itself more justly, taught to esteem of small account many things which before it had placed high in its regard,—now gives honor to the man and to the cause, which before it scorned and loaded with reproach.
    And this is the real significance of Mr. Garrison’s presence at Fort Sumter, on this occasion of national rejoicing and triumph. It tells of a regenerated public sentiment, of a new moral purpose and life in the nation. Without this were so, Mr. Garrison could not possibly have gone thither as the Nation’s guest. In this significance we accept and most fervently rejoice in the fact of his invitation and of his appearance there. It tells of a people worthy to have so greatly suffered, worthy to be saved through suffering, of a people not given over by a righteous God to be forever in the bondage of that terrible idolatry which held them bound so long, a bondage more dishonoring and to be dreaded than that of the four millions at the South, whose slavery was made sure by national consent and complicity. It tells of a Government above the poor prejudice and narrowness which actuate ordinary statesmen, ready to bestow honor where justice shows it to be due, and ready to give public expression to the convictions of the wisest and best in the land.
    We regard this invitation to Mr. Garrison as a recognition also of the anti-slavery movement of the country, and a willing testimony to its essential worth, as just, humane, and indispensable. We know that Mr. Garrison so regarded it, holding it as a tribute to the great body of men and women whom be might be supposed lo represent, and not at all as a tribute to himself. We do not agree that considerations, personal to himself, had no influence in the case. On the contrary, we believe they had very much to do with it. Mr. Garrison’s course, throughout the war, has been so consistently fair, he has been so considerate in his judgment of those upon whom was laid the tremendous responsibility of conducting the country through this conflict, he has been, so obviously actuated by the single desire to have slavery, the cause of the rebellion and of so much of our national shame and wo, dealt with as it deserved, and that for the highest reasons of the national good, his criticisms, his public speeches, his whole action have been so large and wise, that every reflecting mind has come to honor him; and it was therefore to have been looked for that, on an appropriate occasion, the National government should publicly recognize him as one of the most true, faithful, and honorable of its citizens. We are far more glad that it has done so, for its own sake, than for the personal gratification it must give to Mr. Garrison and his friends. It honors itself in honoring such as he. And the good, the wise, and the true, the world over, will feel their respect increased and their estimate enlarged of this nation and its government, when they see such proofs of magnanimity and justice, if tardy, yet so full and cordial.
    And so the good cause of Liberty and Justice goes on, conquering and TO CONQUER! The nation has put its hand to the plough, and it will not look back. The long-oppressed and outraged slave is a slave no more! Hereafter he and his children are to be recognized as our brothers, the steadfast friends of our nation in its season of great peril, the compassionate helpers of so many of our sons and brothers suffering under the torturing hands of the infamous wretches who made the rebellion. God bless and strengthen every soul who as labored for them in the long past, and every one who still loves to work for their complete deliverance, and for the true honor and nobleness of our counry!—S. M.
    The Massachusetts House of Representatives has voted, 189 to 5, that it is inexpedient to legislate on so much of GOV. Andrew’s message as relates to the abolition of capital punishment.
<c04>
“VIOTORY AND JUSTICE.”
    This was the title of an excellent discourse, preached last Sunday by Rev. Samuel Johnson, of Salem, before the 28th Congregational Society of Boston, from the following text—“The city of the barbarians is destroyed: it shall never be built again.”
    The defeat of McClellan (said Mr. Johnson) destroyed the political power of the rebellion; the capture of Charleston destroyed its social power; and now the capture of Richmond has destroyed its military power. But our great victory is the Anti-Slavery Amendment to the Constitution. Now compromise is impossible. The John Brown song in Charleston and Richmond has silenced the slave-whip for ever. The most significant sign of the thoroughness of our victory is the presence of Garrison in Charleston. The slave has triumphed, and in him we are emancipated. Who will now maintain that inspiration is a monopoly of the past? What chapter of the Bible can teach God’s providential lesson more clearly than the impress set upon laws, customs, character, by the wondrous events of this hour?
    What a change in the position of the Negro! His sacrifice was the cement of the old Union. Our laws and customs assumed him to be nothing. A timeserving elergy passed by him as nothing. The Supreme Court decreed that he was nothing. Even the war was waged on the supposition that he was nothing. Now he stands with North and South at his feet, master of the situation, the recognized victor of the hour. Four years of war have taught us the rights and the importance of the negro. What mean the <illegible,> the devoted loyalty, the inspiration of self-help, which this despised and down-trodden people have shown? They show themselves men. They meet our sympathy and aid more than half way. Their position symbolizes the unity of man. The black race has obtained larger recognition in two years than any other race ever did in two hundred. Through the conditions of slaves, fugitives, contrabands and freedmen, they have now risen to be freemen.
    The most important part of our work, however, is yet to come. The question for us to ask and to answer is—Shall full justice be rendered to our black deliverers? The right of the ballot is, to the Southern negro, the only security for the permanent recognition of his rights as a man and a citizen. An opportunity is now before us (by favor of the war) which will never come again. What we do not effect now, in the propitious moment of enthusiasm, must wait long years for fulfilment. Shall we depend upon State action to settle this matter? What reason has the negro to expect justice from the spontaneous action of the Southern States? This is sure: we shall need every negro ballot to stem the tide of pro-slavery barbarism. These are fleeting moments. Let us seize them before the cessation of the war shall diminish our power to organize justice into law. Who knows in what form peace approaches? Thank God that no precedent exists to turn our action from the path of justice. All honor to our Senator, who has prevented the untimely readmission of Louisiana. I hold his victory to be as important, and as worthy of commemoration, as any of those of Grant or Sherman.
    We want another Amendment of the Constitution to insure that it shall be liberty and citizenship which will replace slavery.
    What is to be done? Enforce on the Administration and Congress that no reconstruction can be permanent which does not maintain the equal rights of the negro. The necessities of public safety must determine public duty. If you have the right to take the franchise from rebels as a penalty, you have the right to give it to the race which has defended and saved the nation. Shun amnesties which, would restore to rebel populations the rights of States. We have victory and all the means and terms of reconstruction in our own hands, and no vicious precedents limit our action. Till the negro is fully a citizen, let no one think that all is done. Let not the war angel escape from our grasp, until we have wrung from him the needed blessing.
    What is it which has borne us onward four centuries in four years? This whirlwind of war has had an orbit as steady as a planet’s sweep, and it shows clearly the hand of a superintending Providence. We have had our year of recognition and acceptance of duty, followed by a year of illumination and progress. Now come the years of accomplishment and jubilee, if we do not forfeit them by unfaithfulness.
    It is New England, Massachusetts, whose ideas now lead the way, who have spoken the word which rules this hour. The speaker closed with a fervent and impressive tribute to Theodore Parker, the first occupant of the pulpit in which he stood, for his faithful treatment of the great claims of liberty and righteousness in past years.—C. K. W.

THE DEATH OF THE SLAVEHOLDERS’ REBELLION.
    We go to press this week in the midst of universal jubilation. The air is filled with the music of bells and the reverberation of cannon; no demonstration of delight seems too extravagant, no expression of gratitude is adequate to the occasion. The celebration of the capture of Richmond was measured—for four years of premature congratulations and prophecies have taught us to distrust success itself; but the news of Lees’s surrender to Gen. Grant was the signal for a popular demonstration unequalled since the fall of Sumter.
    We know not how to express fittingly the thoughts suggested by this great event. Four years ago this very month, we were entering upon the uncertainties of civil war; slavery-in arms, boastful, defiant, aggressive, temporarily successful; the South a unit; the North untried, half hearted, with vision not yet unsealed to the true issue, hampered by treason in its midst, its counsels made impotent by timidity, its mein apologetic, its purpose wavering.
    Who shall forget the night into which we then plunged, the humiliation of defeat which followed, the costly sacrifice of precicus life, the heavy gloom which settled upon the minds of the most hopeful, the fear of wicked and cowardly compromise!
    For a while it seemed as if the God-defying Confederacy, founded upon human bondage, and its creed of lies, would prevail, so evenly the scales of conflict hung; and atheistic lips doubted the possibility of the Right’s triumph, and advised surrender.
    But God is just, and permits suffering not without reason, and only when the nation conquered itself and pronounced the dreaded talismanic word, “ Emancipation,” did the dawn flush the East. How marvellously the connection between right and might has been illustrated in this war! How victories of arms in the field have waited upon the victories of justice in the Cabinet and Congress! President Lincoln’s Proclamation marked the turning of the tide, and thenceforth the armies of the South lost their prestige of invincibility. Then success preponderated with the Union arms, for “Freedom followed the flag”; yet was the universal decree needed, and at last the Constitutional Amendment came. It shivered the cornerstone of the rebellion to atoms, and the downfall of Richmond, the capture of Lee, the ignominious flight of Davis and his fugitive Cabinet, are its fitting sequel.
    Glory, hallelujah! The nation enters upon its new life! Let there be no false magnanimity in this hour of triumph. Let mercy temper the judgment which punishes the traitors, but let the insensate folly that, under any plea, would fan into even momentary brightness the dying embers of slavery be execrated. Let there be no concession to caste, no shadow of compromise concerning the equal rights of the colored race. All hail the great Hereafter!—w. L. G., JR.
    The Constitutional Amendment abolishing slavery throughout the United States was unanimously ratified by both branches of the Tennessee Legislature on the 5th inst. Tennessee is the 20th State that has adopted the amendment.
<c05>
LETTER FROM IRELAND.
    The reader will readily perceive that the letter which follows was written out of a heart deeply interested in our national struggle for justice and liberty, and alive to all its great results, the world .over. It was not written with the remotest thought of publication; still, at Mr. Garrison’s desire, it is cheerfully furnished. The writer, a young Irishman, who from his earliest youth has had the fullest opportunity of knowing the full meaning of the Anti-Slavery movement in this country, will not object, we hope, to this use of his letter —M.
DUBLIN, March 15, 1865.
DEAR MR. MAY:
    Although I am a very young man, the words “ Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation,’’ have been ringing in my ears for the last few days. What then must be the feelings of those to whom the Anti-Slavery struggle has been almost a life-long one,—a weary struggle for years of hope deferred? Really, since the news came of the passage by Congress of the Anti-Slavery Amendment, (of course there is no doubt but that it will be passes by the States also,) and of the recent successes at Fort Fisher, Charleston and elsewhere, I have felt almost as if I were walking on air, and have felt ashamed when I have allowed myself to be put out by any of the small crosses of business and every-day life. Oh, is it not too good to be true! I never knew before what the expression “dying for joy” meant; for never in the whole course of my life has anything occurred that moved me so deeply as the recent events, and all the recent successes of the good cause. Will not people in after days say, “What would I not have given to have lived in the time when such events took place!” Yes, it is indeed a great privilege to live now in these days;—how much more so to you who have the honor of being the citizens of that great country, and of being hard workers in the great work that has brought these marvellous events to pass! As an Irishman, who has never felt in unison with the feelings of most of my countrymen,—as manifested in my day,—and who, on the other hand, has never felt in any degree as subject to England, or in any degree glorying in her “greatness”—my nationality, or rather those national feelings that most have deep in them, have been entirely eradicated from my composition, if they ever existed there. The feeling, “My country is the world, my countrymen are all mankind,” can never fill the void in one’s nature that is left by the feeling of the want of a special nationality. Therefore, knowing what the want is, I can the more sympathize with you in your pleasure in being citizens of a great and free country. In fact, I feel very much of an American, and constantly find myself speaking of “our “” generals, “our” cause, etc. I cannot imagine any conjunction of circumstances under which I would feel it my duty to fight for England. I can easily imagine it to be my duty to take up a musket for the “ stars and stripes.” If ever there was a nation befooled and bamboozled by its statesmen and writers, it is this country, with reference to the great struggle. Would you believe it, there is, with a few exceptions, scarcely any notice taken by the papers here of the Constitutional Amendment—the greatest event that has occurred this century. There is not half the notice taken of it that there would be of the fact of the Prince of Wales spraining his foot! Of course, there is a large body of the working classes of England, and many of the great thinkers, that are true on the subject; but the whole body of the nation has been drugged into an absolute lethargy on the great events going on. When the news of the amendment came, I felt as if I was in a new world—as if the sun shone more brightly, as if the spring flowers opened in more lovely hues than they ever did before. I went through the streets, and I did not see one face brighter for the great event, one step lighter. Many to whom I spoke about it asked, “What is the amendment?” etc., etc. “ O, fools and slow of heart!” But I feel it impossible but that this deadness of feeling must soon give way before the irresistible evidence that is being pressed on this country every day in favor of the “good cause.” That Report on the atrocities in rebel prisons has been widely circulated, and cannot but affect many; and there is scarcely a day that some book or pamphlet, enlightening the people here on the true state of things, is not issued. These may have a small circulation, but it is like the little leaven; and I believe that after a while, spite of the venom of the Times and the feelings of the “upper” classes and the snobs, that a great change must come about in public feeling here.
    Do not let us be too elated, though. Of course, the rebellion may yet take a, couple of years to trample out; but who that trusts in the goodness of God can doubt but that it will be eventually trampled out? The good results to liberty generally throughout the world from this war will amply repay the bloodshed and loss of treasure it has occasioned. Who can measure the loss in precious lives? But does not the spirit of those who have fallen smell sweetly and more effective for good than if they had lived?

LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XXXI.
NEW YORK, April 6, 1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
    The North has lost its war-cry—“On to Richmond!” Our armies have entered in and passed beyond, and the haughty city becomes a recruiting station for the colored troops of the United States. What I wrote of the general joy manifested here at the downfall of Charleston may be repeated with emphasis of the rejoicing on Monday. Then the exultation was in the divine retribution upon the breeder of the rebellion, now in the vision of peace and certain triumph. Hence the feeling ran high over Richmond, and was shared more universally. The thoroughly loyal, the semi-loyal and the quasi-loyal suddenly fused together in an outburst of enthusiasm. He who could not hurrah for Grant’s success was an unmistakable traitor; and some such there were, only not loud-mouthed. In Wall street, banners and business were simultaneously suspended, and the uprorious crowd that blocked the passage before the Custom-House sang, with numerous, repetitions, “Old Hundred,” “The Star-Spangled Banner,” “Rally Round the Flag,” and “The John Brown Song,” in the intervals of patriotic speeches.
    At last we witness a vagabond Confederacy—without a capital—without a single large city—without a seaport, and without hope! “The foxes have sholes, and the birds of the air have nests,” but the Confederacy has not where to lay its head. No matter; it could not rest if it tried. Horrid dreams would disturb its slumbers, which at best can be but brief. The insolent empire which erewhile demanded recognition among the stable governments of the earth, is reduced to a fugitive host beset on every side—fugitive, and therefore fitly represented in England by slave-hunting Mason. The self-styled alliance of sovereign States is resolved into a conglomeration of regiments. The camp is Congress and Court in one. The only rule is that of military despotism, while of popular self-government there remains not a particle. Our vast and well-disciplined forces have to deal with roving banditti, and Lee and Johnston are but the chiefs of a guerilla rabble. As I write, we only know of a root and a pursuit; defeat, desertion, mutiny even may hasten the last hour of the rebellion, and change the whole aspect of the controvery in an instant.
    With the end of destruction begins the work of construction. The nation is to repair the waste places of treason, and to remove the corner-stone of the demolished edifice. We fear the old danger—that the people are not ready to destroy every vestige of the extinct barbarism. Regarding peace rather as a cessation from arms than from iniquity, their terms are likely to be those of the soldier, and not of the statesman or the Christian. Believing in jails and
<c06>
gallowses as necessary instruments of civil order, they will nevertheless be tempted to pardon the most deliberate, the most hardened, the most atrocious criminals in all history. Emancipation of the blacks is sure, but not the following measures: extirpation or expatriation of the leading conspirators who may be caught; the treatment of every subjugated State as a territory, which must apply a second time for admission; the enforcement of a republican form of government in every such community, and of perfect equality before the law; the confiscation of the great landed estates, their subdivision and distribution among the freedmen, the soldiers, and (for a price) among immigrants. Those who own the soil and wield the ballot will establish beyond peradventure the character of the States. Let loyalty and republicanism entrench themselves in negro citizenship and realty.
    Since I last wrote you has appeared your announcement that the Liberator terminates with the present volume. Albeit the days of this correspondence are there by clearly numbered, I am not disposed to regret the course you have decided upon. I agree in thinking that the special work of the abolitionists is over, and that their sympathies and energies are called to further exercise under new auspices, and under a new nomenclature. The objects of their philanthropy have not disappeared, but changed condition, and compel a corresponding change of solicitude and interference. In the general transformation, the ancient lines of division are broken up—the abolitionist merges in the citizen, and finds himself unexpectedly amid a battalion of coadjutors, where before he had labored with a corporal’s guard. The regret which I feel, therefore, is not on the score of slavery: the heavy burdens are undone, every yoke is broken, and the oppressed go free. But the Liberator, while distinguished for a main object, strove to loosen all the bonds which fetter the human kind. This it did, not by scattering its efforts, or relinquishing its prominent purpose, but as the astronomer, when <illegible> at some brilliant luminary, sees most distinctly a fainter one aside. The Liberator never lost sight of abolition, but its eye took in also the infant reforms which appeared in other portions of the field. All these will miss its advocacy. The nation, if it only apprehended, would miss the fairest journal that ever was conducted: that never refused an opponent a chance to vindicate himself, and which systematically reproduced the arguments of its adversaries as the best confirmation of the justice of its cause. The abolitionists taught all other reformers how to agitate and alter public sentiment. The Liberator will be queath an example of impartiality and fair play by which the press may profit, if it cares to hold an even balance between Trojan and Tuscan.
    The National Unitarian Convention is now in session here. The proceedings of yesterday were mainly preliminary, and the principal subject of controversy was postponed as soon as broached. By the time this letter is printed, you will have been informed what action was taken on the creed proposed by Mr. A. A. Low, of Brooklyn, which he desired proclaimed “in no uncertain sound,” and which run<W> as follows:—
    “1. Belief in the Holy Scriptures as containing a revelation of God to man, and as deduced therefore, 2. Belief in one God the Father. 3. Belief in one Lord Jesus Christ our Savior, the Son of God, and his specially appointed messenger and representative to our race, gifted with supernatural powers, approved of God by miracles and signs and wonders which God did by him. 4. Belief in the Holy Ghost the Comforter. 5. Belief in the forgiveness of sin, the resurrection from the dead, and life everlasting.”
    If this be Unitarianism,—and Mr. Low asserted that these were its fundamental doctrines,—it seems to my untrained understanding to differ from Trinitarianism only by being taken in detail instead of in the lump. I am reminded of the negro’s delicacy in reporting the loss of his master’s stock: “Massa, one ob your oxen is dead—toder one too. Thought I wouldn’t tell you bof at once, ‘fear you couldn’t beat it!” Mr. May, of Syracuse, sought rather to unite with Universalism than with Orthodoxy, and offered a sensible resolution to that effect.
M. DU PATS..
LETTER FROM GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
ON BOARD THE “ARAGO,”
New York, April 8th, 11.30 A. M.
DEAR MR. WALLCUT:
    In half an hour we shall start on our passage to Charleston. The day is one of the most brilliant I have ever seen in April. I have just left Mr. Garrison, Senator Wilson and Theodore Tilton on the deck, and have come below to pen a few lines, which, after they have satisfied your own curiosity, may, if you have no further information, go into the next Liberator, for the satisfaction of Mr. Garrison’s many friends, who will naturally take a deep interest in his visit to the cradle (and now the grave) of secession and rebellion.
    The pioneer is in excellent health and spirits. We had a pleasant journey to New York. Yesterday was spent in company with Oliver Johnson, Rev. S. J. May, Theodore Tilton, and other friends. We slept last night in Brooklyn. 
    Secretary Stanton telegraphed yesterday to Mr. Garrison that his (W. L. G’s) son, George Thompson, now with his regiment on James Island, would have a furlough during his father’s stay in Charleston.
    We shall call at Fortress Monroe on our way, and from thence I will try and send you a few lines, reporting progress. There, according to his telegram, we shall be joined by Mr. Stanton, who will proceed with us to our destination. 
    We shall have a goodly company on board the “Arago,” which is a fine vessel, and will afford ample and excellent accommodation for the passengers. A list of those who are going in her upon this memorable trip will doubtless be published in the New York papers, and can be copied into the Liberator.
    Passing events indicate that on the 14th, the hoisting of the Old Flag upon Fort Sumter will be an occasion for the celebration of the complete triumph of the cause of Union and Emancipation over Secession, Rebellion and Slavery. 
    I could write much of my own feelings as I look back upon the thirty years and six months which have elapsed since I landed on the shores from which I am now departing. Then I was denounced by a slaveholding President for preaching the doctrines of Universal Liberty. To-day, I am the guest of an anti-slavery President, on board a United States Government vessel, on an expedition to the city of Charleston, S. C., to see a flag raised, which is not only the symbol of Union, but of Freedom; a flag which, ere long., will denote that the country it represents has abolished and prohibited for ever involuntary servitude within State and territory subject to the jurisdiction of United States’ law.
    But I must conclude. In a few moments we shall be under weigh. In former years, the question was often put to me, “Why don’t you go to the South?” To-day I answer—“I am going; going to celebrate the triumph of Garrisonian abolitionism in Charleston; going in company with Garrison himself; going to tread a once slave-cursed soil, soon to be “redeemed, regenerated and disenthralled by the irresistible Genius of Universal Emancipation.”
Sound the loud timberl abroad o’er the sea,
Jehovah hath triumphed, the Negro is free,
GEO. THOMPSON.
It is stated that our debt on the 31st of March amounted to $1,000,361,241 80 of gold- bearing bonds $751,055, 128 29 legal tender bonds; bonds on which interest has ceased, $349, 420 09; debt bearing no interest $515,189,287 16. The total is but little short of $2,000,367,000. The war will probably leave as with a debt of about two thousand seven hundred million dollars. The interest on such a debt will be a heavy burden, and our annual peace expenditure will not be less than $250,000,000 of which one-half could be obtained by duties on imports, supposing them to be levied with reference to revenue alone.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
SURRENDER OF GEN.LEE AND HIS WHOLE ARMY.
OFFICIAL DISPATCHES.
WAR DEPARTMENT, WASHINGTON, April 9, 1865-9 o'clock, P. M.
Hen. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
General Lee surrendered the army of Northern Virginia this 
afternoon upon the terms proposed by myself. The accompanying additional correspondence will show the conditions fully.
U. S. GRANT, Lieut.  General.
APRIL 9, 1865.
General: I received your note of his morning on the picket line; whither I had come to meet you and assertion what terms were embraced in your proposition of yesterday with reference to the surrender of this army, I now request an interview, in accordance with the offer contained in your letter of yesterday, for that purpose. 
Very respectfully, 
Your obedient servant,
R. E. LEE. General
To Lieut. GEN. GRANT, Commanding U. S. Armies.
APRIL 9, 1865
Gen, R. E. Lee, Commanding Confederate States Armies: 
Your note of this date is but this moment (11.5 A.M.) received, in consequence of my having passed from the Richmond and Lynchburg road, I am at this writing about fout miles west of Walter's Church, and will push forward to the front for the purpose of meeting you. Notice sent to me on this road where you wish the interview to take place will meet me.
Very respectfully,
Your obedient servant,
U. S. GRANT, Lieu General.
APPOMATTOX COURT HOUSE, April 9, 1865.
Gen. R.E. Lee, Commanding C. S. A .:
In accordance with the substance of my letter to you of the 8th  inst. I propose to receive the surrender of the Army of Northern Virginia on the following terms, to wit:
Rolls of all the officers and men to be made in duplicate,. One copy to be given to an officer designated by me, the other to be retained by such officers as you may designate. Officers to give their individual parole not to take up arms against the Government of the United States until properly exchanged, and each company or regimental commander to sign a like parole for the men of their commands. The arms, artillery and public property to be paraded and stacked and turned over to officers appointed by me to receive them. This will not embrace the sidearm of the officers, nor their private horses or baggage. This done, each officer and man will be allowed to return to their homes, not to be disturbed by the United States authority so long as they observe their parole and the laws in force where they may reside.
Very respectfully, 
U. S. GRANT, Lieut. General.
HEADQUARTERS ARMY NORTHERN VIRGINIA April 9, 1865.
Lied. General U. S. Grant, commanding U. S. A.:
General; I have received your letter of this date, containing the terms of surrender of the Army of Northern Virginia, as proposed by you. As they are substantially the same as those expressed in your letter of the 8th inst., they are accepted. I will proceed to designate the proper officers to catty the stipulation into effect. 
Very respectfully 
Your obedient servant,
R. E. LEE, General.
The following is the previous correspondence between Lieut. Gen. Grant and General Lee referred to in the foregoing telegram to the Secretary of War:
The following correspondence has taken place between general Lee and myself. There has been no relaxation in the pursuit during its pendency.
U. S. GRANT, Lieut. General.
April 9, 1865.
Gen. R. E. Lee. Commanding C. S. A.:
General: The result of the last week must convince you of the hopelessness of further resistance on the jart of the Army of Northern Virginia in this struggle. I feel that it is .so, and regard it as my duty to shift from myself the responsibility of any further effusion of the Confederate States Army known as the Army of North Virginia.
Your obedient servant,
U. S. GRANT,
Lieut, General Commanding Armies of the U. S.
April 7, 1865.
General: I have received your note of this date Though not entirely of the opinion you express of the hopelessness of further resistance on the part of the Army of Northern Virginia, I reciprocate your desire to avoid useless effusion of blood, and therefore, before considering your proposition, ask the terms you will offer on condition of  its surrender.
R. E. LEE. General. 
To Lieut, Gen, GRANT, Commanding Armies of the United States.
APRIL 8, 1865.
To General R. E. Lee, Commanding Confederate States Army:
General: Your note of last evening in reply to mine of the same date, asking the conditions on which I will accept the surrender of the Army of Northern Virginia, is just received. In reply, I would say that, peace being my first desire, there is but one condition that I insist upon, viz.: that the men surrendered shall be disqualified for taking up arms against the government of the United States until properly exchanged. I will meet you or designate officers-any officers you may name-for the same purpose, at any point agreeable to you, for the purpose of arranging definitely the terms upon which the surrender of the Army of Northern Virginia will be received.
Very respectfully,
Your obedient servant,
U. S. GRANT,
Lieut. General Comd'g Armies of the U. S.
APRIL 8, 1865.
General: I received at a late hour your note of to-day in answer to mine of yesterday. I did not intend to propose the surrender of the Army of Northern Virginia, but to ask the terms of your proposition. To be frank, I do not think the emergency has arisen to call for the surrender; but as the restoration of peace should be the sole object of all, I desire to know whether your proposals would tend to that end. I cannot, therefore, meet you with a view to surrender the Army of Northern Virginia. But as far as your proposition may affect the Confederate States forces under my command and tend to the restoration of peace, I should be pleased to meet you at ten A. M. to-morrow on the old stage road to Richmond, between the picker lines of the two armies.
Very respectfully 
Your obedient servant,
R. E. LEE,
General Confederate States Armies.
To Lieut. Gen. GRANT, Commanding Armies of the United States.
APRIL 9, 1865.
To Gen. Lee, Commanding Confederate States Armies:
General: your note of yesterday is received. As I have no authority to treat on the subject of peace the meeting proposed for ten A. M. to-day could lead to no good. I will state, however. General, that I am equally anxious for peace with yourself, and the whole North entertain the same feeling. The terms upon which peace can be had are well understood. By the South laying down their arms they will hasten that most desirable event, save thousands of human lives and hundreds of millions of property not yet destroyed. Sincerely hoping that all our difficulties may be settled without the loss of another life, I subscribe myself, very respectfully.
Your obedient servant,
U. S. GRANT,
Lieut. General United States Armies.
WAR DEPARTMENT, WASHINGTON, D.C.,
APRIL 9, 1865.
Lieut General Grant:
Thanks be to Almighty God for the great victory with which He was this day crowned you and the gallant armies under your command! The thanks of this department and of the Government and of the people of the United States, their reverence and honor,
Have been and gallant officers and soldiers of your army for all time.
EDWIN M STANTON,
Secretary of War.
In a suit for damages for imprisonment and persecutions at the hands of certain prominent rebels  at Knoxville, during the early days of the rebellion, Dr. W. G. Brownlow has been awarded the sum of 825,000, to be raised from the properties of the notorious J. C. Ramsey, Sneed, and some others.
<c02>
THE CAPTURE OF RICHMOND.
The following particulars in regard to the evacuation of Richmond by the rebels and its subsequent occupation by the Union forces, we copy from an inter-resting letter by " Carleton," In the Bottom Journal:-
On Saturday night, a dispatch was received from Gen. Lee for Gen. Ewell to send all his available troops to Petersburg, as his lines were threatened.  All Saturday night they were passing through the city, taking the Petersburg Railroad.  The city patrols and the government battalion were at the same time ordered to the trenches.
Perhaps Jeff Davis has had some misgivings as to the ability of Lee to hold Grant in check.  There is no doubt he disposed of his plate two weeks ago.  Mrs.  Davis and the children left Richmond on Thursday last, but Jeff, remained.  He was at church on Sunday morning.  The minister was preaching, when an orderly entered and handed a note to the President of the Confederacy.  It was a dispatch from Lee, that his lines were broken in three places, and that Richmond must be evacuated.  It was as if a hand had written once more, " Mene, mene, tekel "-thou art weighed and found wanting; thy kingdom is defeated.
He turned pale, but taking his hat, he hurriedly left the church.  The hour of twelve came.  The people as they passed the capitol on their way home from church saw men hurriedly bringing out the State papers and piling them upon the ground and setting them on fire.  It was the first intimation they had that the city was to be evacuated.
There was commotion everywhere-among the officials, among the soldiers, among the citizens, and the women; trunks were packed in hot haste; carpet bags were stuffed in a moment.  There was a stampede for the Danville depot.  Jeff. Davis went in the first train, leaving his housekeeper in charge of his house, important papers in his private room upon the table.  Such hurry and confusion never were seen in Richmond before.  Carriages were driven furiously to the depot.  Citizens fled towards Lynchburg on horseback, in wagons, coaches, and on foot.  So passed the afternoon and the night.  People who could not get away did not dare to go to bed, for the order was issued to withdraw all the troops at daybreak, spike the guns, and blow up the gunboats.  They were afraid that the city would be fired by Gen. Ewell, who swore that the Yankees should find only a heap of smouldering ruins.  They were afraid also that the rear guard would give themselves up to pillage.  It was a horrible night-a night which tires nerves-which makes young men grow old.  I speak sow, not only of those who are hostile in feeling but of those who long to see the stars and stripes once more in Richmond.  They feared the transition period-the hour of no government.
At four o'clock, the iron-clads, one after another, were blown up, shaking the city, rattling the glass from the windows, jarring down chimneys, and almost taking away the breath of men in the streets.  At the same moment, the torch was applied to several unfinished rams and boats on the shore, also to several tobacco warehouses.
Gen. Breckinridge, the Secretary of War, protested to Gen. Ewell that it would be an act of inhumanity to fire the city; but Ewell, who is a brutal man, who is brutal to his soldiers, coarse and rude in all his acts, swore that the tobacco should be destroyed and the arsenal.  He sent a man to fire the Tredegar iron works, but the man in charge said, "These are private works, sir, and if you undertake to fire them, I'll shoot you." The officer charged with the execution of the burning withdrew, but the tobacco houses and the arsenal and a large flouring mill on the banks of the river were fired at five o'clock.  It was at that hour that Ewell with his rabble and Breckenridge mounted their horses and rode out of the city towards the west, turning their backs upon what had been the rebel capital.  Like assassins, burglars and villains of the deepest dye, after the robberies and murders, they applied the torch to the place where, they have revelled in crime, and disappeared from the place, carrying with them the execration of all-of toes, and of those who till this morning were their friends.  History will hold Breckinridge responsible for the act of burning the city.  He was Ewell's superior, and in the city till the but moment.  He could have prevented the act, but did not.  How fallen! In 1806, he was Vice President of the United States, and no man had a fairer prospect than he of honor.  Four years ago, he turned his back upon his country, he fled from the city of Louisville on a dark and stormy night, and became a traitor, a rebel.  This morning he became an incendiary, and to-night he is fleeing on horseback to escape falling into the hands of Sheridan's troopers.  His game is played.  He threw honor, reputation, family-name, and everything into the rebellion and against his country, and has lost alt.
At four o'clock in the morning (of Monday, April 3,) Major A.  H.  Stevens, of the 4th Mass.  Cavalry, and the Provost Marshal of the 25th Army Corps, with detachments from companies E and H, with Captains Pray and Percy, started upon a reconnoisance of [the enemy's lines.  They found them evacuated and the guns spiked.  Major Stevens found a rebel deserter who piloted the detachment safely over the torpedoes which had born planted in front of the enemy's works.  A mile and a half out from the city, Major Stevens met a barouche and five men mounted bearing a white flag.  The party consisted of the Mayor, Judge Meredith of the Confederate States Court and other gentlemen who tendered the surrender of the city.  Major Stevens entered the place amid the wildest demonstrations of joy on the part of the colored people and the poor whites.  They danced and shouted and prayed and blessed the Lord and thanked him that the Yankees bad come.  Major Stevens informed roe that some of the colored people threw themselve upon the ground and prayed and laughed and shouted and cried for joy.  He saw several Union flags throw out from houses.  He proceeded at once to the capitol, ascended the roof, pulled down the State flag which was flying and raised the guidons of the two companies upon the building.  So Massachusetss was first in Richmond and in possession of the rebel capital.  Gen. Weitzel and staff entered the city at eight o'clock, with the whole of his command following, bands playing, flags waving in the bright morning sun, the soldiers cheering and singing the John Brown song.
When Major Stevens entered the city, the flames were leaping from house to house, and devouring block after block in the centre of the town.  Capt.  Percy went to see about the Arsenal, but found it on fire.  It contained several thousand shells, which began to explode, scattering fire-brands in every direction, filling the air with iron fragments, and driving the people from that section of the city.  The poor people helped themselves to the commissary supplies, broke open stores, and made free with whatever they saw.  Some of the citizens rushed to the liquor stores, and with commendable forethought dashed in the heads of several hundred barrels of whiskey.
On-on-from building to building-from warehouse to warehouse-from store to hotel-from hotel to banks-to the newspaper offices-to churches-all along Main street from near the Spottswood House to the eastern end of the town-back to the river-to the bridge across the James-up to the Urge stone fire-proof building, erected by the United States for a post-office, now full of Confederate promises to pay-all around this building, on both sides of it-up to the Capitol square, the flames leaped, licking up all the business part of the city.  Strange to say, the Spottswood Hotel is saved.  I look out from my window upon a mass of ruin-of tall chimneys, of tottering walls, upon streets impassable from piles of brick and stones and rubbish, upon smoking ruins.  Richmond is a sea of fire to-night.  It is the most complete scene of devastation I ever beheld, excepting Charleston.  There the street echoes only to my footsteps and to the cry of buzzards, but here I look down from my window to-night upon a woebegone crowd of human beings, gazing at the runs, moving here and there, gathering up broken furniture.  Elaborate cornices, marble mantles, broken looking glasses, piles of bedding, chairs, tables, barrels and boxes, are piled in Capitol square.  The ground is thick with feathers, with broken crockery, with scattered books and papers-debris of all kinds.  Millions of dollars will not cover the loss.  All the banks-all the newspaper offices except the Whig and the Examiner-the bridges across the Appomattox-Dr. Reed's Presbyterian Church-hundreds of houses and acres of ground-the heart of the city is eaten out.
Four years ago, on the second Sunday in April, there was great rejoicing in Richmond when the flames of war were lighted around Sumter; but what a contrast is the scene of to-day! Men who swung their hats and hurrahed on that occasion, who celebrated it by drunken orgies, who looked forward to dominion and empire, walk these streets to-night penniless, poverty-stricken, broken hearted, beholding a future illumined by no ray of hope.  The flame of war has consumed them at last.  Loud and long and terrible are their execrations of Jeff.  Davis and Ewell, but they forget the part they have taken; that they urged on secession, hurrahed for it, shouted for it, prayed for it, gave thanks for the victory of Manassas.  They forget that God's throne is built on justice-justice on earth as well as in heaven.
When Major Stevens entered, the people were beholding the fire, and making little effort to stay its progress.  He issued an order caning upon the police and fire department to set about extinguishing the flames.  Citizens were pressed into the service, and thus the flames are stopped at last.
Gen. A. P. Bill was killed in the bloody fight at Petersburg, on Sunday.  He was one of the ablest of the rebel commanders.  His funeral took place at Richmond a few hours after his death, with military honors, Gen. Lee attending.
John M. Daniel, editor of the Richmond Examiner, died recently at the age of 39 years.  He was a man of considerable ability, and did his full share in "firing the Southern heart" in the early days of the rebellion.
<c03>
NEWS FROM RICHMOND.
The fires kindled by the rebels were not all extinguished until Wednesday morning.  The aggregate number of buildings of all kinds burned is about six-hundred and fifty.  The property destroyed is roughly estimated at fifteen or sixteen millions of dollars for negroes are applying for admission into our army some eight hundred hare already been set at work for the government.  Harmonious relations between the troops and the citizens continue.  We have sixgunboats in the river at the lower end of the town.
When the rebel army left the city, the poor and needy plundered the storehouses of such clothing and provisions as were left; but there is a large starving population in Richmond, to be provided for by our authorities.  
As our forces entered, the firemen, who were working with two steamers and three hand engines, ran away, but were forced back by our cavalry, and with the assistance of citizens and Union soldiers, checked the conflagration.  Ten Insurance offices are ruined.  
The old railroad route from Washington to Richmond via Fredericks, will be in operation in about three weeks.  The time between the two cities will then be reduced to eight hours.  A construction corps have already commenced work on the railroad.
President Lincoln has visited Richmond, and while he was in the city, an informal meeting of the members of the Virginia Legislature remaining there was held for the consideration of his proposition to reassemble, for the purpose of legislating Virginia back into Urn bonds of the Union.  The legislature has met and adjourned from time to time until Sunday, the day of the evacuation, when they held a meeting in the evening and dispersed without resolution, some going off with the Governor, and some leaving on a canal boat chartered for the purpose.  According to law, the members now in Richmond are the only remaining legal representatives of the Slate of Virginia.  It is important to state that the Legislature of 1855 is authorized by the Constitution to call a convention for the purpose of settling and adjusting the basis of representation.  This question is settled.  But a convention called for any purpose is omnipotent Mrs. Lincoln, with Mrs. Grant and other friends visited Richmond on Thursday, and in the afternoon the party rode through the streets with an escort of the cavalry, returning to City Point in the evening to join the President 
Vice President Johnson and Preston King were in Richmond on Friday, and the assistant' Secretary of the War, Dana.
An immense number of Confederate bonds, with the coupons all registered and signed, were thrown into the streets of Richmond daring the recent evacuation.  They were picked up by everybody who had any inclination to subject themselves to that trouble, and can be purchased from the boys for a very insignificant sum.
Of the five newspapers of Richmond, three have been destroyed by fire.  The Whig and Sentinel alone remain.  The latter has been confiscated by the government, and the Whig is issued as an evening paper by the former proprietor, William Ira Smith, who announces in his salutatory of Tuesday that it will be devoted to the cause of the Union, and will bring to its control one of Virginia's noblest sons, by which we suppose that John.  Minor Botts is meant.  The Whig was the last paper to succumb to the secession jurore, and Mr. Smith sold it rather than continue its publication.
THE SIEGE OF MOBILE 
NEW YORK, April 9.  The Herald has Mobile Bay correspondence of the 31st ult.  It appears that Granger's and Smith's corps took up their line of march from Danby's Mills on the 25th for Blakety, meeting light opposition only on the first day.  On the 26th, the 13th corps moved towards Spanish Fort, a strong.  earthwork commanding Minette Bay, encountering and driving in the rebel cavalry, and in the evening, Gen. Granger encamped on the left of the fort 
The Sixteenth corps continued on toward Blakety, encamping Sibley's Mills, five miles from that town, on the 26th.  On the morning of the 27th, our forces advanced on Spanish Fort, driving in the rebels, capturing their rifle pits, and establishing our batteries within four hundred yards of the fort.  On the 29th, our forces were intrenched within 70 yards of the fort.  Several lives have been lost by torpedoes, which were thickly strewn around.  Our loss averages fifty per day.  Three hundred of the enemy hare been cut off by a portion of our forces, but are not yet captured, the owing to their taking refuge in swamps.
Early on the morning of the 30th, the rebels essayed an attack, but were handsomely repulsed, with heavy loss.  The rebel fleet of gunboats are on the extreme right, within musket range of our troops.  Earthworks are being, completed to mount siege guns.  Our losses.
to the 31st were about 800.
Five of our monitors and the gunboat Octorora had crossed Blakely bar and others were arriving.  On the 31st, siege guns and mortars having been placed in position, the heaviest cannonading was opened on Spanish Port and continued all day, but the result is not known.
Steele's column left Pensacola on the 19th.  He captured two trains of cars at Greenwood.  At Pollard, Alabama, two rebel cavalry regiments were charged and routed, and Brig Gen. Clanson, twenty-two officers, 400 men and 450 horses were captured.  On the 27th, Col. Sporting, with detachments of the 2nd Maine and 1st Florida cavalry, cut the Mobile and Montgomery railroad, and captured two wagon trains and 100 prisoners.  Gen. Steele and his force have arrived at Blakely, six miles from Spanish Fort, and would soon unite with Gen. Canby.
A naval letter of the Herald states that the monitor Milwaukee was blown up by torpedoes on the28th and the Osage on the 29th, both while operating with the other monitors against Spanish Fort.  Four sailors were killed on the Usage and six seriously injured.  Only one was injured on the Milwaukee.  One of the turrets of the Milwaukee is stilt out of water and in working order, and is used.  The Osage is submerged too deep to be used.  Both monitors will probably be raised.  The rebels are persistently busy in sending down torpedoes and fireboats.
The force in Spanish Fort is estimated at between 6000 and 7000, it having been reinforced from Mobile by water on the night of the 29th.  It is also rumored that Forest and his whole command had reached Blakely.  The rebel ram Nashville and gunboats Tuscaloosa, Morgan and Natchez are in Blakely river, evidently intending to give battle to our monitors, On the west side of the bay, our gunboats have had several skirmishes with the water batteries, driving the rebels from their guns.  The rebel trcops in Spanish Fort are commanded by Maury.
LEE'S ARMT ROUTED BY SHERIDAN 
The following dispatch was sent to Lieut.  Gen. Grant, by General Sheridan, April 6th, about midnight: 
To Lieut.  Gen. Grant:
I have the honor to report that the enemy made a stand at the intersection of the Burks Station road upon which they were retreating.
I attacked them with two divisions of the 6th Army Corps, and routed them handsomely, making a connection with the cavalry.  I am still pressing on with both cavalry and infantry.
Up to the present time, we have captured Generals Ewell, Kershaw, Button, Corse, Debarre and Curtis Lee, several thousand prisoners, fourteen pieces of artillery with caisons, and a large number of wagons.  
If the thing is pressed, I think Lee will surrender.
(Signed) P. H. SHERIDAN.
Major General Commanding.
The despatches in another column show how happily this prediction was fulfilled.
CHANGES IN BUSINESS." The Boston Commercial Bulletin has the following significant announcement in its columns of Business Changes: -
VIRGINIA.
RICHMOND.  Davis Lee & Co., Southern Confederacy, failed and gone off; succeeded by Lincoln & Johnson, who wilt conduct the business on the Union plan; U. S. Grant, W. T. Sherman and P.  H.  Sheridan, special partners; U. S. Grant contributes 120,000 to the capital of the concern.
In another column the Bulletin gives' the following editorial "notice" of the concern:
We call attention to the notice in our Business Changes, of a change at Richmond, Va.  The firm of Davis Lee& Co., having failed and left, is succeeded by Messrs.  Lincoln & Johnson.  The former firm have been in a desperate condition, as the community are all well aware, and managed by dint of the encouragement of English capitalists to keep up a semblance of business for some lime, but have at last made a disastrous failure-assets small, liabilities heavy.
Messrs. Lincoln & Johnson, who succeed to the business, are gentlemen having ample means and unlimited credit, and will conduct it on the Union plan, now so popular and successful.  Messrs. Grant, Sherman and Sheridan, gentlemen of great experience in the hardware, cutlery and saltpetre trade, are special partners in the new concern.  The former has put 120,000 into the capital, and is rapidly closing up the affairs of D.  L.  & Co.
The small pox has made its appearance at the Freedman's village, on the Arlington estates, and the schools there bare consequently been closed.  The emigrants to Hayti have been troubled since their re-'m- torn to the village with tropical insects called "jiggers," which burrow into the flesh, and cause sores in which often render amputation necessary.  Last week, be two men and a woman each had a leg ampupated from this cause.
<C04>
WOMEN'S WORD AND WAGES.  By special invitation, Miss Anna E. Dickinson delivered her.  lecture on "Woman's Work and Wages." at Tremont Temple, on Friday evening last.  Being introduced by Mr. Wendell Phillips, Miss Dickinson proceeded to give the reason which influenced her in choosing the theme she had selected, and said that the great truth in the matter lay, first, in the want of a true respect for work, and for woman; and secondly, but in a greater degree, in the absurd and wicked prejudice existing among men, and especially among women, for work and workers.  Man and women both, and particularly the latter, were responsible for the present condition of women in respect to work.  It was true that there was an insufficient amount of labor put before then from which to choose; but they dishonored their own labor by accepting lower rates of wages.   If, as is asserted, women do not work as well as men, it is because they hare not the advantages of education and training.  Give them these, and they; would do their work equally well There were women of wealth and position who say that this matter does not touch them.  On the contrary, It was fife or death, honor or shame, to thousands of women in the community whether or no they put their endorsmert and seal on woman's labor.  Miss Dickinson presented some statistics in regard to the workingwomen of our large cities, and made an earnest appealin behalf of all women compelled by an circumstances or condition to labor for their own support, concluding with a most touching story of real life among this oppressed and unhappy class.  Miss Dickinson spoke an hour and a half, and the audience, though not large, was a very attentive and appreciative one.  -Journal.
PUBLIC SENTIMENT IN PETERSBURG.  A correspondent of the Boston Advertiser, writing from Petersburg, says: -
"I am compelled to say, that there is very little loyal sentiment among- the whit residents of Petersburg.  Perhaps there is not a city is the whole South more thoroughly imbued with rebel doctrines and more outspoken in their avowal under all circumstances than this venerable town on the Appomattox.  Some of the citizens were not unwilling to talk with the invaders on national affairs, but did not hesitate to avow their firm adherence to the cause of the rebellion, their hatred for the Union and everything therewith connected, and their determination to fight out the contest until the Confederacy should achieve its indepandence.  It should be remembered that these men were all exempts, and have already lost all their property, so that they risk nothing by the continuance of the war.  Many of the soldiers of General Lee's veteran army speak very differently."
ATTEMPT TO BURN NEWBERN.  A preconcerted plan to destroy the city of Newbern was developed on the morning of the 2d inst., at half-past ten o'clock, Several large buildings, containing forage, ordnance and commissary stores, were set on fire simultaneous1y by weans of phosphorus.  An alarm was given and signaled at once throughout the city.  The tire department and the entire population at once turned out and the flames were extinguished in a short time without doing much damage.  Seventy-five bales of hay and a few other articles were consumed.
The extension bridge over the Neuse river was fired at the same time in four places, but the flames were extinguished.  A rebel officer and several other persons are now in confinement on suspicion of having set the fires.  The fire department has been on duty ever since.  A double guard has been stationed throughout the city to prevent like occurrences and to arrest suspicious persons.  The excitement was very great.
SOLICITOR WHITING.  Hon. William Whiting, Solicitor of the War Department, has resigned that position and will resume the practice of the law in Boston.  Perley says that since his connection with the War Department he has never received one dollar of compensation for his services, though no official has taken a greater responsibility or performed more labor than Mr. Whiting.
The Post correspondent says that Solicitor Whiting resigns his unsalaried position in the War Department, as he was heard to say, because the three great questions of the day are settled, namely: the fate of the rebellion as a military question; the destruction of slavery, and the true, theory of the reconstruction of the rebellious States.  The emergency under which he was called to serve the Government having passed, he feels it liberty to return to his law office in Boston.
THE INCOME TAX.  The act passed just before the close of the last session of Congress makes some important changes in the law of June 30, 1864, in regard to the income tax.  The tax is to be five percent, on the excess of income over $600, and not exceeding $5000; and ten per cent, on the excess overat$5000.  Only one deduction of $600 shall be made from the aggregate incomes of all the members of any family, composed of parents and minor children, for husband and wife.  Real estate profits for the year are to be included as income, and losses are to be deducted.  Interest upon all forms of indebtedness, whether paid or not, if good and collectable, less the interest due from a person, forms a part of the income of such person.  The provisions also about gains do rived from sales and purchases of property are retained.  The amount paid by any person for the rent of the homestead used or occupied by himself or by his family, in his own right or in the right of his wife, shall not be included and assessed as a part of the income of such person.
KENNEDY, THE INCENDIARY. Respecting the strange conduct of Kennedy, the rebel incendiary who was hanged in New York on Saturday, and who sang a song even while standing on the drop, and shocked all present by his wild and reckless bravado, the New York Herald says: -
"From the beginning of Kennedy's career in New York, he has seemed to be either intoxicated or nervously deranged.  After his arrest, he alternately confessed and denied his guilt.  He left a written confession, although at the gallows' foot he stigmatized his execution as a judicial murder.  To the officers he:said that lie would have sprinkled the phosphorus upon the ladies' dresses, at the Museum, if he could have done so without danger of being discovered.  Again, be said the affair at the Museum was a mere lark; for he had tried the phosphorus on wood, and found that it would not ignite.  On the day of execution, he vacillated between the hero, the baby and the reckless rebel.  For an instant be would be as brave as a lion, then he would cry like a child, and then he would indulge in secession ravings.  The minister in attendance prayed for him; but Kennedy was by turns an infidel and a Christian, being apparently as undecided upon this as upon every other subject."
A METROPOLITAN POLICE BILL.  In the Mass. Senate, on Wednesday, 5th inst., Mr. Pitman, of Bristol, from the Committee on the Better Enforcement of the Laws, reported a bill to establish a Metropolitan Police, which provides for uniting the cities of Boston, Chelsea, Cambridge, Charlestown and Roxbury as a police district, the control of which shall be vested in a board of three commissioners, to be appointed by the Governor and Counsel, to serve for three years.  The police force shall be no larger than at present in the several cities, but no member shall be appointed who is not a qualified voter in some one of the cities, and they shall hold office during good behavior.  Upon the application of the Mayor of any city or Selectmen of any town or any other persons, officers and men may be detailed by the commissioners for service elsewhere, to have precedence and control of the police force there, and the board and police force are made subject to the order of the Governor for the perservation of peace or the execution of the laws, with provisions for their payment from the State Treasury.  It shall be the especial duty of the Metropolitan Police to use their utmost endeavors to repress and prevent crime by the suppression of liquor shops, gambling places and houses of ill-fame.  The bill was laid on the table.
THE BURIAL OF THE REMAINS OF THE SOLDIERS OF THIS 55TH MASS., who fell in the battle of July 2, and whose bodies were left lying where they fell by the barbarous rebels, took; place on James Island on the afternoon of the 26th ult., attended by the whole regiment.  The address by the chaplain and the music by the band were appropriate to the occasion.  The grave was dug on a high bluff, overlooking Charleston harbor and city, within a rebel earthwork, under is pine trees drooping with gray moss.  The escort was commanded by Captain Goodwin, who was wounded in the fight, and the pall-bearers were mostly men wounded at the same time.  The coffin was draped with the national flag, the State and Ohio colors (the latter presented by the ladies of Ohio to the regiment) were crossed over it, and it bore also a wreath of flowers.  Brevet-Brig.  Gen. Hartwell came from Charleston to be present at the ceremonies.  Thus fitly was respect shown to brave soldiers denied a burial by a mean-spirited and cruel enemy-Transcript.
Refugees from upper Georgia are arriving in Savannah, and report the  Union feeling increasing very rapidly.  Men who six months ago dared not give utterance to their sentiments, are now openly favoring reconstruction.  Many large slave-owners are not only willing, but prepared to yield their slaves and return back into the Union.
All new dies made at the U. S. Mint for coining money are to bear as a national motto, "In God we Trust" in accordance with the special act of the last Congress.
<c05>
REV. JOHN PIERPONT'T EIGHTIETH BIRTHDAY.
The Washington correspondent Of the Button Journal, under date of the 7th inst., gives the following account of a very pleasant surprise party to the Rev. John Pierpont:-
"John Pierpont, the veteran poet and pioneer emancipationist, was complimented to-night on having reached his eightieth birthday.  The pylon of Mr. Charles Morse, formerly of Cambridgeport, with whom Mr. Pierpont now resides, were handsomely ornamented with national flags, and appropriate mottoes and rare flower.  In the evening, Mr. Pierpont was told that a few friends had called, and on entering the parlor to greet them he was entirely surprised.  One presented him with a gold watch, another wits a valuable cane, and another, with a large photographic album containing the portraits of old Boston friends and parishioners.  But the most valuable gift was a large portfolio filled with autograph letters of congratulation in poetry and prose from Sumner, Wilson, Mrs. Sigourney, Whittier, Wood, Dana, Holmes, Whipple, and other prominent authors, with other letter signed Moses Williams, Gardner Braver, William W. Clapp, and other "solid men of Boston." All old differences of opinion were forgotten, and due honor was paid to the poet, the priest, the emancipationist and on to temperance reformer of 'Auld Lang Syne.'"
The following sonnet was the contribution of Dr. Holmes:
TO JOHN PIERPONT ON HIS EIGHTIETH BIRTHDAY.
LOVE, honor, reverence are the mead we owe
To him who, in the press of Younger men,
Toiling with head, heart, hand, with tongue and pen,
Treads his firm pathway through the blinding snew,
Singing in cheery tones that long ago 
Our fathers beard: not less melodious when 
Ten winters lie on threescore years and ten,
And still life's unchilled fountains overflow;
Though paler seems the faithful watch-tower's light, 
In the rich dawn that kindles all the day, 
Still in our grateful memory lives the ray 
Of the lone flam beau, blazing through the night,
Now while the heavens, in new-born splendors bright.
Shine o'er a ransomed people's opening way.
JUBILEE MEETING.  A very large meeting was held in Tremont Temple on Sunday evening last in honor of the recent victories and the capture of Richmond.  The hail was filled to its utmost capacity.
Colonel Albert J. Wright presided, and the exercises of the evening were opened with prayer by Rev. Dr. Neale.  After the singing of the hymn, "The morning light is breaking," in which the large audience joined, Rev. L. A. Grimes related at some length the interesting story of his two years' experience in the prisons of Richmond.  Rev. Mr. Rue sang the now well-known jubilee hymn, "Sound the loud timbrel," and   addresses respecting the glorious news that is continually coming to us from the front were made by Judge Thomas Russell, Rev. Mr. Fulton, Rev. Phineas Stowe, and others.-Boston Transcript.
The Washington correspondent of the Springfield Republican speaks thus of Senator So inner: -
"Mrs. Lincoln went down the Potomac this morning for City Point and Richmond, escorted by Mr. Sumner, who remains in Washington to exert his influence in the right direction in closing up the war.  Nor let any man suppose that Mr. Sumner's influence is slight over this administration when Congress is in session.  I know of no man who has more.  The president disagrees entirely with Mr. Sumner in his views respecting reconstruction.  He was almost indignant at the Senator's coarse towards Louisiana, adverting to it over and over again in the presence of strangers.  But still he respects Mr. Sumner, confers with him, and perhaps fears him.  Besides, the Senator has great influence with Mr. Stanton and Mr. Welles.  
Mr. Sumner is a clever diplomatist and has always been friendly with Mr. Lincoln.  So long as "peace negotiations" are talked of, Mr. Sumner will not leave Washington but for a day or two, I presume."
It may be set down as a coincidence, that the severest blow ever dealt to the disloyal democracy of Connecticut was delivered on the very day that Richmond was taken.  Hartford was handsomely carried immediately after Richmond, though it is contrary to military proceedings to take outworks after seizing the main body-but then our contest is full of exceptions-Boston Traveller.
ACCIDENT TO SECRETARY SEWARD.  Secretary Seward met with a serious accident on the 5th.  He jumped from his carriage when the bones were running away, and fractured an arm and injured his face.  His son, F. W. Seward, also jumped oat, and escaped uninjured.  Two ladies-Mrs. F. W. Seward and one of her friends-were in the carriage, but as they, with admirable presence of mind, kept their seats, they escaped unharmed.  Late intelligence represents that serious apprehensions are felt with regard to the result of this accident.
ELECTION IH RHODE ISLAND.  The Rhode Island election, which was held on Wednesday of last week, resulted in the choice of Governor Smith, who received a, majority in every town-a circumstance without precedent.  The Legislature is Republican; and the Republican candidates for Congress, Mr. Jenckes and Mr. Dixon, were reelected.
While listening to the stately logic, the convincing argument, the pure and chaste diction, and the enchanting eloquence of Federick Douglas on Thursday evening, we could not help thinking how much it would elevate some narrow-minded white people if they could have the benefit of intellectual equality, with such a man.  Douglas is emphatically one of the great men of the age.-Portland Press.
APPOINTMENT OF A JUDGE FOR THE U. S. DISTRICT COURT.  John Lowell, Esq., a lawyer of Boston, baa been appointed and confirmed Judge of the District Court of Boston, in place of Judge Sprague, resigned.  The salary is $2500.  His great grandfather was the Hon. John Lowell, the author of the first article in the Declaration of Bights, contained in the Constitution of this State, declaring all men to be born free and equal, which he wrote and proclaimed as an abolition of slavery.  This gentleman was the first Judge of the same Court, receiving his appointment from Washington himself.
"The Broken Fetter" is the apt title of a handsome little sheet printed in Detroit, daring the Ladies' Michigan State Fair for the relief of destitute freed-men and refugees.  Its contributors are from all quarters of the Union, and its matter quite as entertaining as that of more pretentious publications nearer this metropolis, while the spirit of freedom is much more unmistakably manifest.  Albeit a "broken" fetter, it enchains and rivets the attention of the reader.
Wendell Phillips asks: "Can you conceive a bitterer drop that God's chemistry could mix for a son of the Palmetto State, than that a Massachusetts flag and a colored regiment should take possession of Charleston? In the whole history of poetic justice, when did the wit of the poet imagine a more complete retribution?"
A woman who had served three yean as a drummer boy in the army was detected at Ellenboro', trying to reeollst.
i
NEW ORLEANS, March 4.  A train on the Opelousas Railroad, bringing the 33d Illinois regiment from Terrebone, when four miles from this city, ran over a horse, throwing eleven cars off the track, instantly killing ten and severely wounding thirty-nine, several of whom will probably die.
At Rockport, Indians, recently, a man who was boring for oil struck a vein of lead and silver, eighteen inches thick, which yields two ounces of pure silver and eight ounces of pure lead to every pound of ore.
Senator Saulsbury and McDougal, not having been sober enough during the last session to attend to business, are dropped entirely from all committees
under the new organization.  There is a chance for a good deal of a temperance reform in the Senate end of the Capitol, and we do not wonder that the Senate has resolved to exclude the sale of liquors in that end of the building.  The greater wonder is that it was ever permitted.  But this was one of the relics of the barbarism of slavery.
The New York Independent breaks the ground for female suffrage.  It thinks the war baa prepared the people to consider this question favorably.  An exchange suggests that the Independent favorable.  Make its first demonstration upon the churches, many of them-its own denominational ones among the number-not allowing a woman to vote in church matters, for even "to speak is meeting."
A Boston gentleman has the bell of the slave mart of Charleston, which will be sent to Mr. Wendell Phillips, and the door-plate of Mr. Richard Yea-do, (who offered $10,000  for  Bea  Butler's bead,) which will be sent to  General at Lowell.
RIOT IS PORTSMOUTH, N. H. A riot broke out in Portsmouth, N. U., on Monday afternoon, and tae g office of the copperhead paper called The Slates and Union was cleaned out.
The "school of liberty" in New Orleans, established under the administration of General Banks, occupies a building formerty used for a medical college.  The number of pupils, rauging from early yean up to eighteen, is six hundred, with a graded system, such as prevails in   our Northern schools.  These scholars have alt been slaves, though many of them are so nearly white that their African origin would hardly be suspected.
<c06>
FORREST AND DICK TAYLOR WHIPPED.  Our read are will recollect the correspondence to the Dispatch from Eastport a few days ago, in which it was stated that the rebel Gen. Forrest had sent of challenges to Gen. Wilson, proposing a fair, open field fight, and expressing his conviction of success in such an engagement.  It appears that Gen. Wilson had gratified Forest in his desire to meet him, and the result is entirely contrary to the expectations of the rebel General, if he had any sanguinary convictions, as he secured in his braggadocio challenge.  We are informed that Gen. Wilson met Forrest and Dick Taylor on the 20th wit., and the fight took place on that day at a point between Selma and Montgomery,  Ala.  It was a deepestly engagement, and called into requisition all the military skill and bravery of both commands.  The forces under these two rebel generals were totally defeated, and a large number of prisoners were captured by Gen. Wilson.  He also destroyed sixteen case containing ammunition.  Gen. Wilson left Eastport last week, and his force consists of cavalry entirely.-Nashville Dispatch, April 5.
THE FORT SUMTER EXECURSION.  The  government steamer Arago, Capt. Gadsden, settled from this port on Saturday for Fort Sumter via Old Point.  Gen. Anderson, Rev. Mr. Beecher, and about fifty others went as passengers by invitation of Secretary Stanton.  A large number of distinguished guests, military and civil, will join the party as Old Point, to which place they will be conveyed by steamer from Washington.  The Arago took out the old Sumter flags, which were brought off in triumph by Major Anderson, and which will be raised to their former positions on the 14th Inst.-Journal of Commerce.
The officers of the iron-clad Dictator, which has made a trial trip to Hampton Roads and back, are delighted with the vessel.  She steers beautifully, can turn round in three or four times her length, is easy and buoyant in all her movements, with only twenty of the fifty-six furnaces to her boilers in operation made ten knots per hour, her guns can be bandied in a sea way, and it requires only two men to steer her, while the English iron-clad Achilles requires never less than fourteen and often twenty men.  She will cost her contractors half a million dollars more than they get for her from the Government.  Another trip to test some yet undecided points is to be made before the Government accepts her.-Boston Post.
The President has made the following record in the case of Smith Brothers of Boston:
"The judgment and sentence are disapproved and declared null, and the defendants are fully discharged." 
Alexander Milliner, a revolutionary soldier, died at Adams' Basin, thirteen miles from Rochester, N. Y., on Tuesday morning, at the age of one hundred and five years.  There are now only four of the revolutionary heroes alive, so far as is known.
Caleb Adams, a Negro, aged 92, died at Newington, N.H., on the 11th instant.  He was a coachman in the Adams family of Quincy, Mass., in his younger days. 
In the courts of Richmond, there has been another case of miscegenation.  An Othello, named Richard, was sentenced to receive, for his attentions to a willing Desdemona named Delia Mack, thirty-nine lashes, on different days, making, says the report, an aggregate of 117, lashes, to be well laid on at the whipping post.  That was before the recent visit of one U. S. Grant. 
A letter reached Washington in the army mail Friday, from Gen. Sherman to his wife, with this inscription on the envelope: "Fayetteville, N.C.-no postage stamps here."  The letter was put through.
Both branches of the Kentucky Legislature have rejected the constitutional amendment abolishing slavery, by a large vote-the Senate 21 to 12, and the House 58 to 26.
Two thousand colored refugees from South Carolina, brought out by Sherman, have reached the District of Columbia within a week.  Most of them are women and children.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS.
The General Agent acknowledges the receipt, through Samuel May, Jr., of the following sums from subscribers in England and Scotland, in payment of the Liberator for the year 1865.
From  Miss Lupton, Hafod, North Wales, 
37
43
,, Miss Estlin, Bristol, Eng., 
5
57
,, Miss Whitelegge, Manchester, Eng., 
5
57
,, Mrs. Taylor, Aubrey House, London.
8
36
,, Mrs. Dr. Nichol, Huntley Lodge, Edinboro, Scotland,
5
53
,, Mrs. Birrell,Edinbore, Scotland.  
7
38
,, Mrs. Scott,,,    ,,
7
38
From  Mr. Henry, Wigham, Edinboro, Scotland. 
5
53
,, Friends in Edinboro, by Miss E.Wigham, (donation).
36
90
ADDITIONAL SUBSCRIPTIONS
To the thirty-first Anti-Slavery Anniversary, for American Anti-Slavery Society.
EDINBURGH, Scotland, by Miss Elias, Wig ham  $ 10 10 0
Miss Walton, MANCHESTER, Eng.,          1  0  0  
Mrs. Clarissa G.Olds, Johnstown, Ohio,    $ 2 00 
Sarah L. Willis, Rochester, N. Y.      5 00
Mary S. Doty,   ,, ,,     1 00
Cash,    ,, ,,     2 00
DIED-At Mt. Pleasant,  Ohio, Feb., 9, 1865, Mrs. ELESABETH  NICKELSON, of Wilmington, O., aged 66. 

THE CHRISTIAN COMMISSION.
NOTICE TO EVERYBODY.
Two Weeks for the Sick and Wounded Soldiers.

DURING the fortnight commencing April 3rd, we will devote 25 per cent, of all the retail rules at our counter of 
ALBUMS, STEREOSCOPIC VIEWS,
----AND----
CARD PHOTOGRAPHS,
Also, Remittances by Mail for the same, when so specified, to the RELIEF OF OUR SICKAND WOUNDED SOLDIERS, through the instrumentality of the Christian Commission.
Orders by mail for this object, bearing date any time previous to May 1st, will be received and the 25 per cent paid over.
The acknowledgement of the Treasurer of the Christian Commission will be sent when required.
The goods will be sold at our usual printed catalogue prices.
K. & H. T. ANTHONY & CO.,
501, BROADWAY, NEW YORK.
(Three doors from St. Nicholas Hote.)
We, the undersigned, cordially recommend to the notice of the friends of "THE CHARISTIAN COMMISSION" the offer of E. & H. T. ANTHONY & Co., to devote to this object twenty-five per cent. Of their Retail Sales of Albums, Stereoscopic Views, and Card Photographs, for the fortnight commencing April 3d, as set forth in their advertisement. 
GEO. H. STUART, Pres. U. S. Christian Com.
J. T. DURYEA.
H. DYER, Sec. N. Y. Branch Christian Com
MORRIS K. JESSUP.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT.
WM. E. DODGE, Chairman N. Y. Branch.

CLEANSE THE BLOLD.
WITH corrupt, disordered or vitiated blood, you are sick all over.  It may burst out in pimples, or sores, or in some active disease, or it may merely keep you listless, depressed, and good for nothing.  But you cannot have good health while your blood is impure.  AYER'S SANSAPARILLA purges out these impurities, and stimulates the organs of life into vigorous action, restoring the health and expelling disease.  Hence it rapidly cures a variety of complaints which are caused by impurity of the blood, such as Scrofula, Blotches, Boils, St. Anthony['s Fire, Rose or Erysipelas, Tatter or Salt Rheum, Seals Hand, Ringworm, Cancer or Cancerous Tumors, Sore Eyes, Female Diseases, such as Retention, Irregularity, Suppression, Whites, Sterility; also, Syphilis or Venereal Disease, Liver Complaints, and Heart Diseases.  Try AYER'S SANSAPARILLA, and see for yourself the surprising activity with which it cleanses the blood and cures these disorders. 
During late yours, the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever.  Hence, bitter disappointment has followed the was of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself has become synonymous with imposition and cheat.  Still we call the compound "Sarsaparilla," and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the same from the loan of obloquy which rests upon it.  We think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to ours.  We can only insure the sick that we offer them the beet alterative which we know how to produce, and we have reason to believe it is by far the most effectual purifier of the blood yet discovered by anybody. 
AYER'S CHERRY PECTORAL is so universally known to surpass every other remedy for the cure of Coughs, Colds, Influence, Hoarseness, Croup, Bronchitis, Insipient Consumption, and for the relief of Consumption patients in advanced stages of the disease, that it is useless here to account the evidence of its virtues; the world known though.    
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell Mush Land sold by all druggists. 
March 15,  2m. 

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
For the Liberator.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON,
Standing on the steps of the Slave Auction-block,
March 9, 1865.
The heroes of an ancient day 
Crushed’neath, their feet a conquered foe,
And is our battle-days sublime,
The blood of countless martyrs flow.
Another work has long been, there,
O, watchman upon Freedom’s tower,
With bugle-blast and prophet sign,
Warning shut eyes and hearts that cower.
Unheeded oft by human souls,
God heard the servant’s fervent prayer,
And with His own right hand unrolls
Freedom’s great charter on the air. A.G.W.

For the Liberator.
TO JEFFERSON DAVIS.
BY ONE OF HIS FRIENDS.
Our game, I fear, is almost up,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson! 
We soon must drink from Sorrow’s cup,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
Who would have thought, two years ago,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
That we should have been beaten so?
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
Of home and friends we are befeft,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
And we have scarce a dollar left,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
It was a very great mistake,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
To think the Yanks with fear would quake,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
“More men!” old Abe’s just made the call,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
Where do you think they find them all?
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
To longer “blow” is of no use,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
They’re bound with us to raise the deuce,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
Our cherished doctrine of “State rights,”
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
Is blown up higher than a kite,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
“Tis plain to see we are undone,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
Our very servants out and run,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
Alas! alas! I drop a tear,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
Not even our niggers do us fear!
My Jefferson my Jefferson!
But, dressed up in the “Yankee blue,”
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
They dare put us, their masters., through!
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
O, have we lived to see the day,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
When we our niggers must obey?
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
We’ve lost our men, and spent our “tin,”
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
And by the Yankees are hemmed in,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
O, for some lone, secluded isle,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
Where we might go and rest awhile,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
Do you think that Abe would us forgive?
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
And let us in the Union live?
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
O, let us now our boasting cease,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
And on our bent knees sue for peace,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
And if once more we do get home,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
We never more shall wish to ream,
My Jefferson, my Jefferson!
Gloucester, (Mass.) March 22, 1865. J. M.F.

WAKE, NICODEMUS!
Nicodemus, the slave, was of African birth,
And was bought for a bag full of gold,
He was reckoned as part of the salt of the earth,
But he died years ago, very old. 
Thus his last and request—so we laid him away
In the trunk of an old hollow tree;
“Wake me up,” was his charge, “at the break of the day,
Wake me up for the Great Jubilee!”
Chorus—The good time coming is almost here, it was long
Long, long, long on the way,
Now run tell Elijah to hurry up Pomp, and meet us at the 
gum tree down in the swamp, 
To wake Nicodemus to-day.
He was known as a Prophet, at least was as wise,
For he told of the battles to come;
And we trembled with dread when he rolled up his eyes, 
And we heeded the shake of his thumb,
Though he clothed us with fear, yet the garments he wore
Were in patches at elbow and knee, 
And he still wears the suit that he used to of yore,
As he sleeps in the old hollow tree. Chorus.
Nicodemus was never the sport of the lash, 
Though the bullet has crossed his path;
There were none of his masters so brave or so rash 
As to face such a man in his wrath.
Though his great heart with kindness was filled to the brim.
He obeyed who was born to command;
But he longed for the morning which then was so dim,
For the morning which now is at hand chorus.
Twas a long. weary night—we were almost in fear
That the future was more than he knew;
‘Twas a long, weary night, but the morning is near,
And the words of our prophet are true.
There are signs in the sky that the darkness is gone,
There are tokens in endless array;
While the storm which had seemingly banished the dawn 
Only hastens the advent of day. 
Chorus.

SOUTH CAROLINA.
1865.
Behold her now, with restless, flashing eyes,
Crouching, a thing forlorn, beside the way!
Behold her ruined altars heaped to-day 
With ashes of her costly sacrifice?
How changed the once proud State that led the strife,
And flung the war-cry first throughout the land!
See helpless now the parricidal hand 
Which aimed the first blow at the nation’s life!
The grass is growing in the city’s street,
Where stand the shattered spires, the broken walls;
And through the solemn noonday silence falls
The sentry’s footstep as he treads his beat.
Behold once more the old flag proudly wave 
Above the ruined fortress by the sea!
No longer shall that glorious banner be 
The ensign of the land where dwells the slave. 
Hark! On the air what swelling anthems rise!
A ransomed people, by the sword set free,
Are chanting now a song of liberty;
Hear how their voices echo to the skies!
O righteous retribution, great and just!
Behold the palm tree fallen to the earth,
Where Freedom, rising from a second birth,
No more shall trail her garments in the dust!
-Harper’s Weekly.
<c02>

The Liberator.
A WASHINGTON EXPERIENCE.
MR. EDITOR—A recent visit to the capital has been the occasion, in my mind, of many novel impressions and reflections, some of which may be of interest to your readers.
Doubtless, the early part of the month of March is not the best time to visit Washington, in order to a favorable first impression. “Winter, lingering in the lap of Spring,” is not altogether a romantic episode there. The latter finds feature and expression hardly so much in the yellow of the crocusses and tulips as the mud. This is the all-pervasive hint of the renewal of Nature’s year. Have you a vanity respecting the polish of your boots, or the varnish of your carriage wheels? The means are at hand to relieve you of it. Yet, if your imagination be strong enough to carry you forward two months, this disagreeable feature disappears, and is exchanged for the bloom of flowers, the melody of birds, and Nature “in verdure clad.” Under this impression, ascend to the dome of the Capitol, or the heights of Georgetown, and a fair city greets your eyes, and you recognize the taste and judgment of the founder which thus located it, and gave it the advantage of its many lovely environments.
But exterior attractions signify little in the presence of the dosing session of Congress. Unmindful, therefore, of the possibilities of May, or the actualities of March, I sought the Congressional galleries, and patiently awaited for any ebullitions of wit, wisdom, eloquence or wrath which the “assembled,” or either of them, might chance to manifest.
Pertinent indeed must have been the appellation which the House of Representatives gained for itself, in those palmy (ought I not to say, rather, palmetto) days when plantation manners were in vogue there, namely, the “national bear-garden.” Even yet, it gives hint of the managerie. What buzzing of many discordant voices! what pacings to and fro among the more active spirits! what sportive altercations and sidelong conversations, while some inefficient orator is vainly essaying, by vigorous gestures and vociferation, to gain sixty minutes’ attention from his associates!
At times, the clear voice and resonant hammer of the Speaker evokes momentary order out of this chaos; but no sooner is the prosy monologue fairly under way again, than the din recommences.
Emerson has said, “The people have not come at their ends by sending to Congress a learned, accomplished and fluent speaker. In politics, as in war, bruisers and pirates are of better promise than talkers and clerks.” This, once, I religiously accepted; but now, enlightened by, practical examples, presume to differ.
As I sat trying to catch a coherent idea of the business in hand, I could not suppress the mental exclamation-“O for an hour of Clay, Everett, Phillips, or Beecher, to throw a beam of clear light amid this murkiness, and charm turbulence into eager attention, in an exhibition of that conjury beautifully characterized by the pen of ancient wisdom, “apples of gold in pictures of silver”!
The Senate manifested a better decorum and more business despatch; a result arising, in good part, I presume, from the more convenient size of that body. The House is ponderous; yet, in its multitude of counsellors, there is no doubt greater safety against bribery, fraud or conspiracy. Perhaps the practice which obtains in the English House of Commons, of “coughing down” garrulous and windy speech-makers, may sometime come to the relief of our legislation. I fancied the average ability of the Senate to be much superior to the House; but the brevity of my observation hardly justifies an opinion. At any rate, mediocrity is liable to get the floor there, also, at important junctures. On the last night of the session, Cowan, of Pennsylvania, occupied an hour or more of the precious, swift-receding time, to argue what nobody doubted, that the institution of trial by jury is an excellent provision of the Constitution. Every school-boy knows the arguments in its favor, and the Senate of the United States might be presumed not to need a reiteration of them. But what avails a jury trial when half the adjacent houses contain secret enemies,. yclept “Sons of Liberty,” “Golden Knights,” or whatever else? When bullets whistle at you from your neighbors’ door-steps, and midnight torches are thrust into your windows, the remedy of a jury trial seems ludicrously inadequate.
These and similar cogent considerations were well urged by Senator Lane, of Indiana, who opened up the subject by moving to strike out from the Appropriation Bill the Henry Winter Davis amendment, which restricted military trials to offenders in actual military or naval service.
Senator Lane is a stalwart, energetic sort of man speaking very loud, and thus he became hoarse quite early in his speech. But he is a lover of freedom, and a man of much character. A little episode of this debate, for the moment quite exciting, may in some measure indicate this. One of his energetic sentences evoked a round of applause from the spectators. Thereupon, the presiding officer, as I presume in duty bound, threatened that, upon a repetition of it, the galleries should be cleared. “Mr. President,” continued the Senator, “I hope the galleries will not be cleared. I desire to speak to the galleries, for they represent the intelligence of the country, and the public opinion of the country, and it is in that behalf that I speak, and to that I defer.” The temptation to applaud again was, of course, extreme, but the lookers-on held their peace and their seats.
Turbulent galleries certainly do not facilitate legislation; but when Senators become eloquent for human rights, “something may be pardoned to the spirit of Liberty.”
The ceremonies of Inauguration day were of the usual stamp. I held no card of admission to the Senate Chamber, which, considering the unhappy developments of the occasion, must be considered a felicity. This inauspicious episode may, however, by the powerful and universal impression it has produced, be of good effect. We hob-a-nob with our friends glass to glass, chirrup and joke, or become complacent and sentimental; thereupon suddenly a mad engineer smashes up a railway train, or bursts a steamboat boiler, or a general upon the field of battle, wine-cup in hand, slaughters in his imbecility thousands of his comrades and our brothers, or the second officer in the republic disgraces the nation and himself, exciting by his conduct the apprehensions of hopeful and patriotic hearts. Then we startle to perceive in what dire abyss this rose-blooming path of intoxication may end.
The ceremonies of inauguration at the East Portico were, of course, the chief feature of the day, and attracted a vast concourse. It was, I thought, the nation epitomized.
Professedly a Bostonian myself, I stood upon the Capitol steps, in conversation with a soldier of Berkshire, whose comrade beside him was a Pennsylvanian. I had just been introduced to a member of the Kansas Legislature, arrived in Washington the day before. I am sure there were present in the crowd plenty of “contrabands,” (if the word be not obsolete,) and I presume, also, rebels who had taken the oath of allegiance, from the far South; while in the distance but conspicuous enough, I could see the stalwart form and massy beard of the California trapper, who had visited Washington bearing as a gift to the President the “elk horn chair”—and near at hand, the artist of the New York illustrated papers, busily sketching. I, therefore, had reason to be personally impressed both with the vastness of our country, and the dignity of the occasion which could thus gather an audience from the extremes of a continent.
The inaugural ceremonies were in the usual form, and have been described so often as to be familiar to all. I wish, however, to eater a protest— puritanic, if you choose to call it so—against one rite which I witnessed with surprise akin to annoyance. Instead
<c03>
of assenting to the oath as administered by the Chief Justice in any usual form of affirmation, the President bent over and kissed the book which the Chief Justice held in his hand. Presumably, the volume was the Bible, but, if so, it was only a “fortuitous concourse” of sheepskin and paper. If, as the book itself says, regard for the letter killeth, while the spirit giveth life, what shall be said respecting the mere handiwork of printers and binder? The practice to of popish origin, and like obsequiousness before the consecrated wafer and sad similar customs, “more honored in the breach than in the observance.” Since God is a Spirit, can we better reverence his word, outwardly and materialistically, or in spirit and in truth?
The presidential reception in the evening was conducted in an ultra-democratic style; that is, the mob got possession of the premises; and that being the nine points of the law of etiquette, as they understood it, they kept it, much to the disappointment of numerous ladies and gentlemen, who waited two or three hours in the chill sight air, in the vain hope of an opportunity to pay their respects to the host. Either the White House must be greatly enlarged, or else visitors must be taught politeness by police authority if necessary, and persuaded to move along, and make way for their fellow-citizens and peers in the realm.
I had not time or opportunity to learn much of the condition of the emancipated population, but gained some insight respecting it in the intimations of a well-informed friend, and by observation from an interior point of view—namely, an African Methodist church. It was an edifice of medium size and extreme plainness, though the preacher expressed gratitude at the prospect of an early rebuilding. It was thronged with attentive and devout worshippers. My informant stated that there were fifteen or twenty similar congregations in the city.
The burden of the preaching was highly evangelical, with more numerous and frequent allusions to his sulphurous majesty than would have been considered pertinent in a more Northern pulpit of the same persuasion.
Incentives to temporal duties were not suggested, but stress was laid upon the means of grace, and the forlornness of earthly life and prospects. That preacher and auditory were in unison was evinced by frequent amens, and incoherent responses from all parts of the house. Gratitude for freedom was especially rendered, for the reason that now they were not compelled to close their meeting and be home at nine o’clock, as formerly.
The doctrine preached is not novel and unheard-of in the North indeed, but there it is assented to like a French verdict of guilty, was “mitigating circumstances.”
Dives of New York allows, like his African brother, with proper unction and audible emotion, the vanity and wickedness of worldliness; and then rolls home upon luxurious wheels, and is reminded, in passing, that this week he must sell those vacant lots, and put the proceeds into the “seven-thirties,” where they cannot be taxed, and that before another Sabbath he will have a pair of bays as good at least as those of his brother Brown, who has just driven by upon the road. Not so, Africans. He accepts the premises, and, with a logic worthy of Edwards accepts the condition also.
“Are these people industrious and frugal?” asked I of my friend. “Very much so,” said he. “What do they do with their money?” “Spend it on their churches,” was the reply. He then went on to say that it was difficult to interest them in social ameliorations; that worldly advantage, education, personal thrift, and, in general, all those interests which we define by the word civilization, were viewed by many o them as quite unimportant, if not immoral considerations. Nor is this to be wondered at. Slavery has benumbed some of the finer sentiments of their nature and its nightmare is not yet wholly departed. An anecdote, which I recently met with in the “Life of Seward,” will serve as well as any to illustrate the origin of this morbid moral condition:-
“Resting, one day, at an inn in Virginia, I saw a woman, blind and decrepit with age, turning the ponderous wheel of a machine on the lawn, and over heard this conversation between her and my fellow-traveller:’ ‘I not that very hard work?” “Why, yes, mistress, but I must do something; and this is all that I can do, now that I am so old.” “How old are you?” “I don’t know; past sixty, they tell me.” ‘I have you a husband?” ‘I don’t know, mistress.’’ ‘Have you ever had a husband?’’’ ‘Yes, I was married.”’ “Where is your husband?’’’ ‘I don’t know; he was sold.’’’ ‘Have you children?’’’ ‘I don’t know; they were sold.’’’ ‘Have you ever heard from any of them since they were sold?’’’ ‘No, mistress.’’’ ‘Do you not find it hard to bear up under such afflictions as these?’’’ ‘Why, yes, mistress; but God does what he thinks best with us.”
No exception, of course, to be taken to this religious trustfulness, but the paralysis of hope which it indicates is certainly not the right condition precedent to a redeemed and new-created South, or the social and political elevation of the blacks.
Education, skilled labor, and their proper sequences, social independence and individual character, are in their case the desiderata: and it is encouraging to know that the freedmen’s cause in Washington is under the leadership of those who, while revering religion, yet perceive also, with St. Paul, that “that is not first which is spiritual, but that which is natural.”
Washington needs a strong infusion of Northern blood, a permanent population of some thousands of living, irrepressible Yankees, “with their heads full of steam hammer.”
The advent of a few Lowell factories and East Boston shipyards and machine shops, and their inevitable concommitants, would make as attractive and admirable in the human aspects as now in the physical, this city of the hope and pride of the pater patrie, seated upon these gently sloping hillsides overlooking the broad Potomac, which bends gracefully before it, and sweeps away into a distant southern perspective.
D. W. B.
INSTRUCTION OF THE FREEDMEN.—NO. III.
THE FIRST LESSON—(as now taught.)
Teacher.—Here, Sambo, do you wish to learn to read?
Sambo. —Yes, massa; very, very much.
T.—Well, Sambo, this letter is A.
S-A.
T.—And this is B.
S. —B.
T— B, A, spells ba.
S. —B-a, ba.
T. —Now, can you tell me what A-b spells?
S. —Yes, massa; A-—b spells Abe.
T. —O, no, Sambo, A-—b spells ab.
S. —B-a, ba; a-b, ab.
T. —That is right. I will now teach you to spell one or two easy words. Spell Bay.
S. —B-a, ba.
T. —Well! no, not exactly; when we want to spell the word bay, we put a y to It—b-a-y, buy.
S. —B-a-y, bay. Spelling is mighty funny, massa: b-a, ba; a-b, ab; and b-a-y, bay.
T. —That’s right; you‘re a smart negro, Sambo, yon may be President yet. Now spell Abe, which we sometimes hear for Father Abraham.
S. —(Scratching his head,) A-y-b, abe.
(The teacher leaves in haste.)
THE SECOND LESSON.
T. —Well, my fine boy, have you forgotten your first lesson?
S. No, massa dat is A, dis is b; and b-a spells ba.
T. —Right? and a-b spells?— —
S. —Abe.
T. —Oh, no! a-b,ab.
S. —Yes, massa? a-b, ab. But how do you spell Abe?
T. —A-b-e spells Abe; now spell bay.
S. —B-a-e, ba.
T. —Why, no? don’t you remember I told you yesterday that we spelt day, b-a-y?
<c04>
S. —I remember now, massa, b-a-y, bay.
T. —This letter is C.
S. —C.
T. —C-a, ca.
S. —C-a, ca.
T. — And this letter is E.
S. —E.
T. — C-e spells as. Now you know four letters— A, B, C and E. B-a, ba; b-e, be; c-a, ka; and c-e, se. Now read.
S. —B-a, ba; b-e, be; c-a, ka; c-e, ke.
T. —Oh, no, not ke; you should say, se. What is this?
S. —A-c, ace.
T. —— No! a-c spells ac. Spelt Ache.
S. -—(Remembering his instructor in spelling Abe, and brightening up with a look of triumph)—A-c-e, ake.
T. —No, no? boy, you must put an h in that word; a-c-h-e, ake.
S—Oh, massa! dat’s hard.
The reader would scarcely wade through the whole alphabet in this manner, but the teacher must, encountering these same difficulties at every step. And when he has gone through the alphabet, and taught with great patience hundreds of absurdities, he has only begun to encounter the difficulties that our orthography presents.
N-o spells no; but do, doo—door, but food: soup, but sour, tone; but, ore, ran, ton and son, had, head, read, (red or reed,) aught, laugh, &c. &c. But why repeat these things? Why begin a list of absurdities that has no end? If we should fill every page of the Liberator with them, we should not exhaust the subject; for, in point of fact, less than one hundred words in the English language are written as they are spoken. And this chaotic mass of rubbish is reducible to no general laws. In the end we must depend upon learning the spelling of each word by itself, or learn ten thousand arbitrary signs for the ten thousand most common words in the language, and remain forever ignorant of the remaining.
A nearly exhaustive treatise on these irregularities may be found in the third number of the Rapid Writer, to which we would refer. With all our facilities for education, our children spend four or five years in learning to read, spell and write. All love of science and truth is in danger of being crushed out by this early training, and but little time is left for real knowledge.
Now, we do not design to say that the negro is unable to do as well as white children. Under proper instruction he can, doubtless, learn to read and write by our present plan of teaching them. What we do say is, that he must spend years in learning what he could learn better in the same number of months by the Phonetic method. Besides, it is easier to command a number of years for a useless labor in childhood than later in life. They are too sanguine altogether, too sanguine, who hope to see the millions of the freed-men taught even to read and write by the present method of teaching, with all the aid that can be secured. But is this all that they need to know? Are Negroes so much superior to Anglo-Saxons, that while we need instruction in all branches of study, they need only the husks of knowledge? A person who has learned to read has only gained an entrance at the gates of knowledge. The treasures of wisdom are still hidden, and need to be sought—and sought from what a mass of rubbish!? We pity the poor freedman, not for what he IS, but for what MUST BE when a FALSE EDUCATION has beclouded his native sense.
The PHONETIC plan or method of teaching reading is this: The old letters of the alphabet retain each that sound which it most commonly represents. For instance, a, e, i and o represent only the short sounds of these vowels; while the long sounds are designated by new characters, which we cannot give for want of types. New types are also used for the sounds of a in fall and far, and the sounds of oo, th, sh, ng, s, in pleasure, &c. &c. In short, a single, invariable sign is used for each simple sound in the language, and the same sign is used in all cases to designate that sound. Hence, when the alphabet is learned, the pupil can read at once. Five hours’ instruction is sufficient for teaching an intelligent freedman to read the Phonetic print.
The Phonetic orthography has been tried so frequently, and always with such happy results, that its feasibility is placed beyond question. Ten thousand efforts in all parts of the country, in England, and by missionaries in heathen countries, have demonstrated the fact, that the introduction of a Phonetic orthography would do more to advance education every where than any other means. It would, at least, double the facilities of education, and save three-fourths the time now devoted to the rudiments of reading and writing for progress in higher studies. But our anomalous orthography still remains. For the present, at least, we must learn to read it. While Phonetics was, and it, excellent as an, END, it is not the most direct way of learning to read our common print. For this, PHONICS is designed. It makes no war on our orthography; it only aims to make the best of a bad matter, by reducing to order such features as admit of it, and furnishing a key to its intricacies. We will explain the Phonic method briefly in our next. PHILIP.
THE LIBERATOR AND MR. GARRISON.
Mr. Garrison announces, in a recent number of his paper—the Liberator—in reply to the question of a correspondent, that he expects to discontinue the issue of the sheet at the close of the present year.
We concur in the view taken by Mr. Garrison, that, when an agency has done its proper work, it is time for it to retire and leave its room to be occupied by some new and needed force. It should depart with the gratitude of Simeon, thanking God that the prophet’s function is absorbed by the service of the manifested Messiah; instead of clinging to life that it may still remind us of the grievous things which it were a blessing to bury and then forget. Henry Ward Beecher puts-a great truth into a seeming paradox when he says—“That is a brave and good institution which hastens to dig its own grave.”
The Liberator has had a marked character and a significant history. It has been a real and recognizable force, and has made a real contribution to our moral and civil life as a people. Its object was specific, and it was never forgotten or subordinated. It aimed simply at the destruction of American slavery. This ultimate object included others, —this aim brought many things beside the target within the workman’s range. Incidentally, many topics, collateral to this, have come up for consideration, and, for longer or shorter periods, hare seemed likely to become the principal topics. But the paper has always come back to its path again, from every defection. It has at once welcomed the cooperation of every man and woman who would aid in the main undertaking, caring little for their creeds or standing. It might also be added, without injustice, that it has not always been very inquisitive about their crotchets or characters. The moral Esaus of the community, belligerant, cynical, audacious—negative natures that repel at both poles and attract at neither—egotists without principle and critics without justice or appreciation—rejectors of God under the plea of caring for man—contemners of the Bible, who yet searched through its sublimest passages for strong figures of speech with which to denounce oppression, and turned the grief of prophetic warnings into the bitterness of passionate denunciation—all these classes have offered the Liberator their alliance in behalf of its great object, and then have more or less sought to make it voice their opinions, have it commit itself to their personal objects, and publicly espouse their individual theories and private quarrels.
Whether this line of policy was wise or not, we will not now stop to inquire. That the paper thus became the vehicle for bitter controversy—for the most radical and revolutionary theories—for opinions thoroughly hostile to the teaching of the Scriptures—and for the greatest intemperance and recklessness of statement and denial—is well known and remembered. And that this feature of the paper drew down much honest suspicion upon this part of the anti-slavery movement, and arrayed many truly conscientious and Christian men against the very un-
<c05>
dertaking of the Abolitionists, is a fact needing no proof. Men of candor and the highest morel worth said, as they, looked through the crowded, radical, bristling columns-“A cause defended by such weapons, advocated on such grounds, and urged on by such methods, must bring more evil than good; and so, while assenting to its main principles, they went away and left it un helped and unapproved.”
That is one feature of the paper— one quality in its character— one element of its power— one item that most be allowed to weigh something in the estimate of its aggregate value. But it is only one, and by no means the main one. The paper has been managed with consummate ability from the very first. Vigorous thought, philosophical discussion of fundamental principles in politics, society and morals, historical research, legal learning, scientific criticism, literary taste and culture, eloquent utterance and poetic fire, have all lent their influence to this anti-slavery organ. Its columns have often seemed heaving with strong life, and one could almost feel the throbbing of its vital paragraphs. The dullest reader was compelled to think when running over its editorials—the most stupid nature worked into fervid or indignant feeling beneath its weekly revelations. Few journals in the country have brought out higher or a more fully sustained mental power.
And it has never faltered in its demand for justice, nor allowed itself for an hour to be turned aside from its chosen path and its main object. It has kept the great question steadily before the country. It would not be diverted by any side issues. It has been as vigilant as a veteran soldier on picket before Petersburg, allowing no enemy to freedom to pass unchallenged, whatever disguise be might assume, and refusing to take the rifle from its shoulder till it heard the countersign of liberty in a clear, full voice. It has grappled with every legal technicality brought forward in legislatures and courts for the support of slavery—every deduction of science, every postulate of philosophy, every theory of the social compact, every passage from history, every table of statistics, every claim of government, every law of morals, every interpretation of Scripture, every consideration of religion—intent on showing that none of them could justify, but that all of them put their condemnation upon, our national oppression, and demanded a prompt repentance. In a way at once simple, open and unequivocal, it has called upon the American people to undo the grievous wrong which was being done alike to the slave and to themselves. Loss of favor, remonstrance, appeal, threat, censure, suspicion, hatred, violence, the falling away of old friends and the coming of new foes —all these failed to change its issues, divert its attention, weaken its remonstrance, or soften its verdicts. It was still heroically firm, sublimely obstinate.
And so it has held on its way for thirty-five years, sometimes hopeful, sometimes despondent; yet never despondent enough to relax its exertion, and never hopeful enough to anticipate that he who began the battle in its columns would be permitted, while yet in the vigor of his manhood, to write there the fulfilment of his ridiculed predictions, and the thanksgiving over a completed victory. He may well be satisfied to build his paper into the abiding monument which will tell of liberty achieved for a long oppressed race. It has done a great work in the education of the people—rebuking and restraining our greed of gain and our worship of material prosperity, quickening the conscience and bracing up the moral tone of our body politic. Without at all endorsing all the pretensions that have been set up in its behalf, we accord it the too rare merit of comprehending its mission and of remaining devoted to it; of asking chiefly what was right instead of what was politic; of exalting the very truths which were most in danger of being contemned and crushed; of vindicating free speech against the tyranny of power and the clamor of the populace; of making the form of Justice more majestic, her smile more benignant, and her discipline more to be dreaded; and of putting into the heart of the loyal North something of the courage which dared our slavery to the combat, and something of the moral conviction and tenacious purpose which have decreed it an execution and a grave.
We have deeply regretted what seemed to be its faults—the excesses in statement, the bitterness of some of its utterances, its sometimes uncharitable temper, and its indirect crusade against the institutions of that very Christianity from which it drew its highest doctrine of justice and its grandest ideas of duty. But of late it has apparently been coming back to the broader faith of its earlier years, bringing from its terrible conflicts a more chastened temper as well as a more comprehensive vision. It began with a ringing challenge in the name of the Lord; it ends with a subdued thanksgiving to Him through whom freedom has gotten its victory.
Of Mr. Garrison it is not time to speak at length. Gradually men are coming to a just estimate of him, and we need not try to anticipate the final verdict. But a few words may not be impertinent. Of his clearness of apprehension, of his straight-forwardness in policy, of his thorough devotion to the great cause of civil liberty, of his moral courage, of his persistent energy, not a word is needed. His bitterest foes, if possessing a spark of honor and a grain of candor, concede all these things to him.
The hour hastens on. And Mr. Garrison’s recognition of it and welcome to it are interpreting the man to many who have judged him wrongly. No sooner does the roused nation leap to its feet and strike for liberty, than he hastens to speak his gratitude and cheer the toilers in the struggle. Some of his old associates, seeming to have forgotten how to speak save in censure, are frankly told that he has no words save those of cheer and kindly criticism for a people willing to risk all for unity and liberty. Even from the splendid declamatory invective and the epigramatic censures of Phillips—bosom friend for many years, and the eloquent advocate on whom almost any cause might lean with both confidence and pride—even from this he publicly dissents, that he may commend Lincoln, or bid Wilson God-speed, or thank Sumner for his latest speech, or interpret Seward charitably, or find an apology for Banks. To cut himself loose from a line of policy pursued for more than thirty years, to risk the alliance or friendship of such old coadjutors, to become the enthusiastic supporter of the government which he has fought for a generation, is to exhibit qualities rare enough to be recognized, and noble enough to be appreciated.
Mr. Garrison has long shown himself the stern rebuker and the uncompromising opponent of wrong: he is now showing himself the charitable sympathizer and the faithful coadjutor of those who devote themselves to the enthronement of the right. If he denounced the nation’s sin unsparingly, no man is showing more gratitude than he over its penitence. If his hatred of evil was intense even to bitterness, his love of good is proving itself as deep as the bottom of his heart. These two correlated elements are the opposite poles of a great and healthy nature, between which all noble and beautiful things may find room.
And he takes his victories and honors with great quietude and a beautiful modesty. There is no self-complacent recalling of his old prophecies to prove himself a true seer; no noisy proclamation of his heroism and parade of his self-denials and sufferings; no jealousy of the new workers for freedom, who come so late into the field, and wear the honors of the service. Every true ally is taken to his heart; the latest service is sure to get his recognition; his gratitude goes fervently up to God over every succeeding achievement for freedom.
From the two extremes of our society—the conservative and the radical—Mr. Everett and Mr. Garrison walk toward each other at the call of Christian patriotism, till they meet at the point where Abraham Lincoln plants the Standard of the Republic, now the symbol of Unity and Liberty. There —strange but cheering sight—the polished scholar and the sturdy reformer clasp bands, for the inward loyalty has brought them together patriots and friends. Neither will be forgotten! —Dover Morning Star.
THE LIBERATOR. The veteran editor of the Liberator announces that, with the conclusion of the present volume, the thirty-fifth, the publication of that journal will cease. We should regard such an event as a real misfortune to our country, were it not for the intimation that the edition may still continue his labors for the cause of humanity in the publication of a new journal with another title, and for other reformatory purposes. Mr. Garrison feels that the work of the Liberator, as such, is done; that freedom has triumphed, and the oppressed are free. This was the great and single object for which he established his journal, and the YEAR OF JUBILEE is the appropriate time for closing it up. In all the vicissitudes of public opinion, Mr. Garrison; has been consistent and true to the principles on which he began his work; never faltering or compromising, even
<c06>
in the darkest hour. Few philanthropists have left behind them so bright a record; few have suffered so much of obloquy and persecution. Mr. Garrison states that although his direct object is accomplished in the emancipation! of an enslaved race, he shall always continue to make their cause his own, and shall never “grow weary in maintaining their rights, or consent to any abatement of their claims to liberty equality and fraternity.” —American Baptist.
FAST DAY PROCLAMATION.
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
BY His Excellency John A. Andrew, Governor: A Proclamation for a Day of Fasting, Humiliation, and Prayer. In accordance with the practice and example of our fathers, but not in the spirit of a merely hereditary and formal observance of the day, which from the depths of a troubled, devout and tender spirit, they consecrated to the uses of the religion, I do hereby, with the advice and consent of the Council, appoint Thursday, the thirteenth day of April next, to be observed throughout the Common wealth as a day of humiliation, fasting and Prayer.
I earnestly recommend to the people of the Common wealth, that laying aside the cares of business and the demands of daily ordinary life, they assemble in their usual places of worship, and humbly seek the Divine face and favor.
For our rulers, that in an unselfish and patriotic endeavor, they may follow that wonderful providence which has thus far so clearly led us in the stern conflict to which duty has called this nation.
For all our citizens, that they may cheerfully bear whatsoever of sacrifice and trial may yet be needed in the future.
For the authors of the terrible strife which has drenched the land with blood, and made desolate the homes of thousands who mourn their slain on so many battle fields, that the bitterness of war may subdue in them the unhallowed ambition which seeks a selfish supremacy at the cost of the common good.
For our own Commonwealth, let us ask in that faith which prompts the diligent discharge of every duty; that God will grant to us rain and fruitful seasons; that in all the departments of industry He will grant a due reward to the toil of men, and will bless with prosperity all good enterprises of education, morality and religion.
Let us earnestly pray, that in the promise of peace and the triumph of our national arms, we may not forget Whose hand had gotten us the victory; that in the assured prospect of a restored Union, its flag may become a banner of protection and the symbol of the equal rights to all men under its folds, of what ever condition and color; and that in the establishment, again of the rightful authority of the government, we may not yield ourselves to corruption in the national councils, nor to the dominion of those vices which destroy a people.
Let our fast be that which God hath chosen—to undo the heavy burdens, to let the oppressed go free, and to break every yoke; let our humiliation be of that sincerity which fears to mock the Most High with false solemnities; and let our prayer be the penitent outpouring of hearts which recognize the presence and power of that High and Holy One whose Infinite Majesty is unlimited by the boundaries of space or time, who condescends to come near to all the children of men.
Given at the Council Chamber, in Boston, this first day of March, in the year of out Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-five, and or the Independence of the United States of America the eighty-ninth.
JOHN A. ANDREW.
By His Excellency the Governor, by and with the advice and consent of the Council.
OLIVER WARNER, Secretary.
God save the Commonwealth of Massachusetts!
MR. HACKETT AND ANDREW JOHNSON.
The great comedian, Hackett, writes thus to a friend:
NEW YORK, March 6, 1865.
I am amazed at the report I read of Vice President Johnson’s indecorous speech in the Senate when inducted into office last Saturday.
As I mentioned to you lately, I had three days almost continuous acquaintance with Mr. Johnson, at the Galt House, Louisville, Ky., when we chanced to meet there early in October last, and he was engaged in electioneering. This seems to me a signal instance of “nature erring from itself.”
Prior to that casual meeting and our interchange of civilities, I had neither known nor heard anything whatever of Mr. Johnson’s personal habits or private character. Indeed, I had only read such of his political course as newspapers found it expedient to refer to; thought I noticed many points of public character which inspired my regard and respect—as “firm loyalty to the Union cause, remarkable for many of nature’s most admired gifts, and a combination of ready tact, shrewdness and great energy in public objects, and a commanding political influence in Tennessee and other Western States.”
Mr. Andrew Johnson’s personal presence then seemed to me naturally dignified, without any pretence or semblance of affectation; his manners were easy, frank and winning, genial and gentlemanlike; nor did they nor his face indicate any low-bred, immoral or intemperate habit. In his several conversations with me, Mr. Johnson seemed particularly desirous of ascertaining my ideas upon the art of public speaking. He never referred to politics, His language was well chosen and grammatically expressed; his ideas denoted strong common sense, and his style was natural and persuasive, and his humor pleasing and never “vulgar,” nor “boisterous.”
Mr. Johnson sat vis-à-vis to me at the table a note. His beverage there was invariably water. Each day at dinner, when I invited him to join me in a glass of sherry wine, he seemed to accept rather from courtesy to me than his own inclination. On one occasion, when I was alone in my apartment, and he had come in and seemed some what exhausted after public speaking, he refused “a little choice brandy or a glass of wine” which I urged for his refreshment. Indeed, from what I then saw of Mr. Johnson, I can only account for his very extraordinary address upon the hypothesis that, having been beset, he had indiscreetly yielded to a swarm of heartless parasites, some of whom may have purposely seduced him to “put an enemy into his mouth to steal away his brains,” and inspired him with the idea that his new-found and stately associates, in spite of his elevated position, were inclined to disparage him because of his fresh and more directly plebeian origin; and that then Mr. Johnson, having quite forgotten himself, indulged in an ill-timed, irrelevant and incoherent harangue.
I was never yet inebriated; but I can feel another’s we thus victimized, and believe Mr. Johnson will be generally looked upon as having been “more sinned against than sinning,” and will maintain his own usefulness and a becoming dignity hereafter in presiding over the action of such an august body as the Senate of the United States.
JEFF. DAVIS A FALSE PROPHET. The insufferable arrogance and self-conceit of the rebel leaders before they left the U. S. Congress are they well remembered, and now the delusion under which they labored in regard to the power and resources of the South, and the inability of the free North to make head against their criminal designs, is thoroughly exploded. The rebel chief himself, greatly as he was lauded as a solider and statesman, has found himself terribly mistaken, as the inexorable logic of events has proved. For example—in a speech delivered in the United States Senate on the 10th of January, 1861, a short time before he and his colleagues “seceded” from that body, Jeff. Davis said:
“My friend from Louisiana, in closing his remarks, referred to the disastrous scenes which might be occasioned by the invasion of the South. He did not offer the other side of the picture; and yet I have seen that, in Northern papers, he has been criticized for even saying what he did. There is, however, another side to the picture. An army with banners would do but little harm in marching through a country of plantations. They would have but little power to subsist themselves in a sparsely settled region. THEY WOULD FIND IT HARD TO FEED THE ARMY WITH WHICH THEY INVADED, AND WOULD HAVE NO POWER TO BRING AWAY PRISONRES AND FUGITIVES. How stands it on the other side? In a country of populous cities, of manufacturing towns, where population is gathered from the country into towns and villages, the torch and sword can do their work with dreadful have, and starving millions would weep at the stupidity of those who had precipitated them into so sad a policy.”
How marvelously incongruous and inopportune the above passage appears now!
