THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No.6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT , GENERAL AGENT 
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz: —WENDELL PHILLIPS EDMUND QUINCY , EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, Our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. NO. 19.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1865.
WHOLE NO. 1788.
<c01>
SELECTIONS.
THE PUPIL AND HIS TEACHER.
It appears that a few months before the probable date of the recently published letter of J. Wilkes Booth, a large number of inflammatory speeches were delivered in Chicago, on the occasion of what purported to be a Democratic National Convention. The extracts which we give below from a portion of those speeches, as they were reported in the Chicago Tomes, are strikingly similar in their sprit to those from the letter of Booth.
“This country was formed for the white, not for the black man And looking upon African Slavery from the standpoint held by the noble framers of our Constitution, I, for one, have ever considered it one of the greatest blessings (both for themselves and us) that God ever bestowed upon a favored nation.”-J. Wilkes Booth.
“The South are not have they been, fighting for the continuance of slavery. The first battle of Bull Run did away with that idea. Their causes since for war have been as noble and greater far than those that urged our fathers on. Even should we allow they beginning of this contest, cruelty and injustice the right, and they stand now (before the wonder and admiration of the world) as a noble band of patriotic heroes. Hereafter, reading of their deeds, <illegible>will be forgotten.—J. Wilkes Booth.
“I thought then as now, that the Abolitionists were only traitors in the land, and that the entire party deserved same fate as poor old Brown.”–J. Wilkes Booth.
“I love peace more than life. Have loved the Union beyond expression. For four years have I waited, hoped and prayed for the dark clouds to break, and for a restoration of our former <illegible> To wait longer would be a crime. All hope for peace is dead. My prayers have proved as idle as my hopes. God’s will be done! I go to see and share the bitter and.”—J. Wilkes Booth
“People of the North, to hate tyranny, to love liberty and justice, to strike at wrong and oppression, was the teaching of our fathers. The study of our early history will not let me forget it, and may it never.”—J. Wilkes Booth.
“Most or many in the North, do, and openly, curse the Union, if the South is to return and retain a single right guaranteed to them by every tie which we once revered as sacred.”—J. Wilkes Booth.
“I have ever held the South were right. The very <illegible> of the Abraham Lincoln, four years ago, spoke plainly war –war upon Southern rights and institutions. His election proved it. ‘A wait an overt act!’ Yes, till you are bound and plundered. What folly! The South were wise. Who thinks of arguments or patience When the finger of his enemy presses on the trigger?”-J. Wilkes Booth.
“When I aided in the capture and execution of John Brown, (who was a murder on our Western border, and who was fairly tried and convicted, before an <illegible> judge and jury, of <illegible> and who by the way, has since been made a god,) I was proud of my little share in the transaction, for I deemed it my duty, and that I was helping our common country to perform a simple act of justice. But what was a crime in poor John Brown is now considered (by themselves) as the greatest and only virtue of the whole Republican party –J. Wilkes Booth.
“In a foreign war, I, too, could say, ‘Country, right or wrong.’ But in a struggle <illegible> (where the brother tries to pierce the brother’s heart,) for God’s sake chose the right. When a country like this spurns justice from her side, she for <illegible> the allegiance of every honest freeman, and should leave him, untrammelled by any fealty whatever, to act as his conscience may approve,”-J. Wilkes Booth.
“What is this war for? The nigger. It is for the nigger against the white man. I think we don’t want our becomes stuffed so much with damned niggers this warm weather. I don’t believe the Negro is equal to the white man. Is it not high time that this infernal war was stopped? –Sanderson, of Pa.
“The South could not honorably lay down her arms, for she was fighting for her honor. Two millions of men had been sent down to the slaughter pens of the South, and the army of Lincoln could not again be filled, neither by enlistment nor conscription. If he ever uttered a prayer, It was that not one of the States of the Union should be conquered and subjugated. They had tried for three years to whip the seceding States back into the Union, but from the way the war had been conducted, they were more likely to whip us. We were told that we would conquer the rebellious States. They could not be conquered, and he prayed God they might never be”.—Rev. C. Chauncey Burr 
“They talked about a rebellion down South, but a greater rebellion had been in progress in the North.”—Rev C Chauncey Burr.
“The Democracy were for peace, but the contractors and army officers and satraps of the Administration wanted it not. (Great applause.) Ever since the usurper, traitor and tyrant had occupied the Presidential chair, the Republican party had shouted war to the knife, and the knife to the hilt. Blood had flowed in torrents, and yet the thirst of the old monster was not quenched. His cry was for more blood.”—Rev. Henry Clay Dean.
“I say that every man who loves his country, every man who loves liberty, ought to be firmly resolved in his own mind to do and die, if need be, in defence of his glorious principles”—Sanderson, of Pa.
“Even now, when war has desolated our land, has laid its heavy burdens upon labor, when bankruptcy and ruin overhang us, they will not have Union except upon conditions unknown to the Constitution. Nay, more than this, they will not listen to a proposal for peace which does not offer that which this Government has no right to ask”Horatio Seymour
“He had heard one of the speakers state that the people of the South were traitors, which were harsh words, as the people of the South were as brave and chivalrous a people as were put on this earth. (Cheers.) He had regretted that they took the step they did for the settlement of their grievances, for they had great grievances. Never had one word come from his lips against them, and he hoped his lips would be sealed when he did injustice to a brave, noble, and chivalrous people” (Applause.)–Capt. <illegible> Rynders.
“The war is an unholy fight. Soon the net will be drawn that will gather in its half million more to feed the insatiable thirst for blood of the Negro God.”-J.A. MacMasters
“A bloody war has been raised to elevate the Negro to an equality with the white man. There is no difference between a war Democrat and an Abolitionist”—Judge Miller.
“The Administration, by their infernal policy to put the Negro above the white man, had deluged the country with blood, and sent to untimely graves ten hundred thousand men.’–M.V. Johnson
“It was impossible to subjugate eight millions of people, and it ought not to be done if it could. He would not fight in this war, but if necessary to assert the principles of the constitution, he was a fighting man. It seemed to his mind that the people of this country had been mad for the last four years.”—John J. Van Alles
We ask candid men to compare carefully the sentiments which we have called from the recently published letter of assassin Booth, with the quotations from the report of the Democratic speeches made in Chicago at the time of the Chicago Convention, which we have placed opposite them The spirit of hated for Abraham Lincoln and the <illegible> party is the same throughout. But the expressions of the murder are far milder than 
<c02>
those we have quoted from the above named Democratic speakers. In the letter of Booth there will be found no more vindictive utterances than those which we have quoted, while many of the orators who spoke in Chicago during the National Democratic Convention expressed more treasonable language than even the fore going extracts. In presenting their language side by side with that of Booth, we have aimed not to select that which was most violent and inflammatory, but that which most clearly resembled the sentiments of Abraham Lincoln’s murderer. Booth indeed said: “My love (as things stand to-day) is for the South alone. Nor do I deem it a dishonor in attempting to make a prisoner of this man to whom she owes so much misery.” But in what respect was that language more treasonable than much of that already quoted from the Chicago orators? It is infinitely less calculated to incite some Copperhead fanatic to imitate his crime upon the successor of his victim, than the following language of the Rev. C. Chauncey Burr was to cause the assassination of President Lincoln: “And it was a wonder that they had a Cabinet and men who carried out the infamous orders of the gorilla tyrant that usurped the Presidential chair. In New Jersey they had shifted the responsibility of these despotic acts to the shoulders of the Abolitionists, and more than one provost marshal had a hole made through his head.” What was this but a suggestion, as plain as the infamous villain who uttered it dared to make, that what had so desirable an effect in New Jersey upon provost marshals might have the same effect in Washington upon “the gorilla tyrant” and his Cabinet?

GENERAL BUTLER ON THE CRISIS.
There was a very large attendance of the members of the Union League Club last evening, it being understood that General Benjamin F. Butler would deliver an address at the invitation of the Club. Soon after the large room of the Club was opened for admission, there was a constant inward tide until there was no more room left either for sitting or standing. General Butler was introduced by the Chairman of the Loyal League Club in a few words. He was greeted with loud applause. The General looked well, and with frequent bows acknowledged the enthusiastic reception which greeted him.
GENERAL BUTLER’S SPEECH.
We may congratulate ourselves that after four years of effort, toil, expenditure, as well of treasure as of blood, all armed resistance to the Government has been brought to an end. Among the returning blessings which will flow from this consummation, not the least will be the arrival of the period when all abnormal administration, of law and exercise of authority and power can and will cease. The reason for, cause and object of extraordinary use of executive functions which we have all upheld because necessary war powers, justified in the struggle for the life of the nation, ceasing, they also cease, and we of the loyal States come back once more to that regularity and safety of exercise of governmental powers which our fathers with so much care provided as safeguards to the rights of all. There is a portion of our country in which all these safeguards are broken down, where all law which we can recognize has been disregarded, and where the withdrawal of our armed forces would leave only anarchy, aggravated by hostility to the Government. I propose, with your permission, in a conversational form, to evolve for consideration a few propositions relating to the questions which now press home upon us as to the manner in which we shall receive back the rebellious States, or avoiding all controversy upon terms, merely as to whether they are in or out of the Union. In the language of our late lamented President, “How these States can be brought into their practical relations with the Government.” I need not say that the thoughts which have been subjects of my reflections upon this topic are only the speculations of a citizen whose mind has been turned for some time in this direction, attracted thereto and enlightened by the success of the bold original action of President Johnson in bringing Tennessee as a loyal State into the Union by the votes of those only who ever remained loyal in heart, and rejecting all those who had participated in the rebellion. This, perhaps, is the key to the whole difficulty. In April, 1863, I had the honor to express to the citizens of New York, at the Academy of Music, the opinion that the people of the rebellious States were in the legal relation to the Government of alien enemies. This proposition has since been confirmed by the repeated solemn decisions of the Supreme Court. By what process, then, are these public enemies of the United States, living under political organizations or State governments hostile to the Union, their forces just now shattered and broken by our victories, to be brought into political relations with us, and become endowed as well with the privilege of legislating for themselves as a part of the Government, as also to make laws for us, who have just subdued the rebellion by the sword? It is quite clear that until some means are devised to enable the Southern people to govern themselves in the Union, disorder must be repressed, peace preserved, crimes punished and the industrious and well-doing protected by the military powers of the United States. It would seem to be the part of wisdom to ascertain first whether any of the inhabitants of these States, and how many, are really desirous of coming back and becoming a part of the Government, with the political ideas, affinities, unity of thought with the loyal States which alone can insure their usefulness and homogeneity as parts of the body politic. Would it not be well, then, that military Governors appointed for each State, who, it would seem, should be selected as much for their knowledge of civil affairs as of “army regulations,” satisfied that any considerable number of the inhabitants of his district are truly loyal and desirous of bringing their State into the Union, should call upon the loyal citizens of the United States residing therein, who had never held office during the rebellion, to vote upon the question whether the people desired to resume their relations with the United States as a loyal State, and for that end would provide and declare in their State Constitution:
First—That hereafter forever there should be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except for crime judicially declared.
Second—That there cannot exist in the political system of the United States any such thing as a right of secession by a State.
Third—That no person, corporation, municipal or otherwise, or State could or might ever assume or pay any part of the debt or claim by any person or corporation, State or confederation of States, incurred or in any way arising from or in aid of the late rebellion.
Fourth—That no person who had held military, civil or diplomatic office under the so-called Confederate States, or either of them, or been any agent hereof during the rebellion, should have political rights in the State, but should be and remain an alien thereunto forever. If the people of the State should, by a good degree of unanmity, vote to call a conven-
<c03>
tion to make these or like propositions a part of their Constitutional law, then a meeting for the election of delegates to a Constitutional Convention could be called, a Constitution framed and submitted to the people for ratification. Such a vote upon such propositions would be conclusive evidence that the people of such State were truly loyal, and in accordance with those ideas which control the loyal mind of the other States, and by which the future of the country is to be governed.
If no considerable number voted upon these questions, or they failed to command the assent of a large portion of the people, this would also seem to be conclusive evidence that within that military district either the spirit of the rebellion had not been subdued, although its physical force might be broken, or that the community was not in condition to resume its “practical relations” as a State of the Union, and I would hold it under military rule as belligerent until the influx of Northern enterprise, capital and sentiment brought in by our brave soldiers coming there to settle, and by our school teachers educating the colored citizens of the United States therein dwelling, had so far changed the feelings of a majority of the people of such State that it was in fit condition to become a State of the Union, whether the time needed for this purpose was one year or a century. If, however, a Constitution should be adopted containing the provisions above suggested, then the State being organized, all military rule should be withdrawn as soon as the State Government should show it was able to preserve the peace, and protect all citizens of the United States within its borders, in life, liberty, and. the pursuit of happiness. The State could then elect its members to either house of Congress, to be admitted, or rejected as either in its wisdom might determine. But no such election of members of Congress ought to take place until all military role had been withdrawn, because there can be no greater wrong to the fundamental principles of our Government than the election of members of either house of Congress under the overshadowing power of the President, especially when exerted in the military form. Such elections abolish all distinctions between and independence of the legislative and executive departments of the Government, and tend to a consolidation of power—quite as much to be guarded against as secession
I am one of the old-fashioned Democrats who do not believe that the Executive has any part or lot in the fraternal relations of the several States to each other and to the Union, other than that which the President exercises as a part of the law-making power. The theory of State rights has been in such bad company of late, and has been so mangled and misrepresented, as an apology for secession, that there is danger that the Hamiltonian theory of federated powers may be carried too far, and we may leave the States without any rights at all. Indeed, it would seem that the relation of the States to the General Government might be adjusted by a single consideration. All sovereignty resides in the people. For the management of their domestic concerns, the people have chosen the agency of a State; for the management of their national and foreign affairs, they have chosen the Federal Government. In all that relates to the former, the State is the supreme agent. In all that relates to the latter, and the connection of the States to each other and to the National Government, that is supreme. There would seem, therefore, to be no necessity for any clashing between these two agencies of the people. Meanwhile, in such military districts as are comprised within the boundaries of States, the Military Governor should be charged with the economical administration of an Executive Government which should insure the safety of life and property, taxing the inhabitants of such districts for the cost of such Government, so that by contumacy and obstinate adherence to the spirit of treason the State should not tax the treasuries of the loyal States for the expenses of their military government. The material resources of the State should be developed; its means of communication with other States and parts of itself fostered, so as to afford the fullest opportunity for emigration. Perhaps some may think I have laid too much stress upon the several propositions which are laid down as conditions precedent to the action which should bring back a revolted State. I would have them put nakedly to the people of the State before any election of officers was called, because I would eliminate all the elements of personal difference as to the rulers from the adoption of principles of government. I would first present the principles; they being determined, then the questions of men could be discussed. Upon the first proposition that I would require to be submitted to the people of each rebellious State before it can ask to come back into relations with the loyal States— to wit, the abolition of slavery—there certainly can be but one mind at the North. The second, that there can be no right of secession is necessary to be declared as a part of the fundamental law; because, for more than thirty years, the people of the South have been taught by their leaders that such a right does exist; so that many good and true men have been led away by this heresy into a rebellion from which they would otherwise have shrunk. Let the maxim, “There are no rights of secession,” therefore, hereafter stand as the corner-stone of the frame of government of each revolted State; they owe so much to the sacrifice of the loyal States for the Union. The third proposition, that the Confederate debt shall never be recognized, is necessary as a preventive of a grievous wrong. The loyal States of the North, New York for example, in addition to its share of the burthen of the national debt, is burdened with many millions of State debt, all contracted in defence of the country and in subduing the rebellion. The Southern States, when they return to their practical relations with the Government, will come back wholly free from this class of debt with which New York is burdened. Their debt, if any, will have been contracted in fighting against the Union, and not in restoring it, and of course will be at first repudiated. But in time, when, as is just, New York and the other loyal States call upon the General Government to assume this debt, contracted in its own defence, such demand will be opposed by the Southern States which have no such debt, or will be encumbered by the proposition to assume for the South some part of the Confederate debt: and such will be the power of the pressure upon Congress of the immense amount of the consolidated debt, unjust and iniquitous as it would be for the nation to assume it, I should fear for the result. Therefore I would have it as a part of the fundamental law of each State, that no part of such debt should ever be assumed or paid by the State, or any portion thereof. The assumption of such debt by the General Government is a subject so fraught with danger, so aided by the influence of money, that I would employ every means to keep it from the National Councils. The necessity of the fourth proposed amendment of the Constitution of the several States, that no rebel officers should vote or hold office, is obvious from their Constitutions. This rebellion was basely set on foot because political power was de-
<c04>
parting from the South, and travelling northward. To regain that power which their enterprise, wealth and consequent increase of population brought to the North, the leaders at the South plunged the nation into this horrid war. Shall we not, therefore, teach coming generations by living examples that political power is not gained, but irretrievably lost by rebelling against the United States? Besides, the common mind at the South has been heretofore so much controlled by the leading men, that such deprivation of political power is absolutely necessary to deprive the leading class there of that influence over the Southern thought which has heretofore been, and will hereafter be, exerted against the Union. Being a Democrat, I would break down the landholding and slaveholding aristocracy of the South, which has brought so much of evil upon us. Is not the deprivation of political rights the appropriate and mildest form of punishment of treason? Is this not a necessary measure of precaution against future evils? For these reasons, therefore, which I have scarcely more than hinted at, I would insist, before any measures should be taken to bring back a revolted State, that the inhabitants in their primary and fundamental law, as a part of the frame of government, should solemnly provide that there should be neither slavery nor secession in their State, and that rebel debts and rebel notes should be alike repudiated. Thanking yon for the patience with which you have listened to me, I shall be more than repaid if by these remarks I have brought before your minds for consideration any of the momentous questions involved in the reconstruction of the rebel States.—N. Y. Herald, May 1.

SPEECH OF MAJ.-GENERAL BANKS,
At a Meeting of the Citizens of New Orleans, on the Assassination of Abraham Lincoln.
Mr. President and fellow-citizens, it is only since my arrival upon the platform that I was in formed of the part I had to take on this occasion. I am too near officially to the Chief Magistrate of the Republic to speak for you; and were it not upon the representation of the president of the meeting, I should throw myself upon the privilege of hearing others. But I may say that I am glad to see so many citizens of New Orleans expressing their grief on this occasion. God knows for what purpose the city is draped in mourning! We can feel to-day the nothingness of men; we don’t know who we are; but it is just to make manifestation of our grief. The language of the hour is that of supplication, not of command. But I waive the embarrassment of my position.
The ideas and purposes of God are unknown to us. We lay our plans, but He disposes. As a mark of weakness of men, remember that this week had been set apart as a time of joy, for the relief that the near termination of the war brought to the people. We had four years of struggle; families were bereft of their sons; domestic altars were draped in mourning. Suddenly the skies were broken. In a short time we witnessed the opening of the Mississippi, the victories of the Army of the Cumberland in 1863, the great march of Sherman, the fall of Richmond before Grant, the fall of Mobile before a general now present upon this platform (applause); and it is the news to-day that Johnston has surrendered to Sherman. (Hurrah!)
Peace, an honorable and glorious peace, was coming; and while the great notes of preparation were sounding, instantaneously all of us lay low in sorrow, in mourning, and in despair. Never in human history, has anything been like this crime. No people so well as we can appreciate, or has sustained a loss like this. But we have the great consolation to say, that we believe it is for the good of our nation and for his. As an individual, Mr. Lincoln had no enemy. He died because he represented us. For the President, it is the crowning act of his career. Death is the general and universal sorrow; but to die is to go home; to live is the great punishment upon men. Lincoln had ascended to the culmination of human destiny; to be greater, he had to go to the bosom of God. He believed in ideas, and in their influence.
Lincoln is taken away from us; but his influence is still here. There is not a man here who is not, to-day, a disciple to him. His purpose will be accomplished. The Union he wished to maintain. You know how deeply he was interested in the destinies of Louisiana. It was among the first wishes of his heart that improvements might be perfected during his administration. The influence that he still exerts will be consummated by the return of Louisiana into the Union, and the return of all classes.
To the colored people of this State I will say, that the work is still going on; and, by being patient, they will see that the day is not far distant when they will be in the enjoyment of all rights. They have a work to do, however. Abraham Lincoln gave his word that you will be free, and enjoy all the rights guaranteed to all citizens. [Great cheering.]
It is his glory to have gone to God. Let as rejoice; comfort and counsel those that remain with us. It is not for me to counsel; but I have a right to say, that there is one man that is a man, who demands your support. It is the man who has just been inaugurated as the new President. He has the legacy of Mr. Lincoln. He comes from a State that is the centre of the great arch of the Union. His life has been one of activity, integrity and patriotism. We are assured that Lincoln and Johnson, after full consultation, ascertained that they had very concurrent views. We will do our duty to our country, with the help of God and for the sake of Liberty. (Applause.)

ADDRESS OF REV. GEORGE PUTNAM, D. D.
Before the City Authorities of Roxbury on the occasion of the Funeral Services held in commemoration of the Death of President Lincoln, April 19,1865.
What was mortal of Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, is at this time being borne to the grave. How are the mighty fallen! He who but yesterday was the top and crown of this vast political fabric, the peer of the world’s foremost men and mightiest potentates, stricken by the assassin’s hand, has fallen from that great height. His word of power is hushed; his great heart, embracing a nation in its love, has ceased to beat. His body is given back to the dust as it was, and his spirit returneth unto God who gave it; and the man who has filled so large a space in the eye of the world, has ceased to be an earthly presence.
The civil and military heads of the nation are burying their chief, at the Capital, with such poor earthly pomp as befits his station. And we, who are so far away, yet as near as they in love and grief, do join in the obsequies; we, and twenty millions more, bowing down our heads as one man, in deepest sorrow and awe; the whole land in mourning; the drapery of woe festooning the breadth of the continent; bell answering to bell, and gun to gun, from tower and town and hilltop, from sea to sea;
<c05>
a more than Sabbath stillness fallen over all the cities and the plains and the mountain-sides of our vast empire.
Verily, this funeral hour so observed is an hour filled with a solemnity, a sublimity, and a pathos, unequalled in all the hours that we have lived, or that our fathers have told us of; and such an one as might scarcely come to us again, though we should live for centuries.
It is an hour to be much observed unto the Lord: and it was meet that we should come before his presence, and bow down, and seek his face in submission, in supplication, and in trust, if so be the hour might not pass away without leaving its blessing.
Friends, we will not give these flying moments to the indulgence of our sorrow, nor to vain attempts to express that sorrow. Deep grief does not readily betake itself to words; it rather craves the privilege of silence; and, if forced to speak, it does but stammer in half-thoughts and broken utterance. It is the better way for us, the more manly part, and the more patriotic and more religious, and a worthier tribute to the illustrious dead, to hush down the sobs of grief, and rise up into the realm of more tranquil meditation; to remember the virtues and the services of the departed; to study the lessons that Providence sets for us in his death; and gird ourselves up devoutly, bravely, for the work that is before us.
I will not cumber this day’s brief solemnities with any biographical detail or careful analysis. All is said in two words: Abraham Lincoln was a good and a great man. He must have had faults, and he must have committed mistakes, for he was a man. But his worst enemy, —if, indeed, he had any enemy, except his murderer, and those whose system of war, conceived in treason, blazing in rebellion, and graced with thousands of slow murders in the prison-house, has at last inspired the heart and nerved the arm of the assassin, —excepting these, his enemy, if he had one, would not wish to have his faults recounted, here, as it were, beside his opening grave. Therefore, it is no matter that the speaking of these funeral words has fallen to the lot of one who has loved him with such a filial, grateful, and reverent love, as never to have been able to see any faults in him, and who confided in him with such perfect confidence as never to discover his mistakes.
A good man. I catch no voices of dissent on that point, and never did, even in those dark days of national adversity, when the heart of the people seemed to be falling away from him. A conscientious and upright man. Just and true in every known act and word of his life. God-fearing, God-serving; just and faithful; anxious unto prayer to see his duty and to do it. And a warm-hearted man, disinterested, devoted; tender-hearted as a woman, gentle as a child; loving his country with his whole heart, and yet room enough in that heart for kindness to the humblest fellow-creature, and compassion for every sufferer; but with no room for one malignant or vindictive feeling towards his own or even his country’s foes. If he could have had a moment’s consciousness, after the accursed blow was struck, who will doubt that the sublime words of the Son of God would have been on his lips and in his heart, “Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do!”
This conjunction, of so childish a simplicity, so gentle and unselfish and tender a spirit, with Imperial powers and functions, is so new a thing in the history of nations, such a strange spectacle to the world, that the world has not known what to make of it, and has yet to grow up to an appreciation of the unequalled beauty and majesty of it.
A good man, and as great as he was good. I know not that I could tell, if the occasion required it to be told, just wherein his greatness lay, or where was the hiding of his power.
The eye of the nation was first turned to him in that grent debate which he conducted in Illinois, some six years ago, against an adversary who was regarded, perhaps, as the ablest and most skillful debater then known in the public councils of the country, Judge Douglas. In that debate the great issues of the time were entered on fully, and to their utmost depths. Mr. Lincoln bore his part in it with such noble candor and self-possession, such breadth of views, such clearness and power of statement, and such masterly logic, that he became henceforth a marked and representative man, and could never again become anything less.
Since that time, whoso has been left to speak of Mr. Lincoln in slighting terms, as an ordinary man accidentally raised to power, shows himself forgetful or but poorly read in the forensic history of the few years preceding the war.
Many persons make great account of the manners and personal bearing of eminent men, and not without some reason, for manners are an index of the mind.
In private circles, in hours of social converse and relaxation, there was undoubtedly in the President a freedom and a homeliness of manner, that showed other breeding than that of courts and fashionable assemblies. For he was a genial, humble, kindly man, all undazed by power and place, utterly devoid of egotism, and almost of personal consciousness, and unaffectedly regarding every man he met as his full equal before God. Yet, where or when, in any public place or function, has he been found wanting in the stateliness and gravity that befitted his rank?
Our own consummate Everett, himself the embodiment of grace and dignity, has declared, that on the occasion of the funeral solemnities of Gettysburg, where were met together on the platform, and at the table, our own most eminent men, and the ambassadors of foreign courts, there was no man there who bore himself, or was capable of bearing himself, with more propriety and true dignity, than the President. And Goldwin Smith, the candid Englishman, said that not a sovereign in Europe, however trained from the cradle for state pomps, and however prompted by statesmen and courtiers, could have uttered himself more regally than did the plain republican magistrate, on that solemn occasion.
Passing from mere manners, to official words, I think there is no potentate nor minister of state living, who has lived in this century, who has spoken so many words so terse, so strong, so genuine, that history will make imperishable, as has Abraham Lincoln. I quote with pleasure the saying, not of an American partisan, but of a cold, critical, unsympathizing Briton, respecting the last inaugural address of the President, that it is “a state paper which, for political weight, moral dignity, and unaffected solemnity, has had no equal in our time.”
Of these intellectual faculties, which have constituted Mr. Lincoln’s greatness in the administration of the Government, I can speak now only in the most general terms.. It was not genius, inspiration, brilliancy; no man ever used those words in connection with his name. There was in him the. shrewdest common sense, a deep sagacity, intuitive and almost infallible, though not rapid nor flashing. He had a strong grasp of principles, great patience of investigation, and a sound, sure judgment.
<c06>
These are not the shining powers of the human mind; and yet, wherever they are largely possessed, and happily combined and balanced, they go to constitute greatness, and produce the effect of greatness in any sphere of human action. They border close upon the moral qualities; and it has never yet been metaphysically shown to what extent high moral qualities combine with the intellectual ones to strengthen, enlighten, and direct them, so as to produce greatness of thought, action, remit. We cannot define how far a living, sleepless conscience, a sacred, single-hearted regard for truth and right, a fixed devotion to a noble end and purpose, a fervent love of country and of humanity, an unswerving fidelity to trusts, and a devout fear of God, —we cannot tell in what proportions these qualities have contributed to set the stamp of greatness on the name and life of the President. Neither can we so far penetrate the mystery of spiritual laws as to tell how far, or in what way, the spirit of the mighty God, who holds the hearts of all men in his hand, and by whom princes rule, comes to those who piously seek it, and humbly welcome and trust in it, and enters in by its secret course, to inspire, assist, and lead the Lord’s anointed in the discharge of their great and solemn function. We only know that the men who have. achieved the greatest things in any age have been those who have been ready to say in such dialect of faith as they had attained to., Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but unto thy name be the glory.
But what need of these inquiries? Look at what thin man has done. He is great in the greatness of that. A stupendous work was given him to do, and he has accomplished it. Called, in God’s providence, to a lofty destiny, he has gloriously fulfilled it. Placed on a pinnacle high as any earthly height, in the world’s full view, he has won the world’s respect and honor. He came to the Capital, four years ago, and found it reeking with treason in all its departments, threatened on every side by gathering hordes of rebels, and the very roads leading to it lined with banded assassins; he leaves it to his successor, purified, fortified, impregnable as any seat of empire on earth; and not an enemy near it, unless it be another murderer lurking in its dark places.
Inheriting from his predecessors the seeds and necessities of a civil war of such vast dimensions and such intense malignity, he has conducted that war and fought it out through weary years, through seasons of darkness and discouragement; threatened with reaction among the loyal, threatened with bankruptcy and every form of national exhaustion, with foreign intervention, —he has fought it out to a complete and final victory. The rulers of Europe told him he was trying to do the impossible: well, then, he has done the impossible. When he took his seat of power, he found the nation drifting towards disintegration and anarchy, division and subdivision, the abyss out of which only could proceed ruin and eternal strife; and He leaves it compacted in unity and power, and more imperial than ever before. The ship of state was strained in every joint, and crashing in the breakers, and the great seas going over her, and the skies were black with tempest, and the crew was in mutiny, and the wisest knew not what to do, and the bravest blanched with fear. Then this unknown and untried man comes forth at the call of the all-wise Providence, which guides and overrules the choice of men, and, with his eyes raised to heaven, lays his firm hand on the helm. And behold, now, the goodly ship rides at her anchors, and rests beautifully on her shadow; and he, the helmsman, stands confessed before the world as the Pilot that weathered the storm. Firm and unwavering throughout, whoever else might falter or play false, he has crushed the gigantic rebellion. Its power of resistance is broken, and on the verge of annihilation, and the day-star of peace is rising in the eastern leavens; and behold, now, it is accompanied, as it never has been before, with two glorious attendants, —so new, so beautiful, — namely, absolute and impregnable NATIONALITY, and universal FREEDOM.
If to have done this is not greatness, what is greatness among men? If he who has done this is not great, who is great among the living or dead of all ages? Shall we apply the title great to the man who composes a treatise or a poem, who invents a machine, who argues a cause, who wins a battle or takes a city? Truly, we may sometimes. But so applying the title, do we withhold it from the man who saves a nation; who, by the guidance of his mind and the strength of his arm, raises it up from the verge of destruction, leads it through its night of gloom, its wilderness wanderings, its seas of blood, and places it at last erect on the supreme heights of power and peace and glory? Truly, I think when the history of this era is written, and our posterity shall read it, and burn, as they will, with the admiration and the inspiration it kindles, they will marvel to learn that in the time of these great events, there was in any mind a blindness and narrowness that could so much as raise a question of the surpassing greatness of Abraham Lincoln.
From his work so accomplished, this man, so great and good, has gone to his rest, and his great presence has faded from our sight. He, the savior of his country; he, who has so watched and toiled for us; our head, our guardian, our best earthly stay and staff, is fallen powerless and dumb! Oh, the bitterness of the grief! Oh, the immeasurable loss! Would God he had lived, our yearning hearts cry out, —lived, if it were only to come forth among his people, that we might throng his presence, and tell him of our love and reverence, and weave for him our garlands of honor and thankfulness, and call down Heaven’s blessings on his head, and see if we could not do something to make him as happy as he was good and great! But our prayer is denied, and we must submit; and we will, meekly, devoutly, God helping us.
And, indeed, apart from the Yearnings of love and sorrow, rising to the height of calmer thoughts, can we not almost see already that God’s time is the right time, and that this death was not untimely? He lived to see the work assigned to him substantially accomplished, and to witness his country’s triumph. The measure of his fame was full. There awaited him, had he lived, duties less arduous deed, but harder for his tender heart to perform. It needs not a better or a greater man, but a sterner nature and a more iron hand than his, to do what yet remains to be done. God in his mercy has spared him the severe necessities that will soon press upon his office. He has gone amid the satisfactions of success, and the rejoicings of victory, and the loud plaudits and affectionate appreciation of his country men; gone in a moment, and without a pang, from an earthly joy and glory to an heavenly; ascended into the bosom of his God, to whom he had lived so near in firm obedience and pious trust on earth. Peace be with him, the peace of God, which <illegible> all understanding!
Though dead, he yet <illegible>. Though gone, he is still here. His memory and influence abide in his country’s heart forever.
The visitation, so solemn and sad, while it dissolves us in tears, must also arouse us to our responsibilities, and brace us to our duties.
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the Institution of slavery IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFRED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the <illegible> of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power…. It is a war power. I say it is a power; and when your country is actually in war whether is be a war of invasion or a was of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUSY CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board and MARTILAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J.Q ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
First, not his gentle and forgiving heart, but the sacred instinct of eternal justice, implanted in us by our Maker, demands, in his name and in God’s name, that the whole earth be searched, in every nook and corner, if need be, for the fiendish murderers, that they make to an afflicted nation and an outraged humanity the poor atonement of their accursed lives. Hell is agape for them; for, though God have mercy on them (which we will pray for,) man cannot 
And not they only, but the spirit that has bred so many enormities, that has so long and in so many ways struck at the nation’s life, and has only shown its full development in striking down the nation’s head, must perish. The new President—God bless, preserve, and guide him!—is right. That spirit, together with the foul slave-system that engenders, embodies, and perpetuates it,—that spirit, which is a murderer from the beginning, and forever will be while it survives, must be crushed into the earth. Justice is as divine a principle in God and in man as mercy. An unfit clemency to guilty individuals is cruelty to innocent millions and to unborn generations.
Not from the kindly lips and tender heart of Lincoln do we derive these stern counsels of duty; but from his gaping wound and flowing blood do we take them, and must heed them.
The awful duties of retribution rest where they best may, with the law and the magistrate; and there we leave them in strong and faithful hands, I do believe. 
And yet there are duties for the humblest citizens. We must raise higher, and hold firmly up, the standard of loyalty. The country that has been saved to us, given back, as it were, from the jaws of destruction must now be devotedly loved, and jealously watched for, and guarded by all its people. No more careless paltering with treason and half-loyalty, North or South. Our grand and happy nationality, restored and rehabilitated, is henceforth our most sacred trust from God; and the arm that is lifted against it, be it palsied rather; and the false tongue that would profane its majesty by a word of treason, or of sympathy with treason, be it struck dumb ere it speak. Whose does not love his country is unworthy to live in it. Let the people this day, bending in tears over the bier of their beloved chief, let them register in their hearts the solemn decree, that they will bold their country so dear a possession and so holy a trust, that they will not permit a drop of the deadly virus of disloyalty to circulate in its veins; and that traitors, and the apologists and supporters of traitors, must not share its blessings, nor enjoy its protection, nor so much as breathe its air. Tens of thousands of our dearest and our noblest have died to save it, and our great chief has died because he had saved it; and shall not we, who are spared to enjoy it,—shall we not swear by that sacred blood, his and theirs, that henceforth we will love it with all our hearts, and live for it and watch for it, and devote ourselves and all that we are and have to it, hold its enemies as our enemies, and have no friends that are not its friends, and love none that do not love it?
 Perhaps at this moment, while we speak, they are lifting up the remains of our noble patriot, deliverer, martyr, to bear them from his palace-home to the dark and narrow house. In such a moment, of so great solemnity and tenderness, let the sacred fires of patriotism blaze up bright and aloft in millions of hearts; let hand clasp with hand in a solemn league and covenant of loyalty, and all true souls renew their vows of devotion to the country which he loved, and lived for, and died for; and make that country, in its unity, its grandeur, and its peace, a fitting monument to his memory, worthy to record his earthly fame, and acceptable to the contemplation of his glorified spirit.

THE END OF THE TWENTY-FIFTH VOLUME.
It is not often that Farewell has a joyous sound in the ears of him that utters it. Seldomer yet that the last time of the performance of a long-accustomed task is without a tinge of melancholy. For it is but rarely that a work undertaken is fully accomplished, and that he that takes leave of it can feel that nothing more remains for him to do in the particular field which he is leaving. It is the rare felicity of the Abolitionists of the American Anti-Slavery Society to see the end of their specific mission— to feel that the purpose for which they banded themselves together is accomplished. The American Anti-Slavery Society was formed thirty-two years ago for the object of procuring the Abolition of Chattel Slavery. That object is gained. The necessities of the nation have opened its eyes to the fact that it must die or put slavery to death. It has chosen the better part of self-preservation. Congress has proposed an Amendment to the Constitution abolishing Slavery and making it impossible within the National domain, and twenty-six States have either ratified it, or are so certain to do so that their action may be taken for granted and acted upon as an accomplished fact. As it is now certain that none of the rebel States will be restored excepting on the basis of the immortal Proclamation of the illustrious Lincoln, which put an end to all legal slavery within their borders more than two years ago, there can be no question that the Amendment will have the sanction of every State yet to act upon it, and scarcely a doubt that the three States as yet recusant will reconsider their action and make the ratification unanimous. Virtually, and for all practical purpose which could make an extensive association necessary, slavery has ceased to exist, and the formality of the announcement of the action of the States must very soon supervene. Slavery being at an end, Anti-Slavery and the Society which it has brought together end with it, of necessity. An Anti-Slavery Society with no Slavery to oppose is a solecism and an absurdity. Nay more, it is an impossibility. If a body of men choose to call themselves an Anti-Slavery Society after slavery has legally ceased to be, it is but a name to live that they can have, and their efforts to appear to be doing what has already been done can be only vain, impotent and ridiculous. They may call themselves an Anti-Slavery Society, but they are and can be, in the nature of things, nothing of the kind.
With the organization the organ by which it speaks ceases also. Our connection with the National Anti-Slavery Standard, therefore, will end with this number. The Standard has been in existence exactly a quarter of a century, of which period we have been a part of its staff, as Corresponding Editor and Correspondent, for twenty-one years. It has occupied much of our time and thoughts and been a main object of interest to us. That we have been always well advised or judicious in what we have done and written we will not affirm; but we can conscientiously declare that we have had but a single eye to our duty to the slaves in it all. It is not for us to speak of the good work which this paper has done in the due performance of its office. On that point let others speak. Setting aside ourself, few weekly journals have had a greater amount of talent engaged in their service. Messrs. N. P. Rogers, D. L. Child., S. H. Gay, Oliver Johnson, C. K .Whipple, James Russell Lowell. Mrs. Lydia Maria Child and Mrs. Chapman are among those who have at one time or another been editors or regular contributors. Besides these eminent names a score more, almost as well known, might be recited of persons whose occasional contributions, often frequent, have given strength and brilliancy to the columns of the Standard. We believe that there are not many weekly papers that have been more gladly welcomed and more highly valued for the variety, piquancy and peculiar interest of their contents, and that there are few of its readers that will not regret the discontinuance of its weekly visits. But the necessity of an Anti-Slavery paper has happily passed away with slavery itself. The existence of the Standard as an Anti-Slavery organ ends with slavery, by the very conditions of its being. Antagonism dies with the antagonist it lived only to oppose. To endeavor to survive that happy conclusion of the whole matter would be but to enter upon a condition of decrepitude, dotage and lingering decay, neither useful in the life nor comely in death. These being our opinions, and the opinions of the majority of those who have been the most active and influential members of the American Anti-Slavery very Society and the warmest supporters of the Standard, we shall withdraw from the Corresponding Editorship after this number, and decline any farther active cooperation with the Society. We know that it is competent for the majority of persons to assemble in this city next week to vote that the Society and the Standard shall continue in existence. <illegible> But there are some things beyond the <illegible> even of majorities. Unanimity itself could not make an Anti-Slavery Society and an Anti-Slavery organ a possibility after-there is no Slavery to oppose. And if the very same persons change.
<c02>
the object and name of the Society and organ to something else, their essential character is changed, of necessity. Such a change, in this case, would be the dissolution of the Society and the discontinuance of the Standard.
We are perfectly aware that the duty of the Abolitionists to aim at the elevation of the character and condition of the people of color, " so that they may, according to their intellectual and moral worth, share an equality with the whites of civil and religious privileges," was made one of the articles of the Constitution. And we hold that this duty, remains as imperative as ever on all members of the Society. But to suppose that the founders of the Society intended that, after its main objects—viz. the abolition of the domestic slave trade, of slavery in the District and the Territories, of the prohibition of new slave States, and above all the abolition of slavery itself, by a charge of the Constitution— that after these objects were accomplished the Society was to remain in existence as an Anti-Slavery Society, for the furtherance of these incidental reforms, is to attribute a degree of sectarian fatuity to them that those clear-sighted and eminently practical men do not deserve. That article was a mere assertion of an incidental duty, connected necessarily with the discharge of the main duty of the Society, and a duty which has been most faithfully and effectively performed. The duty is as binding now as then. More so, indeed, for its performance is more and more plainly essential to the future safety and well-being, not merely of the black race but of the white as well. There is no question whatever as to the duty of Abolitionists to be diligent in the business of securing their rights to the colored people North and South. But it is no longer a specialty. of the Abolitionists, as it was in 1833 and for long years afterwards. It has, outstripped the speed and overpassed the limits of the Anti-Slavery. Movement, proper. They who think that the American Anti-Slavery Society should not continue its organic existence, merely as a Freedmen’s Aid Society, after Slavery is abolished, are of that opinion not because they would not have the rights of the colored man maintained, but because they think that such action would be a hindrance rather than a help to that end. The Freedmen’s Aid Associations, having for their object the elevation of the black race politically as well as morally and in material prosperity, are gaining vast dimensions. Of necessity, they must throw the American Anti-Slavery Society into the shade, and dwarf all its operations by the extent and magnitude of their own. They are destined to become great political as well as philanthropic forces, and we think all the friends of the black man would do better to unite themselves to this great body than to keep themselves separate in a way which must make their best efforts comparatively unimportant and inoperative. Call themselves by what name they will, they can be nothing hereafter but a Freed men’s Aid Society, and an obscure and insignificant one. We do not think this a dignified ending of so glorious a Society, nor the best disposition of the energies and means of its members. But of that they will judge and decide for themselves.
But we have wandered from what we meant to say when we began. Our long habit of speaking at the moment to the topic of the moment has drawn us away from the retrospect of the long procession of events which has passed before us during the years that we have occupied this post of observation which we had proposed to ourselves. But this all our readers are as competent to make as we are our selves. They all know the immense, the incredible, change in public sentiment which has taken place within the last quarter of a century, and which has culminated in the Abolition of Slavery throughout the land. And they know, too, the share which the Anti-Slavery Movement has had in bringing about this sublime result. It has cost many years and many lives, but they have been gladly bestowed and abundantly rewarded, as well in the toil as in the harvest. For our humble portion in that work we are devoutly grateful to Heaven as a chief blessing and happiness of our life. For all our short comings and failures we entreat the kind consideration of our friendly readers. For all their kindness and indulgence towards us we return them our hearty thanks. But neither our work nor theirs is done, and we may hope to meet in other fields of labor. We do not part as if we were never to meet again. The scourge and the fetter are broken, but the wounds they have left behind are to be healed, and their scars removed from the soul as well as the bodies of the Freedmen. They are to be helped to rise to the dignity of Freemen, of " Men, high-minded Men," such as only constitute a true State, and to be rehabilitated in all their natural, political and social rights. The platform of this Movement is the whole country, and its agencies all the political, ecclesiastical and social influences of American society. In this field we shall soon meet our life-long fellow-laborers and till then we bid them heartily farewell. 
E. Q.
—Anti-Slavery Standard.

NEW-BORN ZEAL.
The Evening Post informs us that " a public meeting of colored citizens, " held on Monday evening at Shiloh Church, for the purpose of making; "the needful arrangements to have delivered in Cooper Institute, by Frederick Douglass, a discourse on the life and death of Abraham Lincoln," took occasion to resolve, "That the American Anti-Slavery Society cannot in good faith, without a violation of assumed honorable trust, at present dissolve."
Why this new-born interest in the American Anti-Slavery Society on the part of the colored citizens of New York? In 1840, they all with here and there an individual exception, "forsook it and fled," and from that day to this they have never, as a class, deigned to give it even the benefit of a resolution. For twenty-five years the Society, struggling against wind and tide, has maintained a foothold in this city, publishing its organ and doing all that it could by other means to promote the abolition of slavery and vindicate the equal rights of the negro; but never, during this whole period, have the colored citizens of New York so much as held one public meeting to tender it their support or sympathy, or in any other way evinced a decided interest in its operations. Not a contribution for its treasury has ever been taken up in one of their churches, nor have they given any appreciable support to the Standard. We do not state these facts by way of complaint, for it was the right of the colored people to choose the agencies by which they would work for the abolition of slavery and for their own amelioration. But the case being as we have stated, is it not a little singular that now, when Mr. Garrison and other leading members of the Society, in view of the fact that the Government and People of the United States have pronounced solemn and irrevocable sentence of death upon slavery, have come to the conclusion that the Society may be honorably dissolved, those who have so long been utterly indifferent to its fate should all at once be smitten with a conviction of its great usefulness and assume to lecture its life-long supporters upon the duty of keeping it alive? We venture to suggest that the question whether the Society should or should not be dissolved may very properly and safely be left to the decision of those by whose toils and sacrifices it has been supported hitherto, and that, too, without interference from others. We do not think that Mr. Garrison and those who have been associated with him in the thirty years’ struggle for the abolition of slavery need lessons in "good faith" and "honorable trust" from any quarter.
The colored people of New York—such of them as were active in the anti slavery cause—generally seceded from the American Anti-Slavery Society in 1840, joining a rival and hostile association, the American and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society. The latter was dissolved long since, while slavery was in the very zenith of its power, but we never heard that the colored people charged its managers with bad faith. More recently another rival association, the American Abolition Society, was formed, and it, too, was dissolved years ago, without remonstrance from "Shiloh." But it seems that our Society, which has kept in the field till slavery is in the agonies of death, is not to be permitted to dissolve if those hitherto hostile or indifferent to it can prevent it! This new-born zeal has to us a very suspicious look.—Anti-Slavery Standard.
FALL OF COTTON. The European steamers are steadily bringing intelligence of failures on the other side, in consequence of cotton speculations. The fall of Richmond will cause still lower prices in the Liverpool market, and when the supply in the South really begins to find its way out, a further decline must take place. The losses in cotton have been enormous, and a bale is now only worth about 8200, which ten months ago was selling at $890 to $900.— Boston Transcript. 
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1865.
NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY. CONVENTION.
The Annual New England Anti-Slavery Convention will be held in Boston, at the MELODEON, on Wednesday. May 31st, at 10 o’clock. A. M.
Questions of great importance and interest, in relation to the final Abolition of Slavery in the United States, will doubtless come before the Convention. All the old members of it, and all persons interested, are invited to attend.
By order of the Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society,
EDMUND QUINCY, President.
R. F. WALLCUT, Secretaries
SAML. MAY, Jr., Secretaries.

RESULTS OF THE MURDER.
The last arrival from England tells us of a general expression of horror and indignation there at the news of the assassination of President Lincoln, This new crime will perhaps do more than all that went before to produce, among the people of that country, "a realizing sense" of the guilt of those who planned and led the slaveholders’ rebellion.
Strong as has been the sympathy with secession in Liverpool, on the receipt of this news two great meetings were held there, which, after appropriate speeches had been delivered, unanimously adopted resolutions expressive of their grief and horror at the assassination.
The commercial body in London, and the official bodies in various towns and provinces, adopted similar resolutions.
Earl Russell in the English House of Lords, and Sir George Grey (on behalf of Lord Palmerston) in the House of Commons, gave notice that they would, on the 1st of May, move an address to the Queen, expressing sorrow and indignation at the assassination of President Lincoln, and praying her to convey that expression of feeling to the American Government. And all the members present in the House of Commons on the day when the sad news was received signed the following address, which was presented, the same evening, to Mr. Adams:—
"We, the undersigned, members of the House of Commons, have learned with the deepest regret and horror that the President of the United States has been deprived of fife by an act of violence; and we desire to express our sympathy at the sad event to the American Minister now in London, as well as to declare our hope and confidence in the future of that great country, which we trust will continue to be associated with enlightened freedom and peaceful relations with this and every other country."
The Times of the next day said—
"This evening it may be expected that the leaders of the great parties in the House of Commons will take the opportunity of expressing, in the name of the nation, the horror which is every where felt at this crime, and of assuring the American people that, whatever difference of opinion may exist in this country as to the present war, there is but one feeling of sympathy with them at the loss of an honest and high-minded Magistrate."
On the other hand, the leading rebels, and the parties individually accused of accompliceship in the murder, are hastening to offer their plea of " Not guilty," which is worth just as much as the similar plea, uttered in the criminal’s dock, of any habitual and notorious liar. Thus the ex-envoy of the rebels in London, Mr. Mason, wrote to their organ in that city, The Index, repudiating the crime in behalf of the rebel States. Of course he repudiates it! So does Beverly Tucker in this country. So does W. W. Cleary. So does George N. Sanders. And so, no doubt, will Dr. Tumblety and Jefferson Davis. Every one of these " honorable men "—who committed perjury at the commencement .of the rebellion, and whose life has been one enormous complication and concentration of crime of every sort through its whole course, including the systematic starving of prisoners, and the systematic theft of the provisions and blankets sent to these prisoners by their Northern friends—will assure you, upon his honor! not only of his innocence, but of the shock inflicted upon his sensibilities by the bare suspicion of such an offence. This is what the felon who is at the same time hardened and impudent always does. Let them continue to heap up wrath against the day of wrath. Now, at last, the time seems come in this country when villany can no longer go free on the plea of partnership with slavery. Mason will no more summon Governors and Senators before him on the charge of want of fealty to " the peculiar institution." Toombs will never call the roll of his slaves on Bunker Hill. Foote, like Dennis, may be called to realize how a personal experience of hanging feels to the hangman. And all this has come from the murder of Abraham Lincoln by the leaders of the slaveholders’ rebellion.
—C. K. w.

A NEW MINISTER IN BOSTON.
At the Melodeon, on Sunday morning last, was held a service of installation, making manifest to the public the acceptance, by Rev. David A. Wasson, of the invitation given him by the 28th Congregational Society of Boston to be come its minister. This service was conducted in the simplest manner, according to the Congregational idea, which is that the Society has the right to settle and install its own minister, without asking either licence or assistance from other churches or their clergy. On this occasion the Standing Committee chose as their spokesman Wendell Phillips, gladly intrusting this office to one who has been, from the beginning, a steadfast friend of the Society, who was often associated in works of practical Christianity with its former minister, Theodore Parker, and who, during Mr. Parker’s sickness, and since his death, has often most acceptably occupied its pulpit. Mr. Phillips read to the Congregation the letter inviting Mr. Wasson to take this office, and his reply, accepting it. He then requested, first the Society, and then the newly elected minister, to make manifest by rising their assent to this engagement. This having been done, and the public ratification of the contract thereby completed, Mr. Phillips made a brief but impressive address to the Society, of which a phone-graphic report was taken by Mr. Yerrinton, as follows:—
It remains only that in your name I should welcome our dear friend to this desk, which represents, in our view, the bravest and boldest element of New England life. I love to trace tea spirit back to the most earnest epoch of our country’s existence. It seems to me that all eras are brothers, and that all great moral and religious emergencies call out the same qualities in men. This pulpit is but the reproduction of that earnestness of religious faith, that breadth of religious life, which planted New England. I think the key-note of our religions idea is found in the pathetic farewell which Robinson addressed, at Leyden, to the departing Pilgrims. He said—" I charge you, follow me no further than you see me follow Christ. God hath yet much truth to break forth from his holy Word. I bewail much the condition of the churches which have made a period in their religion, and will not go beyond the instrument by which they were reformed. Luther and Calvin were shining lights in their day, but they did not exhaust the whole counsel of God. I charge yon, it is your church covenant, that you keep your minds open to whatever shall be made known to you from the written Word of God." It was in that spirit of entire personal independence, with face set forward and not backward, and drawing its inspiration from the future and the present, not from the past, that our country was founded. And one of the first principles which the Pilgrims manifested was that every soul was equally near to God; that no laying on of human hands, no canning cere 
<c04>
mony, could make one man. fitter than another for any religions service. There was no Priesthood; there was no calling of an individual to lord it over God’s heritage; but, "all ye are brothers"; and when they looked to one brother above the rest for counsel, they themselves summoned him to their side.
Again: they had the clearest instinctive perception that there never could be a true union of independent, thinking men in a creed. The early churches of our country had no creeds. Their unity was not that of intellectual ideas, but of religious purpose; the unity of a life which, in its earnestness, single-eyed devotion, contented submission to bearing each ether’s burdens, aspiration to lift Nature to it s loftiest point, welcomed all difference of intellectual view into the same brotherhood. I do not say that they exhausted their theory—but they believed it; they groped their way in pure faith toward it, and they acknowledged its sufficiency The chill of unbelief the corruption of sub-sequent generations, built up round each religions organization a wall behind which indolent and timid souls sought to shelter themselves from the hard task of thinking out their own creed. This desk was an effort to go back to the old root of New England faith; and THEODORE PARKER, when he occupied it, represented the advance guard of New England thought and purpose. I differed from him in almost every point of religious conviction; I found myself drawn close into the most intimate brotherhood with him on every act of religious life. Wherever a work was to be done, wherever a great quality was to be unfolded, wherever a true Christian life-was to be built up or manifested, I found no other church so near to my own ideal as this, which one holding the most antagonistic convictions had erected close at my side. I think the same magnetic and Christian attraction has summoned many a one into our circle, whose brain retained its own shape. But he was not merely an intellect. The passer-by on the other side thought him only an iconoclast—a destroyer—a breaker of images. He was a destroyer, as Fulton was a destroyer, when he replaced the slow barge by the steamboat; he was a destroyer as Luther was a destroyer, when he replaced the darkness and coldness and narrowness of the Middle Ages with the light, and the warmth, and the breadth of modern Christianity; he was a destroyer, as Michael Angelo was a destroyer, when his chisel hewed off the unsightly corners and clumsiness of the block of marble, and revealed the Christ which lay below;—but in no other sense was he a destroyer. In every other sense he was a builder, and the scenes of the last four years show how wisely and how deeply he built. No nation was ever summoned to so severe a trial; but when every thing seemed gone to wreck, when there was no precedent on the file, when the ruts were all rubbed out, the Nation, with the tenacity of a Christian purpose, linked itself to the justice of the Throne of God, and survived the storm. Amid the awful crisis of that danger and confusion, it lifted itself up to the exhibition of a Christian humanity that would soften the horrors and alleviate the inevitable sufferings of war, such as no epoch has ever exhibited hitherto. I do not say that this pulpit was the single agent, but I say that it stood <illegible> among the agencies which made this proud, sublime, merciful, just, Christian Nationality possible. It is the best proof how wisely this class of seeming image-breakers have been really building the church of the living God.
Look also at the last four years in the status of woman—throwing the purity, the humanity, the tender ness of her nature into every channel of public life— and say if the agencies, this chiefest among them, which have broken down the wall of partition, and summoned woman to a broader sphere, have not been building as well as breaking down. And how religiously this one has builded! There was no vexed soul, struggling alone with spiritual problems on the other side of the globe, that did not hear his name who stood here, and feel the strength of a brother’s sympathy. There was no class low down in the moral and: spiritual nature which did not feel they had his strong hand underneath them. His friends were not merely the great intellects, but they were the broad, warm hearts, the world over. True, his piety did not grow robust in the gymnastics of the closet, but it did in the active labors of the street.
We welcome you to his desk, my brother; not to be trammelled by his example, but we felt, very naturally, that his mantle fell on your shoulders; that you were eminently fit to continue the work which he set us to do. We will hold up your hands. Teach us to be good men and women, Christian men and women, faithful in public and private, as husbands and wives, as parents and children, as private men and as citizens. Embolden us to speak the truth everywhere, telling the world what we know. Lift us to our noblest duties; bind us to our gravest sacrifices. Make us practical in all the service which the world needs. And, when God summons you or us to another sphere, or to other labors, may we feel that while we were together in this brotherhood, our best natures were cultivated, our strongest services were rendered; that we were lifted into a Christian life preeminently, and in our degree were co-workers with God in all that he formed us to do.
Mr. Wasson then proceeded with the usual services of Sunday morning. One of the hymns which he chose was the one commencing " Nearer, my God, to Thee, nearer to Thee," which had been a special favorite with Mr. Parker. The discourse which followed might properly be entitled, he said, The Radical Creed. It was intended to express the great points of belief common to himself and the Society, and the practical purposes for which they had assembled themselves together. He had found the subject too large, however, for a single sermon, and gave on this occasion, only part of it, reserving the remainder until next Sunday.
The house was densely filled, with such an audience as Mr. Wasson’s eminence as an independent thinker and a vigorous speaker and writer might be expected to draw together. He is to preach regularly, henceforward, on Sunday mornings at the Melodeon. —C. K. W.
The Glasgow Herald of April 24th informs us of a demonstration which took place at Broadfield House, near Port Glasgow, (the residence of A. F. Stoddard Esq., a Boston gentleman long resident in Scotland,) in honor of the Federal victories, and especially of the last reported, the surrender of Lee. Several letters were read from sympathizing friends unable to be present, one of which called the war " God’s Emancipation Act." Animated speeches were made by Mr. Stoddard, James Sinclair Esq. and others, a national salute of 21 guns was fired, and a pleasant entertainment appropriately closed this day of thanksgiving.
The London Star said well (April 25th) that " Mr. Jefferson Davis with his carpet bag at Danville is a very different person, in the eye of international law, from Mr. President Davis in Richmond, backed by the army of General Lee." Will not the view of international law be yet further modified by the production of evidence that Jefferson Davis is the instigator or accomplice of private assassination?
A movement for cooperation with the American Freedmen’s Aid Society has been commenced in Paris by Laboulaye, the Rev. J. Monod and the Rev. T. Baron Hart.
The eldest son of the Emperor of Russia, the heir of die imperial throne, born in 1845, has lately died at Nice, where he went for the recovery of his health. The next heir is the Grand Duke Vladimir, the Emperor’s second son, 18 years of age.
In furtherance of the President’s Proclamation, appointing Thursday, June 1st, as a day of humiliation and prayer in recognition of the recent bereavement of the nation. Governor Andrew has issued his Proclamation, requesting an observance of that day in that manner in this State.
<c05>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XXXIII.
NEW YORK, May 4, 1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
Is there not something admirable in the present repose of the people, amid the rapid scenes of the end of the rebellion? What must especially astonish Europe is the solid closing up of the popular ranks when their leader was removed by violence, and side by side with the profoundest. sincerest grief, the absence of either delirium for bloodshed or despair that sees no exit from calamity. It is not doubtful that our late Chief Magistrate possessed in an extraordinary degree the affections of his fellow-citizens, and that his loss touched every heart. Certain it is too, that they leaned upon him confidently, and cast the national burden upon his simple integrity, his unquestioned purpose to do his duty. When they were stunned to learn that the Moses who had conducted them to the promised land, and had even looked upon it from a height, was not to enter and enjoy it with them, they did not stand apart through jealousy or distrust; they did not doubt the strength or the future success of the Republic. They resorted neither to anarchy nor to monarchy. They simply went on in the approved old ways. Since Mr. Lincoln’s assassination, many exciting and momentous events have occurred. The murderer of the poor man’s friend is brought to a miserable fate. Gen. Sherman, when all were expecting from him the rout of Johnston, attempts a political settlement with his antagonist, and opens a way of escape to the prime traitor and rebel. The Government immediately sends Grant to reverse the armistice, and disallow the action of Sherman. The surrender of the last considerable Confederate army follows. Everywhere the supporters of the hopeless cause retire from the contest, or yield themselves to the United States authorities. Trade is admitted into districts long closed, and restrictions on exports taken off. The army is largely reduced, the navy contracted. War ceases with the object of the war, as Government has always predicted. Yet these sudden changes cannot disconcert the public equanimity, based on faith in God and in our free institutions.
We might be anxious, if this composure were nothing else than apathy. That it is not, is proved by the universal condemnation of Sherman’s error, (if that is harsh enough a word,) and approval of the Government’s prompt interference to the contrary. Then the praises of the martyred President have made conspicuous over all his deeds the act of emancipation, and over all his virtues his love for his black countrymen; so that, without any other argument than the pistol of Booth, the claim of negro suffrage and citizenship has gained thousands of supporters since the fourteenth day of April. Our city Council assisted it mightily on the day of the funeral cortege. They voted that the colored men of this vicinity should not join the line of mourners for the Emancipator. Public opinion revolted at the thought of their exclusion. The Secretary of War requested that this might not happen, and Commissioner Acton said it should not. So they walked up Broadway after all, with numbers somewhat thinner, it is true, from long waiting for their turn, and doubts as to their having opportunity, and menaces and abuse from the baser sort of our population; but still enough to assert their right to a place, and their participation in the general grief. Other parts of the pageant passed along in silence. They, however, excited unmistakable demonstrations of encouragement and respect—the waving of hats and handkerchiefs, if not always audible signs—and at no point more enthusiastically than on Fifth Avenue. We concluded that if it were possible to expel our official vermin from the City Hall by broadening the franchise for the blacks, a very weighty vote would have been thrown for such an amendment of our State Constitution. The country over, a similar account might be rendered. It has, indeed, long been a noteworthy sign, that the bulk of the loyal press is favorable to the exercise of political rights without regard to color; and this must be truer than ever to day. Mr. Lincoln’s latest words, too, as well as his death itself, are potent in the same direction. For, with that characteristic conservatism which induced him always to say less than he meant, he acknowledged that he was ready to give the ballot to every colored soldier in our armies. No further concession is required to settle the whole question. The military distinction is too manifestly insufficient to account for the admission of one to the polls and the rejection of another if capacity alone is consulted. If suffrage is bestowed as a reward of service, it is clearly a premium upon accident, since thousands more would have enlisted if they could, have been reached; and even of those whom we style "volunteers," a host were never asked their consent. If, as Sherman put it, the hand which drops the musket ought to pick up the ballot, and this on the ground of right, it cannot be pretended that the right was created, but merely confirmed, by the defence of the Union. The axiom of a republic is, that those who obey shall also govern; and if a citizen has no part in the government, cause must be shown by the community for his deprivation. The elective franchise may undoubtedly be forfeited, but forfeiture implies offence; and let it be shown wherein the negro has offended.
If the new President is true to his noblest utterances, he will exert himself to secure for every man a fair, or, as his predecessor phrased it, an equal chance in the race of life. Sift democracy to its finest wheat, and I know no better exposition of its regard for individual development than this—equal chances the same opportunities, fair play for all. For the negro this means more than common schools and competitive wages: a joint proprietorship of the soil. An incident which has attracted little attention in the midst of others more startling, but which merited announcement in capital letters, gives a hint of the spirit of the Government towards the blacks in the prospect of reconstruction. On Sunday, the 16th of April, the day following the murder of Mr. Lincoln and the accession of the present incumbent, the Secretary o War telegraphed Gen. Gordon at Norfolk, that the President ordered the confiscation sales postponed till the Freedmen’s Bureau was organized The design is evident. Whoever else occupies the land of the South, the negro shall not be crowded from it. It is his birthplace, and no one’s right of ownership in it is so good as his who cultivated it, and who has bought it a hundred times over with his uncompensated, bloodily exacted toil. Rumors speak of a possible withdrawal of Mr. Stanton from the Cabinet If any officer deserves rest, it is he; if any praise, or the glory of success, it is he; or the gratitude of the nation, it is he. But a higher crown yet awaits him, a nobler sphere of usefulness widens about him: Mr. Lincoln gave freedom to the slave, let Mr. Stanton give him root. I know this is the wish of his heart, and therefore I do not credit the story of his resignation. Whether Mr. Johnson entertained already the same views as he in this particular, or whether he was easily persuaded by Mr. Stanton to issue the order alluded to, the fact that the sales were stopped by the direction of Government, until the freedman could become a bidder, is gratifying to every intelligent mind.
We seem to have begun our treason trials with Harris, of Maryland; probably the first fruits of the new administration. Punishment may come of them, or it may not; one thing is sure: great advantage will be derived from the most thorough exposure of the character of the men with whom we have had to deal in providing for the future of the subjugated States. We shall learn, I trust, by-and-by, that there can be no such thing as North and South—loyal and traitor— coming to terms. Montesquieu said that the fortune of war alone determined whether Punic faith or Roman should become a reproach. The same doubt cannot arise in the case of traitors. Their crime is in the violation of every pledge, and, when overcome, they are to be treated as if incapable of fidelity. The nation fixes the terms and commands obedience, nor asks for promises which can be but a repetition of
<c06>
perjuries. It has vanquished, it must role It has subverted aristocracy, it must establish a republican society.
The President, by proclamation this morning, fixes the guilt of Mr. Lincoln’s assassination upon Jefferson Davis as principal, and certain Canadian refugees as accessories—among them that eminent lover of peace and hater of bloodshed, George N. Sanders, who tempted Mr. Greeley to Niagara, (what a full<illegible> was there!) The chances for the escape of the fugitive are hourly lessening. However he may elude the grasp of Government, he cannot discover himself from his own thoughts, beside which the suffering of his great victim becomes absolutely insignificant. Fancy, but envy not the self-communion of a soul "as damned and black as hell where to it goes."
M. DU PAYS.

NEW EDITION OF WEESTER’SWEBSTER’S DICTIONARY.
Thirty-five years have elapsed since Dr. Webster first gave his great work to the world. It was the fruit of long and patient research and toil. Johnson’s Dictionary, which had been in use for seventy years, had undergone but slight improvement during that whole period; and some estimate of the extent and importance of Dr. Webster’s labors may be formed from the fact that his work contained twelve thousand words and between thirty and forty thousand definitions not found in Johnson’s or any other English Dictionary. It is hardly too much to say that it was a new work, and men best qualified to judge, both in this country and in Europe, have declared that his improvements upon Johnson—aside from all disputed points in orthography—were greater than Johnson himself made on those who preceded him.
Dr. Webster lived to publish a revised edition of his work in 1840—41. After his death, in 1843, his son-in-law, Prof. Goodrich, devoted two or three years, with the aid of accomplished assistants, to the revision and preparation of a new edition, which was published in 1847. After this, Prof. Goodrich became the permanent editor of the work. He devoted himself to the task for twelve or thirteen years, but died in 1860, and the materials which he had collected were by other hands used in the preparation of a new edition, published in 1859, and known as the "Pictorial Edition." The additions consisted of an Appendix of between nine and ten thousand new words and meanings; an elaborate treatise on English Synonyms, which Dr. Goodrich had designed to publish as a separate work; eighty pages of Pictorial Illustrations, over fifteen hundred in number; and several valuable Explanatory and pronouncing Tables and Vocabularies.
The English language, however, is not stationary, but progressive. Old words become obsolete; new thoughts require new words, or invest old ones with new meanings; new discoveries and investigations necessitate new names; improvements in art and science demand new terms and appellations; and as the philosophy of language comes to be better understood, changes, of greater or less importance, are required in the definitions of many words. A dictionary of the language, therefore, to serve its most important uses, requires occasional revision and modification; and the present edition of Webster has accordingly been thoroughly revised in all its departments by some of the most competent scholars in Europe and America, under the general supervision, first, of the late Dr. Goodrich, and since his death, of the Rev. Dr. Porter. The Etymology was revised by Dr. C. A. F. Martin, of Berlin—favorably known by his special researches in this department—who spent five years upon the task. The definitions, in which lay the great strength of Webster, have been revised by eminent gentlemen, each laboring in the department for which he was specially qualified. Prof. William D. Whitney and Daniel C. Gilman have labored at the definitions of the principal words, recasting, re-arranging and condensing them, according to the principles sanctioned by Webster. Prof. Lyman has given his attention, to the terms in Mathematics, Physics, Technology and Machinery. Prof. Craighill of West Point has given like attention to terms in Military Science, Engineering, etc. Prof. Dana, assisted by Dr. W. C. Minor, was employed in the Department of Geology and Natural History. The terms pertaining to Musical Science and Art were chiefly prepared or revised by Lowell Mason and John S. Dwight. In Physiological and Medical Science, Prof. R. C. Stiles, M. D., furnished many carefully considered definitions and emendations. The Hon. J. C. Perkins of Salem, Mass., with great labor and care, revised the terms of Law and Jurisprudence. E. B. O’Callaghan, S. J., revised the definitions of such terms as have a special meaning in the Catholic Church. The Rev. Chauncey Goodrich revised or prepared many of the definitions in Agriculture and Horticulture, in Antiquities and Architecture, in Biblical matters and Ecclesiastical History, in Commerce, Domestic Economy, and the Fine Arts, making use of the best authorities in these departments. Webster’s has long been accounted by scholars—even those who condemned his spelling of certain classes of words—the best defining Dictionary in the English language. The improvements in the present edition must raise it still higher in the popular esteem.
The edition of words—the best defining Dictionary in the English language. The improvements in the present edition must raise it still higher in the popular esteem.
The edition or 18501859 contained 99,798 words; the present contains upwards of 114,000. It must not be supposed that the 15,000 new words have been added capriciously, or from a desire to swell the list to the greatest possible number. "Words," says the editor, "which were the offspring of the individual conceit of a whimsical or lawless writer, which did not conceit of a whimsical or lawless writer, which did not conform to the analogies of the language, and which were never accepted or approved by good writers, of their own or a subsequent generation, have not been admitted. On the other hand, new words which have been acknowledged and approved as good have been carefully garnered, whether used by old authors or new. A great number of obsolete or obsolescent words, which were once accepted and freely used, have been recovered by the readings and researches that were directed in part to this end."
The collection of Synonyms, prepared by Dr. Goodrich, and published in the Appendix of the former edition, have been incorporated in the body of this, for greater facility of reference.
"In the department of Orthography," the editor informs us, "no change has been made in the principles set forth in the revised edition of 1847. In a few classes of words the Dictionary recommends and follows the peculiar modes of spelling which Dr. Webster introduced for the sake of carrying out the acknowledged analogies of the language—moles of spelling which, in every instance, had been previously suggested by distinguished English grammarians and writers on orthography, such as Lowth, Walker, etc, and the propriety of which has been recognized by Smart and other recent English lexicographers., But to remove every reasonable ground of complaint against the Dictionary in regard to this matter, an alternative orthography is now given in almost every case, the old style of spelling being subjoined to the reformed or new. In two or three instances it has been found that the forms introduced by Dr. Webster, or to which he lent his sanction, were based upon a mistaken etymology; and therefore these forms have been set aside, and the old spelling has been restored." This edition, moreover, contains "A List of Words Spelled in Two or More Ways, " which will be found very convenient.
The Vocabularies of "Scripture Proper Names," "Greek and Latin Proper Names," "Modern Geographical Names." "Common English Christian Names," etc., have been reedited, or expressly prepared for this edition by able scholars. One of these
AN AMERICAN DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE BY NOAR WEBSTER. L. L. D. Thoroughly Revised, and Greatly Enlarged and Improved, by CHAUNCEY A. GOODRICH, D. D., L. L. D., late Professor of Rhetoric and Oratory, and also Professor of the Pastoral Charge in Yale College, and NOAH PORTER, D. D., Clark Professor of Moral Philosophy and Metaphysics in Yale College. Springfield, Mass.: G. & C. Merriam. 1864.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
vocabularies is, entirely new, viz: the “Vocabulary of the Names of Noted Fictitious Persons, Places,” etc., and will meet a want long felt. It has been specially commended by Everett, Hawthorne, Holmes, Longfellow, Emerson, Lowell, Whittier, Wendell Phillips and other eminent scholars.
The Pictorial Illustrations are over 3,000 in number, and give much information in regard to the objects to which they relate. Most of them are incorporated in the body of the work, each in connection with the word to which its specially pertains; but these, together with many others, which from their larger sure, size or for other reasons, could not so well be given in the body of the work, are grouped together in classes at the end of the volume, under appropriate headings-for example, Anatomy, Architecture, Botany, Heraldry, Ornithology, Quadrupeds, Mechanics, etc.
Prof. Russel of Lancaster, Mass., bears the following testimony to the value of this new edition of Webster:
“The immense and invaluable additions to the original excellence of this Dictionary, the careful retrenchment of whatever errors had been chargeable is former editions, and the just and liberal course adopted in presenting a conspectus of all words on which eminent authorities bespeak a divided usage, whether in orthography or orthoepy; these, together with the unsurpassed accuracy and fullness of the definitions appended to all important terms, in what ever department of knowledge, besides the strict scrutiny to which the whole department of etymology has been subjected-render this new edition the sublest contribution to science, to literature, and to education as dependent on an adequate knowledge of the English language, that the combined labors of editors and publishers have yet produced.

AN ARGUMENT ON UNIVERSAL SUFFRAGE,
BY REV. HENRY WARD BEECHER.
<illegible> at Plymouth Church, Brooklyn, Sunday Evening, Feb. 12, 1865.
No other people can trace back their history further than the African; and in the periods before written history, they seem to have been in advance of other nations in civilization. No other people save the Jews ever suffered more dispersion throughout the globe, or a harder fate; and not even the Jews have borne their misfortunes with more endurance and more docility than they. There is a prophecy which, through the long night of ages, has beamed upon this darkness. That prophecy seems on the eve of fulfillment.
As we shall soon be called, as citizens, to determine the nation’s policy respecting this people, we ought to seek knowledge betimes, that we may be prepared to perform as Christians should our civil duties.
It is true that the war is not yet over; but does any one longer doubt the issue? It is true that peace has not yet dawned; but, thanks to our President’s integnity and sagacity, we have not been entrapped into a scare, and we are sure that when peace does come, it will stand on foundations of justice. It is true that all slaves are not free, but slavery is wounded unto death, beyond a doubt. With the purgation of the fundamental law of the land, is established liberty for every human being in this nation, save when forfeited by crime. And now the great question on every mind is, what shall be done with the blacks? To this I propose to devote the evening.
I begin by saying, that the difficulty in the case of the Anglo-African is not at all one of principle, or of policy, but almost wholly a practical trouble of working out in detail a very clear policy, and an unmistakable principle. This is a great fact, if it be true.
I may say, further, that the difficulty, such as it is, belongs, not to the blacks, but to the races that surround them. It is not inherent; it is extrinsic. In other words, our troubles are white troubles, and not black ones. Were this a fierce and turbulent people, like the tribes of Algeria; were they a race as unsusceptible of culture and amelioration as the North American Indians have proved to be, there would be less hopefulness in their case; but the Anglo-Africans are a kind, docile, civilizable stock, they are peculiarly susceptible to culture, and they are remarkably endowed with moral susceptibilities-so that, if ever again we are to have prophets and seers and rapt mystics, we shall find them of their blood.
Now that the multitudes of lies are swept away which slavery wove as a blanket to cover its own abomination, we begin to see and to know more of the truth of this most interesting and most abused people.
Our first works is one of removing wrongs and disabilities. We are to recognize this people as a part of that human family, for which Christ died. From the face of that truth will fly away all those guilty and hideous lies which have denied their humanity, and ranked them with beasts. They are Men. In that one we word we have a solution for ten thousand troubles. We are in an age that believes in human nature. If unoppressed, if free, if incited to education and moral culture, we believe that human nature is competent to all is necessities, and to its destiny. And with the sentence, They are men, are cleared up a thousand sophisms and shameful excuses for wrong; and they are to have the benefit at once, of those general truths respecting man which have been gradually evolved, and we in our hands as the legacy and history of all past generations. The faith which we have in human nature, and the zeal which the certainty that man, though poor, may be born of the Spirit and educated, enkindies, are for them. We have immeasurable confidence in the common people, if only they are educated, and morally inspired, and left free, under our institutions. No one thinks of doubting the results when white men are brought under the Gospel. To all this comes now the black man. Once admit that he is a man, and then whatever you would think of the white man, think of him. 
The whole question, then, is narrowed, and is a question, not of this race, but of general human nature. Whatever is true of men, is true of black men. There may be some specific differences between the blacks and the whites; but there are no more than exist between the various races of white men. It is our duty to have faith and courage for their future. To doubt their well being is to doubt the laws of god’s moral government.
It I were to put into one single sentence a prescription for that people, it would be this: Make them full American Citizens. Take away whatever hinders it, and add whatever is needful to it. Make them citizens, and they are safe, and you are safe.
To give this more in detail I would say,
I Give them land in fee simple, with ample protection in shape of a wise self-protecting economy. For it seems to have been a part of the divine purpose that land should be a means of education, and that the ownership of it should be indispensable to the production of the best form of manhood.
2. Provide for them all those means of improvement which we so solicitously secure for our white population-schools, churches, books, and papers. We organize, societies for our new States. We send home missionaries, school-masters, school-mistresses, and all the apparatus required for education, to our newer communities. We ask for the blacks no more than that: just that, and only that.
3. Open up for them a right to use their own faculties and their own skill in honest competition, in all trades, and professions, with all comers, whoever they be; and then let them stand or fall by their own capacity to endure the ordeal. I do not propose to dandle, the black man, or shield him in any kind of protection, just because he is black. I simply claim that you should give him the same chance that you give to anybody else. Take him as you take any man, making no distinction one way or the other; and them let him stand where he can place himself, neither putting him higher nor lower by privilege or preferment. Give him no prerogatives nor privileges; put upon him no disabilities nor hindrances. Place him on the broad ground on which we put other men as citizens.
4. Give to the blacks that right which belongs to every born creature-the right to take part in determining the laws, the magistracies, and the public policy under which they and their children are to live.
<c02>
In short, I demand that the broad and radical democratic doctrine of the natural rights of men shall be applied to all men, without regard to race, or color, or, condition. Let me see the democrat that will face me and deny this doctrine! What is the reason that it should not be applied to every living creature, without regard to condition, race, or color? I demand faith in our own national principles, and courage to trust them in their practical application.
I shall be met, at once, with the honest, but mistaken declaration, that it is not safe to put the vote into the hands of the black man; that the elective franchise is too important to be committed to rude hands. 
My reply is, that it has been committed to the hands of black men. They are voters in New York. They are voters in Massachusetts. They are voters in other States. They were voters in Virginia and Tennessee until within comparatively recent periods. And when has there ever been an allegation that they were unfaithful to their trust? that they were less than competent to hold it? There is abundant evidence to prove that they have shown themselves to be both faithful to it, and competent to hold it. It has never been dreamed that they were not.
And if it be said that the case is different when you sweep in vast masses of the uneducated black men of the South, I reply, that there may be special cases in which there will be mischief worked, but that the general result cannot but be true to this great democratic principle of the safety of putting trust in common men.
But I give a more general answer than this—for this is a prudential answer. The citizen’s suffrage is not a privilege or a prerogative, but a right. Every man has a right to have a voice in the laws, the magistracies, and the policies that take care of him. That is an inherent right; it is not a privilege conferred. It is a part of liberty. It is a very precious part of citizenship, to which all men are entitled, except they forfeit it by crime. And when you say, “It is not safe to trust the vote in these men’s hands,” I reply that it is not for you to determine. It is a part of that which is their right; and they come to you, and say, “Why do you withhold from us that which God gave to us?”
On no ground, except that of crime, can you deny the elective franchise to any class, without admitting the monarchical doctrine that civil rights and authority descend from the superior classes or rulers, and that they have a right to confer, as a privilege, that which, the democratic doctrine teaches, belongs to all men in common. Our doctrine is, that all rights and prerogatives belong to the whole people; and that they may be delegated by them to superior classes. The European doctrine is, that rights and prerogatives belong to the better classes, and that people may have them only as they are delegated to them by these classes. According to our doctrine, it is safe for rights and prerogatives to rest with the people. According to the European doctrine it is not safe. In England, education is called free:; but it is free only as a charity or a dole is free. There are not in Great Britain what we understand by common schools—namely, schools provided by the common people for themselves, as a part of their rights; but the State may open schools without pay, as a mode of giving charity to the poor. Our doctrine is, that civil rights inhere in the people, and that if they rise to the hands of superior classes, they are powers delegated to them, and that they evermore come back to the people. As the clouds draw their rain from the ocean, and, pouring it down upon the ground, return it to the ocean again, so authority goes from the common people to their rulers, and returns to the common people again. And the doctrine that the superior classes are exclusively fitted for holding powers and prerogatives, is a supreme arrogance. It is a part of the impertinence of aristocracy. When, therefore, any part of our people demand their rights as citizens, and we talk about the unsafety of giving these rights to them, we assume the positions and doctrines of monarchical governments and aristocratic classes.
A little more minutely, I would say, that an ignorant and poor, and inexpert man has an inherent interest in his own affairs as much as though he were expert, and rich, and educated. The life of every man, no matter how poor or ignorant he may be, is as dear to him as yours is to you. The prosperity of his children is of as much importance to him as the prosperity of your children is to you. The laws which affect his peace, and comfort, and well-being are as much his concern as yours. And he has as much right to be consulted as to what shall be his fate as you have. And in ten thousand matters of common daily life, he is as apt to be right, and as surely right as if he were a born philosopher.
I claim, again, that in a free republic, though it is manifestly dangerous to multiply ignorant voters, yet, it is far more dangerous to have a large under-class of ignorant and disfranchised men who are neither stimulated, educated, nor ennobled by the exercise of the vote. The best government, the wisest laws, the discreetest institutions, and the ablest administration of them, will not save us from perils. There is danger in everything. And to have an ignorant class voting is dangerous, whether white or black. But to have an ignorant class, and not have them voting, is a great deal more dangerous. In other words, a great mass at the bottom of society that have none of the motives, none of the restraints, none of the appeals; to conscience and to manliness that come with the necessity and duty of voting, are more dangerous in critical periods than they could possibly be if they; were made citizens. And the remedy for the unquestionable dangers of having ignorant voters lies in educating them by all the means in our power, and not in excluding them from their rights. The safety of the State consists in the virtue, liberty, and power of its whole citizenship. Civil safety is but another term for civil rights. The old policy has been, and in Europe it still is, to attach the citizen to the State by as few rights as possible, and chiefly to secure him by inculcating blind submission to law, under a motive mostly of fear. But our American doctrine abhors this view, and teaches that the citizen should be attached to the State by every conceivable just expedient. It is best for the State that every single citizen should be a property-holder; should aid in determining the policy of the State; should assist in selecting its magistrates; should have open to him, and to his children, all the honors and powers which any may justly covet or seek; in short, that he be a stockholder, and learn to study the public weal as part of his own. 
It is not wise to treat thousands of men as if they had no interest in the State, or only a subordinate one. It is not wise to create a class-feeling by giving to one man political power, and withholding it from another. The voter stands in a class above the non voter. To say that universal suffrage is dangerous, is a platitude or a sophism. Limited voting is dangerous. Voting at all is dangerous. Living is dangerous. Everything is dangerous. It is dangerous to have laws, a State, and magistrates.. Not to have them, is more dangerous! We must have them, and combat and overrule all the dangers! If to give half a million men the vote is perilous, how will it be to have them lying at the bottom of society in a state of savagery, looking on laws as enemies, and government as despotic, and bound to their fellows more by a sense of wrong than by common duties, interests, and ambitions?
Does any one say, “First prepare these people, and then give them the vote.” But who will prepare them? Will the government undertake their education? Will you assume the burden? Will their late masters and poor white neighbors take up the cross and seek to enlighten the blacks? In this land a poor man without a vote is like a vagabond king hiding for his life; and a poor man with a vote is honored and courted by all. A hundred voteless black men will be consigned to contempt. But a hundred black men with a vote will be a school, and every candidate play schoolmaster to them, and expound and argue the annual questions of policy. Comprehensively viewed, voting carries with it civil education.
Nothing so much prepares men for intelligent suf-
<c03>
frage as the exercise of the right of suffrage. You cannot educate a man for liberty in any way so well as by making him use it. What would you think of teaching a child to walk without allowing him to put his foot to the ground? Would you keep a child ignorant of how to walk till he was old enough to understand the anatomy of the legs, and read that to him, and have him sit in a chair and make the motions of walking with his feet, before trying to walk? The best way of educating a child to walk is to let him walk.
 It is with voting as it is with many another art—for voting is an art of which political philosophy is the science. It is being accustomed to tools that gives aptness in their use. It is not the theory of construction that makes men goad mechanics. It is practice that gives facility to their hands, and carries with it that second nature on which their skin depends. And that which is true in the mechanic arts is true in the matter of voting. There are nations in Europe that have the right of suffrage accorded to them who know not how to use it. They have a tool in their hands which they do not know what to do with. And what we need, to give aptness in the use of the franchise, is to accord to men the right of suffrage at an early period—for it is using it that teaches men how to use it.
It is true, I suppose, that some are not benefited by the exercise of the right of suffrage—such may be counted as the tare and tret of society; but the great mass of men are benefited by the simple use of the vote. When, for instance, in a crowd, where men are genial, there is a shouting for some object which they wish to attain, let some one call out the names of five men, proposing that these men shall be a committee to deliberate upon the subject in which they are all concerned, and report what they shall deem to be the best mode of procedure under the circumstances. Up to these times these men were, like all the rest of the crowd, noisy, disorderly, undignified; but the moment the responsibility is put upon them of thinking for others, they are sobered. They feel differently, because more interests than simply their own are in their hands. And it is natural. You cannot undertake to think for one man, and still less for a community of men, without being conscious that there is a pressure upon you.
Now, the moment a man becomes A voter, he begins to feel that there is devolved upon him a duty that reaches beyond himself and his family to the town where he lives, or, it may be, to the party to which he belongs. He is a thinker and an actor for others; and the moment he begins to think and act for others he is an officer of some sort, raised, dignified, and made conscious of an importance that he had not before. In the science of educating a common people, nothing is more essential than that which makes a man feel that he is personally important. One reason why the family has such a civilizing and elevating influence upon society, is because the father is the head, and has the interests of all the members to look after. And the peculiar tendency of putting the vote into a man’s hand is to inspire him with conscious importance. The result at first may be slight; but in the long run it is vast. The appeals that are made to the voter’s understanding, from first to last, are a great education. Consider, for instance, the discussion of public topics during the last ten years. How universal, how pervading, how intense it has been! That man must be scarcely distinguishable from the beasts of the field into whose head have not during the last ten years, penetrated many thoughts, and doctrines, and truths that pertain to the individual and to society.
Consider how any class of the community becomes redeemed from abuse by the power of the vote. Let a town be filled with five hundred freshly-imported Irishmen who cannot vote, and who cares for them? How easily men curse them! How, if they interfere with men’s plans, and desires, and interests, are they treated as the off scouring of the earth but? But let them become citizens, and be allowed to vote, and how polite candidates are to them! How instantly their wishes are consulted! How important it is found to be that they should have their rights! The motive that actuates the candidate may be selfish and insincere, but see the result. The rights of those men become respected; and it is held that Irishmen have rights that candidates are bound to respect!
 Protecting the rights of the poor is more important than protecting the rights of the rich; for the poor, being in the majority, give to the community its character. The condition of the poor is the gauge by which to measure the condition of the community And the way to educate them, and to raise them in the scale of being, is to let them vote. For he that votes, and is free to vote, is wanted by both parties. The community, therefore, become a jury, and all party speakers become advocates pleading a case before them; and they are made to sit in judgment; and their vote is their decision. And this process cannot be carried on from year to year without educating men.
So firm is my belief in this, that I would—perhaps after a little a combing and washing—have our immigrants vote at once. It would be dangerous, I know, to have them vote immediately; but it would be more dangerous, not to have them vote then. I would have them vote at once, first, because I think we have institutions which will bear the strain of bad voting—for they would vote badly. It would be strange if they did not. Put me in a cabinet shop, and tell me to make a bureau, and the probabilities are that I should spoil the lumber and the tools that are given me to work with. Put me into the trench to earn my bread by under-draining, and it is likely, not only that my earnings will amount to little or nothing, but that I shall spoil much work. Now, put an Irishman at practicing the art of self-government before he has had any experience in that art. and it will be strange if he does not spoil some tools and some work; but he is, a learner. He is not to be compared with an old citizen till be has had an opportunity to make himself proficient in his new calling. This country is a great academy of civil government and human rights, and there come to us thousands and thousands of scholars; and the only way for us to deal with them is, to put them to the work of participating in the administration of public affairs. Their! first efforts will be bungling; bat our system of government will stand the disadvantages of their want of skill while they are being educated. And very soon they will begin to vote better. You may not see the result; fresh importations may cover it up; but you may take the lowest of them, and let them vote for five years, and you will see that at the end of that time they will vote with more thought and vim, if not with more conscience, than they did in the beginning. Let them grow; let them begin to amass property; let them feel the influences of the family, and you will find that they are ameliorating in the character of their vote as well as in their social condition. And when they have been here and voted for twenty-five years, show me one of them, if you can, that does not vote as well as our own countrymen. I hold that it is better to put them to school at once, and give them to understand that it is a political school that this nation is keeping, and that we can afford to have scholars, though they spoil many writing-books in learning to write.
If it is said that there are great interests of society at stake which cannot safely be intrusted to such hands, I reply that this is true in some countries, and eminently untrue in our country. In countries where there are separate political classes, where the interests of these classes are not reciprocal, but antagonistic— in countries, for instance, where there is a monarchy, an aristocracy, a rich middle class, or plutocracy, and a laboring class, and they are sharply demarked, having their own special prerogatives and rights—I can understand that in such countries it is dangerous to have the vote go below a certain point. I can understand why in England they do not believe in universal suffrage.
But how is it in this country? We have a government that has been formed, in its laws and institutions
<c04>
and policy, by poor men for poor men; by exiles for the take of those that everywhere should be in exile; by the common people for the common people. And I hold that in a country where there are no authorized classes, and where all laws and economies have been made by the great mats for the benefit of the great mass, they are not going to be disturbed by those who compose that great mass. And it is safe to submit our Jaws and institutions to the vote of the common people, clear down to the bottom. I will risk it. I do not fear it. I have faith, if not in the conscience, yet in the free instincts, of the common people. If there ever was a trial, a test, of a nation’s stability, that has been one through which we have been passing during the last five or six years. What is the result? Is the faith of the world shaken in the safety of allowing the common people to take care of their own affairs? Is it not, on the contrary, vindicated beyond all peradventure?
I advocate, then, the giving to all men, black and white, the right of suffrage, first, because it belongs to them; second, because it is safe and beneficial; and, third, because only in this way can we have peace. We cannot have peace in any other way, because no question is ever settled that is not settled right. It is easily disturbed. If justice is refused, you may be sure that you will have agitation. You cannot hush up a principle. And as to compromising, often it is wise and expedient to compromise where things are concerned; but never is it wise or expedient to do it where principles are concerned. If you do it, you only rake up the fire, that it may break out again tomorrow. And the only way to settle a question of this character is to ask, What are the principles on which we should build? When you have settled a question thus, you have settled it right and you are done with it. Of the questions which came up for settlement by our fathers, those in which they touched principle were settled forever, and they never gibber or flit; but those questions where, instead of touching principle, they only touched the quicksand of expediency, have been all our lives agitating and tormenting us. And if there was ever a people that ought to have learned that to touch the ground of principle is safe, and that to come short of that is unsafe, we are that people. So let us not commit another mistake.
I advocate suffrage for the black people, because I believe they have given evidence that they will make a good use of it. They are intelligent enough to do it. 
I advocate it, too, because they have earned and deserved this boon, even if it were not their right. I allude to their singularly good conduct in the trying situations of the last five years; to the wonderful sagacity which has marked them during all that time; and to their invariable love and tender care shown to our soldiers. I do not believe there is a soldier that, escaping from Southern captivity, has been ministered to, night and day, by the blacks, has had his wounds dressed by them, and has in no case been betrayed by them; I do not believe your son, who escaped through the fidelity of these people; I do not believe any soldier who, in the midst of suffering and peril, has been succored and relieved by them, would, if the question were to come up as to whether the negro should be permitted to vote, or be denied the right of voting, go for denying him that right.
Then, for their heroic military services, I think the blacks have deserved the right of suffrage. And here let me tell you what was Gen. Grant’s testimony about colored soldiers. Said Gen. Grant, “For picket duty, for guard duty, for the march, and for assault, the colored soldiers are surpassed by none in the world, and equalled by few.” “Well then, General,” it was asked, “what do they lack? They seem to have every qualification that a soldier requires.” Gen. Grant replied, “They may not have the power to endure continuous fighting, like that of the forty five days’ struggle from the Wilderness to the James. This has not yet been proved; but it may turn out that they possess this element also.”
They are more faithful than white soldiers in guard duty. The bread of the army, under the bayonet of the black man is safer than under the bayonet of the white man. And it is not long to be disguised or disputed that these men make as good soldiers as soldiers need be. And when, coming from the plantation, without having had the advantages of education, they are able to maintain themselves by the side of white men that have been brought up in the common school, how much do they deserve of praise! Let Gen Sherman be heard: “Though I think the white race a superior one, and that it ought to rule this continent for itself, yet if you admit the negro to this struggle for any purpose, he has a right to stay in for all, and when the fight is over, the hand that drops the musket cannot be denied the ballot.”
Moreover, they deserve the right of suffrage by reason of their unswerving fidelity to the Union; and on this ground I demand that they should be recognized as citizens. Talk of their unfitness to hold the destiny of the nation, when, in fifteen States, while the white population have proved recreant to the Government, they have remained constant in their adherence to it! While fifteen millions of white men betrayed their trust, and brought eternal infamy upon their history, these four million blacks, though subjected to severe trial, both of life and limb, were faithful to law, to Union, to the Constitution, to liberty, to the old flag, and all that that flag symbolizes; and in the name of fidelity, I demand that they who have done so much for this nation shall not be denied the right of citizenship in it.
I demand it on one ground more: I demand it for the sake of the white Union men in the South. For, ere long, when again the rebellious States are, by the flash of the sword, wheeled into line; when again things resume their old way, the white men that have been faithful to the Union in those States will be in a sad condition. When local affairs again pass into the hands of the citizens there, those men, who are but a handful, if left by themselves, will be ground as between an upper and lower millstone. But if the slaves are allowed to vote, they and the white Union men will be more than a match for their adversaries. And I demand that you shall not sacrifice the minority of white men in the South, by withholding the vote from these their natural allies, that if allowed to exercise the rights of citizenship, will always go with them.
I know it is said, “This will make the black man equal to the white.” Well, if God made him equal to the white, you cannot help yourselves. If God did not make him equal to the white, then I do not. Whatever God made him capable of becoming, let him become. That is all I ask. I do not express any opinion as to whether he is or is not equal to the white. I am, willing to take my chance with him. Are you willing to do the same? or, are you afraid he will outrun you in a fair race?
It is said, too, “If be may vote, then he may be voted for, and may hold office.” Why not, if anybody wants to vote for him, and wants to put him in office? Do you suppose that this is the particular danger? Do you suppose that the moment black men are allowed to vote and to be voted for, every body will insist on having them made officers? One would think, to hear men talk, that, if the way was opened for it, the whole community would rise up and fill every public station with a colored man! Why do not you know that such is the cloud of prejudice against the negro, that such a thing as the election to office of a colored man would be next to impossible? If it ever did take place, it would be the highest conceivable testimony of the man’s fitness for the position to which he was raised. What impertinent objections are these!
But, it is said, “If you take such steps as these, and give citizenship to the blacks, then all distinctions will be abolished, and miscegenation will be the result.” It seems to me that the whites are an excellent stock in their way and kind, and that the blacks are an excellent stock in their way and kind; and I am not myself in favor of mingling them. There are a great many that for years have insisted upon doing
<c05>
it. All that I have to say is, if it must be done, let it be done, lawfully, by marriage, and not by adultery. That is all I insist upon. If any man will have a black woman for a companion, there ought not to be any law to prevent him, but he should marry her. I do not undertake to say that the mingling of these races will deteriorate one or the other. I leave that as a question for physiologists, who I think have not facts enough to settle It. The South have had the impudence to taunt us with that as a doctrine which we abhor in them, and which they not only hold as a doctrine, but put into practice. This is an objection the most on unwarranted and an unwarrantable.
I am in favor of two laws; first, that, if a man does not wish to marry a black woman, nothing that shall compel him to; and, second, that, if a man wants to marry a black woman, nothing shall hinder him. It seems to me that under such laws this question will be perfectly safe.
I know not that it is necessary for me to go further into objections that, are frivolous is the light of the great doctrines of the American people.
I stand, to-night, to plead for the rights of men; and I plead for them all the more willingly because they are the rights of men that are unable to plead for their own rights. They are emerging from bondage. I thank God, as for the beat gift of my life, that I have lived to see the day when the chain is broken, and the shackle has fallen, and the African has gone free. Now, it my life has been spared to see that despised creature of the plantation inducted into the fullness of his right as a citizen, religiously taught, and made industrious by the ownership of land, and by the application of those motives that make us industrious; If I have lived to see that nation born in a day, I can say, with Simeon, “Now. Lord, let thy servant depart in peace; for mine eyes have seen thy salvation.”
And ail this, not because it is a negro, but because it is a man. It is not because of his color, but simply because of that which is in him in common with you and me. It is because he came from God, and goes to God again. It is because he was remembered in Gethsemane, and his sins were washed away upon Calvary. I accept him as my brother, because Christ is his Redeemer and mine, and God is his Father and mine; he is my blood kindred. And I assert for him, in the name of Christianity, in the name of liberty, and in the name of civilization, the rights that God gave him, that men have taken away from him, and that it is your privilege to restore to him.
It will be seen by the following letter that the cause of reform, in England and everywhere, has suffered a great loss in the death of the able and excellent conductor of the London Morning Star, the best friend of this country among the whole English press:
IN MEMORIAM—SAMUEL LUCAS. TO the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune. Sir: Allow me, moved by the spirit of international love, to put up to-day in your columns a Votive Tablet to the memory of Samuel Lucas, who passed away last Sunday, and gave some of the fire of his dying heart to Liberty and America.
The manager and administrator of the Morning Star newspaper, you will understand that it would be ungrateful to the United States if no friend of this man were to claim the sympathies of your people loyal to Freedom and the Republic, for a name and deeds so full of quiet righteousness, and so affectionately identified with that cause for which you have almost given the blood of your national life.
He was with you up to last Sunday in all your trials, following every event with hearty solicitude, and yet with an unswerving faith; almost alone in his steady vision of the end, the beginning of which he just lived to see. Ever since the commencement of the War of Liberty, his silent, cheery will, his simple sight of good, his daily and nightly industry, his administrative mind, have stood in the Morning Star, and as a spiritual power truly supra-national, have given forth to the anxious millions here the passing issues of the struggle; the truth of fact and the truth of hope; and have rebuked a journalism which otherwise had perverted well nigh the entire mind of England.
He lived to know that in very deed, the despised and rejected Morning Star was all right about America, and the great Times was all wrong: he knew it without acerbity, because he belonged to the mission of love, which is sorry for the leaders of bad causes, and more than forgives them in their doom. A Quaker by birth, he inherited into the Spirit, and into a quietude beyond present things, and was an example and a prophecy of that new order of man who cares less to have a career than to have a mission: who has a spirit instead of an ambition; and works upon the world with a force that is never foiled, because it can never be encountered by the resistance of the merely natural politician.
To those who knew this gentleman personally, his presence was one of cheer, singleness, purity, a will that waited with the pressure of patience till his friends could receive his condition; he was of a mild strength which is stronger, and will be stronger, now he is dead. His intellect, remarkable for impartiality where his vision went, came out of this clear, spiritual temper, and guided those who, for lack of his standpoint, were perplexed by the confusion of events, and the clash of superficial opinions. His atmosphere was of love.
When I visited him medically on Saturday morning last, the great news had arrived, and I said to him.” “Well, dear friend, Richmond has fallen,” and he rejoined with a noble smile: “I wish Cobden had lived to know it.” His wife standing by, and to whom I had just been talking in the same strain down stairs, rejoined: “The doctor says he does live to know it.” “Does he?” said he, with his bright childlike curiosity, as though he was willing to know more of that matter by and by. He died on Easter Sunday, “very early in the morning,” just a fortnight after his dear friend Richard Cobden.
He leaves a widow, the sister of John Bright, to know his loss, and to cherish his spirit. Men and women of America, keep his heart among you, for he belonged to New England and New America, and the world has more love in it because he lived in it. Thank God for him.
J. J. GARTH WILKINSON.
No. 76 WimpoleSt., London, Eng., April 19,1865.
Rumor says that Jefferson Davis is in Georgia, and that his capture is considered certain. Also that his photograph, and those of other persons accused of complicity with the President’s murder, and the evidence which fixes the guilt upon them, will be sent to England by the steamer now on the point of sailing.
THOROUGHGOING. Mr. John Stuart Mill, the distinguished author, having been proposed as a candidate for Parliament, has given a summary of his political opinions. The following is his position on two leading points:-
“I would open the suffrage to all grown persons, both men and women, who can read, write, and perform a sum in the rule of three, and who have not, within some small number of years, received parish relief.
Respecting the disabilities of dissenters, my answer may be brief. There ought to be no disabilities whatever on account of religion.”
The highly commendatory article on the new edition of Webster’s Dictionary, in preceding columns, is copied from the Anti-Slavery Standard of last week.
An INCIDENT. The Washington correspondent of the Boston Traveller relates the following:
One of Mr. Lincoln’s last acts was to decide upon the appointment of a gentleman in one of the Western States to an important office. He said to a friend of mine who called upon him, “I am greatly embarrassed by the persistency of Mr.-and Mr.-in sticking to their candidate for the place.” My friend asked what was the abjection to their man. The President quickly replied: “He is a drunkard. I hear bad stories of his moral character, yet his backers are among the best republican in the State. I like the fellow’s friends, but it goes against my conscience to give the place to a man who gambles and drinks.” The result was that Mr. Lincoln refused to give the appointment to the applicant, and gave it to another person who did not ask for it, but whose character was above suspicion.
The Canadians are anxious to make a “lion” of the rebel Gen. Lee. The Hamilton (C. W.) Spectator remarks:
“We learns from the most respectable and trust worthy source that the great confederate Gen. Robert K. E. Lee will pay a visit next week to some of his relatives who reside in this city. Many of our citizens will he glad to hear this, and thousands will be delighted to have a glimpse of the most able military general that this continent has ever produced.”
Can it really be that this man, who has caused thousands of loyal men to sleep their last sleep in bloody graves, is to be feted and flattered for his traitorous and murderous career? —Boston Journal.
<c06>
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN A. S. SOCIETY.
At the opening session of this meeting in New York, speeches were made by Wendell Phillips, Mrs. Frances Watkins Harper, George Thompson and William Lloyd Garrison.
In the afternoon meeting, an animated debate arose upon the question whether or not the Society should now be dissolved; pending; which, an adjournment was made to the next morning. The Liberator must go to press before any further news can arrive upon this interesting topic

THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
A PROCLAMATION.
Whereas. It appears from evidence in the Bureau of Military Justice that the atrocious murder of the late President ABRAHAM LINCOLN, and the attempted assassination of the Hon. WM. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State, were incited, concerted and procured by and between Jefferson Davis, late of Richmond, Va., and Jacob Thompson, Clement C. Clay. Beverly Tucker, George N. Sanders, W. C. Cleary and others, rebels and traitors against the Government of the United States, harbored in Canada:
Now, therefore, to the end that justice may be done, I, ANDREW JOHNSON, President of the United States, do offer and promise for the arrest of said persons, or either of them, within the limits of the United States, so that they can be brought to trial, the following rewards:
One hundred thousand dollars for the arrest of Jefferson Davis;
Twenty fire thousand dollars for the arrest of Clement C. Clay;
Twenty-five thousand dollars for the arrest of Jacob Thompson, late of Mississippi;
Twenty-five thousand dollars for the arrest of George N. Sanders;
Twenty-five thousand dollars for the arrest of Beverly Tucker;
Ten thousand dollars for the arrest of William C. Cleary, late clerk of Clement C Clay.
The Provost Marshal General of the United States is directed to cause a description of the said persons, with a notice of the above rewards, to be published.
In testimony whereof, I have herewith, set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington, on the second day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America, the eighty-ninth.
(Signed) ANDREW JOHNSON. 
By the President —WILLIAM HUNTER Acting Secretary of State,.

THE RIGHT TALK.
At a large meeting of the citizens of Salem, called to give expression to the loyal sentiments of the community, a series of excellent resolutions, drawn up by R. S. Rantoul, Esq., were adopted. We select three of the number, which are especially pertinent and important:
Resolved, That as all men are equal before God’s law, so shall they be equal before ours;—that a black patriot is better than a white traitor;—that in the power of the General Government, carefully circumscribed, inflexibly executed, in unconditional submission to Law, throughout the land,—and in the immediate recognition of manhood, now nobly earned, too long denied, in the toiling masses of the South, lies our future security;—and we assure ANDREW JOHNSON, President of the United States, that, so far as our strength and prayers can aid him in restoring his country to a just and lasting peace, he shall not lack them.
Resolved, That the Elective Franchise is more than a high prerogative—it is a sacred trust; and those who exercise “it, hold in their hands the lives and property of all the rest. That great crimes are not committed wholly by blameless and misguided men; and for this Treason, the greatest of all crimes, as its progenitor was the sum of all villanies, some persons are responsible;—that these persons have shown themselves unfit for the smallest measure of political power—and never should be permitted again to lift their hands, red with innocent blood, in renewal of obligations as grossly violated as they have been often and solemnly assumed.
Resolved, That in the order of Divine mercy, repentance comes before forgiveness—and repentance makes itself known by honorable deeds. That a Government which must purchase the obedience of its subjects by condonation of their crimes, is no Government of Laws. And the American People, who make their own laws, and agree to abide by them, will have no truce with Rebels, North or South.
MR. LINCOLN’S AUTOBIOGRAPHY. Mr. Charles Lanman writes that, while preparing his “Dictionary of Congress” for publication in 1858, he forwarded to Mr. Lincoln the usual request for a sketch of his life, and received the following reply:
Born February 12. 1809, in Hardin county, Kentucky.
Education defective.
Profession, a lawyer.
Have been a captain of volunteers in the Black Hawk war.
Postmaster at a very small office.
Four times a member of the Illinois legislature.
And was a member for the lower house of Congress.
Yours, &c., A. LINCOLN.
“In the New York Daily News of Friday, the 14th inst., is published the report of a speech which was delivered the night before, by Mr. Edward Ingersol, of the Twenty-second ward of this city, at a dinner given in New York, by the Anti-Abolition States Rights Society. In this speech, among other traitorous sentiments, the following appears, which we commend to the attention of our readers without comment, except to say that the event took place the night before the assassination of the President: “ I yield to no man in sympathy for the people of the South, a gallant people struggling nobly for their liberty against as sordid and vile a tyranny as ever proposed the degradation of our race—nay, I go farther, and with Jefferson, Madison, and Livingstone, I fully embrace the doctrine of Secession as an American doctrine, without the element of which American institutions cannot permanently live.”—Phil. City. Item.
AN IMPORTANT ORDER. Gen. Schofield has issued an important order in North Carolina with a view to the more effectual carrying out of President Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclamation. He notifies all former masters that these negroes are now free, and advises that they retain their servants by paying them fair compensation. He also tells freed men to accept such paid service, and in all ways to deport themselves worthily of their new condition.
REORGANIZATION. The Union army after its permanent reorganization will consist of four army corps of 40,000 each, one corps of regulars, one corps white volunteers, and two corps colored. The four organizations will be complete in themselves, with cavalry, artillery and infantry in proper proportions.
DIED—In Syrancnse, 8th inst, LUCRNTIA FLAGS, wife of the Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY.

CLEANSE THE BLOOD.
WITH corrupt, disordered or vitiated blood, you are sick all over. It may burst out in pimples, or sores, or in some active disease, or it may merely keep you list-less, depressed, and good for nothing. But you cannot have good health while your blood is impure. AYER’S SARSAPARILLA purges out these impurities, and stimulates the organs of life into vigorous action, restoring the health and expelling disease. Hence it rapidly cures a variety of complaints which are caused by impurity of the blood, such as Scrofula, or King’s Evil, Tumors, Ulcers, Sores, Eruptions, Pimples, Blotches, Boils, St. Anthony’s Fire, Rose or Erysipelas, Tetter or Salt Rheum, Salt Head, Ringworm, Cancer or Cancerous Tumors, Sore Eyes, Female Diseases, such as Retention, Irregularity, Suppressions, Whites, Sterility; also, Syphilis or Venereal Diseases, Liver Complaints, and Heart Diseases, Try AYER’S SARSAPARILLA, and see for yourself the surprising activity with which it cleanses the blood and cures these disorders.
During late years, the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick; for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market until the name itself has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound “Sarsaparilla,” and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. We think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. We can only insure the sick that we offer them the best alterative which we know to produce, and we have reason to believe it is by far the most effectual purifier of the blood yet discovered by anybody.
AYER’S CHERRY PECTORAL is so universally known to surpass every other remedy for the cure of Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Hoarseness, Croup, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and for the relief of Consumptive patients in advanced stages of the disease, that it is useless here to count the evidence of its virtues; the world knows them.
Prepared by J. C. AYER, & Co., Lowell Mass., and sold by all druggists.
March 15. 2m
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
AS IT WAS.
United States, your banner wears
Two emblems-one of fame; 
Alas! the other that it bears
Reminds us of your shame. 
The white man's liberty in types
Stands blazoned by your stars: 
But what's the meaning of your stripes? 
They mean your negroes' sears!
CAMPRELL.

AS IT IS.
United States, your gallant flag at length is purged of shame;
Its glorious emblems blazon now your destiny and fame; 
The stars that stud its field of blue, like those that gem the night,
Bright emblems are of permanence, of liberty and light: 
And all who see them proudly float may thus the inference draw, 
That now impartial Liberty protected is by Law. 
What mean the stripes that greet the breeze where'er theflag's unfurled? 
They mean the whips whereby you'll scourge oppression from the world! 
E. W. TWING.
Springfield, (Mass.) April 30, 1865.

For the Liberator.
“SKIES OF NEW ENGLAND.”
BY K. C.
Skies of New England, I love you, I love you!
O thers may cross the great ocean to see
Italy's rarest; returning, they’ll prove you
Fairer and dearer, as you are to me.
Let me gate in your depths with my heart in the gazing, 
As a lover might gate in the loveliest eyes, 
Till my soul is too full of your beauty for praising; 
Till, tranced in the rapture, I breathe but in sighs!
Homes of New England, I love you, I love you!
Prayer at the altar, and peace at the hearth; 
Beauty around you, God's blessing above you;- 
Where are there fairer and purer on earth?
Homes in the valleys, with Love at the hearthstone; 
Homes in the mountains, where Freedom is nursed; 
Blest is the cradle-song, blest is the mirth-tone, 
Blest is the child-voice that rings you its first'.
Hearts of New England, I love you, I love you! 
Poet and statesman, reformer and sage; 
The country that needed, hath found you, to prove you 
Prophets, and saviors, and saints of the age! 
Oh, when life's chords have forgotten to quiver, 
My eyes wept their last, and my feet ceased to roam, 
Lay me to rest by that beautiful river 
Where the noblest great heart of them all has a home!

A DIRGE.—APRIL 15, 1865.
There's wailing from a million hearts-there's gloom on every hearth; 
The shouts of victory are dumb-hushed is the sound of mirth; 
There are falling tears, and breaking sighs, and softly reverent tread, 
Where the Nation, in black robes of woe, sits watching by her Dead! 
Her kingly Dead! He lieth there, in grand and simple state;
Calm is the brow that wore no crown, for earthly crowns too great:
Oh! statesman, patriot, saint, could not another life than thine
Atone for all our country's guilt, appease the wrath Divine? 
Ah, no! His life-work nobly done, his toils at last must cease; 
Like Moses from the mount, he saw the promised land of Peace;
He saw his country's starry Flag once more in pride to ware 
Above a soil that pressed no more the footstep of a slave!
And then he went! God called him hence to lay his armor down, 
To take his more than conqueror's wreath, his martyr's glorious crown;
In the great host of Freedom's sons our Lincoln leads the van- 
Himself that greatest, "“ noblest work of God, an honest man." 
He needs no praise. His eulogy his deathless deeds proclaim:
His memory lives in myriad hearts—his life is part of Fame;
His mourners are a nations hosts, that bring their tribute tears, 
To strew his grave from whence shall spring blest fruit in future years.
Lay him to rest in silence down beneath the sweet spring sky,-
His country in her mourning woe standing in sorrow by; 
And standing, too, that dusky race, whose chains of slavery 
He broke, and gave them in their place the blessings of the Free!
Lay him to rest! His work is done—the land is saved at last; 
The fierce rebellious strife is o'er—the work of death is past: 
My country, oh! my country, see'st thou not that Slavery dies?— 
That Freedom's drooping head again is lifted to the skies?
Arise, then, oh my country, rise! be worthy of his fame; 
Lift high the banner of the Right—put all its foes to shame; 
Follow where LINCOLN'S footsteps led—his spirit be your own- 
'Twill lead you on to victory— twill lead you to God's throne! 
Concord, Mass., April 18, 1865.
-Independent Democrat.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
BY WM. C. BRYANT.
Oh, slow to smite, and swift to spare, 
Gentle and merciful and just! 
Who, in the fear of God, didst bear 
The sword of power, a nation's trust!
In sorrow by thy bier we stand, 
Amid the awe that hushes all, 
And speak the anguish of a land 
That shook with horror at thy fall.
Thy task it done; the bond are free;
We bear thee to an honored grave, 
Whose proudest monument shall be 
The broken fetters of the slave..
Pure was thy life; its bloody close 
Hath placed thee with the sons of light, 
Among the noble host of those 
Who perished in the cause of Right.

THE SUMMONED RULER. 
BY THOMAS WARD.
He died with mercy on his lips, 
As the dread need to ask it came;
When could he go with batter grace 
That mercy of his God to claim?
He fell, surrendering to his Lord 
The vengeance bolt within his hand; 
What pardon-plea could sinner make 
Like such submission to command?
Strong was his will to serve the State, 
And strong his arm to break the foe; 
Most, strong his manly tenderness 
When the opposer was laid low.
Then rest, great heart, in humble hope! 
The follower in his Master's way 
Finds advocates in good men's tongues,
And friendly Judge on trial-day.
<c02>
A PLEASANT SURPRISE.
On Thursday evening, 27th ult., at the Social Circle of the Unitarian Society in Syracuse, at the house of the Pastor, the ladies of the parish devised a pleasant surprise for their minister, Rev. Samuel J. May. About the hour of nine, a large-company being present and pleasantly engaged in social converse, Mr. May was presented with a beautiful dressing gown prepared by the fair donors, together with a more valuable token of their regard and appreciation of his faithful labors for the Society. The following letter accompanied the gift:— 

REV.S. J.MAY:
DEAR SIR—In view of our happy association with you the past twenty years, all your valuable and faithful instructions in the pastorate, your tender and consoling sympathy in our sorrows and bereavements, your ready and cheerful participation in all our joys, your genial and benign influence in our social intercourse, all the nameless and measureless attentions and kindnesses we have received from you—it is the spontaneous wish of all the ladies of your Society to present to their beloved and revered pastor some memento of their affectionate regard. 
We present this dressing-gown in the hope that it may minister to your comfort; but we wish to present you on this occasion with a more permanent memorial, which may outlast our feeble expression—but not our undying affection. We have discussed upon an article of silver,—I set of the American Encyclopoedia-(which we ascertained you were desirous of obtaining)—but were deterred from the latter purchase in consideration of your removal from your spacious library to limited space while at board. Wishing our gift to be a pleasant reminder and not an incumbrance, we present it in the form of this Government Bond,($ 250 ) to be invested by you in such articles and at a such time as shall be most consonant with your own wishes. 
In presenting this memento, we may with sadness of heart lament that we have not walked more worthily of the high lessons’ of devotion to God and fidelity, and love to man, which you have so faithfully inculcated from the desk, but still more beautifully illustrated in your daily life and conversation. 
Accept our warm wishes and earnest prayers for your continued health and prolonged service in, and peaceful termination of, your ministry. 
We are most gratefully and affectionately your friends. 
[Signed by 103 names of ladies of the parish.] 
After the presentation, a member of the Society remarked, that a few lines addressed to the Pastor by one of the ladies had been handed to him, and, with permission, he would read them for the edification of the audience:—

TO OUR BELOVED PASTOR.
Thou goodly man, we bring thee greeting; 
Thou, who hast borne the strife so long, 
Ne'er faltering in thy work, though meeting 
Fierce passion's hate, and ribald wrong. 
Now joy be thine; though mixed with sadness, 
Thy fondest dreams are real—not madness.
Life's eve, ’tis true, is settling o'er thee, 
But Dawn—a glorious Morn, thou'st seen; 
Liberty's Stars are bright before thee— 
Their beauteous rays behind no screen; 
Beneath their glimmerings all may gather, 
And bend the knee to God their Father.
A Nation's blood, and tears of sorrow, 
How freely hast thou seen them flow! 
And, oh! a Nation's glad to-morrow 
Will bring its piercing stings of woe: 
But Honor, Peace, and spotless Glory, 
Will cluster round each Martyr's story.
Around thy heart a holy walling— 
Through youth, through manhood, aye, through life! 
God and the Right and Freedom calling, 
A warrior ever in the strife; 
Though not a martyr, still will Fame 
Wreathe all her blessings ‘round thy name.
Still, still we need thy hallowed teachings, 
For thou hast taught us long and well; 
Thy sympathy, thy loved heart reachings, 
With each and all shall fondly dwell. 
Give, oh! give, till life is ended, 
And thine with purest spirits blended.
Taken entirely by surprise at these manifestations of the feelings of his parishioners, some minutes elapsed before Mr. May could resume his self-command, when he responded substantially as follows;-
DEAR FRIENDS—If I could only feel that your high commendations of my ministry to you were deserved, I should enjoy them much more. But what you have so kindly and beautifully said in the lines just read, and in the letter that accompanied the elegant and generous presents which I received this evening, make me all the more sensible of what I meant to be, and what I ought to have been, rather than what I have been to you.
Your allusion to my course in regard to a subject that has violently agitated our country for the last thirty-five years, and which is to be disposed of, as it should be, by the issue of the fearful civil war from which we are just emerging, reminds me of the most important event of my life—my early espousal of the Anti-Slavery cause. The amount of time, thought, speech, that I have given to this one great topic, may have led me to neglect some matters to which every minister of a parish is expected to give his special attention. I thank you for your patience with my short-comings in these respects. I thank you for the steadfastness with which you have upheld the freedom of my pulpit, even when it seemed to be hindering the growth of our church. I thank you most grate fully for the courage with which you have stood by me at times when it was dangerous to advocate doctrines respecting the rights of man, that are now, thank God! coming to be so popular throughout our country. Now that it is no longer a reproach to be called an Abolitionist, I am unspeakably thankful to the Father of all spirits, that he put it in my heart to be one when it imperilled a man's popularity, property, limbs and life to denounce slavery. And I am thankful to you, dear friends, that you have always up held my hands and encouraged my heart in being true to my own convictions of duty. 
But my heart is too full for utterance to-night. If ever a minister had reason to love his parishioners, surely I have. And I do love you. For those of you who are advanced in years, I feel a brotherly affection; and for the younger ones of the flock a fatherly tenderness. 
I hope I may be able to serve you a few years longer; long enough to give you some stronger assurances than ever of my deep interest in your highest welfare. But, whenever the good of this church shall seem to require it, no one will, more eagerly than myself, desire to have this ministry committed in part or whole to the hands of a younger, abler and better man.
The Boston Transcript pays the following handsome and merited compliment to Mr. May: 
THE REV. SAMUEL J. MAY, of Syracuse, has recently been the recipient of most gratifying testimonials to his Christian worth as a man, and his fidelity as a minister, from the members of his church. The occasion was the twentieth anniversary of his settlement. Mr. May is a native of this city, where he has a large circle of attached kindred and devoted friends. He is widely known as a gentleman- whose kindly and affectionate disposition, freedom from all bitterness, envy and jealousy, are only equalled by his indomitable adherence to principle, unswerving faithfulness to duty, through evil report and good report, and whether his course was popular or un popular. He has been a man of faith and a man of works; steadily saying and doing what he believed to be right, and trustfully waiting upon Providence for results. 
He was one of the first anti-slavery men, when to be so was a reproach, and even perilous. He has been prominent amongst those of former years denounced as radicals and fanatics. But though so closely connected with agitators and ultra reformers, his bitterest opponents, as well as his most passionate associates, have never failed to bear testimony to his patience, forbearance, and imperturbable good nature. It is seldom that such steadiness of conscience is
<c03>
found in connection with such generosity and guilelessness of heart.
These things are to be said now; for now none will call their truth in question; and we have taken advantage of the pleasant anniversary alluded to to pay this tribute to one of the truest of men, who has been more or less the subject of obloquy because of his loyalty to his convictions. Mr. May is to be congratulated upon what he never anticipated,—the accomplishment, in his own day, of the great act of justice and humanity, the removal of an iniquitous institution for whose overthrow he was a most zealous laborer when the laborers were few and despised of many.

FROM HILTON HEAD. 
The Pioneer Negro Colony in South Carolina.
HILTON HEAD, April 13. 
In another letter I have spoken of a visit to Mitchellville, General Littlefield's colony of freedmen, located about a mile and a half from this place. As being the first self-governing settlement of freedmen in the country, and, withal, as a most successful enterprise in all respects, the town deserves more notice than I then had time to give it. The inception of this movement for the amelioration and up-lifting of the colored people, whom the Chivalry called chattels, is of comparatively recent date, and the modus operandi by which several thousand things have been metamorphosed in to self-reliant, ambitious, industrious citizens of South Carolina, is explained in the following order issued by General Littlefield on the 13th of February last:
HEADQUARTERS, UNITED STATUS FORCES, 
HILTON HEAD, ST. HELENA AND TYBER ISLANDS, 
HILTON HEAD, S. C., Feb. 13. 
GENERAL ORDERS, NO. 3.
One of the results of civil war has been the accumulation of a large colored population upon Hilton Head, S. C. Their present condition demands the sympathy and cooperation of the philanthropic and those in authority, to aid them in organizing, as far as possible, the means of self-government by establishing schools, and police and sanitary regulations. To this end it is hereby ordered: 
I. That all lands now set apart for the colored population, near Hilton Head, are declared to constitute a village, to be known as the Village of Mitchellville. Only freedmen and colored persons residing or sojourning within the territorial limits of said village shall be deemed and considered inhabitants thereof. 
II. The Village of Mitchellville shall be organized and governed as follows: Said village shall be divided into districts, as nearly equal in proportion as practicable, for the election of Councilmen, Sanitary and Police Regulations, and the General Government of the people residing therein. 
III. The Government shall consist of a Supervisor and Treasurer, to be appointed by, and hold office during the pleasure of the Military Commander of the District, assisted by a Councilman from each council district, to be elected by the people, who shall also at the same time choose a Recorder and Marshal. The duties of the Marshal and Recorder shall be defined by the Council of Administration. 
IV. The Supervisor and Councilmen shall constitute the Council of Administration, with the Recorder as Secretary. 
V. The Council of Administration shall have power: 
1. To make rules for the conduct and record of the proceeding. 
2. To pass such ordinances as it shall deem best in relation to the following subjects: To establish schools for the education of children and other persons. To prevent and punish vagrancy, idleness and crime. To punish licentiousness, drunkenness, offences against public decency and good order, and petty violations of the rights of property and person. To require due observance of the Lord's day. To collect fines and penalties. To punish offences against village ordinances. To settle and determine disputes concerning claims for wages, personal property, and controversies between debtor and creditor. To levy and collect taxes to defray the expenses of the village government and for the support of schools. To lay out, regulate and clean the streets. To establish wholesome sanitary regulations for the prevention of disease. To appoint officers, places and times for the holding of elections. To compensate municipal officers, and to regulate all other matters effecting the well-being of citizens and the good order of society. 
VI. The Supervisor shall hold a court at such times as the necessities of the village may require, for the hearing and determining of disputes and controversies between the inhabitants of the villages. The parties aggrieved by any final decision of the Supervisor's Court shall have an appeal to the Commanding Officer of the District, through the Superintendent of Freedmen. 
VII. All village ordinances must be approved by the District Commander, and when so approved shall be binding upon all the inhabitants thereof. 
VIII. Hilton Head Island will be divided into School Districts, to conform as nearly as practicable to the schools as established by the Freedmen's Association. In each District there shall be elected one School Commissioner, who will be charged with supplying the wants of the schools, under the direction of the teacher thereof. Every child between the ages of six and fifteen years, residing within the limits of such School Districts, shall attend school daily, while they; are in session, excepting only in cases of sickness. Where children are of a suitable age to earn a livelihood, and their services are required by their parents or guardians, and on the written order of the teacher in such School District, they may be exempt from attendance for such time as said order shall specify. And the parents and guardians will be held responsible that said children so attend school, under the penalty of being punished at the discretion of the Council of Administration. 
IX. The District Provost Marshal is hereby charges with the execution of this order. 
By order of Brevet Brig. Gen. M. S. LITTLEFIELD.
The fruits of this order have been the instant establishment of a town, of not far from three thou sand inhabitants; each family occupying a neat white cabin, situated on the front of a lot sufficiently large for all gardening purposes. A church, school-house, and other such accessories, have also been erected inconvenient localities, and so anxious has been the, desire of these freedmen to show themselves worthy of liberty, that they declined any assistance toward building their church, preferring to do all the work with their own hands. Everything about the town of Mitchellville has a cleanly, roomy, and healthy look; the streets are wide, the houses detached, the inhabitants neat in dress and habits, and the tout ensemble gives the visitor an impression of thriftiness and comfort such as is suggested by a quiet New England village. 
Under the pilotage of Gen. Littlefield our party, in half a dozen ambulances, passed through the principal street of Mitchellville, and on alighting at the church door, found the building crowded almost to suffocation by several hundred negroes of all ages and both sexes, who had gathered there to welcome such unusual visitors as were most of the gentlemen composing the party. 
I shall never forget the sublime and solemn spectacle presented by these hundreds of happy, because enfranchised, creatures; whose past dark life of suffering and slavery had thus suddenly been illumined by the beams of the Sun of Righteousness. May the day now dawning upon them and their race be, indeed, as the "light which shineth more and more unto the perfect day.” In this little settlement, I could not help thinking, is to be demonstrated, perhaps, the problem of the negro's capacity for self government and self-support. Rejoicing in their sudden emancipation, basking in the sunshine of a liberty hitherto all unknown, and, at length, beyond the range and reach of the driver's whip, the owner's lust, the auctioneer's hammer and the blood hound's bayings-these waifs of humanity have their new character to mold and develop, under circumstances so novel and impressive, as to demand, from all who contemplate their work, a sympathy, consideration and cooperation such as are consistent with Christianity and civilization. To most of us it was a new revelation-this face to face interview with men and women and children who had drunk to its dregs the bitter cup of Slavery, and to whose lips, at last, had been presented the chalice of Liberty with all its exhilarating sweets. What wonder if a draught so stimulating should prove to be a cup, for a time, both cheering and inebriating! And yet nothing in the history of Mitchellville lends indorsement to the oft-repeated assertion, that the freedman neither can nor will support himself, much less perform the higher functions of citizenship and fullest freedom. 
The church edifice is a frame structure, in size perhaps sixty feet in length by forty feet in width, high enough inside to admit of a gallery across one end, and lighted by large side windows which admit both light and air in abundance. Around the room, upon the walls, are hung instruction cards, which are among the educational appliances of the school usually kept here. The only vacant seats visible at the hour of our arrival were those that had been reserved for the Arago company, and the chairs in the pulpit and chancel. These were soon filled. Messrs. Garrison and Thompson, Assistant Secretary 
<c04>
Fox and Judge Kellogg shared the pulpit with Rev. Mr. Merchurson, (the pastor of Mitchellville,) while within the altar-railing were seated Judge Kelley, Theodore Tilton, Joseph Hoxie, James Freeland, General Littlefield and others. Just outside the chancel, a chair was placed for Judge Holt, and vis-a-vis, occupying the front pew, were Lieutenant; Governor Anderson, of Ohio, and J. G., Nicolay, our new Consul to Paris. The rest of the company, including General Doubleday, Colonel Jordan, and several ladies, occupied an eligible pew at the side of the church. 
The exercises began with one of those plaintive hymns peculiar to plantation worship, in singing which the brethren and sisters came in with a chorus of more melody than sense, but with great unanimity, and keeping perfect time. The hymn is known as “ Simon Peter,” and its prominent feature is the chorus, which runs somewhat after this fashion:
“Simon Peter, feed ray lambs, 
Feed my lambs; 
Sitting on the golden altar." 
Another of the choruses is:
“Doubtful Thomas, doubt no more, 
Doubt no more;
Sitting on the golden altar.”
However destitute of poetry and pathos these words may seem to be, in print, they are full of rhyme and beauty when rendered as negro voices alone can render them; particularly when welled forth from the surcharged souls of men and women, once slaves, but now rejoicing in that liberty wherewith the gospel—political as well as religious—maketh free. 
After singing the hymn,
“Jesus, thou art the sinner's friend,”
one of the colored brethren was called upon to make a prayer, which call was duly responded to by the offering of an humble, fervent, thankful petition, the spirit and phraseology of which brought tears to many an eye, and developed any amount of latent piety on the part of the dusky worshippers, which found its vent in numerous and frequent ejaculations. 
At the close of the prayer, General Littlefield, who is the patron saint of the Mitchellville enter prise, introduced, in a brief and eulogistic address, Mr. Merchurson, the founder of the settlement. Basing his remarks upon Romans viii,, 2, 3, Mr. Merchurson proceeded to take a brief retrospect of the “law of sin and death,” from which the Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln had set his people free. His vivid pictures of slave experience, heightened and intensified, as they were, by the sightings and groanings of hundreds in the audience who had just escaped from the hell of slavery, were most effective and affecting. With such an exordium, all present at once fell into fullest sympathy with the slave. Thenceforward, throughout the meeting, to its closing moments, all gave them selves freely to the melting mood, and, from the most hysterical contraband to the dispassionate judge, there was no reserve or restraint in the general flow of tears. Mr. Merchurson gave way to General Littlefield, who introduced William Lloyd Garrison as the man who, thirty years ago, had been dragged through the streets of Boston with a rope around his neck, because of his devotion to the cause of the slave. Mr. Garrison was rapturously welcomed, and began his address by reading Moses's triumphal song, Exodus xv., and then, for half an hour, magnetized his colored constituents, as he detailed the early history of the anti-slavery movement in America, and sang the praises of the proclamation which had answered all their prayers. 
Judge Kelley, the representative of Philadelphia in Congress, was next introduced. His speech was very plain, very practical, and consequently very appropriate. While acknowledging his sympathy with the oppressed, his hatred of the oppressor, and his gratitude to God for breaking the chains and letting the oppressed go free, Judge Kelley did not confine himself to mere sentiment, but dashing in medias res, he adjured his audience to walk worthily of their new and high vocation, and, having been called to the exercise of freemen's rights, to take to heart at once the full measure of their duties and responsibilities. He endeavored, and apparently with success, to impress the freedmen with a sense of their position as respondents to the libels that had been heaped upon them by their old masters, who denied their capacity for supporting, or governing, ‘or protecting themselves, and who accused them of chronic indolence, shiftlessness, falsehood and dishonesty. “ These accusations,” said the speaker, it is your business to disprove. By your industry, thrift, integrity and devotion to the cause of your country, you can promptly give the lie to the men who have slandered you; while by your untiring pursuit of knowledge you can also soon place yourselves in a position where full citizenship, even to the enjoyment of the elective franchise itself, cannot consistently be withheld from you.” Judge Kelley's remarks were, applauded to the echo, and, it must be believed, were generally well understood by his hearers. The hymn, There is a land of pure delight,” was then sung to a familiar tune, and with marvellously fine effect. 
Next came Theodore Tilton's speech. And only those who have seen a contraband congregation in a perfect furore of excitement can imagine the whirlwind of enthusiasm and intense feeling which formed the noisy accompaniment of the Independent editor's remarks. The key-note of the speech was gratitude to God for what He had wrought; and, as Mr. Tilton rang the changes and touched the harp of a thousand strings vibrating before him, the effect was at times absolutely terrific. I confess that all my experience of enthusiastic political gatherings faded into nothingness when compared with the tempestuous piety which found vent as Tilton occasionally stopped to take breath. Any attempt to describe the scene would be an utter failure. Unquestionably, this speech was temporarily effective; but as to its having had any permanent influence upon its hearers, further than in the form of a general impression for good, I am free to own my doubts. Judge Kellogg, Joseph Hoxie and George Thompson filled up the remainder of the oratorical programme; each doing his part in his own peculiar manner. Mr. Hoxie enacted his favorite role of young man; and so well did he perform the part that, before he had got far into his speech, he cried like a child, and, what was more, we all wept with him. We certainly had a wet time just then. George Thompson, who can never speak otherwise than well, did not seem favored with the afflatus suited to the occasion; for he fired far over the freedmen's heads, and failed to impress them as he must have wished, and evidently tried to do. The Caucasian rather than the African element was benefitted by his speech. 
By this time the meeting had been in session about three hours, and speaking material was still abundant, for Judge Holt, Governor Anderson and other good talkers bad not been called upon. General Littlefield, however, thought best to bring the exercises to a close, and, by request, the negroes sang “ The Day of Jubilee hab Come,” and “John Brown's Body,” &c., not forgetting the “ sour apple tree “ verse, in which all the brethren and sisters and piccaninnies joined with immense unction. 
Thus was concluded a meeting which was allowed, by all who participated in it to be the most impressive and affecting spectacle and experience of their lives. Had our mission, as the Government's guests, closed with the visit to Mitchellville, and with the opportunity there given us to see for ourselves that the freed slave can govern as well as support himself, we could have returned joyfully; and, even without the pageant and ceremonial of the next day's flag raising, could have taken the retrospect of our trip with a richly laden memory and a grateful heart. But, having been privileged to enjoy both these scenes, it is left to us to consider whether the God of battles looks not down with truer, deeper interest upon the Mitchellville experiment than upon the finished work at Sumter. Both have been born of war; but, when peace shall possess the land again, one shall outshine and outlive the other, even as mind overtops matter, as freedom transcends slavery, or civilization barbarism. F. W. B.- 
N. Y. Commercial Advertiser.
The North should immediately begin the great work of re-peopling the South. Mechanics, farmers, merchants, capitalists are wanted in every Southern State. Before the close of the year, one million of men should be sent down to assist the Union cause at the polls, when the time comes to vote. Nothing ought to be left to chance. Throughout the world, no such field is presented to wholesome enterprise. With small capital, great opportunities are offered to determined energy. Now that Slavery is dead, Labor will be honorable in the South.
<c05>
BANQUEST IN CHARLESTON.
A banquet was given at the Charleston (S. C.) Hotel on the evening of April 14th—after the Flag-raising at Fort Sumter-by General Gilmore, to the invited party that went out in the Arago. After the removal of the: cloth came toasts and speeches. The correspondent of the Cincinnati Gazelle reports what was said by three of the speakers, as follows:-

GEORGE THOMPSON.
GENTLEMEN AND FRIENDS: I shall, on this occasion, offer but few remarks in acknowledgment of the toast so unexpectedly given by the friend who has just taken his seat [Lieut. Gov. Anderson]. Speaking from my own knowledge, he has done my country no more than justice in saying that the, great majority of the people of England have deeply sympathized with you in the great struggle with which, during the last four years, you have been engaged; and that scarcely on this soil will there be more rejoicing over the victories which have been gained within the last few weeks, and on the receipt of the tidings that this great and devastating war has virtually come to an end, than upon the shores of that island from which so many of you derive your descent. For myself, allow me to say that I scarcely know to-night whether I am in England or America. (Cheers and laughter.) Certain I am that in all my feelings-in my thankfulness for the successes which Heaven has granted you—in the contemplation of that era of peace and prosperity —I am wholly an American. (Great cheers.) There is nothing in me as an Englishman—while I retain to my sovereign that loyalty which is justly her due, and for my country that love which all feel toward the land of their birth-there is nothing in me as an Englishman which prevents my whole heart being in sympathy with you to-night in all over which; you are called to rejoice, and in all which you anticipate in the glorious future that lies before you. (Cheers.) 
I have been for more than thirty years closely connected with your country. Identified until within the last few years with that small number among you who desired and earnestly sought the cessation of that great transgression which the learned gentleman (Judge Holt.) to whose eloquence I have listened to-night with profound interest, alluded to; but more recently when I saw you arouse yourselves to grapple with this giant abomination; and still more recently when I saw you resolve it should no more trouble your land—that you would pluck up the root of bitterness which has troubled you; that you would repair the great error which in the beginning you committed—I have felt that I was identified with the hope and object of this great nation. To me it is an unspeakable privilege .o be among you at this particular time—at a time when you are rejoicing over the complete success of your efforts to put down that odious, causeless, wicked rebellion, which has deluged your land in blood, and impeded your march in civilization and prosperity. 
Allow me to say, that I sympathize with you in the glorious privilege which you this night enjoy in speaking freely your sentiments in this place., I congratulate your President, who, through four years of peril, anxiety and agony, has conducted your affairs to such a happy termination. He has nearly four years yet to serve, and God preserve him while they last it, and may they prove halcyon days of peace!? As he has guided so successfully the ship of State into the harbor of peace and repose, may he still continue to conduct it with the same skill and patriotism during the years that lie before him. Allow me, as the only Englishman present tonight, on behalf of his country to say, that all lovers of freedom rejoice in your success, and exult in your future. (Cheers.)

THEODORE TILTON.
In response to a toast to the Press, Mr. Tilton said: Am awake or in a dream? Am I on solid earth or do I stand in fairy land? For what is the spectacle mine eyes have beheld to-day? To-day my own hands were upon the rope that hauled up, till it faced the sky, the Hag that floats from Sumter, and now over the whole land. When that flag went up, my heart went up with it, and to-night it is in the heavens more than it is here in the earthy presence. Speaking of the war—what was the beginning of this war? ‘It was upon Fort Sumter, standing upon a foundation of New England granite. What shall be the end of it? It shall be South Carolina, standing upon a foundation of New England ideas. What changes! To-night stepping into Charleston, I walked by the side of a man who, thirty years ago, for uttering the sentiments I hear boldly avowed here and everywhere, had a rope tied about his waist, and was dragged through the city of Boston by a! mob that sought to take his life. To-night that same man, coming from Massachusetts to Charleston walked with me past the slave auction mart, deserted now of its common prey, and with liberty and freedom proclaimed as the law throughout all the land. Let me give you the health of one as brave and noble as the greatest heroes of the army, Wm. Lloyd Garrison. (Cheers.)

WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
Mr. Garrison was greeted with three hearty cheers, and responded as follows:
My friends, I am so unused to speaking-in this place (cheers and laughter) that I arise with feelings natural to a first appearance. You would scarce expect one of my age—and antecedents—to speak in public on this stage, or anywhere else in the city of Charleston, South Carolina. (Cheers.) And yet, why should not speak here? Why should I not speak anywhere in my native land? Why should I not have spoken here twenty years ago, or forty, as freely as any one? What crime had I committed against the laws of my country? I have loved liberty, for myself, for all who are dear to me, for all who dwell on the American soil for all mankind. The head and front of my offending hath this extent, no more. (Cheers.) Thirty years ago, put this sentiment into rhyme:
“I am an Abolitionist; 
I glory in the name; 
Though now by Slavery's minions hissed, 
And covered o'er with shame. 
It is a spell of light and power, 
The watchword of the free; 
Who spurns it in the trial hour, 
A craven soul is he.”
I said that in the city of Boston in 1835, and I was drawn through the streets of that city by violent hands, and committed to jail in order to preserve my life. In 1865 I say it not only with impunity, but with the approbation of all loyal hearts in the city of Charleston. (Cheers.) Yes, we are living in altered times. To me it is something like the transition from death to life—from the cerements of the grave to the robes of heaven. In 1829 I first hoisted in the city of Baltimore the flag of immediate, unconditional, uncompensated emancipation; and they threw me into their prison for preaching such gospel truth. My reward is, that in 1865 Maryland has adopted Garrisonian Abolitionism, and accepted a Constitution endorsing every principle and idea that I have advocated in behalf of the oppressed slave. 
The first time I saw that noble man, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, at Washington—and of one thing I feel sure, either he has become a Garrisonian Abolitionist or I have become a Lincoln Emancipationist, for know that we blend together, like kindred drops, into one, and his brave heart beats for human freedom everywhere—I then said to him: Mr. President, it is thirty-four years since I visited Baltimore; and when I went there recently to see if I could find the old prison, and, if’ possible, get into my old cell again, I found that all was gone. The President answered promptly and wittily, as he is wont to make his responses: Well, Mr. Garrison, the difference between 1830 and 1864 appears to be this, that in 1830 you could not get out, and 1864 you could not get in” (Laughter.) This symbolizes the revolution which has been brought about in Maryland. For if I had spoken till I was as hoarse as I am to-night, against slavery and slave-’ holders in Baltimore, there would have been no indictment brought against me, and no prison opened to receive me. 
But upon a broader, sublimer basis than that, the United States has at last rendered its verdict. The people, on the 8th of November last, recorded their purpose that slavery in our country should be forever abolished; and the Congress’ of the United States, at its last session, adopted, and nearly the requisite number of States have already voted in favor of, an Amendment to the Constitution of the country, forever making it unlawful for any man to hold property in man. I thank God in view of these great changes. Abolitionism, what is it? Liberty. What is liberty? Abolitionism. What are they both? Politically, one is the Declaration of Independence; religiously, the other is the Golden Rule of our Savior.
<c06>
I am here in Charleston, South Carolina. She is smitten to the dust. She has been brought down from her pride of place. The chalice was put to bee lips, and she drunk it to the dregs. I have never been her enemy, nor the enemy of the south. Nay, I have been the friend of the South, and in the desire to save her from this great retribution, demanded in the name of the living God that every fetter not come here with reference the any flat but that of freedom. If your Union does not symbolize universal emancipation, it brings no Union for me. If your Constitution does not guarantee freedom for all, it is not a Constitution I can subscribe to. If your flag is stained by the blood of a brother held in <illegible> repudiate it, in the name of God. I came beers to witness the unfurling of a flag under which every human being is to be recognized as entitled to has freedom, Therefore, with a clean conscience, with out any compromise of principle, accepted the invitation of the government of the United States to be present, and witness the ceremonies that have taken place today.
And now let me give the sentiment which has been, and ever will be, the governing passion of my soul: “Liberty for each, for all, and forever!"
(Cheers.)

ABOLITIONISTS IN CHARLESTON. 
BY REV. A.P. PUTNAM OF BROOKLYN.
The war is opening a larger freedom to us all than the most sanguine had ever anticipated. Hitherto, most of the people of the North have been denied the privilege of travelling in the Southern portion of our country. Suspected of anti-slavery sympathies, as nearly all of us were likely to be, our very life would have been in danger had we ventured to tread the soil of the Carolinas and the Cotton States. The whole country was ours but in name. The war makes it ours in fact. It establishes the clear, constitutional right of the most radical abolitionist in the land to go wherever in our widely extended territory he may choose. The nation is to be the sacred property of each one of its citizens in a truer and more satisfactory sense than ever it has been in the past. It is not the least of the blessed results of the great conflict out of which we are emerging.
The manner in which this right was asserted by the recent excursionists to Charleston is not likely soon to be forgotten. What would the boastful people of that once defiant, but now humbled home of slavery and rebellion have said, it when they first contemptuously defied the power of the Government and fired upon Fort Sumter, they had been told that in four short years, Wm. Lloyd Garrison and Henry Ward Beecher, Joshua Leavitt and Henry Wilson, George Thompson and Theodore Tilton, should walk the streets with impunity, and utter their most intense abolition sentiments to the throngs of emancipated slaves assembled in the churches and public squares of the city? The progress of events has presented many an astonishing spectacle to the world, but hardly one that was more unexpected and poetically just and fine than this.
One of the most impressive scenes I have witnessed was Wm. Lloyd Garrison standing at the grave of John C. Calhoun. It was on the very morning when Abraham Lincoln died. The cemetery is a small one opposite St. Phillips's church. The monument of the great advocate of slavery and <illegible> is built of brick, and covered with a large, plain slab of marble, inscribed with the simple name., Calhoun. He who slept beneath was the very soul of the hated institution when Garrison began his mighty warfare against it. The latter had now lived to see the power of his great antagonist pass away; and just as the illustrious Emancipator, who gave to the system its final blow, was breathing his last, the reformer laid his hand upon the monument before him, and said impressively, “Down into a deeper grave than this slavery has gone, and for it there is no resurrection.” It was a fitting hour for such words to be spoken, Garrison was the proper man to speak them. The tomb of Calhoun was the appropriate place for their utterance., It was a scene that a painter might well attempt to reproduce upon canvass. Later in the morning, I entered the vast building which is known as "Zion's “Church,” and which is used by the colored people as their principal place of worship. It was crowded with an immense audience of three or four thousand blacks. Gen. Saxton was presiding over the meeting and around him in the pulpit were some of the most eminent public men and leading abolitionists in the country. The space in front was filled with military officers, teachers and missionaries from the North, and members of the excursion parties of the Arago a and the Occanus. Garrison was standing in the pulpit, receiving an address from a liberated slave who stood below, and whose name was Samuel Dickerson. The negro spoke in behalf of the emancipated thousands who surrounded his, and in words of thrilling eloquence extended a joyful welcome to their distinguished visitor and friend. They all recognized in him the leader of the great movement which had broken their chains. Pointing to two little girls near by, who were neatly dressed, and were holding beautiful bouquets in their hands, the freedman said, in most pathetic and impassioned tones, that but a brief time before, he had no power to claim them as his own. although they were lust of hw bone of his bone and flesh of his flesh. "Now, sir, he continued," through your labors and those of your noble coadjutors,?, they are mine, and no man can take them from me.' Accept these flowers as the token of our gratitude and love, and take them with you to your home, and keep them as a simple offering from those for whom you have done so much.” I do not pretend to give the language of this eloquent black orator, but only the man thought of his speech. Hardly one of the distinguished men who followed him spoke with greater accuracy, as none of them did with greater power. 
The little girls ascended the pulpit stairs, and presented their flowers to Mr. Garrison who made a most fitting and touching reply. It seemed, to me that it must have been the proudest moment in the reformers life. To stand in the city of Charleston., S. C., in the presence of a vast assemblage of freedmen and women, whose fetters he had done so much to break, and to receive from little emancipated children the humble memorial of the thankfulness and affection of the poor who were ready to <illegible>must indeed have been a sufficient reward for the laborious services he had rendered, and all the obloquy he had endured in their behalf, though more than thirty years , of conflict with wrong.
 Powerful speeches were made by Senator Wilson, Judge Kelley of Pennsylvania. George Thompson of England, and Therodore Tilton.' of New York. No one could fail to remark the riverted attention of, all that throng of uneducated colored people to whatever was said. Not only did they attentively listen to the words that were spoken to them, but they quickly apprehended and heartily responded to the loftiest ideas and profoundest sentiments to which the orators of the occasion gave expression. Neither Congressman nor philanthropist sought to simplify his utterance to suit the mental capacity of those whom he addressed. Yet I never knew an audience that seemed to have a more intelligent appreciation of the remarks that were made to them than did these uninstructed and recently redeemed slaves of Charleston. Whoever. doubts the capacity of the negroes of the south for the rights of citizenship ought to have been present at the meeting in Zion's Church. The crowd of visitors from the North were all astonished at the evidence which they everywhere received of the intelligence and brightness of the colored people. 
The enthusiasm of that assembled multitude at the first mention by one of the speakers of the name of Abraham Lincoln was such as to defy description. It was intense, wild, and almost fearful. The vast crowd cheered, and clapped their hands, and waved their handkerchiefs. Some screaming for joy, and others raising their hands,. and clasping them in gratitude to God, and hundreds, weeping the tears they could not repress as they thought of their great friend and benefactor. How little did any of as dream that, on that on very morning, he lay silent in death at Washington! W ho can tell what anguish of soul the dread tidings will carry to the millions of God's poor in the ,south who have learned to reverence and love him as their great and good deliverer? Heaven comfort their hearts. and grant that the President's successor may also prove their father and friend. 
Too much cannot be said in praise of Gen. Saxton, who is in command of that department. Faithful, vigilant, loyal, and true to freedom, he commands the confidence of the Government at Washington, and the admiration, and sympathy of every patriot, white or black, within the limits of his jurisdiction-.—N. Y. Independent.
