THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR. 
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 39. BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1755.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
VALLANDIGHAM'S ACCOUNT OF HIS STEWARDSHIP.
[A speech delivered at a Democratic Ratification Meeting in Dayton, Ohio, Sept. 7th:]
FELLOW-CITIZENS,-Without further ceremony, I propose to address you briefly on the subject to consider which you have assembled here to-night. It is suggested that I should reply to the harangue made the other night her by Robert C. Schenck. I beg leave most respectfully to decline. These questions in which you are all so deeply interested, in common with the whole country, are of too great magnitude to justify me in consuming your time in the discussion of anything which fell from his lips. As to his personalities, I would at no time take occasion to reply to them. He belongs to that class of men who, with the end of this war, will be consigned to oblivion, or live only in memory as the hero of Vienna and the petty tyrant of Baltimore. Like the toad, ugly and venomous, but with a precious jewel upon his head, his speeches are consistent with the character of his mind. You will pardon me, therefore, if I decline to review that which he uttered here, which I find correctly reported, no doubt, in the columns of the Cincinnati papers. Only let me say that he, of all men, ought to be the last to denounce others as revolutionists, beginning public life twenty-two years ago with the most glaring act of revolution ever committed in Ohio, breaking up the legislature, and striving to array in bloody collision the party to which he belonged, against the law-making power of the State. I came back here for other purposes: you are assembled with a different motive. As your representative in part of the Chicago Convention. I am here to-night to render briefly an account of my stewardship there. Of the importance of that Convention I need say nothing. Only let me say that in numbers, in character, in dignity, and in ability, it was fully adequate to the purpose for which it assembled. I do not exaggerate-nay, scarce even do justice to that body of men -when I say it was the grandest Convention assembled on this Continent since 1787. He must be an able man who would undertake, singly and alone, to criticise the action of that Convention, especially if he professes to belong to the party which it represented. The Convention was emphatically not only a peaceable but a Peace. Convention. [Applause.] It assembled and sat in harmony, and declared the present public sentiment of the United States, and, unequivocal in its language, it has explicitly declared it. Denouncing the war as an experiment and a failure, and charging to its account all the oppressions, wrongs and outrages committed by the Administration for the past four years, as well as the injury to the material prosperity of the country which has followed, it demands, as the sentiment of the people of these United States, that immediate efforts be made for the cessation of hostilities, to the end that there may be a Convention of the States, to restore peace to the land upon the basis of a Federal Union of the States. This is its proclamation. It was a Union Convention, and it declared unswerving fidelity to that Union. The four proclamations of Abraham Lincoln, urging you to give thanks in every variety of language, and addressed to everybody, except "to all whom it may concern" [laughter)]-I believe that is omitted [laughter]-have not struck an answering chord in the hearts of the people. These hearts no longer vibrate to the clamors of war. If he imagines that he can prevent the masses of his own party, who are wearied of this war, tired of debt and taxation, tired of conscription and drafting, from rushing headlong to that party which promises them they shall be released, in part at least, from those evils, he is greatly mistaken in the signs of the times. [Applause.] He may thunder them forth every day-the father of proclamations as he is [laughter]-but they are of no avail. He cannot arrest the swift current which is sweeping these people toward peace. I have now spoken of the Convention, its members, its character, its work as indicated in the platform, and now a word as to candidates. You know that the distinguished General, gentleman and patriot, who was nominated almost by acclamation by that Convention, was not my choice, as he was not yours. As a representative, had my own private sentiment been otherwise, I would have been obliged to oppose him. In obedience to the expressed judgment and wishes of those whom I represented., I did offer such opposition as a member of a convention, seeking peace and harmony, could with propriety offer. You know the result. True, I had no personal objections to Gen. McClellan-none. I had known him since the beginning of this war-knew him to be a man who loved his country, and one who had laid down the only theory upon which a war of coercion could at all be prosecuted with the slightest prospect of success; one who had consented to sacrifice a high and honorable position rather than yield up his opinions upon that subject-one in whose heart a military ambition, and an honorable ambition-honorable, certainly, in him-is uppermost. But he yielded the first place in the command of the armies of the United States rather than yield to what he believed to be a violation of the Constitution of the United States. I had seen all this-saw him calmly go into retirement with Christian resignation, with heroic firmness, and bear all the insult, the calumny, the oppression that was poured out upon him, because he dared do what he thought was right. He might have been mistaken as to the mode of accomplishing his purpose. Time has proven that fact. But he had but one object from the first, and to that he adhered to the last-the maintenance of the Constitution and the restoration of the Union. Speaking upon this subject, to that vast assemblage which met here on the 29th of August, under circumstances that will make that meeting memorable in the hearts of all who were present, I had occasion to refer to him, and I did so in these words: Allow me to refresh your minds by way of remembrance with the words there spoken-words which to-night I can most earnestly endorse. At that time the voice of the country was for war. I recognized it. It was unmistakable, as to-day the popular cry is for peace. Assuming such to be the demand of the people, I spoke thus:-
"I repeat it. I am for suppressing all rebellion-both rebellions. There are two-the secession rebellion South, and the Abolition rebellion North and West. I am against both; for putting down both. Since you have resolved that there shall be war, I commit the armed rebellion South to the soldiers of the army, three-fourths of them Democrats-young Democrats. I commit it to Halleck, and Buel, and Morgan and others, and to that abused, persecuted, outraged General and patriot, George B. McClellan. If he cannot do it, it is because, in the nature of things, it is not possible that it can be done in that way. The plan proposed by him was the only one which even so much as promised success, and it implied a restoration of the Union as it was; and,
<c02>
meantime, the maintenance of the Constitution as it is. That is the reason why he has been so persecuted by Abolition rebels and disunionists; but it is the proud boast of himself and his friends that, in spite of all this abuse and calumny, he has calmly and steadfastly pursued his policy. All our victories won are the result of that policy. All our reverses followed his supersedure. From that hour to this, there has been no victory. Defeat has not lost him the confidence of the people. He has the devoted and enthusiastic affection of his soldiers. He has the calmness, the firmness, and the unshaken consistency and persistency of purpose that will enable him to triumph in the end, at least, over his enemies at home. To him, therefore, and the army, I commit the secession rebellion of the South." 
And that day of triumph came to him on the 31st day of August, and will be renewed more gloriously on the 8th of November next. Such were the terms in which I spoke then of the gentleman who is now the candidate of the Democratic party of the United States for the Presidency. I endorse every word now, to-night, and therefore cheerfully, upon the platform laid down by that Convention, give him my most earnest and cordial support. [Applause.] Why did I oppose his nomination? Only because he was supposed to be, previous to that Convention, the representative of the idea of coercion and this war. Divested of that, there is not a man in America more fit for the choice. There is not a man whose attachments to the principles and whose obedience to the precepts of Christianity—a man whose devotion to his country—a man who in every sense of the word is a gentleman—I say, there is not a man in any respect above or beyond Gen. McClellan. [Applause.] On that platform, then, henceforth, calling for the agencies of peace, and a resort to the instrumentalities through which our Government was originally founded, I can yield to him the support which here I have pledged, and I call upon you, one and all—every man who calls himself a member of the Democratic party—every conservative man in the land—every man who is weary of the policies of this Administration—to unite in that cordial and hearty support. [Applause.] It costs me no effort to yield it now—no sacrifice; but if I were obliged to sacrifice anything but principle—if General McClellan were my personal enemy, a man that I disliked and held in abhorrence, yet, as the representative of that great party which is seeking to save this country, he should have my support for the purpose of turning out of power the man who dishonors the White House, and the men who, like the Goths and Vandals, have polluted the capitol of my country.
I am not here for an elaborate eulogy of the Democratic candidate for the Presidency. I accept him as presented by, and support him to carry out—as I know he will carry out—the doctrines and principles enunciated in that Convention, which are now the demand of the people of the United States. While we will adhere to the last extremity to the union of these States upon a federal basis, he is committed—and he is a gentleman, and will carry out every pledge—I say he is committed to resort to peaceable instrumentalities to secure that end. I need not argue that question before this people—not only not before men of the Democratic party, but not even before men of the Republican party, who hold no position, have no contracts, and no selfish motives to bias their judgment. [Applause.] The times demand that they who hold power should be ejected from their high places. The popular demand is for a change of Administration-a change for the purpose of bringing back the Union, and bringing peace to this divided and distracted land Who will falter? What patriot will fail now? Who will bring up his personal preferences, and prejudices, and bigotries, and preconceived opinions in regard to any other question? For myself, upon this new policy, these peaceable means, I am ready to unite with every man in this broad land who will consent to sacrifice his former party ties, his former opinions, his views in the past as to the possibility of accomplishing the work by war, and unite in making this change of Administration. The inducements are all before you—everything that can appeal to the human understanding or touch the human heart. What have they to offer on the other side? Why is it the people of this land should again support Abraham Lincoln, and put him in the Presidential chair again? What has he done to merit your confidence, that for four years more you should give him the power he has so outrageously abused? Do you want more debt, more taxation, more depreciation of currency, more conscription, more blood, more discord, more war? [Cries of "No, no," and, "To hell with them!"] Then, why vote for Lincoln, who is the representative of all these things? [Cries of, "We won't do it."] I said, upon this stand, some two weeks or more ago, that if a man were presented by the Democratic party, who represented the idea of a vigorous prosecution of the war—thereby forfeiting his claim to the name of Democrat—I should not support him, because every consideration which compels me, as it should impel every lover of his country, to oppose Abraham Lincoln, in my judgment, should impel you to oppose any such candidate. (Applause.) I repeat it tonight. That Convention has met every expectation of mine. The promises have all been realized. In harmony it met; it discussed its measures; in harmony it parted, and in harmony it will achieve a victory in November next. (Applause.) That Gen. McClellan will accept the nomination with the platform, and that these policies shall govern his Administration, I have no doubt. And accepting them, then, with a united party, a strengthened party, an immense band of devoted patriots, who have stood in the midst of persecution four years-—from the beginning of this war—in arrest, in imprisonment, in bastiles, in exile, (cheers)—have firmly dared to maintain their position, with the addition of thousands, yea, of hundreds of thousands, who were formerly the supporters of Mr. Lincoln, and are now ready to unite with us, to swell the grand aggregate; a mighty host will go forth, conquering and to conquer. (Applause.) I came here not for any mere display of enthusiasm, seeking to evoke none, and to resort to none of the clap-traps of public meetings. I prefer that your deliberate judgment shall be reached. I prefer instead of the noisy turmoil of ordinary popular assembly, there should be that calm, earnest, anxious listening to the words which the speaker, in whose purpose you may have confidence, shall utter before you. You have everything at stake that any people ever had from the beginning of the world, and the choice is to be made, either four years longer of such scenes as to have ruined this country, broken down the Constitution, dissolved the Union, sent forth two million of your sons to slaughter, made every State South of Mason's and Dixon's line, and North of it, too, the scene of fraternal bloodsheds—piled up a mountain weight of taxation, and a mountain weight of public debt—which have filled your prisons with men who have been thrust in there for political opinion—which have made your own castle no longer secure—(cheers)—for when the gray twilight gathers around you, and you seek the security of your homes and hearthstones, your hearts tremble lest some miserable minions of the
<c03>
Administration should invade it, and drag you to a bastile, there to remain at the pleasure of Abraham Lincoln. If you would have these things four years longer, have your currency and your country and yourselves ruined—vote for Abraham Lincoln. The past is behind you—ready to be pondered upon by every one of you. He who runs may read. There is the record of Abraham Lincoln, written in blood against the sky. The very angels in heaven cry out against it, and the very devils in hell send up their fiendish shouts of exultation at the prospect of a more vigorous prosecution of the war. Before you is peace, restored Union, maintained Constitution, public rights and private rights made secure, quiet at home, quiet in the land, currency sound again—not worthless paper, but gold as you had it in former times, and bank paper convertible at your will into gold—no more increase of taxation, no more augmentation of the public debt—no more dragging of your children from their homes to the battle-field, to be offered up as a sacrifice that negroes may be free. (Applause.) Look on that bloody picture, and then look on this—the sorrow of war, a war debt, taxation, slaughter, conscription, depreciated currency, and all the evils that affect this countrv—is borne in the hands of Abraham Lincoln. Will you follow it? (Loud cries of "no.") On the other picture, the white banner—not the emblem of cowardice, as you are told. Ah, no! But the emblem of that peace to secure which the Son of God came, down from Heaven, and consented to be born of a woman, to be laid in a manger, and offered up, finally, a sacrifice upon the Cross. (Applause.) It is the emblem of that peace applied now to this land, drenched as it is with fraternal blood. Behold it in the hands of George B. McClellan! Will you follow it? (Cries of "we will.") Will you follow it, rather than that other, bloody and black? Choose you then for whom you shall vote. Who shall be entitled to your suffrage? Of the candidate for Vice President—(cries of "Hurrah for Pendleton")— I need not speak. You know him. His voice had been heard here. He is a gentleman and a scholar—a patriot and statesman—a man who has served faithfully, and with credit to himself, in the councils of the nation. 
I have confined myself, men of Dayton, to the questions of the Convention, the platform, and the candidate—displaying briefly the reasons which should induce you to support the nomination made at Chicago, especially as against Abraham Lincoln who demands reelection. It is not my purpose to discuss, at length, the subjects which shall be the topics of public consideration during this campaign. Other gentlemen are invited to speak here to-night, and they will address you, in part, upon this subject. I came here to render an account of the stewardship which, at that Convention, you had committed to my hands; to relate what had been its doings, and to assign to you the reason why its platform and its candidates command my hearty support. These reasons you have now before you. I address them to men of the Democratic party. I address them to thousands and tens of thousands who have not been of that party. I repeat, as to such, that which I said here before, let no personal feeling, no hatred for particular men, stand between you and the duty which you owe to your country. Lay it all aside, consent to this one thing—that whether you agree with the platform, whether you approve of the record of the candidate, whether you sympathize with the men assembled at Chicago, in this one thing let there be one consent, that the necessities of the times, the welfare of the country, the maintenance of the Constitution, the reconstruction of the Union, the rescuing of everything that is near and dear to us, depend upon a change of administration. With those who have no party ties with us, with those who have not been indoctrinated with the principles of the Democratic party, with those who have no ties to bind them by past association with us, at least let that be the rallying cry. You know that whatsoever might be wanting, either in the declaration of principles, or in the qualifications of the candidates, in their capacity to perform the work which will be assigned to them in the event of their election, that anything must be better than four years more of Abraham Lincoln. (Applause.) One word I have for the moneyed men, especially the bondholders of this country. I have always repudiated repudiation. I am upon the record against repudiation in times past, when the public debt did not reach the magnitude it has now, but always with a reservation that the last ounce would break the camel's back. (Laughter.) Have we reached that critical point? Ask yourselves. You who sit in your banking houses—you whose wealth consists in bonds " not subject to taxation," and the interest of which is payable in gold and silver. Ask yourself is this debt to go on increasing, as it has increased since Mr. Lincoln came into power. Already it mortgages one-half of the real and personal property of this country. Ask yourselves if this debt shall go on increasing, and if the people mean to vote away all their prosperity, in order that you may live and grow rich in the interest of "bonds not subject to taxation"? Did the still small voice never whisper to you anything on the subject? The debt may yet be paid, grinding and burthensome as is the taxation which has yet to be imposed upon this people to do so. But if this war is to be continued, if we are to place Abraham Lincoln again over the heads of these people, be warned in time—the debt will never be paid. Your bonds will not be worth the present price of Continental money. (Applause.) I speak it as a warning—not as a threat. I say it again, and I again repeat, that there is a point beyond which the people of this country will not go. Now, if you want your bonds paid—your interest paid—if you want security in this property—vote for George B. McClellan, support the Democratic nominations, put an end to this war—stop the increase of that debt, which will bring down by its accumulating weight the whole fabric of debt in repudiation. (Applause.) Now, we expect to elect a Democratic President. (Applause.) That is my deliberate opinion to-night. Three or four months ago, I would not have given the snap of my finger for our chances, but such is the change in public sentiment in this land. I see the signs written in the sky—I see them in the hearts and countenances of all around me, all over the land—not in the West only, but in the East—in New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, yea, even in New England herself. Light arises in the East. We expect to elect a Democratic President. The responsibility of administering this Government will be upon him. He will be assailed, not as those who now support him have been assailed for the past three or four years. Whence will come this cry of repudiation? I speak now to capitalists. Whence will come this cry of repudiation? From the men who are bound to stand by the Government, and administer it, and execute its laws? Oh no! It will come from the very men whom you are aiding now to elect Abraham Lincoln. We shall defeat them, and then every demagogue who now belongs to the Republican party will take up that, because it will be believed to be as popular a cry as was war in 1861. In the house of your
<c04>
friend you will be wounded unto death. Be entreated in time, then. Look to your interests if you do not love your country. Regard your pocket if you care nothing for the Constitution; warned in time, act in time. We present to you a man against whom you cannot utter a breath of suspicion. They tell you he arrested the Maryland Legislature. I do not know of any one that has an especial right to complain of that, except they who have shouted and exulted over arbitrary arrests—some of the men who secreted themselves in the cellar opposite my residence eighteen months ago may have some—that class of men who have cried out that not enough were arrested; but who knowing there is to be a change of Administration, and McClellan is to be next President, may have, like other sinners, a fearful looking-for of the judgment to come. (Laughter.) It does not lie in the mouth of any of the supporters of Abraham Lincoln to talk about arbitrary arrests. I might claim a monopoly upon that subject, but it is one upon which I rarely speak. I did not come here to talk of personal assaults and personal grievances. The day of reckoning will come. I postpone it all. Daybook and ledger are locked up until first my country has been saved, and then these accounts will be produced, and placed in the hands of the people's collecting officers, and you shall pay to the uttermost farthing. But first we have a country to rescue from ruin and misrule, and until that great work has been accomplished, every day, every hour of my existence, every thought—all that is dearest to me, shall be yielded up cheerfully and freely, until upon the 8th of November, or the morning of the 9th, when the sun shall rise to record a country about to be redeemed, regenerated, and disenthralled.
Selections.
FORESHADOWING OF EVENTS.
The following is an extract of a letter to the London Times, written by its correspondent in New York, about three weeks previous to the Chicago Convention. Its author, Mr. Mackay, is supposed to be well informed in relation to the plan and purposes of Fernando Wood, Vallandigham & Co.:—
It is at this crisis that the pleasant hostelry on the Canadian side of the Niagara has become the centre of negotiations which promise the withdrawal of the differences between the North and South from the arbitrament of the sword. As the Republican party, under the leadership of Mr. Lincoln, either cannot or will not make peace, and will not listen to any proposal of compromise which does not involve two conditions which the South will not accept, restoration of the Union and abolition of slavery—the Northern friends of peace, who hope to elect a peace President in Nov. next, have taken counsel with such Southern exiles and friends of peace as have congregated on the Canadian frontier, to ascertain whether there is no common ground upon which the whole weight of the Democratic party might be brought to bear against the war faction, and on which a peace candidate might be nominated at Chicago on the 29th inst. The South, through Messrs. Clay and Holcombe, the fully authorized agents of President Davis, demands an armistice and the calling together of a national convention, as prescribed by the Constitution, for the consideration of all matters in dispute. The Democratic party of the North, no longer hopelessly split into two sections, the one advocating war and the other peace, has made up its differences on all minor and major issues, and has resolved to support at Chicago a candidate for the Presidency who will pledge himself to these terms. As it is feared, if not known, that Mr. Lincoln, in his insane desire of re-election, will, under the plan of reconstruction which gives a right to a tenth part of the population of any State in the military occupation of the Federal armies to perform all functions of election that belong to a clear majority of the whole people, endeavor to elect himself by the aid of the soldiery, and by the exclusion from the polls of all persons who will not take a test-oath of unconditional loyalty to the Union, it has been resolved by the leading Conservatives and Democrats who are now and have been recently assembled at the Clifton House, that measures shall immediately be taken to defeat this purpose. At the Chicago Convention, it will be emphatically and distinctly declared that any State carried on behalf of Mr. Lincoln and Mr. Johnson by bayonets or by test-oaths, or by the rotten votes of a tenth of the population, shall be counted as having voted for the Chicago nominees; and that if such nominees shall receive a elear majority of the electoral vote, inclusive of the Border States of Kentucky, Maryland, Delaware and Missouri, they shall be duly elected as President and Vice President of the United States, and shall be inaugurated accordingly. The nominees, whoever they may be, will be required to pledge themselves to take possession of the government, should they be elected in the manner specified, and to maintain their position at all hazards. It is understood that the Convention will organize committees of vigilance in every town, village and district of the North to support the Constitution, and to resist by force of arms, if necessary, every usurpation or encroachment on the part of Mr. Lincoln and the Federal administration or authorities, civil or military. Thousands of leading Conservatives and Democrats, comprising men of the greatest wealth, position, and talent in the country, are already pledged to serve upon such committees, and are ready to slake their lives, fortunes and honor in defence of the platform on which they have resolved to stand, and of the purity and freedom of election. If Mr. Lincoln is to be President for another term, he must be elected fairly, or a new civil war will break out in the North in the interest of the wrongly-defeated but legitimately-chosen candidate. Such is the present condition of the presidential question as far as the Democratic party is concerned. Within the next ten days or a fortnight, it will assume a still clearer shape. Possibly by that time, if not earlier, the candidates whom the party will support will have made up their minds to assume all the risk and all the honor of the position. General McClellan might have been the man, had he chosen; but he has let slip the opportunity. His civic courage was not equal to the occasion, or he has allowed himself to be overpersuaded by timid advisers. Perhaps, too, he has preferred the chance of being commander-in-chief under a civilian President, elected on this basis, as more congenial to his tastes and habits than the office of civil governor. At all events, whatever chances he may have had of the Presidency have disappeared forever; and Mr. Dean Richmond, chairman or president of the New York Central Railway, rules in his stead as the favorite of the United Democracy. That gentleman has taken time to consider, and will probably make known his decision, within the present week. Should he accept, he will be the nominee, of the Chicago Convention on the platform of an armistice and a con-
<c05>
vention of the States. If the Democrats be really united, if they have truly made up their minds to hold together in support of their candidate, their candidate is certain to obtain a majority of the electoral vote, and to he the legal President of the United States. If Mr. Lincoln, however, be determined to win, per fas aut nefas, there will be a conflict of powers that will convulse the country, and carry the fire and bloodshed of war into regions that have not yet felt the miseries of civil conflict, or known them but by the depreciation of the currency, the derangement of trade, and the augmented cost of subsistence.
A short time will show whether the governing party will be rash enough to incur so formidable a risk in favor of Mr. Lincoln or any other person, or whether Mr. Lincoln himself will not have the good sense and patriotism either to retire from the contest, or allow it to be peaceably decided by the votes of the citizens.
If Mr. Richmond, or some other candidate yet unnamed, be elected upon this platform, and duly installed in his office without any resistance on the part of the present incumbent, the war will immediately stop. The armies of the North and South will return to their homes on furlough, and preparations will commence for the election of delegates to the great National Convention, which will have to decide whether reunion be possible or advisable. The preliminaries, it is supposed, will occupy at least six months, and the Convention will not conclude its business until the autumn of the year 1865. That, under such circumstances, the war, which has desolated the country so long, should be allowed to recommence, it is scarcely possible to believe. Under every aspect of the case, it is clear that the election of Mr. Richmond will end the civil war. Of that fact there can be no reasonable doubt. But will it restore the Union? The Southern leaders are content to leave that question to the National Convention, though certain, with the certainty of a foregone conclusion, that the Union is at an end, never to be restored in name or in fact, in show or in substance. The Northern Democratic leaders are also content to leave the question to the Convention, not without a faint hope that somehow or other, by time and good management, or by chance and happy fortune, the North may be re-united to the South, if the South refuses to be re-united to the North, and that the Constitution of the Confederacy may be adopted by the North-West, and by the Central States of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and New York, and all the States except the six little Slates of New England, who are to be "left out in the cold," to be independent if they please, or to annex themselves to Canada, if this solution of their difficulties shall please them better. At all events, the Northern Democracy have resolved that Americans shall not continue to cut each other's throats in support of a political partnership which has ceased to be agreeable to one of the contending parties; and that, if union be utterly impracticable, an alliance and an entente cordiale may take its place. 
The Manchester Examiner and Times, in an able article, commenting on the above, says:
But let us grant the fact of a united Democratic party bent upon peace, just to appreciate the political force which is to be played out upon it. The Democratic leaders are of course anxious to succeed, and they can only succeed by rallying to them the patriotism, intelligence and self-respect of the great body of the people. They must be careful to avoid giving umbrage to any important section of their followers, and must assuredly contrive to give the pill they want the nation to swallow a gilding of national glory. Yet what have these astute fellows done, according to the Times' correspondent? They have gone on their knees to the agents of Mr. Davis, and begged from them a policy. They ask Mr. Davis to be kind enough, in his magnanimity and clemency, to construct a platform for the Convention about to be held at Chicago, putting in just what planks he chooses. Having learned Mr. Davis's pleasure, they take him at his word without the slightest demur, and proceed to make the terms he has been pleased to name a rallying cry for the proud people of the Northern States. Why, they are asking the North to vote for President Davis! With this fine shibboleth on their lips, they may cry and bawl the loudest, but will the North respond? The proclamation of an armistice and the calling of a National Convention could have but one meaning, the end of the Union and the establishment of Southern independence. That the leaders of the Democratic party shrink from stating this conclusion in round terms is a proof that it is a dose which it would be hopeless to think of inducing the North to swallow. The bait held out is, that the Union may still be saved by discussion, though it is not yet saved, and never may be saved, by force of arms. But the bait cannot conceal the hook. The nature of the programme will be seen at a glance, and if the people would not adopt it if drawn up without circumlocution, neither will they adopt it in its present disguise. Such are the "prospects of peace" as vouched for by " our own correspondent." When he clapped his eye to one end of the telescope, it is clear that Mr. Colorado Jewett clapped his hat on the other.

A TRAITOR'S CONFESSION.
"We seceded to rid ourselves of the rule of the majority!"- "—Jefferson Davis to Col. Jaques.
Write that in characters of living light. Would that it might be engraven in the broad heavens, that the world might read and reflect! It is the deathbed confession of the rebellion. It is the trembling assassin revealing his guilt on the threshold of eternity, when no earthly terrors suppress it, and a desire to lighten the burdens of his heart compels it. It is of great advantage to us; its benefits to posterity are incalculable. It will heal the hearts of the afflicted who mourn the loss of the "flower of America slain in battle;" and it will teach the children for what their fathers died. It is the correct history of this wicked war in a nutshell. It is a complete vindication of the North-of the Union, from the foul aspersions of her clamorous and vindictive foe.
"We seceded to rid ourselves of the rule of the majority "—to overthrow the only government in the world founded upon the right of the majority to rule, upon democracy and equal rights. Let this be the text from which the Muse of American History, standing over the grave of disunion, and dipping her pen in the bright sunlight of regenerated America, shall immortalize, in epic strains, the grand achievements of the Army of the Union, in defence of Law, Liberty and Right!
"We seceded to rid ourselves of the rule of the majority”. Will the craven, stubborn copperheads here learn a lesson of their "satanic chief"? Will they believe him when he tells them so frankly that they "seceded to rid themselves of the rule of the majority"? or will they viciously persist in imputing other and juster causes for the rebellion so jealous are they in defending the South from all blame
<c06>
whatever in the matter of secession? Davis's words, if nothing else, ought to rebuke into silence their slimy tongues, so prolific of treasonable cant.
"We seceded to rid ourselves of the rule of the majority." So we of the North have always maintained, which you of the South have until now denied. Andrew Johnson thought this to be the cause of your treason, for in the course of his memorable speech of December 18, 1861, in the United States Senate, (in our opinion the strongest argument against secession ever made in that chamber,) in suggesting whether it would not be better for the South to bear those ills she had, than fly to others she knew not of, he turned to Southern Senators, and wanted to know if their intentions were to establish a despotism, when they had succeeded in breaking up the old Union, and giving as his grounds for the apprehension, certain extracts from prominent Southern journals, discussing the relative merits of Republicanism and Despotism. His vision was not closed to the dangers of the change, and he thought it prudent to look around him and see where the Southern mind was drifting, ere he counselled Tennessee to cut her moorings from the old Republic. How prophetic were Senator Johnson's apprehensions! Every bullet thrown from rebel guns is aimed at Republicanism—against the right of the majority to govern, and in defence of despotism— of the right of the few to govern the many. Can you doubt it?
"We seceded to rid ourselves of the rule of the majority," says Mr. Davis, in order to do what? To establish a government in which the majority shall have neither voice nor votes, to entrench ourselves and our institution within the bulwarks of despotism.
Again, copperheads, in your defence of slavery and treason, you sneered at Mr. Lincoln's Proclamation of Freedom, when it was issued, as a measure only calculated to divide the North, and exasperate the South, while it was harmless in affecting its object. You jeered at it because it was simply emancipation on parchment, because it was not strong enough to strike the chains from the slaves. Now, at the close of a year and a half—a short time for so great a result—what is the record, what is the testimony of Mr. Davis? He says: "You have already emancipated nearly two millions of our slaves, and you may emancipate every negro in the Confederacy, but we will be free. We are not fighting for slavery. We are fighting for independence— and that, or extermination, we will have." So potent has this instrument of your ridicule and contempt become, that it has already marked the destruction of that slavery, to preserve which this foul rebellion was begun. Three years ago the South was bold to proclaim that she went to war to protect her "peculiar institution." Now she is compelled to change her "base," as her idol is overthrown.
Years ago, the Old Man Eloquent, in a spirit of prophecy, warned the South to desist in her encroachments upon the liberties of the North, lest they press her to that extremity where "forbearance ceases to be a virtue," a quarrel would ensue, when their institution of slavery would be wiped out—aye, in blood! Wendell Phillips has longed for disunion, that the supporting influence of the Constitution might be withdrawn from the incubus of slavery: Andrew Johnson declared to the South, that were he an abolitionist, he knew of no means by which the object of his desires could he accomplished quicker than by the dissolution of the Union. Adams, from his home above, may now listen to the sweet music of falling chains, and rejoice in the verification of his prophecy. Johnson can look back with proud satisfaction upon the wisdom of his course; and Phillips can rejoice now that "the Lord reigneth;" that "the covenant with death" is annulled, the "agreement with hell" broken; and that the chain which has supported slavery since 1787 is parted. CONSCRIPT.
National Eagle.

THE RIGHTS OF COLORED SOLDIERS.
LETTER OF GEN. BUTLER TO THE REBEL COMMISSIONERS OF EXCHANGE.
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF VIRGINIA AND NORTH CAROLINA, IN THE FIELD, August —, 1864.
Hon. ROBERT OULD, Commissioner of Exchange: 
SIR: Your note to Major Mulford, Assistant Agent of Exchange, under the date of 17th of August, has been referred to me.
You therein state that Major Mulford has several times proposed to exchange prisoners respectively held by the two belligerents, officer for officer and man for man, and that " the offer has also been made by other officials having charge of matters connected with the exchange of prisoners"; and that "this proposal has been heretofore declined by the Confederate authorities." That you now Consent to the above proposition, and agree to deliver to you [Major Mulford] the prisoners held in captivity by the Confederate authorities, provided you agree to deliver an equal number of officers and men. As equal numbers are delivered from time to time, they will be declared exchanged. This proposal is made with the understanding that officers and men on both sides who have been longest in captivity will be first delivered, where it is practicable. 
From a slight ambiguity in your phraseology, but more, perhaps, from the antecedent action of your authorities, and because of your acceptance of it, I am in doubt whether you have stated the proposition with entire accuracy. 
It is true, a proposition was made both by Major Mulford and by myself, as agents of exchange, to exchange all prisoners of war taken by either belligerent party, man for man, officer for officer, of equal rank, or their equivalents. It was made by me as early as the first of the Winter of 1863-4, and has not been accepted. In May last I forwarded to you a note, desiring to know whether the Confederate authorities intended to treat colored soldiers of the United States army as prisoners of war. To that inquiry no answer has yet been made. To avoid all possible misapprehension or mistake hereafter as to your offer now, will you now say whether you mean by "prisoners held in captivity," colored men, duly enrolled and mastered into the service of the United States, who have been captured by the Confederate forces; and if your authorities are willing to exchange all soldiers so mustered into the United States army, whether colored or otherwise, and the officers commanding them, man for man, officer for officer?
At an interview which was held between yourself and the agent of exchange on the part of the United States, at Fortress Monroe, in March last, you will do me the favor to remember the principal discussion turned upon this very point; you, on behalf of the Confederate government, claiming the right to hold all negroes, who had heretofore been slaves and not emancipated by their masters or claimants, whoever they might be, to be held by them as slaves.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES...... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
By the advertisements in your newspapers, calling upon masters to come forward and claim these men so captured, I suppose that your authorities still adhere to that claim; that is to say, that whenever a colored soldier of the United States is captured by you, upon whom any claim can be made by any person residing within the States now in insurrection, such soldier is not to be treated as a prisoner of war, but is to be turned over to his supposed owner or claimant, and put at such labor or service as that owner or claimant may choose, and the officers in command of such soldiers, in the language of a supposed act of the Confederate States, are to be turned over to the Governors of States, upon requisitions, for the purpose of being punished by the laws of such States for acts done in war in the armies of the United States.
You must be aware that there is still a proclamation by Jefferson Davis, claiming to be Chief Executive of the Confederate States, declaring in substance that all officers of colored troops mustered into the service of the United States were not to be treated as prisoners of war, but were to be turned over for punishment to the Governors of States.
I am reciting these public acts from memory, and shall be pardoned for not giving the exact words, although I believe I do not vary the substance and effect.
These declarations on the part of those whom you represent yet remain unrepeated, unannulled, unrevoked, and must therefore be still supposed to be authoritative. By your acceptance of our proposition, is the government of the United States to understand that these several claims, enactments and proclaimed declarations are to be given up, set aside, revoked, and held for naught by the Confederate authorities, and that you are ready and willing to exchange man for man those colored soldiers of the United States, duly mustered and enrolled as such, who have heretofore been claimed as slaves by the Confederate States, as well as white soldiers?
If this be so, and you are so willing to exchange these colored men claimed as slaves, and you will so officially inform the government of the United States, then, as I am instructed, a principal difficulty in effecting exchanges will be removed.
As I informed you personally, in my judgment, it is neither consistent with the policy, dignity or honor of the United States, upon any consideration, to allow those who, by our laws solemnly enacted, are made soldiers of the Union, and who have been duly enlisted, enrolled and mustered as such soldiers- who have borne arms in behalf of this country, not to be treated as prisoners of war, and remain unexchanged, and in the service of those who claim them as masters; and I cannot believe that the government of the United  States will ever be found to consent to so gross a wrong.
Pardon me if I misunderstood you in supposing that your acceptance of our proposition does not in good faith mean to include all the soldiers of the Union, and that you still intend, if your acceptance is agreed to, to hold the colored soldiers of the Union unexchanged, and at labor or service, because I am informed that very lately, almost contemporaneously with this offer on your part to exchange prisoners, and which seems to include all prisoners of war, the Confederate authorities have made a declaration that the negroes hitherto held to service by owners in the States of Delaware, Maryland and Missouri are to be treated as prisoners of war when captured in arms in the service of the United States. Such declaration that a part of the colored soldiers of the United States were to be prisoners of war would seem most strongly to imply that others were not to be so treated, or in other words, that colored men from the insurrectionary States are to be held to labor and returned to their masters, if captured by the Confederate forces while duly enrolled and mustered into and actually in the armies of the United States.
In the view which the government of the United States takes of the claim made by you to the persons and services of these negroes, it is not to be supported upon any principle of national or municipal law.
Looking upon these men only as property, upon your theory of property in them, we do not see how this claim can be made, certainly not how it can be yielded.  It is believed to be a well-settled rule of public international law, and a custom and part of the laws of war, that the capture of movable property vests the title to that property in the captor, and therefore, when one belligerent gets into full possession property belonging to the subjects or citizens of the other belligerent, the owner, of that property is at once divested of his title, which rests in the belligerent government capturing and holding such possession. Upon this rule of international law all civilized nations have acted, and by it both belligerents have dealt with all property, save slaves, taken from each other during the present war. 
If the Confederate forces capture a number of horses from the United States, the animals immediately are claimed to be, and, as we understand it, become the property of the Confederate authorities. 
If the United States capture any movable property in the rebellion, by our regulations and laws, in conformity with international law and the laws of war, such property is turned over to our government as its property. Therefore, if we obtain possession of that species of property known to the laws of the insurrectionary States as slaves, why should there be any doubt that that property, like any other, vests in the United States?
If the property in the slave does so vest, then the "jus disponendi," the right of disposing of that property, rests in the United States.
Now the United States have disposed of the property which they have acquired by capture, in slaves taken by them, by giving that right of property to the man himself, to the slave, that is, by emancipating him and declaring him free forever, so that if we have not mistaken the principles of international faw and the laws of war, we have no slaves in the armies of the United States. All are free men, being made so in such a manner as we have chosen to dispose of our property in them which we acquired by capture.
Slaves being captured by us, and the right of property in them thereby vested in us, that right of property has been disposed of by us by manumitting them, as has always been the acknowledged right of the owner to do to his slave. The manner in which we dispose of our property while it is in our possession cannot be questioned by you.
Nor is the case altered if the property is not actually captured in battle, but comes either voluntarily or involuntarily from the belligerent owner into the possession of the other belligerent.
I take it no one would doubt the right of the United States to a drove of Confederate mules, or a herd of Confederate cattle, which should wander or rush across the Confederate lines into the lines of the United States army. So it seems to me, treating the negro as property merely, if that piece of property passes the Confederate lines, and comes into the lines of the United States, that property is as much lost to its owner in the Confederate States as would be the mule or ox, the property of the resident of the Confederate States, which should fall into our hands.
If, therefore, the principles of international law and the laws of war used in this discussion are correctly stated, then it would seem that the deduction logically flows therefrom, in natural sequence, that the Confederate States can have no claim upon the negro soldiers captured by them from the armies of the United States, because of the former ownership of them by their citizens or subjects, and only claim such as result, under the laws of war, from their capture merely.
Do the Confederate authorities claim the right to reduce to a state of slavery free men, prisoners of war captured by them? This claim our fathers fought against under Bainbridge and Decatur, when set up by the Barbary powers on the northern shore of Africa, about the year 1800, and in 1864 their children will hardly yield it upon their own soil.
This point I will not pursue further, because I understand you to repudiate the idea that you will reduce free men to slaves because of capture in war, and that you base the claim of the Confederate authorities to <illegible> our negro soldiers, when captured by you, upon the "jus post limini," or that principle of the law of nations which rehabilitates the former owner with his property taken by an enemy, when each such property is recovered by the forces of his own country.
Or, in other words, you claim that by the laws of nations and of war, when property of the subjects of one belligerent power, captured by the forces of the other belligerent, is recaptured by the armies of the former owner, then such property is to be restored to its prior possessor, as if it had never been captured, and, therefore, under this principle, your authorities propose to restore to their masters the slaves which heretofore belonged to them which you may capture from us.
<c02>
But this post liminary right under which you claim to act, as understood and defined by all writers on national law, is applicable simply to immovable property, and that, too, only after the complete resubjugation of that portion of the country in which the property is situated, upon which this right fastens itself. By the laws and customs of war, this right has never been applied to moveable property.
True, it is, I believe, that the Romans attempted to apply it to the case of slaves, but for two thousand years no other nation has attempted to set up this right as ground for treating slaves differently from other property.
But the Romans ever refused to reenslave men captured from opposing belligerents in a civil war such as ours unhappily is.
Consistently, then, with any principle of the law of nations, treating slaves as property merely, it would seem to be impossible for the government of the United States to permit the negroes in their ranks to be reenslaved when captured, or treated otherwise than as prisoners of war.
I have forborne, sir, in this discussion, to argue the question upon any other or different grounds of right than those adopted by your authorities in claiming the negro as property, because I understand that your fabric of opposition to the government of the United States has the right of property in man as its corner-stone. Of course, it would not be profitable in settling a question of exchange of prisoners of war to attempt to argue the question of abandonment of the very corner-stone of their attempted political edifice. Therefore I have omitted all the consideration which should apply to the negro soldier as a man, and dealt with him upon the Confederate theory of property only.
I unite with you most cordially, sir, in desiring a speedy settlement of all these questions, in view of the great suffering endured by our prisoners in the hands of your authorities, of which you so feelingly speak. Let me ask, in view of that suffering, why you have delayed eight months to answer a proposition which by now accepting you admit to be right, just and humane, allowing that suffering to continue so long? One cannot help thinking, even at the risk of being deemed uncharitable, that the benevolent sympathies of the Confederate authorities have been lately stirred by the depleted condition of their armies, and a desire to get into the field to affect the present campaign, the hale, hearty and well-fed prisoners held by the United States in exchange for the half-starved, sick, emaciated and unserviceable soldiers of the United States now languishing in your prisons.  The events of this war, if we did not know it before, have taught us that it is not the Northern portion of the Northern people alone who know how to drive sharp bargains.
The wrongs, the indignities and privations suffered by our soldiers would move me to consent to anything to procure their exchange, except to barter away the honor and faith of the government of the United States, which has been so solemnly pledged to the colored soldiers in its ranks.
Consistently with national faith and justice, we cannot relinquish this position. With your authorities it is a question of property merely. It seems to address itself to you in this form. Will you suffer your soldier, captured in fighting your battles, to be in confinement for months, rather than release him by giving him for that which you call a piece of property, and which we are willing to accept as a man?
You certainly appear to place less value upon your soldier than you do upon your negro. I assure you, much as we of the North are accused of loving property, our citizens would have no difficulty in yielding up any piece of property they have in exchange for one of their brothers or sons languishing in your prisons.  Certainly there could be no doubt that they would do so were that piece of property less in value than five thousand dollars in Confederate money, which is believed to be the price of an able-bodied negro in the insurrectionary States.
Trusting that I may receive such a reply to the questions propounded in this note as will lead to a speedy resumption of the negotiations for a full exchange of all prisoners, and a delivery of them to their respective authorities, I have the honor to be very respectfully, your obedient servant,
BENJ. F. BUTLER, 
Major-Gen, and Commissioner of Exchange. 

GENERAL JOE HOOKER'S SPEECH ON THE WAR.
The people of Watertown, Mass., where "Fighting Joe" Hooker is making a brief sojourn, celebrated the Atlanta victory on Monday night. A procession was formed, and marched to the residence of O. V. Brainard,  where the General is stopping, and the hero of Lookout Mountain made them the following pointed and characteristic address:-
FELLOW CITIZENS,-You have come here to rejoice at the success of the Union arms, in which I am ready to join you heart and hand. My business is fighting, not speech-making; but let me tell you that the army of Sherman is invincible, and cannot be disheartened. We must treat this rebellion as a wise parent would a vicious child-he must whip him into subjection. No milder discipline will answer the purpose. Some are crying peace; but there can be no peace as long as a rebel can be found with arms in his hands. Woe be to those who cry peace when there is no peace! This Union must be preserved, and there is no way of preserving it but by the power of our arms-by fighting the conspiracy to death. This rebellion is tottering now while I speak; it is going, down, down, and will soon tumble into ruin. Politicians may talk to you about the cause of the war, but I say, put down the rebellion, and then, if you choose, inquire into the cause of it. But first put down the insurgents-first whip them, and then talk about the cause, if you have nothing else to engage your attention. I believe in treating the rebellion as Gen. Jackson treated Indians-whip them first, and treat with them afterwards. The Union cannot be divided, let politicians talk as they may; for if division commences, where are you to end? First the South would go, then the Pacific States, then New England. I hear that one notorious politician has advocated that the city of New York should secede from the Empire State. In such case there would be no end to rebellion. Gentlemen, every interest you have depends upon the success of our cause; every dollar you possess is at stake in the preservation of this Union. It will better accord with my feelings to see the limits of our glorious country extended, rather than circumscribed, and we may feel it a national necessity to enlarge our borders at no distant day. This Union, gentlemen, cannot be dissolved, as long as the army have guns to fight with. Furnish men and muskets, and the Union is secured.
This is the language of true patriotism, worthy of universal response. 

"A MILITARY ADVENTURER" 
The Richmond Dispatch of June, 1862, said:
“In the early part of this war, General McClellan wrote to a distinguished officer in the South, expressing his-proving his desire to serve in the Confederate army. If be cares to deny the fact-and his recent report proves that, in mendacity, he is the representative man of the Yankee nation-it can be demonstrated by such evidence as will close his lips in eternal silence. When he was at West Point, he affected to fraternize especially with those from the South, and to have little sympathy with those from his own section. We dare say this was genuine, and that he really was anxious to serve under Jeff. Davis in this war, but the high bribe offered by Lincoln, was too much for his easy virtue. He was not the man to sacrifice interest to sentiment, and of late has shown a disposition to become as extreme in his antagonism as is his friendship for the South."
The Richmond Whig copied the above, and added: 
“After the battle of Rich Mountain, McClellan declared to Confederate officers, who were prisoners of war, that he would much rather be leading an army against Massachusetts than Virginia. This can be proved by unimpeachable authority, if denied. This boasted soldier and gentleman of the North is as much a hireling and adventurer as any Hessian in his ranks. If he has any conscience, it rebukes him daily for the base work in which he is employed. When to the pages: of remorse is added the shame of defeat, his condition will be such as even an enemy may pity."
The above paragraph went the rounds of the Northern press, and we have never heard of their charges being met or their challenge accepted by Gen. McClellan or any of his friends.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1864.
THE CONFLICT, AND ITS CHARACTER.
The patriotic American who takes a general survey of his country at the present time, will be scarcely less interested in the conflict which is waging at the North, than in that which is saturating with human blood the battle-fields of the South. The character of the conflict is, in both regions, the same. North and South alike, the issue is between Union and Disunion; Liberty and Slavery; a free Democratic Republican Government and an Oligarchical Despotism; the edifice erected by the early builders, whose Corner Stone was Universal Liberty, and that which recent architects have sought to found, whose Corner Stone is Slavery. This conflict, in which not only all that is precious in the institutions of this country, but all that is dear to humanity is involved, has reached its crisis, and that crisis will last until after the 8th of November next. In this conflict, the traitors in arms, marshalled under Davis and Lee at the South, and the traitors and Copperheads, armed and unarmed, marshalled under McClellan and Vallandigham at the North, form one army. Alike, they seek the overthrow of the existing Government, for the reason that it is administered in the spirit of freedom, and not in the interest of slavery. Alike, they are animated by a feeling of malignant hostility and unconquerable rage against Abraham Lincoln, on account of his anti-slavery policy, and because he has made the abandonment of slavery, as well as a return to the Union, a condition of peace with the revolted States. Alike, they hold in contempt and abhorrence that part of the Creator's offspring known by the name of the "Negro Race," and would make it part and parcel of the fundamental laws of their new nation, that the hated race should be held in everlasting involuntary servitude. Alike, they would crush all freedom of speech, save when the faculty of speech is employed to vindicate the right of one man to enslave and imbrute another. Alike, they would resort to any means, however violent or bloody, to achieve their objects, when the attainment of them was delayed or opposed by legal or constitutional obstructions.
With this consolidated power-the Slave Power North and South-the friends of law and liberty, of free institutions and a republican form of government, have, during this crisis, to contend. It is a power formidable in its proportions, fierce in its temper, unscrupulous in the use of weapons, earnest, resolute and desperate-but not invincible.
The loyal and patriotic task of defeating and utterly vanquishing this terrible power is divided between the brave armies of the Union in the field of armed warfare at the South, and the Republican party in the field of Presidential politics at the North.
The troops that are fighting for the National cause against the armies of rebellion at the South have given assurance that their part of the work shall be well and triumphantly done; physical obstacles, however, may for awhile postpone its completion. Not so at the North. The day is irrevocably fixed, when the contending parties will be confronted, and the is sue be determined. That day draws near.
Six weeks only intervene between the present, and the time when the people will have to decide, by their votes for Presidential electors, upon which of the two contending parties they will confer the power of administering, for the next four years, the affairs of this Republic. Then it will be seen, whether the work of freedom, humanity and civilization, which has advanced so auspiciously during the last three years, shall be continued and consummated; or whether that which has been done shall be utterly undone, and the dominion of slavery, with its cruelties and barbarism, be reestablished. 
There is a course which may be taken, in this eventful crisis, which we have a confident belief would lead to a glorious victory, and which we are certain is the right and heaven approved one, what-ever may be the result. That course is, to make this Presidential contest one of principles-of principles of the highest political morality-principles precisely the opposites of those that have been avowed by the mis-styled Democracy of the country. Let there be set before the people what is true, and just, and right, divested of all qualifications and all compromise. Let the people be shown distinctly what may be gained, and what may be lost, by the use or the abuse of the right they are about to exercise. Let the people have placed before them, in the clearest light, the tremendous issues involved in the present political struggle. Let it be shown that the question to be resolved is not the question, merely, of the restoration of the territorial Union of those States; but of the principles upon which the Federal Government of the States shall hereafter rest. Let it be shown that the question will have to be decided, who shall be "the people" that shall form the future Union, and shall control the destinies of the Nation; whether the friends of liberty and equality, of free institutions and universal education; or those who constitute the most vicious and dangerous elements of Northern society, in combination with all that is degraded, brutal and despotic at the South.
“Men of thought! be up and stirring,
Night and day!
Sow the seed-withdraw the curtain-
Clear the way!
Men of action, aid and cheer them,
As ye may!
Lo! a cloud's about to vanish 
From the day;
Lo! the right's about to conquer-
Clear the way!
And a brazen wrong to crumble
Into clay!
Men of thought and men of action,
CLEAR THE WAY!"-G. T. 
SPEECH OF AN M. P.
At a banquet recently given by the Master Cutlers of Sheffield, England, speeches were made by Mr. J. A. Roebuck, the representative of the town, and Sir Frank Crossley, Bart., one of the members for the county. Mr. Roebuck, for the first time since the breaking out of the war, was silent on the subject of America. His parliamentary colleague, however, was not wholly forgetful of the topic. He thought that England, having entailed upon herself a debt of £890,000,000, through interference in the affairs of other countries, had acted wisely in abstaining from taking any part in the struggles which during the last few years had agitated Europe and America. He said:-
“If I refer to America, I must say that we cannot look upon what is going on there without the deepest sorrow and commiseration. I have visited both the Northern and the Southern States. When I went from the North to the South, I took with me my opinions in favor of the North; but I was told that it would be as much as my life was worth to express my sentiments on the question of slavery. When I got to the South, however, and sat down among the people there, I found that they did not wait for me to introduce the subject, but brought it up themselves. They asked me to compare their domestic institutions with those of my own country, and it I did not think the slaves on their plantations were better off than the laborers of England? Were they not better clothed and better cared for than the working classes here? My answer was, that if the working men of England would not work, they were not paid; but that when they worked, they were honestly paid for what they did. Slavery is the curse of the Southern States. Slavery is the sole cause of the war that has rent the Union asunder.  Nevertheless, good will, I believe, result from the present war, and all will come right, I think, in the end, though I am not sure that the North will be able to conquer the South. I trust to see the day when every American, black as well as white, will be paid for his labor. (Cheers.)"
This most have been rather a bitter pill for Mr. Roebuck to swallow.
<c04>
THE McCLELLAN MEETING.
The people who call themselves "the Democracy" of Boston and vicinity, held a meeting in Faneuil Hall last Saturday evening, to aid the election of George B. McClellan to the Presidency. Great exertions had been made to call together a large gathering, and it was large. The hall was densely crowded, and those who could not get in marched and countermarched in the vicinity, with banners, fireworks, music and shoutings, much to the inconvenience of the speakers and hearers within.
The President of the meeting was Mr. Joseph S. Fay, and the principal speaker was Judge Abbott, one of the delegates to the Chicago Convention. Those who wish to read the proceedings in full, can see extended reports in the Post and Journal. I propose here not to describe the meeting, but merely to touch upon some of its peculiarities.
The chairman of the Committee of Arrangements, who called the meeting to order, was Mr. Peter Harvey, the intimate friend and enthusiastic admirer of Daniel Webster, and, during most of his life, a strong opponent of the Democratic party.
Heading the long list of Vice Presidents was the name of Hon. Robert C. Winthrop, a name thoroughly in contrast with everything democratic, in both the senses of that word, and now brought into connection with the party so called, only through its favor to slavery and its hatred of anti-slavery.
Some resolutions prepared for the occasion were read by Col. Greene, Editor of the Post. The first censures President Lincoln and his Cabinet, the second praises General McClellan, the third heartily endorses the Chicago Convention, the fourth complains of "the present deplorable civil war," and the fifth rejoices in our victories in that war, and thanks the soldiers and sailors who are fighting in it.
It might seem to an ordinary understanding that there was some discrepancy between the fifth of these resolutions and the two preceding it. But the political party here in question is entirely independent of such considerations.  The eaders don't care for discrepancies, and the followers don’t perceive them. But the mass of absurdity contained in the fourth of these resolutions is so remarkable as to be worthy of special notice and comment. As printed in the Post, it is as follows:-
Resolved, "That the present deplorable civil war is fatal to the Union and the Constitution, and therefore it is the highest duty of the people to preserve their Government, and maintain its integrity in this contest, by all means in their power."
It would be bad enough to have merely no connection whatever between premise and conclusion, and to say, Because yellow and blue make green, therefore the sun rises, in the East and sets in the West. But the statement of two irrelevant true propositions as logically connected does not parallel the present case. To make a sentence fairly corresponding to that above quoted, which was read, and applauded, and voted, in the meeting and printed the next morning in the Post, one should say, Because blue and yellow make red, therefore the sun rises in the West and sets in the East.
Even this amount of absurdity does not fully parallel the Democratic resolution; for not only is it false that this war is fatal to either Union or Constitution -not only is it false that the highest duty of the people is to preserve their Government in this contest-not only are these two propositions, true or false, destitute of connection as premise and conclusion-but the plain meaning of the second proposition is diametrically opposed to the wish, and purpose, and action of the meeting which voted it. Instead of wishing to "preserve" the Government, which is now carrying on "this contest," the Democrats are seeking to overthrow and destroy it. Their vote upon the resolution, therefore, considering the course they are taking in regard to the existing Government, is as absurd as the resolution itself.
In the speeches, as in the resolutions, although strong devotion was declared to the Union, little or nothing was said against the rebellion. The Chicago platform was praised as all right, the letter of McClellan was praised as entirely satisfactory, and through all the proceedings of the meeting it was assumed, with an effrontery worthy of the leaders and the party, that there was no contrariety between the platform and the candidate. Just as he ignores the impossibility of riding two horses which go in opposite directions, just so they ignore the absurdity of accepting a war candidate on a peace platform. In this one particular, a common disregard of truth and consistency, the parties, it must be confessed, are well matched.
In some points this meeting bore a striking contrast to the gathering held in support of the Administration which had assembled in the same place a short time before. Very few ladies or women were present in the McClellan meeting. A strong force of police were early on the ground, as if in expectation that their services would be needed. And whereas, in the Republican meeting, a shout raised by opposers for McClellan was allowed to pass without interference, in the Democratic one, as soon as a man gave cheers for Abraham Lincoln, a furious howl was raised, the efforts of the speaker on the platform and of the Chairman to obtain silence were disregarded, the meeting roared " Put him out," and a tumult of groans and outcries was kept up for five minutes, until the dissenter was forced out of the old Cradle of Liberty.
There was great enthusiasm in the meeting from beginning to end. The chief manifestations of it were called out by the name of McClellan, which was always warmly applauded. Next after this, the strongest demonstrations of feeling came out, on the part of the audience, whenever the speakers expressed disapprobation of the drafting of soldiers, or contempt for the colored population of the country. The "Democracy," as here represented, were plainly a white man's party and a slaveholders' party, as well as a war-peace party.-C. K. W.
RESOLUTIONS OF INQUIRY. 
The Worcester Freedom Club, at its weekly meeting on Friday the 9th, adopted the following form of inquiry to the Hon. Secretary of State, Wm. H. Seward:-
1. Resolved, That the Worcester Freedom Club, watching with loyal and patriotic interest not only the course of events, but the utterances and doings of public men as they bear upon public affairs, respectfully asks of the Secretary of State the meaning of that passage in his Auburn speech of Sept. 3d, reported as follows, viz.:-
That when the insurgents shall have disbanded their armies, and laid down their arms, the war will instantly cease-and all the war measures then existing, including those which affect slavery, will cease also; and all the moral, economical and political questions, as well questions affecting slavery as others, which shall then be existing, between individuals, and States, and the Federal Government, whether they arose before the civil war began, or whether they grew out of it, will, by force of the Constitution, pass over to the arbitrament of courts of law, and to the councils of legislation." 
2. Resolved, That the Freedom Club anxiously asks if the country is to understand by this that Emancipation, being a war measure, will “instantly cease" with the closing of the war, and only those slaves be emancipated that shall actually have gained their freedom in the course of the war.
3. Resolved, That the entire nation addressed by the Secretary of State in his late Auburn speech upon the eve of the Presidential election, being deeply interested in the answer to this question, a definite and positive reply is justly due to the country, through the medium of the public press, in order that the people may know distinctly what is the policy they are called to vote for in voting for what the Secretary argues, viz., the reelection of the present incumbent of the Presidency.
The Editor of the Liberator has just returned from his recreative visit to Peterboro', Syracuse and Auburn, N. Y.,-a visit which he has enjoyed" to the brim,”-and will resume his editorial labors with the next number of his paper. 
<c05>
ENGLISH SENTIMENT ON THE AMERICAN QUESTION.
MANCHESTER, (Eng.) Aug. 27, 1864.
TO WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, Esq.,
Boston, Massachusetts, U. S. A.
MY DEAR SIR-I cannot refrain from writing you a few lines of sincere congratulation and earnest sympathy. Our esteemed mutual Our esteemed mutual friend, GEORGE THOMPSON, will be able to tell you that I have long been one of your ardent admirers and humble followers in the great cause of universal freedom. I have a vivid and most pleasant recollection of meeting you and the noble apostles of liberty, Frederick Douglass, Henry C. Wright and George Thompson, on the platform of the Free Trade Hall, Manchester, some eighteen years ago. You will remember the occasion, though you can have no recollection of me, or of writing your autograph for me on the fly-leaf of FREDERICK DOUG LASS'S NARRATIVE. From that day to this, the fervent and constant prayer of my heart has been-“God bless William Lloyd Garrison, the friend of the down-trodden and oppressed!"
Most intently and affectionately have I watched your career; noted your heroic labors and sacrifices; and exulted in all the noble triumphs and glorious conquests you have been privileged to realize, so far beyond any thing you could at one time have ventured to hope for, or even dream of as possible. Well may you look back, and look around, and say, "What hath God wrought!" Truly, the work is God's; but, as truly, you have been a devoted and faithful co-worker. And, verily, you have your reward, in the sublime and ecstatic consciousness of having been an honorable agent, not a mere blind instrument, of accomplishing great and beneficent results, fraught with incalculable good for all races and all coming ages. For, not alone is the poor slave benefitted when his chain is broken; the slave-master, and all who stand by as consenting on-lookers, (thereby involved in the guilt, suffering and degradation of wrong-doing,) are partakers of the benefits and blessings of EMANCIPATION.
I look upon you, therefore, as the world's benefactor; one of the true Prophets and Priests of Humanity; yea, one of the Universal Kings of Mankind, before whom all souls, loyal to truth, goodness and duty, do glad and willing homage.
But I did not take my pen up to indulge in any obtrusive personal reminiscence, or in mere expressions of gratulation. I rather wished to say a few words to you about the actual, pregnant, momentous situation of affairs in America.
As a British subject, I am conscious that I cannot legitimately intrude my opinions, or dogmatize on matters pertaining to the PARTY POLITICS of America. I have no right to say that Mr. Lincoln is, or is not, the most fit and proper man to be elected President. I am not in a position to judge in that matter; and any such expression, therefore, would be impertinent, if not offensive.
But as one deeply interested in all that deeply affects humanity; and as an Abolitionist, intently and most sympathetically alive to whatever seems to involve the progress, the triumph and consummation of the sacred cause of UNIVERSAL FREEDOM, I claim a right to form and express an opinion in the moral arena. And though the opinion of one but little known, and quite uninfluential, can have no weight or significance with you, I will venture to obtrude it, because I feel certain that my individual opinion is in harmony with the thoughts and sentiments, aspirations and convictions, of the great bulk of the people of England who have made themselves at all acquainted with the real facts and the true bearings of the great conflict-social, moral, political and military-now going on in America; a contest in which the people of the free States are so heroically shedding their best blood.
I am by nature and conviction opposed to all war, and hope to see the day when Christian nations will bind themselves to some more rational and manly method of settling their disputes. Still, I cannot but recognize that human governments, as constituted, must repel, and, if possible, overpower and subdue, armed and desperate Rebels who seek to destroy the Nation's life, by practically asserting the right of secession and territorial disintegration; and this, not in the direction of further liberty, or of any of her just objects, but for the hideous purpose of rivetting afresh the galling fetters that bind an enthralled race, and the extension of a system of chattel slavery, viler and more oppressive than the sun ever shone on-the stigma, curse and execration of civilization!
It was the Southern Slaveholders, headed by the leading politicians of the South, in their interest and confidence, who went to war against their own National Government with fiendish recklessness and idiotic folly. The Cabinet of Mr. Lincoln did not want war; did not devise war; but did every thing it could, compatible with honor and fidelity to sworn trust, to stave off and avert war.  Its great weakness was, that it did not really believe that the South earnestly intended war. It did not credit the ominous and infernal declarations of the slaveholding statesmen. And when Fort Sumter was fired upon and the national flag outraged, at that moment, and by that act, the national conscience-the sense of honor, dignity, duty, and all that makes life holy and noble-was fired. It needed not a proclamation from Mr. Lincoln to call men to arms. Mr. Lincoln rather erred in forbearance and hesitancy, and in proclaiming an inadequate sense of the danger and necessity, by calling for only seventy-five thousand volunteers for a brief term of enlistment. Had he called for twice the number, and enrolled them for the war, he might have evinced a profounder view of the crisis. The Southern leaders could not have done, under any circumstances, more than they have done. They have fought with the energy of desperation from the first moment, and they have performed prodigies of valor-I would say heroism, but their cause is so base and brutal, that nothing truly heroic can be predicated of it, without blasphemy against God and Humanity.
You will see from what I have said, that I throw the responsibility and guilt of the war-in its initiation and precipitation-on the Southern rebels. Impartial History-the voice of God recorded by man-must ever make the rebel leaders responsible for what they deliberately planned, and so recklessly carried into effect.
But there are those who hate slavery and love freedom, who yet say that the Federal Government and loyal people, who are wholly in the right, and the Confederates wholly in the wrong, ought to have given way, and allowed the South to secede! But these good people did not say that our Government ought to have allowed the mutineers of India to prevail, and go in peace; nor would they be willing to allow Ireland to secede, were the attempt again to be made. It is easy to bury other people's children, or to contemplate secession in another country. Every heart knows its own bitterness, and its own deep affections and loyal integrity. It seems to me that the principle of Secession, as a reserved State Right, is as false, pernicious and fatal as the doctrine of the right of murder and suicide; and no nation could exist were such a principle acknowledged and acted upon. I cannot see in your Constitution, or in the Declaration of Rights put forth by its founders, any grounds for the monstrous claims, or any pretext for the enormous crimes of Secessionists. The right of revolution-when a people are resolved and able to throw off an odious tyranny-we all admit; but no one can justify a revolution in favor of Slavery. And that Slavery was the great political and social abomination, for the conservation and extension of which the South sought to secede, no one can deny who knows any thing about the facts, and has any regard for truth and decency.
My sympathy must ever be with the cause, and those who support the cause, of Freedom. The issue at first opened between the Federal Government and loyal people on the one side, and the so-called Confederate States on the other side, was one of mere resistance to the extension of Slavery. It was a just is-
<c06>
sue, so far as it went, and so far as the North honestly accepted and adhered to it. It was seen by many that such an issue-if the contest was prolonged, and both sides were in earnest-must open up the entire question, eventually, and lead to the extirpation of slavery, root and branch, in all the States. As this became obvious and inevitable, the people of England-all whose opinions and sympathies are of real weight and worth-freely and cordially ranged themselves on the side of the Federal Government and loyal people of the North. None but those who prefer tyranny, however odious, to the triumph of popular government, when they know the facts and merits of the struggle, can and do take sides with the Southern Slaveholders' Confederacy. I have attended very numerous public meetings in our largest <illegible> and have always found the people ready to respond, with heart and hand, to the claims of the loyal and free citizens of the North, and to manifest their intense abhorrence of the revolt of the Southern traitors and rebels against your just and beneficent constitutional Government-a Government second to none in the world, except so far as it had tolerated slavery.
I hope you will continue to do your best to convince the people of America, that this is the real attitude of the people of England-whatever the London Times, Mr. J. A. Roebuck, or the Southern sympathizers who have invested in Confederate cotton loans and blockade-runners, may say to the country. These men can make a great noise and stir in the press; but they cannot, they dare not meet the defenders of Union and emancipation on the open public platform. They have their head-quarters here, but have never ventured to hold a public meeting in our great Free Trade Hall, that will hold 7000 people. One of their least scrupulous champions tired a lecture(admission by paid tickets) in our Mechanics' Institute; but he was so taken aback by the adverse feeling of his audience, that he did not repeat the experiment there. He made, however, another similar attempt in our Corn Exchange, but met with a still more decided rebuff; so that he had to content himself by selling a few copies of his lecture in print, instead of delivering it to those who had paid their money for admission to the Hall. This champion of disunion was the Rev. Joseph Barker, of whom you know something, and who had the audacity to denounce you, and those who are acting with you, as indels, and as wild, reckless men, who are causing all the evil that he and other equally good men so much deplore. Joseph soon after found that the cause of the South did not pay well enough to command his services and advocacy, and he has therefore goes back to one of his old religious circles, and is no more heard of in the arena of politics or secular questions. Love feasts, prayer meetings, and preachings, afford him a more congenial sphere of operation. No stronger proof could be given to those who know the antecedents of this singular man, that the Southern cause here is hopeless as a field for agitation, than that he so soon abandoned his missionary operations in behalf of the slaveholders' confederacy. No person of real worth or high character has yet come out before the public, in his own name, to advocate the cause of the South, out and out. Joseph Barker, J. A. Roebuck and James Spence are the most notable and conspicuous upholders of disunion the South have found. All that need be said of these men is, that their advocacy would not enhance any really good and noble cause in the estimation of those who best know them; whilst, on the other hand, the cause of the free North has been advocated without fee, or bribe, or hope of reward, by scores and hundreds of the noblest, purest, and most patriotic of our public men, including the foremost thinkers and workers in the cause of human progress and universal liberty. I need not mention to you the world-honored names of Richard Cobden, John Bright, and many others comprised in the Senatorial phalanx, who have nobly espoused the Federal cause. You are, also, familiar with the names of John Stuart Mill, Professors F. W. Newman, J. E. Cairnes, Goldwin Smith, and many others, whose pens and voices have most ably pleaded the cause of freedom and the North. But there are hundreds who are like-minded, who are constantly pleading the same cause, though in more restricted areas. I could, from memory, and off hand, write down the names of many scores known to myself, who are able and eloquent and entirely disinterested advocates of the cause of the North. I wish your people could know all this, or could be induced to believe it; they would then be the better able to bear with the vile taunts that are flung at them from the baser portion of our press, and those of our public men who have no love for liberty, except as it increases their power to uphold some unjust form of oppression or legalised robbery.
But I must conclude this already too extended communication, though I have not said several things I intended or wished to say when I commenced. I will try to write you again ere long.
In the mean time, I pray God to bless you, and prosper all the work you are engaged in for Truth, Justice and Freedom.
Believe me ever, most truly, your devoted friend,
THOS. H. BARKER.
[The writer of the above interesting, instructive and encouraging letter is an earnest friend of the cause of emancipation, and a warm defender of the anti-slavery policy of the present national administration. He is the able and efficient Secretary of the United Kingdom Alliance, a body organized for the purpose of promoting temperance, by giving to the people, in their several localities, the power of suppressing the traffic in intoxicating drinks. Mr. Barker is, also, one of the most active members of the Executive Committee of the Manchester Union and Emancipation Society For some years he has been the friend and correspondent of General Neal Dow, and has given a wide circulation in Great Britain to the letters sent by that gentleman from this country. It will be seen that Mr. Barker's views of the merits of the contest now agitating the United States are singularly clear and accurate. We have no doubt that his representation of the state of the public mind of England is equally correct, as few men possess better means of information, or are qualified to exercise a more impartial judgment. Mr. Barker may feel certain that any future communications will be gratefully welcomed by the Editor of the Liberator, who is now temporarily absent from his post.-G. T.]
The Boston Investigator, a journal which advocates the infidel opinions of which Mr. Joseph Barker was until recently the champion, speaks as follows of that gentleman, in its issue of the 14th instant:-
"The text which says, 'Lay not up for yourself treasures upon earth,' must have been understood by Joseph with the 'not' omitted, when he was in the church; for a more a more avaricious or miserly man we never knew, and he had not been long among the Infidels of this country before it was plainly enough seen that what he wanted was to make himself rich at their expense, rather than to advocate their cause. He is one of those men who, being in the market, and ready for a job that they deem profitable, will employ their talents on any question, no matter what. He is a proof that Infidelity cannot change natural propensities, and that when a man's god is the dollar, what is bred in the bone will show itself in the flesh.' Barker is a constitutional money-grub, on whom the appeals of reformers to say thing like self-sacrificing effort fall as cheerless <illegible> beams on a frozen fountain. A priestly adventurer on the simplicity of Infidels, he apparently sympathised with them as long as there was money to be made out of their them as long as there was money to be made out of their gullibility. But when this game was up, and his craft was seen through, he goes back into the church, from which we marvel that he ever came out. There let him abide, close by the golden candlesticks; for while his pious eye is fixed upon them, he will behold the shining treasure whose possession is the ninth and a good share of the tenth point of his religion.”
NOTICE. All pledges made to the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, prior to last May, are now payable; and, whenever made, their payment will be most helpful now. Any such, or any contribution, in aid of the Society, may be sent to ROBERT F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington St., Boston, for the Treasurer. 
Pledges to the American Anti-Slavery Society may also be paid as above.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
GERRIT SMITH ON McCLELLAN'S NOMINATION AND ACCEPTANCE.
I write these pages for the candid. Partizans would not hear me; they follow arty. Those only will hear me who follow truth; and who will still follow it at whatever expense to party.
The North is divided-fearfully divided. One portion holds that the North, and the other that the South, the only guilty party in this war. Which of them right is the, nay, the only question, be answered at the coming election. If the North is the party, then McClellan should be preferred. If the South, then Lincoln. I name them because every day makes it more evident that all votes will finally be concentrated on them. McClellan is the candidate of those who hold the North to be the guilty party, and, therefore, whatever exceptions some of them take to, all will feel to vote for him. So, too, all who hold that the South is the guilty party will feel it to be their duty to vote for Lincoln. Many of them would prefer to vote for Fremont, if may could thereby vote as effectively to defeat the candidate whose sympathies are with the South. But this they now see they cannot do. It is this wise that Fremont and Cochrane will themselves, notwithstanding their dislike of some of his measures, vote for Lincoln. They are too magnanimous to let personal considerations hinder them from voting for him; and they are too patriotic to withhold a vote which the salvation of the country calls for. May they hasten to inspire their friends with the like magnanimity and so, too, the influence of Wendell Phillips will be brought to the side of Lincoln, as he shall see that the man to be elected must be either Lincoln or a servant of the South. Strong as is his preference for Fremont, he will not let it work to the destruction of his country.
We need not go back of the Convention which nominated Lincoln, to learn that the Union Party lays blame of the war upon the South. Nor need we go back of the Convention which nominated McClellan to learn that the Democratic party lays all the blame of it on North. The proceedings of the Chicago Convention afford conclusive evidence that the party is identified with the Rebellion; is at nation-at peace with the enemies instead of the friends of the North. Nevertheless, it is not to be condemned but rather to be honored for this, provided the North is the guilty party in the war. I am not of those whose "Our country, right or wrong." It is only when she is right that I am with her. I can be loyal to the North so far only as she is loyal to justice, if I would, could I help her wherein she breaks with justice. A nation, like an individual, puts herself beyond the help in proportion as she the claims of truth righteousness.
Let me here say that McClellan, no more than any other member of the Democratic party, is necessarily worthy of condemnation for opposing the cause in which his country is embarked. Nay, if it is an unrighteous cause, then it is proper in him to stand forth against it-to stand forth s distinctly and emphatically s he does by accepting his nomination at the hands of the enemies of that cause.
I the question to be passed upon at the coming election is -Which is the guilty party in this war-the North or the South? It is admitted that the South took up arms to dismember our nation; and that the robbed it of moneys, forts, and portions of our little standing army. It is admitted, too, that it was only in reply to these outrages that we armed Hence, whilst the war on her part is offensive on ours it is but defensive. Notwithstanding this, the North may not be the innocent party; for may have oppressed and provoked the South beyond endurance. I am slow to admit that any Rebellion in a land where there is free access to the can be justified. Nevertheless, if it can be shown that it was because she was made to suffer intolerable oppressions that she flew to arms, I will not condemn her. Had she such oppressions to complain of?
It is said, more in Europe, however, than in our high Tariff was a burden upon the South. Never, however, had we a Tariff so nearly approaching Free Trade as when her States began to secede, the South could have had it as much lower is she pleased. What, however, if our Tariff were not a proper one? That, surely, would not be enough to justify Rebellion.
Had the South any right to call herself oppressed by the election of Lincoln? None at all. He was elected constitutionally. But he was against slavery! It is true he was: only moderately so, however. Several of the Presidents immediately preceding him were thoroughly for Slavery; and yet the North did not claim that she was oppressed by their election. <illegible> all did she claim that their election furnished around for Rebellion.
Was the South at liberty to regard herself oppressed, because so much was said at the North against Slavery! Certainly not. The Constitution provides for free speech. Moreover, the South as freely against our systems of labor as we did against her Slavery. She sneered at our "small-fisted farmers" and our "greasy mechanics" She stigmatized our noble laborers as "the mudsills of society." Then, too, the South helps send missionaries over the earth to against idolatries and other abominations; and thus is she stopped by her own acts from forbidding other to search and criticise herself.
Was the South oppressed by Northern legislation against Slavery? Never. The North was always willing to have the Supreme Court of the United States pass upon such legislation. When, however, the North sent Commissioners to the South to induce her to have the constitutionality of those laws, under which she was casting f into the pit of Slavery, passed upon by that Court, those Commissioners had to fly for their lives before the murderous onset made upon them.
But John Brown, and at other times other Northern went into the Southern States to help persons escape from Slavery! The North, however, was not responsible for this. She ever stood by Slavery, and helped the South tighten the chains of the slaves of John Brown and others with her slaves. Where these delivered on slave, her kidnappers made slaves of the Northern free men. But there was rejoicing at the North over the escape of Southern slaves! I admit it. So was there rejoicing at the South over the escape of Southern men from Algerine slavery. Such cannot be stopped; and all attempts of the South to stop them will be vain attempts to change human nature.
Was the South oppressed by the refusal of the Northern people to accede to a proposition of the Southern people, to have an amicable separation of the States, and an amicable division of the Territories and the national property? There was no proposition from the Southern people to the Northern people. There was a proposition from individuals, by the Southern people and it was made not to our people, but to our Government to a Government which, instead of being authorized to dismember our nation is sworn to preserve it, and which, situation, is sworn to keep it sacred and unbroken. The people of the were ready to meet the people of the South in a of Delegates. They were ready to make large concessions, in order to save from disruption the nation so dear to them. Entirely ready they were, I am sorry to believe, to indorse and consummate the remarkable action of in favor altering the to the advantage of slavery. In fine, they would have consented to almost any demand of the South, short of the sundering of the nation. This they would not consent to; and, because she knew they would not have the Convention. The sundering of nation was the one thing she was intent on; and else, all thing else, would she accept in as of it, to get this one thing, which she could not hope to get otherwise, she resorted to arms.
<c02>
Herein, and herein only, is the explanation of the out break of the Rebellion. Could she but have been brought to recede from her determination to set up a nation for herself and by herself, all other difficulties with the South might have been adjusted, It is in no degree necessary to my argument to explain why she then insisted, has ever since insisted, and never more strenuously than now, on this national independence. Nevertheless, as some, under whose eye this paper may fall might like to meet with the explanation, I will give it. The whole explanation of this pertinacity on the part of the South is to be found in the fact that she is determined to maintain slavery, and that she despairs of maintaining it unless she shall erect herself into a nation independent of every other nation. The South saw Slavery cast out of all Europe, and all American Slavery except her own to be tottering. She saw, too, that the North was every day becoming more enlightened in regard to Slavery, and therefore more hostile to it. Hence the great and absorbing question, with her was what she should do most effectually to insulate herself, and shutout those ever swelling floods of Anti-Slavery sentiment and Anti-Slavery influence which were constantly pouring in upon her. Her natural decision was to build up about herself the high, and, as she hoped, impervious walls of a new nationality. The North she regarded as already abolitionized. To remain, therefore, in connection with her was to allow herself to be abolitionized. Hence she broke off from the North. For what else would she have consented to break off from it, and to lose the incalculable advantage of being a part of this great nation?
In all this, which I have now referred to, and I know not that there is anything more of this bearing to refer to, has the South suffered intolerable oppressions? Nay, has she suffered any oppression? None whatever. In our national affairs she was generally allowed to have her own way. I admit that we wronged her; but never even in the slightest degree did we oppress her. And the only way in which she was ever wronged by us was our shameful indulgence of both her tyrannous spirit, and her greed of place and power. Surely, surely, then, the North is not to be accused of provoking the Rebellion. Surely, surely, then, the South is the guilty, and the only guilty party in the Rebellion. And surely, surely, then, the North cannot, without making herself very criminal and very base, vote for the candidate of those who hold the North, and not the South, to be the guilty party.
But it may be said that their candidate (Gen. McClellan) does not hold, in this respect, as they, do who nominated him. If he does not, then is he very unfortunate in being misrepresented by his friends, who put him forth as the representative of themselves, and who, it is fair to suppose, knew him thoroughly when they do so. Since the Northern men, who espouse the cause of the South, single out McClellan for their standard-bearer, it would be madness in us, who cleave to the cause of the North, to believe him to be with us, and to vote for him. If he is indeed a North-side man, nevertheless since they, who know him, have set him forth as a South-side one, he cannot complain of us for not voting for him. He can complain but of his friends who have misrepresented him, and whose misrepresentations justify us in withholding our vote from him.
But we are cited to McClellan's Letter of Acceptance. That it is a Letter of Acceptance is, of itself, to disentitle him to the vote of every loyal man. That he is the candidate of a Convention composed of the open enemies of that cause for which his country is pouring out her treasure and her blood-composed of those whose war is upon the North only-is surely reason enough why no intelligent friend of that cause can give him his vote. But we will look further into this Letter. I said that the North is divided between those who hold the North, and those who hold the South, to be the guilty party, On which side does McClellan's Letter place him? It spares the South, but it abounds in inculpations of the North. The indirect and unmanly way in which he makes, or rather insinuates, his charges against the was doubtless intended to render them more effective. It will, however, serve but to denote the lack of an open, brave and manly spirit in their author. He has nothing to say of the barbarity with which the South conducts the war-murdering fresh captives-or, if sparing them, sparing thousands to be tortured in spirit and body, thousands to be starved to death, and (worst fate of all!) thousands to in slavery. Nothing of all this does he say. But, in his characteristic cowardly, roundabout way, he accuses the North of the high crime of perverting the war. I grant that there have been a few instances in which Anti-Slavery zealots have shown their disposition to pervert it, and innumerable instances in which Pro-Slavery zealots have shown the like. Just here let me say that miserable men are all they who, when monsters are striking parricidal blows at the country, are incapable of making a single and square issue with those monsters, and are intent on mixing up with the one question of putting down these monsters conditions in behalf of or against Slavery, habeas corpus or something else. "Down with the Rebellion, come what will of it to any of our schemes or theories or interests!" is the voice of wisdom. Moreover, if Slavery or Anti-Slavery, this or that political party, this or that church, shall be found to stand in the way of putting it down, let them all be swept out of the way. Nothing is worth preserving, that stands in the way of putting down so unmitigated and unparalleled a wickedness as the Rebellion. When it shall have been put down will be time to decide, (and not till then will it be time so much as to consider it,) whether the safety of the nation shall call for the weakening or strengthening of Slavery, for its utter annihilation or for overspreading the whole land with it. In the meantime, use Slavery or Apprenticeship, or anything else, in whatever way you can use it most effectually to the crushing of the Rebellion; and let all heads, all hearts, and all hands find their one thought, one feeling, and one work to that end.
I admitted that there were instances of a disposition to pervert the war. But by far the most signal of all the instances of the actual perverting of the war, and of perverting it even to the direct help of the rebels, is that of McClellan himself. He it was who began his mediating military career-his half-one-way and half-the-other way Generalship-with a proclamation of safety to the foe at that very point where the foe was most vulnerable and most alarmed. He it was who assured the slaveholders that he would guard their homes, their wives and children from servile insurrection, and who thereby left them free to go forth to swell rebellion's battling hosts. And now for him whose duty, instead of ministering peace and security to the enemy, was to leave him appalled and paralyzed with every possible terror-and now for him, I say, to throw out, in his cowardly way, his utterly false charge that the Government has perverted the war, is enough to make the soul of every honest man boil over with indignation. Very far am I from saying that McClellan should have favored servile insurrection But I do say, that he should have left the slaveholders to all their fears from their slaves, and to all that occupation of their thoughts and time which those fears called for. I add, that his relieving them of those fears and of that occupation was treason to his country-was even literal treason-for it was "adhering to her enemies, giving them aid and comfort"
[Remainder in our next number.]
DR. HEBBARD'S LECTURES. The special attention of our readers in Boston and vicinity is called to the advertisement of Dr. HEBBARD, in another column, in which announces a course of ten lectures, to be given at the Tremont Temple, commencing on Monday evening next, Sept. 26, on PHYSICAL EDUCATION-applied to mental and moral improvement, and splendidly illustrated with a cabinet of Manikins and Models, costing over $l5,000. These lectures have been delivered in various parts of the United States with great success and to universal acceptance.
<c03>
LETTER FROM HENRY C. WRIGHT.
LAKE ST. MARY, Sept. 11,1864.
W. L. GARRISONMY FRIEND,-I am once more in the cottage-home of Henry Willis, on the shore of one of the most beautiful lakes I ever saw. It is indeed a gem of purest water on the bosom of Michigan. It is four miles from the city of Battle Creek, one of the most flourishing inland young cities of the West, on the right and left banks of the Kalamazoo river. Through the influence of Henry Willis, the Merritt family parents and children-and many others, this has been the home of radical abolitionism, of reverence for human rights, and of sympathy for the most oppressed and outcast of all the sons and daughters of God the negro-the American slave. Now, of course, in this hour of peril to freedom and free institutions, the city of Battle Creek, with its environs, is the home of loyalty to liberty, and to the Administration in its efforts to crush the rebellion and restore the Union in its integrity, without slavery.
I came here last week from Sturgis, Cold Water and Union City, having lectured in those places on the Chicago Platform, and the Relations of the Peace Democracy to Slavery and the Rebellion. Yesterday, the 10th, I spoke to a large crowd gathered in the streets, and again, in the afternoon, from the balcony of the Battle Creek Hotel. In the evening, I spoke to a still larger crowd from the same place on the Chicago Platform, and the pro-slavery, treasonable and murderous antecedents of Rynders, Wood, Seymour, Vallandigham & Co., who framed and adopted that platform, and called and managed the Convention that nominated McClellan for the Presidency of the United States. This forenoon, I lectured again in the city, then came home with Henry Willis to spend a night, and rest for twenty-four hours, to bathe in the pure waters of St. Mary's Lake, and to breathe the fresh, clear air that ripples its pure surface, and waves the tops of the forest oaks that encircle it. Tomorrow evening, I lecture in Harmonia; then go on ray way to the region of Detroit, to lecture on the Democratic Platform and Party, in their relations to slavery and the rebellion.
By the way, there was one feature of the Convention of traitors in Chicago which I forgot to name in the account I sent you. August Belmont, the agent and partner of the European banking house of the Rothschilds, was the recognized leader and manager of that Convention. It was his money that brought a thousand New York and Philadelphia ruffians to Chicago, headed by Isaiah Rynders, to howl and hoot down all opposition to McClellan. His wealth bought up McClellan by furnishing him a princely establishment in New York. His wealth furnished the means for the torchlight procession and fireworks, all of which were imported from New York. August Belmont brought together and shaped all the doings and conclusions of that Convention. At one hotel, seventeen hundred persons dined, the day the platform was adopted, at two dollars each, at his expense. He was fierce in his denunciations of the war and the emancipation policy of the Administration. He insisted that the rebels could not and ought not to be coerced into subjection to the Constitution and laws; that the only just and safe way to restore the Union was for the North to concede all the slave-mongers demand; to offer them an armistice, and propose to them that, if they will return to their allegiance, the Federal Government will assume and pay their war debt. I give you these facts as they were stated and believed by all parties during the progress of that Convention.
What was the motive that prompted Belmont to spend one hundred thousand dollars on that Convention? The European banking house of which he is the great agent and partner in this nation have in. vested, as all parties asserted, about one hundred millions of dollars in Confederate stocks. If the rebellion is crushed by military power, every dollar of this investment is gone forever. If the rebels can be brought back by an armistice, and by concessions on the part of the North, and an offer to assume and pay their war debt, the investment of the Rothschilds is secure. Hence not one word was uttered by that Convention, in its speeches or resolutions, in favor of coercing the rebels into subjection to the laws and Constitution, but every thing was said and done to favor a restoration of the Union by compromise, and by offering to pay their war debt.
Thus, simply and solely to secure to the house of the Rothschilds the money furnished by them to the rebels, to aid them to destroy the Republic and found a slave empire on its ruins, that Chicago Convention was governed in its conclusions. The only definite point of the platform is hostility to the war and emancipation policy of Lincoln. This was the one and only definite point made in all their speeches. August Belmont, to secure the payment of the debt due from the rebels to the house of Rothschilds, dictated the platform and the nominee of the Democratic party, and the letter of acceptance of McClellan. Why did Belmont rave and swear like a fiend over the fall of Fort Morgan and Atlanta? Why is it that the Democratic partisans have not one word of cheer over news of success to Federal arms? Not a salute is fired nor a cheer given by them over the victories of Farragut, Sherman and Grant.
The policy of the Peace Democracy is shaped solely with a view to secure to the Rothschilds the funds they have invested in Confederate loans. Must the people of the North pay the debt contracted by the slave-mongering traitors, South and North, to get means to murder our sons and brothers, and abolish freedom and free institutions? This they must do, so sure as Belmont and his Peace Democracy get possession of the Federal Administration. Pause, laboring men of the North, and, before you vote for McClellan, ask yourselves whether you are willing to pay the house of Rothschilds for furnishing the slave-breeding pirates with the means to cut your throats!
"Down with Lincoln, by ballots if we can, by bullets if we must!" "Resist the draft by arms and blood!" "Disband the army!" "The rebellion cannot and ought not to be crushed by military power!" "No coercion to subjugate the South to the Constitution!" "Restore the Union by yielding to the South what they demand!" "Restore the Union by compromise, by armistice, and by-a Convention of the States!" Such were and are the mottoes and watchwords of the Chicago Convention and of the Peace Democracy. They call on the North now, in the midst of victory and final triumph over the rebellion and slavery, to throw down their arms, and sue to the slave-breeding traitors for peace, and to call them back into the Union by offering to pay their war debt! And all this that August Belmont and his partners in guilt and infamy may get back the money which they have advanced to the rebels to fit out piratical ships to pray on our commerce, and armies to blot out the United States from the map of the world!
This bloody civil, war was begun solely because the Democratic party, in 1860, would not yield to the rule of the majority. Abraham Lincoln was elected by a constitutional majority, given in the exercise of a free ballot. That the majority shall rule is the basis of all Democratic or Republican institutions. Against this principle the Democratic party rebelled in and resorted to civil war to establish the rate of the minority, and to subjugate the majority to the minority. What has filled the nation with widows and orphans? The Democratic party refused to submit to the decision of a free ballot, which gave a majority for Lincoln and Liberty. What has sent anguish to the hearts of so many mothers and desolation to so many homes? The Democratic party would not submit to the rule of the majority, and resorted to arms, to plunder and murder, to compel the majority to the minority.
This Democratic war against the fundamental principle of Democratic government might be ended in triumph to freedom and free labor before Jan. 1st, 1865, simply by giving to the emancipation and war policy of the Administration an overwhelming majority in November. On the triumph of the Peace
<c04>
Democracy hangs the last and only s of the rebels and their European allies. Peace, in the months of Democrats, means the absolute and hopeless subjugation of freedom to slavery, of free labor to slave labor, of free society and free institutions to slave society and slave institutions, over the nation and the continent.
It is computed that fifty or seventy-five thousand aliens and rebels from the South will be present in Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan and Iowa, to aid in defeating Lincoln at the ballot in November. I have no doubt, from what I have seen and known, that here will be more, unless the Union loyal party take prompt measures to protect the ballot from the votes of traitors and aliens. Tens of thousands who have refused to take out certificates of citizenship to avoid the draft, are determined to vote; and the "Democratic party is pledged to secure to them the right to vote, or "to have a free fight."
Dear Garrison-In every place I visit, the entire community seems impressed with a foreboding of an impending terrible calamity. Well they may; for so surely as the Peace Democracy triumph on the 8th of November, and elect McClellan, so surely will the American Republic fall to rise no more, and a slave empire be reared upon its ruins; so surely will the reed slaves and the negro soldiers be returned to slavery; so surely will Maryland, Missouri, Tennessee, Arkansas, Louisiana, and Virginia West be consigned to the hell and horrors of slavery, if by arms and blood the Peace Democracy can effect this object. Compel every man and woman to show where they stand-whether for the Republic or the Confederacy, for Freedom or Slavery, for Jesus or for Barabbas. "He that fs not for me is against me." No neutrality! So says Jesus.
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
LETTER FROM FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, ESQ.:
DEAR SIR,-You were pleased to remark in the last number of the Liberator, (heading it with Douglass on President Lincoln,") that the secesionist newspapers in Great Britain are publishing with exultation a letter recently addressed by Mr. Douglass to an English correspondent; and you further favor your readers with an extract from the same letter, which criticises in plain terms the policy of the present Administration towards the colored people of the country.
I am sure you will allow me space in the columns of the Liberator, (not to qualify, not to take back any charge, statement, or argument contained in that letter, not even to find fault with its publication here or elsewhere-though it was flung off in haste, and was not written for publication, but for the eyes of the esteemed friend to whom it was addressed,) to remove an inference respecting my present political course, which may possibly  will probably be drawn from the extract in question.
In the first place, it is proper to state that that letter was not written recently as you mistakenly allege, but three months ago, and was in no wise intended to be used against the present Administration in the canvass and issues as now made up between the great parties, and especially by the disloyal and slavery perpetuating nominations placed before the country by the Chicago convention. Since the date of those nominations, we are met by a new state, of facts, and new considerations have arisen to guide and control the political action of all those who are animated by a sincere desire to see justice, liberty, and peace permanently established in this rebellion and slavery cursed land. While there was, or seemed to be, the slightest possibility of securing the nomination and election of a man to the Presidency of more decided anti-slavery convictions and a firmer faith in the immediate necessity and practicability of justice and equality for all men, than have been exhibited in the policy of the present Administration, I, like many other radical men, freely criticised, in private and in public, the actions and the utterances of Mr. Lincoln, and withheld from him my support. That possibility is now no longer conceivable; it is now plain that this country is to be governed or misgoverned during the next four years, either by the Republican party represented in the person of Abraham Lincoln, or by the (miscalled) Democratic party, represented by George B. McClellan. With this alternative clearly before us, all hesitation ought to cease, and every man who wishes well to the slave and to the country should at once rally with all the warmth and earnestness of his nature to the support of Abraham Lincoln and Andrew Johnson, and to the utter defeat and political annihilation of McClellan and Pendleton; for the election of the latter, with their known antecedents, declared sentiments, and the policy avowed in the Chicago platform, would be the heaviest calamity of all these years of war and blood, since it would upon the instant sacrifice and wantonly cast away everything valuable, purchased so dearly by the precious blood of our brave sons and brothers on the battle-field for the perfect liberty and permanent peace of a common country.
Let me say one other word. I would never give intentionally the slightest joy to the enemies of human liberty. My rule is to do that least that they like most, and that most that they like least. But nothing strange has happened to me in the said exultation over my words by the secessionist newspapers in Great Britain or elsewhere. The common example of those who do not go at all, playing off those who go farthest against those who go, but do not go fast and far enough, is but repeated in this exultation; and if I mistake not, in other days, there were often utterances of the Liberator itself, both on the eve and in the middle of Presidential campaigns, which caused even greater exultation among the known enemies of liberty against timid, short-sighted and trimming anti-slavery men in the high places of the country, than anything I ever wrote concerning Mr. Lincoln and his Administration could produce. 
Yours for freedom and the equal rights of all men,
FREDERICK DOUGLASS. ROCHESTER, N. Y., Sept. 17, 1864.
THE FREEDMEN IN LOUISIANA.
NEW ORLEANS, (LA Sept 6th, 1864.
MY DEAR MR. GARRISON-I enclose for your perusal a brief account of our work, in the "Board of Education," created under "Order 38," issued by Major General Banks.
Many of our friends at the North seem to be "possessed" by some spirit of hostility to whatever we do in this Department, that disqualifies them for any just judgment in the case. They seem to be moved by the spirit of the Staff of your good Governor Andrew, who once said, in my hearing, that "he would not approve anything General Banks did, if he knew it was right."
Too busy for defence, and too much in earnest to recriminate, we can wait until our labors result, and then send you-as I do now-the irresistible figures.
So much is sure: there is not in history a record of any disenthralled race or, people who have taken steps so strong, so rapid, and to places of such power and permanence, as those of the people of color in the Department of the Gulf, under the wise and steady administration of Major General Banks.
If there is any point of salient "Restoration" or "Reconstruction," which includes the colored man visible in the ruin of this Rebellion, it has been forced up from this "Delta" by the rule of the Commanding General of the Department.
The whole system which has organized the social chaos-has evolved labor and health from the widespread indolence, license, and disease of a society-is the work of the General.
If there are in the system any deliberate inhumanities, any disregard or oppression of the colored man because he is colored, they are more my fault than the fault of the General; for having confidence in my life-time Anti-Slavery, and my real regard for the colored man as a character, General Banks has never
<c05>
issued an "Order," since I have been here-nearly two years-that was to affect the social or political status of the negro, without consulting me.
That abuses exist is possible, probably inevitable, in a society torn from civil anchorage by, and drifting in every stage of wreck. But such abuses do not spring from the system of General Banks for the labor and education of the colored man, but they exist because we have not yet been able to extend its beneficence to all.
It is a singular thing that our friends forget that the principal Parishes of Louisiana were exempted from the effect of the Proclamation of Emancipation. Slavery had all its old prestige advanced by that very exemption
We were met by slaveholders with the law and the gospel; by the inveterate habits of the people; by officers hostile to the negro and his freedom; by lukewarm friends; by the cupidity of commerce; by the hatred of race and contempt for "condition;" by the timidity of the Government; by Phillips, with Ithuriel's spear, and Pillsbury, with Thor's hammer; by the want of money, and of men to labor;-and yet we have succeeded, and we shall succeed.
In the old days of Anti-Slavery, we used to say that the testimony of the colored man was the test against the system. His testimony should be as conclusive now, on the other side. It is unanimous here, except among a class of colored people who, with all their admirable qualities, have not yet forgotten that they were, themselves, slaveholders, and who have not attained to all the graces and the wisdom of Freedom.
If our friend Wendell Phillips would go with me over this "Delta," where everything is as formative the soil beneath our feet-meeting at every turn the tremendous "facts" of the time and place-we should hear no more from him of " Serfdom," and "changes" of the London Times. About a week thereafter, his Dorian periods would round to our praise, and his classic habit might be once more allied to justice. We'll wait and work.
Affectionately yours,
B. RUSH PLUMLY.
The gratifying Educational Expose referred by Major Plumly we shall publish next week.]
LETTER FROM A NOBLE WOMAN.
HUNTLY LODGE, EDINBURSH, Sept. 1, 1864.
MY DEAR FRIEND,-It has greatly surprised and grieved me to see that some of your old friends and allies have so far forgotten one of the leading principles of the Anti-Slavery movement-the freedom of thought and speech-as to withdraw their support from the Liberator, and even utter words of harshness and intolerance towards yourself,-for no other reason than that you have exercised the right of forming and giving expression to your own opinion on the question, Who is the fittest man to fill the Presidential chair?
Though the fact, that the South is in violent opposition to Mr. Lincoln, and the copperhead journals of the North loud in praise and support of Mr. Fremont, is, to my mind, a somewhat speaking one, I feel that it is not for me to venture an opinion on a question so vast and so complicated; especially seeing that some of the truest and best friends of the slave have come to conclusions so widely different on the subject.
But I am puzzled to discover on what rational ground the Anti-Slavery integrity, either of yourself or of our excellent friend, Wendell Phillips, is to be measured by your allegiance to the one, or your rejection of the other. Surely, you have each given proof most abundant by your labors and sacrifices on behalf of the slave, that, in taking whichever view you might, you could only be actuated by the one motive which has all along been your guiding star-the aim to obtain and secure equal rights and liberties to the black man as to the white; and that if in error, he error must be in judgment, not in principle.
When, however, so far from thus judging of the course you have seen it right to take in the present crisis, you are accused of having abandoned the cause of the slave, some of us, who have been readers of the Liberator for the last eight and twenty years, and who have watched, with increasing admiration, the utter forgetfulness of self with which you have ever remembered those in bonds as bound with them, till we have come to look upon you as the greatest of living moral heroes, must be allowed to regard charges like these-coming from old adherents-as simply absurd; indicative merely of some great and not very desirable change in the temper of their own minds.
But it does give me deep pain and anxiety to learn, that a grave probability exists that the glorious " pioneer sheet" may have to be discontinued, in consequence of the falling off of subscribers, and the increased expenses attendant on its maintenance.
In of my longing desire-that such may never be the case until the grand result it has done so much so bring about may be fully accomplished-the song of freedom to every man, woman and child be heard throughout the whole of your once United States-I enclose a draft for £10 sterling on Messrs. Brown, Brothers & Co., Boston.
Always sincerely and affectionately, Your friend,
ELIZABETH P. NICHOL.
A GREAT AND TELLING VICTORY! HARPER'S FERRY, Va., Sept. 20-11.40 A. M. Hon E. M. Stanton:
I have just received the following official dispatch from Gen. Sheridan, dated at 1 o'clock this morning:
General: We fought Early from daylight until between 6 and 7 P. M. We drove him from Creek, through Winchester, and beyond the town. We captured from 2500 to 3000 prisoners, five pieces artillery, nine battle-flags, and all the rebel wounded and dead. Their wounded in Winchester amounts to 6000. We lost in killed Gen. David Russell, commanding division in Sixth army corps; wounded, Generals Chapman, Mclntosh and Upton.
The rebels lost in killed the following General officers: Gen. Rhodes, Gen. Wharton, Gen. Gordon and Gen. Ramseur
We have just sent them flying through Winchester. We are after them tomorrow.
This army behaved splendidly.
I am sending forward all medical supplies, subsistence stores and all ambulances.
(Signed) JOHN D. STEVENSON, Brig. Gen.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 20. By order of the Secretary of War, a salute of one hundred guns was fired from Franklin Square at noon to-day, in honor of Gen. Sheridan's great victory.
Gen. Grant has ordered the army under his command to fire a salute of 100 guns at 7 o'clock to-morrow morning, in honor of Sheridan's great victory.
A dispatch just received from Gen. Sherman at Atlanta says "Everything continues well with us." 
SHOCKING ACCIDENT ON THE SOUTH SHORE Last evening as the six o'clock evening train from Boston to Cohasset was going with considerable speed between West and Hingham, the centre passenger car of the train broke from its shackles, and tumbling down a slight embankment, over on its side. The passengers experienced a heavy shock, and were thrown about in a promiscuous manner.
It was feared at first that many had been seriously injured; but upon inspection it was found that though some inside the car had sustained slight bruises, no one was dangerously hurt.
We grieve to learn, however, that John Q. Thaxter, Esq. a well known broker doing business in this city, who was standing on the platform at the time, fell underneath the car and was crushed to death. He was so deeply imbedded in the earth, that his body was recovered by digging away the soil that covered it. The car must have struck him with terrible force, as his legs were broken, and he survived the accident only a few minutes.
No blame is attributed to the road for the disaster. The only reason that can be ascribed is that one of the car wheels became loosened. The broke from the train in a most surprising: and singular manner. The track was found, upon examination, to be firm and sound. The other care of the train, in front and in the rear, passed on uninjured, but were all unshackled.
Mr. Thaxter was about thirty years of age, and unmarried. He had resided many years in Hingham, where he was widely known and universally esteemed. He was a member of the Board of Brokers in this city, which body, upon being informed of his death, without transacting any business, adjourned. Traveller of Tuesday.
<c06>
PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURESAT MUSIC HALL.
OPENING ADDRESS BY GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS, ESQ.,
On TUESDAY EVENING, Oct11, 1864. 
To be followed on successive Tuesday Evenings by
Oct. 18-OCTAV1US B. FROTHINGHAM.
Oct. 25-ANNA E.DICKINSON.
Nov. 1-OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.
Nov. 15 DAVID A.WASSON.
Nov. 22-To be announced.
Nov. 29CHARLES G. AMES.
Dec. 6-WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
Dec. 13-JACOB M. MANNING.
20-HENRY WARD BEECHER.
ORGAN CONCERT each Evening at 7 o'clock.
W. EUGENE THAYER, Organist.
Tickets admitting the bearer and Ladyto the Course, at $3 each.
Tickets admitting one person to the Course, at $2 each
Checks for SEATS TILL 7 1-2 O'CLOCK, $ additional for each seat.
For sale at Oliver Ditson Co's, 277 Washington street; John C. Haynes & Co's, 33 Court street, John S. Rogers's, 1071 Washington street, and at the Anti-Slavery Office.
Cheeks for Reserved Seats for sale only at Oliver Ditson Co's, and at John S. Rogers's.
Only an average quality of seats will be reserved, (the east section of the hall,) leaving the same quality of seats (the west section) for those who do not purchase reserved checks. Sept. 16.
Amusing Scientific and Instructive Illustrated.
LECTURES 
ON
PHYSICAL EDUCATION,
Applied to mental and moral improvement, SPLNNDIDLY ILLUSTRATED with a cabinet of Manikins and Models, costing over $15,000. 
BY DR. W. WALLACE HEBBARD.
LECTURE ON MONDAY EVENING, SEPT. 26,
AT TREMONT TEMPLE.
Introductory to the General Course.
LECTURE 2d, Sept. 27.
On the Skin and Hair, Causes and Cure of their Diseases, Preservation of the Hair, Bathing, Dress, &c.
LECTURE 3d, Sept. 28.
On the Bones and Muscles, Causes and Cure of weakness, stiff joints, laziness, general , &c.
LECTURE 4th, Sept 29.
On the Digestive Organs, Month, Throat, Stomach and Liver, and Causes and Cure of heir diseases, &c.
LECTURE 5th, Sept. 30.
On Animal Heat, Nutrition, Influence of Diet on health, strength, long life, &c.
LECTURE 6th, Oct. 1.
On the Heart, Causes and Cares of its Diseases, Circulation of the Blood, &c.
LECTURE 7th, Oct. 3.
On the Lungs, Causes and Cure of Weak, Lungs, &ct Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Ventilation, &c.
LECTURE 8th, Oct. 4.
On the Brain and Nerves, Causes and Cure of Nervous Diseases, Influence of Education on Health, Long Life, &c.
LECTURE 9th, Oct. 5.
On the Organs of the Sense, Eye, Ear, Nose and their Diseases, Causes and Cure of Catarrh, &c
LECTURE 10th, Oct. 6.
On the Temperaments, Character, Beauty of Expression and its Cultivation, Influence of Sunlight on Health, &c.
EXTRA LECTURES.
LECTURE 11th, Oct. 7.
To Ladies only-On Women and her Diseases, Causes and Cure-splendidly illustrated.
LECTURE 12th, Oct. 8.
To Gentlemen only-On the Origin of Life, and the Laws of Hereditary Descent-" Like Father like Child.''
LECTURE 13th, Oct. 10.
To Ladies only-On Maternity, and the influence of Mothers on the character of their Children. 
LECTURE 14th, Oct. 11.
To Gentlemen only-On Manhood, and the causes and means of preventing premature decline, &c.
Course Tickets at $1.25-Single admission 15 cents-may be had at the door, and at Bookstores. 27
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-LutherClark, M. D.; David , M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
COLLECTIONS BY E. H. HEYWOOD.
Abington, 70c; South Abington, H. H. Brigham, $1 30; East Princeton, 2 67; Upton, 56c; West Wrentham, F. M. e, 1, others, 3.57-4 57.
MARRIED-In Auburn, N. Y., on Wednesday evening, Sept. 14th, at the home of the bride, by Rev. Samuel J. May, of Syracuse, WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, Jr., of Boston, to ELLEN, daughter of David and Martha C. Wright.
At Kanon Steuben Co, N. Y., on the 7th last., by the Rev. Mr. Coolboy, Mr. STEPHEN K. BARTON, of Philmont, N. Y., to Miss MABY E. NEALLY, of the former place.
DIED-In Chelsea, Sept. 18, ARTHUR BROWN, son of J. M. W. and S. E. Yerrinton, 11 months.

Young Ladies' Boarding-School
DIO LEWIS, A. M., M. D., will open a Boarding School at Lexington, Mass., on the first day of October, 1864
ISAAC N. CARLETON, A. M., for several years teacher of Latin, Greek and Mathematics in Academy, Mass., will be the Resident Principal, and will devote himself wholly to the work of instruction. Mrs. CARLETON, a tried and successful teacher, will instruct in French.
MR. THEODORE D. WELD, for many years Principal of the Eagleswood School in New Jersey, will have charge of an important department.
In all the approved features of the best schools nothing will be wanting, while it is Dr. special aim to illustrate the possibilities in the department of physical training.
Parents having daughters of delicate constitutions to educate are invited to send to Dr. DIO, Lexington, for a Circular.
Lexington, Sept. 8.
MISS H. M. PARKHURST'S
BOARDING AND DAY SCHOOL
FOR YOUNG LADIES,
NEWBURG, N Y.
The Fall Term will commence on Wednesday, Sept. 21. Aug. 26-2w
MR. AND MRS. D. MACK'S
Family Boarding-School for Young Ladies, AT ORCHARD HILL, BELMONT, MASS.
THE School will commence the last Monday of September.
Circulars and references when requested.
July 8. 3m
A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW, OTTAWA, La Salle Co., <illegible> 
Special attention given to securing and collecting claims for Eastern Merchants.
References:
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Boston.
A. L. PAINE, Esq., Suffolk Bank,
FARWELL, FIELD & Co., Chicago, 
STEVENS & BARNUM, Washington, D. C.
Sep. 12.
LL interested in Phonographic Shorthand should send for the PHONOGRAPHIC VISITOR, No. 4, Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 now ready, 23 cents.
Address ANDREW J, GRAHAM,
491, Broadway, New York.
June 24. Dec.1.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
THE TWO SLAVES.
BY AUGUSTA COOPER KIMBALL.
I knew a man who thought that he was free:
No law controlled him save the statutes clasped
In the mysterious volume of the mind-
His soul the page, and God the Publisher.
His love was like a river, (so he said,)
Finding its meadow-place of endless green.
Wherein to flow;-not pumped or forced to run,
Or turned into a special bounded course;
Affection's law was spontaneity.
He knew no fear. The demands of the soul
Were the commands of God. I reverenced him, 
For Freedom was to me the electric word 
That flashed my being into purer life;-
The Queen of Principles, whose angel guard
Were Love and Purity. And so I felt
A sense of worship; for it seemed to me 
The man in the grand freedom of his soul 
Had grown a deity, or towered up,
And linked hands with the Infinite.
I know not how it happened. I am sure 
I did not play the part of Vivian, 
To tease a secret from him, or beguile
His spirit with the witching charm of love.
It matters not. One day I found myself 
Before the palace of his soul, with keys 
To open every secret corridor, 
Or Blue-Beard room. I timidly advanced, 
With an excess of reverence, through the gates 
Of polished beauty, and the vestibule
Of crystal whiteness, to the inner room
Where dwelt the guardian spirits of the place. 
Heaven witness! Like Fatima, faint I stood,
Appalled at what I saw. From the great height
Of worship I fell down, and angels sure
Bore me up softly, with a pitying love 
For my sad disappointment and my fall.
I looked for Freedom,-for the palace Queen,-
And found her. O'er her radiant brow was fixed 
The regal coronet, and her clear eye
Had the unflinching glance of valor. But 
God gave me tears when I beheld the gyves
And manacles she wore, perverting and
Deforming half her beauty. Some rude fiend, 
With restless eye that flamed with hungry fire, 
Was riveting her fetters; and I shrank 
To read the letters on his low, red brow, 
Spelling this one word,- "Lust." 
I looked for Love,
The sweetener of all life, hoping to find 
A glowing health upon her lip and cheek, 
And in her eye the sacred light of trust.
But when I found her, she threw out at me 
The quick glance of suspicion, and her hand
Held up a glittering blade in poison dipped, 
With which she pierced herself. Poor maniac!
I turned away, yet not till I had learned 
That the' graved name upon the dagger's hilt
Was "Jealousy." 
I looked for Purity, 
With anxious, hopeful glance; and when I saw 
Her tearful eyes were always fixed on Heaven,
I half forgot that her transparent robe 
Was trailing in the dust. Her pearly skin
Shone with a glossy whiteness, only here
And there a drop fell on her as of blood, 
Burning and eating to a cankering sore. 
And then I saw that over all her form 
A crimson hand shook those corroding drops,
And on the wrist, in characters of fire, 
Was "Selfishness"-the owner's autograph.
I searched no further for celestial guards, 
Nor dared explore the winding passages 
Within that spirit palace. Darkened beams
From the great sun of Truth came struggling in 
Through the thick dust of Error, and I longed
To sweep away the cobweb and the filth,
So that the one true light might glad the place. 
But tearful I turned back, and sadly passed
Out from the entrance gate; then waking up 
As from a dreamy trance, I stood beside 
The man whose life was free, and touched his arm 
Softly, with pity melting through my eyes, 
Saying, “Poor slave! the abuse of Freedom binds 
With self-wrought fetters the intemperate soul."
Then I went thoughtful on my weary way, 
While he, as if I were a weak, strange thing,
Looked after me, half curious and surprised,
With the same smile he would have given a child. 
I tarried in the South-land's sultry clime, 
Where light is married to vitality
To generate the glowing tropic flowers. 
A hidden life in the magnolia leaves
Exhaled a breath of balm, and the light winds 
In perfumed gales sought out the cotton fields, 
To whisper in the patient bondman's ear 
A hint of freedom. Every day I passed 
In my accustomed walk a toiling slave,
Who, to his master's wish obedient,
Picked at the downy produce of the field,
From early down till night. At last he grew
To know me as I passed; would raise his head,
And nod a recognition, with a smile
Upon his swarthy features, and a light
Lying deep down in his dark lustrous eyes, 
Betraying secrets of an inner life.
How my heart stirred with pity when I saw 
The traces of the lash upon his back, 
A brand upon his shoulder, and a scar
Upon his ankle where a chain had been!
"But it was long ago those marks were made,"
He always said, whene'er I questioned him;
And I would go my way, praying for him, 
And wondering at the patience of his soul. 
One moonlight eve I passed his cabin door:
Some impulse drew me nearer, and I saw 
The bondman in the attitude of prayer.
I glided in, and took the vacant stool 
Just by his side, and closing up my eyes, 
I shut the outer world away, and sank
Into a quiet trance 'twixt life and death;
And straight I found myself led gently on
Into the spirit temple of the slave. 
It was a dome for worship; and I passed 
In awe and wonder to the inner room-
The holy, secret place. God punish me,
If I shall e'er forget the spirit-guard 
That kept that sanctum, and abided there!
Faith stood in garments of celestial white,
Her finger pointing upward, and her eye
Had gathered in its depths all glorious rays;
While at her feet Humility sat down, 
With a soft halo circling round her brow, 
And patient suffering in her gentle glance. 
And on the right I saw Devotion kneel, 
Her face transfigured, and the air seemed charmed
With sweetest harmony, not heard, but felt.
And thoughts of goodness and of holy truth 
Flitted about the gleaming temple walls,
Like Summer's white-winged butterflies, set free 
From the old chrysalis. The flood of light
That filled each room and winding corridor,
Was neither of the Moon nor of the Sun,
But something told me' twas the light of Peace. 
Then I turned back with a great sense of joy,
That overflowed in song; because the slave,
For whom my spirit prayed, in Christ was free.
Croydon, N. H. 
A SLEEPING CHILD. 
Art thou a thing of mortal birth,
Whose happy home is on the earth?
Does human blood with life imbue
Those wandering veins of heavenly blue,
That stray along the forehead fair,
Lost 'mid a gleam of golden hair?
Oh! can that light and airy breath
Steal from a being doomed to death?
Those features to the grave be sent,
In sleep thus mutely eloquent?
Or art thou, what thy form would seem,
The phantom of a blessed dream?
JOHN WILSON.
<c02>
Selections.
A TALK WITH ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
At a time when thousands of honest, earnest men are in painful doubt concerning the fitness of our President to resume his office for another term, every incident which can throw light on his character has a peculiar interest for the public. It, has been well said, that we never know a man thoroughly till we see him at his ease. Certain it is that there are moments when we seem able to see into a man and through him. I thought I once had such an opportunity with Mr. Lincoln.
It was just after his controversy with Douglas, and some months before the meeting of the Chicago Convention of 1860, that Mr. Lincoln came to Norwich to make a political speech. It was in substance the famous speech delivered in New York, commencing with the noble words, " There is but one political question before the people of this country, which is this: Is slavery right or is it wrong?" and ending with the yet nobler words," Gentlemen, it has been said of the world's history, hitherto, that 'might makes right;' it is for us and our times to reverse the maxim, and to show that right makes might!”
 The next morning I met him at the railroad station, where he was conversing with our mayor, every few minutes looking up the track, and inquiring, half impatiently and half quizzically, 'Where's that wagon of yours? Why don't the wagon come along?” On being introduced to him, he fixed his eye upon me, and said, "I have seen you before, sir!" "I think not," I replied; " you must mistake me for some other person." "No I don't; I saw you at the Town Hall, last evening." "Is it possible, Mr. Lincoln, that you could observe individuals so closely in such a crowd?" "Oh, yes!" he replied, laughing, "that is my way. I don't forget faces. Were you not there?" "I was, sir; and I was well paid for going," adding somewhat in the vein of pleasantry he had started," I consider it one of the most extraordinary speeches I ever heard." 
As we entered the cars, he beckoned me to take a seat with him, and said in a most agreeably frank way, " Were you sincere in what you said about my speech just now?"
"I meant every word of it, Mr. Lincoln. Why, an old dyed-in-the-wool Democrat, who sat near me, applauded you repeatedly; and, when rallied upon his conversion to sound principles, answered, ‘I don't believe a word he says, but I can't help clapping him, he is so pat.’ That I call the triumph of oratory,
'When you convince a man against his will, 
Though he is of the same opinion still.'
Indeed, sir, I learned more of the art of public speaking last evening than I could from a whole course of lectures on Rhetoric."
"Ah! that reminds me," said he, " of a most extraordinary circumstance which occurred n New Haven, the other day. They told me that the professor of rhetoric in Yale College-a very learned man, isn't he?”-“Yes, sir, and a fine critic, too." " Well, I suppose so; he ought to be, at any rate-they told me he came to hear me, and took notes of my speech, and gave a lecture on it to his class the next day; and, not satisfied with that, he followed me up to Meriden the next evening, and heard me again for the same purpose. Now, if this is so, it is to my mind very extraordinary. I have been sufficiently astonished at my success in the West. It has been most unexpected. But I had no thought of any marked success at the East, and least of all that I should draw out such commendations from literary and learned men. Now," he continued, " I should like very much to know what was in my speech which you thought so remarkable, and what you suppose interested my friend, the professor, so much." "The clearness of your statements, Mr. Lincoln; the unanswerable style of your reasoning, and especially your illustrations, which were romance and pathos and fun and logic all welded together. That story about the snakes, for example, which set the hands and feet of your democratic hearers in such vigorous motion, was at once queer and comical and tragic and argumentative. It broke through all the barriers of a man's previous opinions and prejudices, at a crash, and blew up the very citadel of his false theories, before he could know what had hurt him." 
"Can you remember any other illustrations," said he, "of this peculiarity of my style?"
"I gave him others of the same sort, occupying some half hour in the critique, when he said, " I am much obliged to you for this. I have been wishing for a long time "to find some one who would make this analysis for me. It throws light upon a subject which has been dark to me. I can understand, very readily, how such a power as you have ascribed to me will account for the effect which seems to be produced by my speeches. I hope you have not been too flattering in your estimate. Certainly, I have had a most wonderful success, for a man of my limited education."
"That suggests, Mr. Lincoln, an inquiry which has several times been upon my lips, during this conversation. I want very much to know how you got this unusual power of' putting things.' It must have been a matter of education. No man has it by nature alone. What has your education been?"
"Well, as to education, the newspapers are correct-I never went to school more than six months in my life. But, as you say this must be a product of culture in some form, I have been putting the question you ask me, to myself, while you have been talking. I can say this, that, among my earliest recollections, I remember how, when a mere child, I used to get irritated when anybody talked to me in a way I could not understand. I don't think I ever got angry at anything else in my life. But that always disturbed my temper, and has ever since. I can remember going to my little bed-room, after hearing the neighbors talk of an evening with my father, and spending no small part of the night walking up and down, and trying to make out what was the exact meaning of some of their, to me, dark sayings. I could not sleep, though I often tried to, when I got on such a hunt after an idea, until I had caught it; and when I thought I had got it. I was not satisfied until I had repeated it over and over, until I had put it in language plain enough, as I thought, for any boy I knew to comprehend. This was a kind of passion with me, and it has stuck by me; for I am never easy now, when I am handling a thought, till I have bounded it North, and bounded it South, and bounded it East, and bounded it West. Perhaps that accounts for the characteristic you observe in my speeches, though I never put the two things together before." 
"Mr. Lincoln, I thank you for this. It is the most splendid educational fact I ever happened upon. This is genius, with all its impulsive, inspiring, dominating power over the mind of its possessor, developed by education into talent, with its uniformity, its permanence, and its disciplined strength, always ready, always available, never capricious-the highest possession of the human intellect. But let me ask, did you not have a law education? How did you prepare for your profession?"
"Oh, yes! I 'read law,' as the phrase is; that is, I became a lawyer's clerk in Springfield, and copied tedious documents, and picked up what I could of law in the intervals of other work. But your question reminds me of a bit of education I had, which I am bound in honesty to mention. In the course of my law reading, I constantly came upon the word demonstrate. I thought, at first, that I understood its meaning, but I soon became satisfied that I did not. I said to myself, ' What do I do when I demonstrate more than when I reason or prose?? How does demonstration differ from any other proof?' I consulted Webster's Dictionary. That told of’ certain proof,' “proof beyond the possibility” of doubt;' but I could form no idea what sort of proof that was. I thought a great many things were proved beyond a possibility of doubt, without recourse to any such extraordinary process of reasoning as I understood' demonstration' to be. I consulted all the dictionaries and books of reference I could find, but with no better results. You might as well have defined blue to a blind man. At last I said, 'Lincoln, you can never make a lawyer if you do not understand what demonstrate means;' and I left my situation in Springfield, went home to my father's house, and staid there till. I could give any proposition in the six books of Euclid at sight. I then found out what demonstrate' means, and went back to my law studies."
I could not refrain from saying, in my admiration at such a development of character and genius combined, "Mr. Lincoln, your success, is no longer a marvel. It is the legitimate result of adequate causes. You deserve it all, and a great deal more. If you will permit me, I would like to use this fact 
<c03>
publicly. It will be most valuable in inciting our young men to that patient classical and mathematical culture which most minds absolutely require. No man can talk well unless he is able first of all to define to himself what he is talking about. Euclid, well studied, would free the world of half its calamities, by banishing half the nonsense which now deludes and curses it. I have often thought that Euclid would be one of the best books to put on the catalogue of the Tract Society, if they could only get people to read it. It would be a means of grace."
"I think so," said he, laughing; " I vote for Euclid."
Just then a gentleman entered the car, who was well known as a very ardent friend of Douglas. Being a little curious to see how Mr. Lincoln would meet him, I introduced him after this fashion: “Mr. Lincoln, allow me to introduce Mr. L-, a very particular friend of your particular friend Mr. Douglas." He at once took his hand in a most cordial manner, saying, " I have no doubt you think you are right, sir." This hearty tribute to the honesty of a political opponent, with the manner of doing it, struck me as a beautiful exhibition of a large-hearted charity, of which we see far too little in this debating, fermenting world.
As we neared the end of our journey, Mr. Lincoln turned to me very pleasantly, and said, “I want to thank you for this conversation. I have enjoyed it very much." I replied, referring to some stalwart denunciations he had just been uttering of the demoralizing influences of Washington upon Northern politicians in respect to the slavery question, " Mr. Lincoln, may I say one thing to you before we separate?" "Certainly, any thing you please." "You have just spoken of the tendency of political life in Washington to debase the moral convictions of our representatives there, by the admixture of considerations of mere political expediency. You have become, by the controversy with
Mr. Douglas, one of our leaders in this great struggle with slavery, which is undoubtedly the struggle of the nation and the age. What I would like to say is this, and I say it with a full heart:- Be true to your principles, and we will be true to you, and God will be. true to us all!" His homely face lighted up instantly with a beaming, expression, and, taking my hand warmly in both of his, he said, " I say Amen to that-AMEN to that!"
There is a deep excavation in the rock shown to visitors, among the White Mountains, into which one of the purest of the mountain streams pours itself, known as " The Pool." As you stand by its side at an ordinary time, you look down upon a mass of impenetrable green, lying like a rich emerald in a setting of granite, upon the bosom of the mountain. But occasionally the noon-day sun darts through it a vertical ray, which penetrates to its very bottom, and shows every configuration of the varied interior. I felt at that moment that a ray had darted down to the bottom of Abraham Lincoln's heart, and that I could see the whole. It seemed to me as beautiful as that emerald pool, and as pure. I have never forgotten that glimpse. When that strange revocation came of the most rational and reasonable proclamation of Fremont-"The slaves of rebels shall be set free"-I remembered that hearty "Amen" and stifled my rising apprehensions. I remembered it in those dark days when McClellan, Nero-like, was fiddling on James river, and Pope was being routed before Washington, and the report came that a prominent cabinet-minister had boasted that he had succeeded in preventing the issue of the Emancipation Proclamation, I said, " Abraham Lincoln will prove true yet." And he has! God bless him! he has! Slow, if you please, but true. Unimpassioned, if you please, but true. Jocose, trifling, if you please, but true. Reluctant to part with unworthy official advisers, but true himself-true as steel! I could wish him less a man of facts, and more a man of ideas. I could wish him more stern and more vigorous. Every man has faults. But still, I say, Amen to
Abraham Lincoln! My countrymen, can we do better, any of us, and all of us, than to say, Amen to Abraham Lincoln, till the Lakes shall echo it to the Gulf, and the eastern to the western sea? -The Rev. John P. Gulliver in the Independent.
NEW WORK BY MONCURE D. CONWAY.
The following notice of a volume recently published in England, from the pen of M. D. Conway, and entitled "Testimonies on the Subject of Slavery," is extracted from the London Star.
Mr. M. D. Conway is certainly entitled to speak with some authority on the weighty problems which he discusses in this volume. As a native-born Virginian, whose early years were spent in the town of Falmouth, which has been the scene of so many stirring events since the breaking out of the war, he can speak from personal observation of the inner life of negro slavery. That a man whose father was a slaveholder, and whose personal interests were all bound up with the maintenance of the system, should have become a fervid Abolitionist, and offer testimonies against slavery as strong as any coined in New England or Exeter Hall, is a fact at once remarkable and suggestive. All Mr. Conway's prejudices were adverse to the Abolitionists. He was taught to hate and despise them, and to regard their opinions as the essence of all evil. But the first comparison which be was able to institute between a free and a slave society helped to open his eyes to the inestimable benefits of the one, and the inconceivable follies of the other; and his conversion to a sound state of mind was completed by the utter failure of an honest attempt he made to introduce the free-school system of the North into his native State. It might be thought that those two aspects of the questions would alone suffice to open the eyes of all intelligent men to the radical evil of slavery; for surely an institution which blasts the soil and denies to the masses of the people, white as well as black, the blessings of education cannot possibly possess any compensating advantages. Mr. Conway had an opportunity of discussing the school question with Messrs. Mason and Hunter, the two Senators for Virginia. "Mason," he says, " was particularly, vehement in denouncing the education of the white masses, and declared that such education would be surely followed by the introduction into the South of the entire swarm of Northern'isms.' Indeed, both Senators treated me with coldness after they found that I was interested in giving lands to the landless and instruction to the ignorant." Mr. Conway, however, was so much in love with his educational hobby that he published a pamphlet in which he set forth. the facts of the free-school system; but the brochure fell stillborn from the press, and the chivalric gentlemen of Virginia remained deaf to the appeal. Yet Mr. Conway describes the condition of the non-slave-holding whites of his State as being morally and intellectually as degraded as the lowest class of the negroes. After summing up the results of his own investigations, he says:-
"I must declare that although I have visited with careful observation the Five Points of New York, and Whitechapel, and Bethnal Green, in London, I have never seen a population whose wretchedness, whether of soul or body, is so deep as that of the poor whites of the South-that class which slavery has created by dishonoring labor and abolishing wages, and which it has sunk lower with each year by keeping unproductive a third of the lands, whilst those who should be sustained by those lands are multiplied so fearfully."
Mr. Conway gives a few pictures, or rather peeps, at slave life and character which are eminently suggestive. His earliest recollections of his father's slaves were pleasant enough. The quaint simplicity of their manners and the affectionate warmth of their dispositions make them attractive to the children of the planters before the latter have learnt to cultivate the pride and insolence of the dominant race. But Mr. Conway avers that the slaves are an intensely melancholy people. "In all the twenty-three years of my life in the land of slavery," he says, " I never saw a negro dance, though in those years I have heard of a few in our neighborhood." The polished Southern gentleman is the most brutal of all slaveholders, a fact for which the writer accounts on the theory'' that there is an element in the constitution of the Anglo-Saxon man which, though contributing much to his power when under the proper restraints, does, when not so restrained, render him particularly cruel to those under him." The Anglo-American slaveholder is proverbially more cruel than the French or Spanish. "A slight collision between him and his slave transforms him into a pitiless and formidable animal." Mr. Conway admits that there are many humane masters, but in the very nature of things they must be exceptions. So unnatural a system can only be maintained by cruelty, and those cruelties cannot be exaggerated. Not to dwell upon the darker features 
<c04>
of the institution, it is enough to know that in every Southern town there is a slave-prison and a slave-whipper. As Mr. Conway explains, ladies and gentlemen, as a rule, do not soil their own hands with the lash. Many a highly susceptible lady, who would faint at the sight of blood, sends her waiting-maid to the prison with a note, which, although no doubt elegantly written and highly perfumed, is touched in these terms:-"Mr.-,will you give negro-girl Nancy-lashes, and charge to account?" "Nancy, with drowning eyes, waits at the door whilst Madame Serena writes this; takes the billet to the constable's door; waits with a group of boys or coarse young men around her, some of whom jeer at her as one who is' going to catch it,' others of whom stand with silent curiosity, watching her falling tears until the grim man of fate appears, leads her in, and locks the door in the face of the idle crowd." This is no imaginative sketch. Mr. Conway simply describes what passed before his eyes every day in his native village in Falmouth. Captain Pickett was the name of the grim inquisitor who plied his disgusting trade in that place for many a year, until, as was only fitting, he brought his career to an end by a self-inflicted retribution-that of suicide. Mr. Conway waxes indignant at the immoralities of the slave-breeding States, against which, as he truly says, not one of the Southern clergymen who lately made their appeal to the civilized world has ever protested. Several slave-dealers' letters which he quotes are epistolary gems. Here is one full of significance. Mr. Bacon Tait, of Richmond, writes to Mr. Windsor:- "Pray do me the favor to hand the enclosed letter privately to Mr. Armfield. Don't take it to him at his house, but seek an opportunity to give it to him when none of his family can see you do so." It needs no ingenious method of interpretation to decipher the meaning of this letter. The slaveholder was afraid that if the women of the family saw the communication, their humane instincts might revolt against the traffic.
Mr. Conway has written a scathing answer to Dr. James Hunt's theory of the natural inferiority of the African. The pro-slavery sophists will not be able to reject his arguments on the pretence that they are unscientific, for the simple reason that he has grappled with them boldly and successfully on their own ground. His sketch of the anti-slavery movement, as personified by Garrison and Phillips; his very interesting account of the liberation through the war of his father's slaves, and of the part he took in that good work, and his closing address to the English people, in which he reminds them of their obligations and duties-all these combine to make up a very important and seasonable work.
He had the satisfaction of discovering his father's slaves shortly after they had left the house of bondage, and he never parted from them until he had safely established them in the free State of Ohio. Mr. Conway says:-
"In the gardens of a European palace there is a dial with a small cannon attached. When the sun rises to its meridian height, the cannon is fired, a sun-glass having been so arranged as to concentrate the rays for that purpose. Not far from this is another dial, arranged like that made by Linnaeus at Upsal, in which the hours are marked by the closing of some flowers and the unfolding of others. The cannon's roar in America, to-day, proclaims liberty in the ascendant. America was assailed at Fort Sumter only for turning her face towards that sunrise. The movements on the battle-field all observe; but beyond that there lies in America another realm in which the advancing light is traced in the closing up of old wrongs, and the unfolding of high truths and principles. The false plan that covered a lie, the disposition to compromise with the injustice, have already closed; the prejudice against the negro is closing, and by that light devotion to liberty unfolds; and I believe that the hour is not far distant when the suffering, unfaltering people of America shall see closing together the twin blood stained growths, war and slavery, and the fair flowers, justice; and peace, expanding beyond." 
These words are as pregnant with truth as they are glowing with eloquence; and in taking leave of Mr. Conway's volume, we would earnestly hope that his vaticinations may be speedily realized. 
GOV. ANDREW'S ADDRESS.
The great New England Agricultural Fair at Spring field was held last week. The great feature of the occasion was the address of His Excellency Gov. An drew, which was delivered to a crowded, audience. We copy a considerable portion of it below:
I hail this becoming and beneficent gathering of the most intelligent yeomanry of New England. Here we touch our mother earth, while we join our friendly hands together in the spirit of a fresh dedication of our powers and hopes, to the task of deepening the foundations of the solid fame, of widening the circle of her gracious influence, and brightening the sparkling diadem of her peaceful grandeur.
Let us rember, for a moment, the external picture of New England, as she presents herself to the eye of the economist, and the thoughtful agriculturist, comprising, the six States or Commonwealths of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut. Her area covers something more than 65,037 square miles, or nearly forty-two millions of acres of surface. Of these acres Maine possesses 20,330,240, of which only 5, 700,755 acres are reckoned by the census of 1860 as land included in farms; while again, of that number but 7,677,215 are classed with " improved lands." New Hampshire contains 5,939,200 acres; her farms including 3,744.630 acres; while her improved lands are but 2,367,039 acres. 
Vermont contains an area of 6,335,680 acres, of which 4,160,839 are reckoned as land in farms, but of which quantity, again, but 2,758,443 acres are returned as under improvement. Massachusetts covers a surface of 4,992,000 acres, of which 3.,183.,212 are included in farms, while but 2,155,512 acres are classed among improved lands. Rhode Island possesses 519,698 acres of farms, out of her 838,840 acres of area, but of these acres 329,884 only are reckoned as improved lands. Connecticut has 2,-991,369 acres, with farms to the extent of 2,504,263, but her improved lands are stated at 1,830,808 acres. 
Thus of the whole area of New England, only 12,118,902 acres, or three and five-tenths per cent, af her surface, have yet been brought within the category of improved land. With a population of 3,135,293 persons, in a soil reputed to be sterile, in a climate often styled unkind, New England had in 1860 accumulated an aggregate of wealth, invested in her lands, railroads, mills, ships and the various products of ingenuity and taste, which indicate the industry and wealth of a highly cultivated and favored people, amounting in value to not less than two thousand millions of dollars. While she has contributed, according to the last census, 569,336 of the sons and daughters native to her soil, to swell the population of other Commonwealths, outside of New England, and has invested of her earnings, as she has scattered her children, in every State, on every waterfall and in every mart and mine and enterprise of industry.
Were her population to the square mile, equal throughout to that of the Commonwealth, of Massachusetts, whose soil, as a whole, is the least fertile of the six States, she would rise to the number of ten and a quarter millions of souls, which, with a corresponding increase of wealth, would present an aggregate of real and personal values, equal to more than seven thousand millions of dollars. When we remember that the increase of wealth has constantly far outrun the growth of population, we have before us the prospect of a numerical strength and economic thrift, as the reward of our intelligent pursuit of industry, capable of an expansion not yet to be measured, which permits to New England a proud and powerful place in the history of our national future. 
The diversity of the pursuits to which her people are devoted is not only manifold, but universal, including all the varieties of industrial enterprise, extending in all the directions of human action and human thought. Possessing all the features and peculiarities, over a large portion of her domain, of a rural life, her people are not only farmers or husbandmen, but they lead the rest of the country in the peril of the seas as fishermen and whale hunters, they furnish seamen to the navy and the mercantile marine in large disproportion to their numerical masculine strength, plant on all their waterfalls, manufactories of cotton and wool; establish in every village the shops of artisans of every handicraft, build' ships all along our coast, fabricate arms of all kinds and calibres, heavy ordnance and iron-clad, vessels of war, and make jewelry and instruments of music, as well as anchors, steam engines, hats and shoes.
They raise tobacco in the valley of the Connecticut and in other genial soils, as well as Indian corn, vegetables, hay and forage, all over New England, Not only ice and granite, but even sugar becomes a part of her production, and is a profitable source of gain as well as comfort or luxury. She has rendered the railway a domestic institution, so that the steam-
car visits nearly every hamlet and every considerable town. The music of its whistle no longer frightens the farmer's horse, nor does the proximity of the thundering locomotive, raging and sighing under its fiery spirit, disturb the equanimity of the anxious matron, careful for the safety of her child. 
The needle-woman, by the domestic hearth or in the shops where labor associates with capital, aided by the sewing-machines-one of the last best gifts o f mechanical invention to women, if not to men-the weaver, by the side of her carpet-loom, which seems to think, as well as work, and which almost talks; the shoemaker, pegging a boot at a blow; the laborer, who fills his gravel-car by two strokes of a steam shovel, and upsets it by a turn of his hand; the, husbandman, who mows and rakes his hay, and reaps, and threshes, and measures out his golden grain by the agencies of cunning mechanisms, almost, without fatigue, are only a few of the thousand illustrations of how the human will, and the immortal intelligence of the human intellect, bridging over the gulf which lies between the boundaries of matter and mind, are vindicating the divinely given mastership of man over the things which God hath made on earth.
Nay, more than that; for the things invisible and impalpable exisiting as hidden forces in the vast abyss of nature-caloric and steam, and electricity and magnetism, and light itself; the mysteries of science so wonderful and august that they seem to tread celestial spheres, and to sweep the mind bewildered by the contemplation off far beyond the domain of knowledge or of reason-these, all these, tamed and allured to human use, are familiar spirits by whose means a thousand miracles are wrought, without amazement to the beholder, and with little consciousness of our own, how nearly are we brought to the contemplation of the very, thoughts of Deity. 
Those winged horses harnessed to the plough, the loom, the traveling car, carrying burdens, crushing ores, hammering granite and iron, or weaving delicate tissues for ornament or luxury, or flashing intelligence by invisible magic, are daily augmenting in number and power-though they had long since added mechanical forces to the industrial strength of our New England equivalent to that of many millions of men. 
Besides all this, there are the peculiar advantages of neighborhood or contiguity, derived from compactness and convenience of transportation, whether found on the shores of the sea, in the flow of rivers, or in artificial highways.
Her long, continuous seacoast line, with its many harbors, stretches from Calais all around to the Hudson. Her rivers, generally not navigable far inland, to be sure-such as the Penobscot, the Kennebec, the Merrimac, the Connecticut, the Blackstone, and a hundred minor streams-but still beautiful diversifications of the landscape, have all contributed beyond human estimate to her development. They have floated the hemlocks, oaks and pines from interior forests to the sea. They turned the mill and ground the corn for our fathers in the early humility of their worldly fortunes. The rill tinkling down its rocky declivity, or our Androscoggin roaring along precipitous descents, have alike summoned or allured laborers or capitalists to settle along their banks, where, in happy union with the flowing waters, they have created wealth, builded cities, and piled up acquisitions from every source of ingenuity and art.
And what variety of landscape is yours! If winter is rugged and severe, it is yet bracing and grand. Can a people, become monotonous and sluggish in their thought who will toil betimes to shelter themselves from its power, but who are yet encouraged and warmed by the tropical heat of our midsummer weather, and are charmed by the soft temperatures of our verdant Junes and our rich and golden Octobers? Can a people become indifferent to the influence of beauty discerned and felt, either in the sweet repose of nature or in her sub-limer glories, to whom are familiar the lanscapes of St. George and Champlain and the Moosehead; the valleys of the Deerfield, the Connecticut, the Housatonic, piled in ragged variety of projecting rocks from fertile levels up into eternal heights of snow; the rich allurements of the Green Mountains, the delicious surprises of Berkshire, the great and sphynx-like capes, and the boundless, soundless, mysterious ocean which they strive to penetrate; whose inward ear has heard the windharp of the forests, the music of the waterfalls, and the bass of the everlasting sea, whose tides beat time in the ceaseless anthem of creation?
I do not intend, even in a characteristic assemblage of her own people, to laud or magnify New England. I would put far away the least temptation to exalt ourseves, or to over-estimate anything which pertains to the communities which this Society represents. 
The thought which overshadows and controls all others is that which suggests the character and the measure of the responsibility of New England to the whole, and to every part, of that great and common country to which, to-day, her six Commonwealths are geographically but a fragment. Meeting to-day in the capacity of New England men and of New England yeomanry, the more intense, discriminating and intelligent your filial love, the more devoted and unconditional will be the affectionate patriotism with which you must regard the National Union, that grand but menaced nationality of which these States are constituents.
From the domestic hearth-stone, from the fireside worship of home, the child ascends, led by parental hands, to the grander temple where priests and elders wave their censers and offer sacrifice. Thus may we ourselves at this more domestic altar receive strength and inspiration which will be our encouragement and our instruction when we ascend our National Zion to unite with all the tribes of our American Israel. 
I have not failed to perceive nor to exult in the thought of the boundless possibilities of grandeur and beneficent power which pertain to the future of America. I do not forget that when the national jurisdiction over all our States and Territories shall resume its unquestioned sway, and our national career begin anew, that the accelerated increase of wealth and of population in their necessary distribution and effusion will, year by year, constantly diminish the relative material strength of the Northeastern States.
The broad lands, the deep soils, the choice farms, the coal mines, the gold fields, the virgin forests, the oil wells, the cotton plant and sugar cane of the West and of the South, of the Gulf and of the Pacific coast, cannot fail in their attractions. The swelling tide of immigrant populations will flow across these Atlantic borders to those alluring homes and seats of industry. Along with many better men will come the greedy adventurers, some of them ignorant, some of them sordid, unblessed by filial love or patriotic sentiment, to seize the opportunities of golden fortune. The wild chase for gain, the allurements of Nature herself, the temptation of that, fevered life which distinguishes the youth of society in fertile and fruitful States, containing within themselves, of necessity, a certain measure of social and public danger, suggest to us in advance the duty and the destiny of New England. 
She is to be, in the long and transcendent future of the republic, the great conserving influence among the States. For nearly two centuries and a half, already, have her people kept the vestal-fire of personal and public liberty brightly burning in her little town democracies. Obedient to order, and practising industry, as well as loving individual freedom, they have acquired an instinct which discriminates between license and liberty, between the passion of the hour and the solemn adjudications of law. They possess the traditions of liberty, they inherit ideas of government, they bear about in their blood and in their bone the unconscious tendencies of each which rise almost to the dignity of recollections, and which are more emphatic and more permanent than opinions. By the right of more than seven generations they have acquired and held in free tenure their titles and their possessions.
The dignity of the freehold, the sacredness of the family, the solemnity of religious obligation, the importance of developing the intellect by education, the rightful authority of government, the rightfulness of authority fairly earned or inherited, as flowing from; the inalienable self-ownership of man and the imprescriptible rights, of human nature; the freedom of worship, the idea of human duty, expanded and enforced by the consciousness of an immortal nature, are alike deeply embedded in the traditions and convictions of the immense and controlling majority of our people. 
If there is aught which men deem radicalism, or they fear as dangerous speculation, in our theology or our politics, I call mankind to bear witness that there is no child so humble that he may not be taught in all the learning of the schools, no citizen so poor that he may not aspire to any of the re-
<c06>
wards of merit or honorable exertion, not one as weak as to fall below the equal protection of laws nor one so lofty as to challenge their restraints in; no church or bishop able to impose creed or ritual on the unconvinced conscience; no peaceful, pices worship which is unprotected by the State. The liberty stands, and the law supports liberty; popular education lends intelligence to law, and gives order to liberty; while religion, unfettered by human arbitration between the soul of man and <illegible> of the Infinite, is left free to impress the individual conscience with all the sanction of its supreme is hests and of its celestial teachings.
Your past history is a record of many great <illegible> and great actions-of men, to our way of thinking now, oftentimes found narrow and even obstinate but yet heroic and sincere, of generation worth to bear along and hand down the precious seeds from which have sprung the ideas and institutions which give dignity and welfare to a nation.
Agriculturists, yeomen of New England, be faithful to her ideas, to her history, her institution, and her character!! Behold and adorn your Spartal Reclaim and cultivate the untilled lands which still comprise more than two thirds the area of the in New England States. Deepen and wider the foundations of your seminaries and schools of learning. Encourage genius as well as industry. <Illegible> hither, and hold here, the profound thinkers, the patient students of Nature, those tireless watches who wait upon the stars, or weigh the dust upon an insect's wing. Discard and discourage alike the prejudice of ignorance and the conceits of learning.
Remember that, even to-day, there is no man so wise that he understands the law which regulates the relation of any fertilizer to any crop; that few have ever observed the mystery of that wonderful influence of the first impregnation of the dam upon the future offspring of whatever sire; that the origin and contagion of the cattle disease, pleuro pneumonia, remain hitherto without adequate scientific exploration; that the practical farmers and men of science, all combined, understand as little the destructive potato-rot, which concerns the economy of every farm and every household, as the <illegible> who first descried the May Flower understood the poems of Homer or the philosophy of Aristotle.
Not undervaluing the past achievements of science, remember how infinite the extent and variety of the conquests which yet remain to her. Let me exhort you also to bear in mind, that the great discoverers of knowledge are like prophets, appearing but seldom, and on great occasions; that all genius is an intellectual century plant; and that he who would make the time great, and the people noble, must not confound the mere distribution of commonplace facts, elementary or traditional knowledge, with those conquests and acquisition which flow from patient and original explorations.
 I congratulate all ingenious cultivators of the soil of the newly awakening interest in the establishment of Colleges and Professorships for the persuit and the teaching of those branches of learning and science adapted to the promotion of Agriculture and the useful Arts. It might satisfy the devout lover of truth to rejoice in these opportunities for the diffusion of knowledge. It is enough reward for all the pains they cost, leaving out of sight the more practical and solid advantages they will impart to the coming generations, to enjoy with Bacon the contemplation of the delights of learning when, in the exultation of his mighty faith, be exclaims:-
"It taketh away or mitigateth fear of death or adverse fortune, which is one of the greatest impediments of virtue and imperfections of manners. For if a man's mind be deeply seasoned with the consideration of mortality and corruptible nature of things, he will easily concur with Epictetus, who went forth one day and saw a woman weeping for her pitcher of earth that was broken, and went forth the next day and saw a woman weeping for her son that was dead; and hereupon said, 'Yesterday, I saw a brittle thing broken, to-day human mortality.'...
'Happy the man who doth the causes know
Of all that is; serene he stands, above
All fears; above the inexorable Fate,
And that insatiate gulf that roars below.'
It were too long to go over the particular remedies which learning doth minister to all the diseases of the mind; sometimes purging the ill-human sometimes opening the obstructions, sometimes helping digestion, sometimes increasing <illegible> healing the wounds and exulcerations thereof and the like. For the unlearned man know not what it is to descend into himself or to call himself to account, nor the pleasure of feeling himself each day a better man than he was the day before. The good parts he hath he will learn to show to the full, and use them dexterously, but not much to increase them; the faults he hath he will learn how to hide and color them, but not much to amend them; like an ill mower, that mows on still and never whets his scythe; whereas with the learned man it fares otherwise, that he doth ever intermix the correction and amendment of his mind with the use and employment thereof."
The uses and the influence of true learning, the power which flows from sincere cultivation are so great and enduring that were it a task, and not all a delight, I would not cease to urge and advocate, in this presence, the duty which is imposed on a people possessing the opportunities of our own. To all people, to all sections, as to each individual man, are open their separate careers. They can forfeit their places; but they can scarcely exchange them. You of New England may forget that you are of the stock that produced Jonathan Edwards, but you cannot make the cotton plant flourish in New Hampshire.
You may turn your backs in jealousy or distant on Bowdoin and Dartmouth, and Harvard and Brown and Yale. You may set the village sexton above Cleveland or Silliman or Agassiz. But when you have declined the sceptre of knowledge, you have not made the Merrimac or the Connecticut navigable, like the Ohio, the Missouri, the Mississippi or the Cumberland. You will win no glory by any narrow competition, nor by returning one railing word for another., Your greatness must be found hereafter, where it has been to found hitherto in the highest development and cultivation of the faculties of men. Let thoughtless politicians propose to leave out New England in the cold, if they choose; I think the world will keep a warm place for her while Vermont leads the hemispheres in the intelligence and success of her sheep breeding, while Alvin Clark makes a telescope object glass which is the marvel of astronomers, while the new Museum of Zoology at Cambridge exceeds in variety and extent of many important classes of specimens the more renowned museums of London and Paris.
Of what account will be the sneers at Massachusetts of those "who hold it heresy to think, " so long as one man's labor in Massachusetts is found by the census to be as productive of real wealth as the labor of five men in South Carolina? while the annual earnings of her industry exceed the annual earnings per capita of any other community in the world?? Schools, colleges, books, the free press, the culture of the individual everywhere, the policy of attracting, encouraging and developing all the great qualities of the head and heart-in a word, the production and diffusion of ideas -in the these rest forever the secret of your strength to maintain your true position.
I implore you to unite and not divide in your policy. Whenever you can create a great school, or find a great professor, unite to strengthen the school and to make sure of the man. Our system of diffusing knowledge through the local schools, our plan of distributing elementary instruction, are things of which we are sure. But your district schools will themselves go to seed, your knowledge will become bigoted and mean, unless you remember that the encouragement of those higher institutions from which they are fed, and where their teachers are themselves taught, is as needful as the creation of the head of water above the dam is to the spindles point.
I beg to exhort you, then, to put faith in Ideas the orderly arrangement of knowledge, in the poster to search out the hidden things of nature, in the<illegible> practical application of the highest and largest truth to the wants and affairs of man's daily life.
Lead off, representative farmers of New England, and let this dear, old rocky homestead. Thought and of Liberty remain for countless <illegible> age the fountain and light of generous culture, of Science, Learning and Art. Your influence will <illegible> then with beneficent and forever expanding power on the destiny of the nation. You will live, in the true conservatives of the civil state of social He "Exempted from the wrongs of time, and <illegible> of perpetual renovation."
