THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING 
221 WASHINGTON STREET, TOOM NO.6.
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS— Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any, debts of the paper, viz:— WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L.GARRISON, JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor. Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL XXXV NO. 5 BOXTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1865 WHOLE NO 1774 
<c01>
SELECTIONS 
SPEECH OF HON. MORROW B. LOWRY, 
OF ERIE,
Delivered in the Senate of Pennsylvania, January
19, 1865.
COLORED PEOPLE IN PASSENGER CARS.
Mr .LOWRY, on leave given, read in place a bill entitled An act relative to the exclusion of colored people from the cars of passenger railroad companies of this Commonwealth.
Referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
Mr. LOWRY moved to discharge the Committee on the Judiciary from the consideration of said bill, and that the Senate proceed to the consideration of the same.
The motion was agreed to, when the bill was read as follows:
SECTION I. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives, etc., That is shall not be lawful for any passenger railway company within this Commonwealth to make or enforce any rule, regulation or practice excluding any race of people from its passenger cars on account of their color.
Mr. LOWRY said:
The object of Government is to execute impartial justice between man and man. It is ordained to protect the weak against the strong, to exalt right over might, and to assure the rights of each and all however lowly or however exalted, against all attempts to violate them. That is no government, worthy of the name, which leaves its poor and defenceless subjects to be preyed upon by the wealthier and stringer classes, and refuses them protection and redress. That is not worthy of the name of law which is not based on a reverential regard for human rights. In fact, all true law emanates from the bosom of God, who is no respecter of persons. Human laws are of no validity, except so far as they coincide with and reflect the divine law The sole business of government is to discover this one great law of the universe, and provide for its application to the varied necessities of mankind.
It is because this country has disregarded that law, practically denied the doctrine of human equality, as enunciated in its Declaration of Independence, and suffered the strong to oppress and crush the weak, that the scour age of intestine war is uplifted against us. Unless all history is a lie, all revelation a myth and the law of cause and effect a mere delusion, this war is God's judgment upon the land for its sin of oppression. The case is not to be argued. Slavery is the cause of the war, and it alone made rebellion possible. Its removal alone will make peace possible. He is the best friend of the Union who goes farthest and fullest for the destruction of the Union's greatest enemy. We can no longer ignore truth. Upon its treatment of the black man rests the fate of the Republic. Some one has wisely said that he who fastens on end of a chain upon the limb of his fellow-man will find the other end of the same chain fastened to his won neck. And the Quaker poet strikingly versifies the same great truth in these immortal lines:
"For laws of changeless justice bind
Oppressor with oppressed,
And, close as sin and suffering joined, 
We march to fate abreast."
Happily, the nation sees its city of refuge. Through seas of blood and tears, the Ship of State will make the port of Universal Freedom.
But it is not enough that we make the black man nominally free. It is not enough that we cease to make him a slave— we must make him also, truly a freeman. We are bound to protect him in the rights which inhere in a freeman. Putting away slavery, let us also put away slavish things. We are bound to reform those urges and correct those abuses which exist as incidents of slavery, and which have formed a part of the machinery of the infernal system. We may not be able to pull down the whole fabric of wrong and outrage at once, but one by one we can remove the disabilities under which the black race now live and suffer. One of the many disabilities under which the colored people in our midst are suffering in their wholesale exclusion from the passenger railways in the large cities. And it is to provide for the removal of this disability and for the correction of this outrage, as practised in the city of Philadelphia, or wherever else it may be practised within the limits of this Commonwealth, that I offered the resolution which gave from to the bill now under contemplation. Colored people, as a race, are now forbidden to enter any of the street cars of Philadelphia, and if they enter they are peremptorily expelled. The regulation makes no exceptions. the full-blooded negro and the octoroon are alike put out. The poor and the wealthy, the respectable and the vagrant, the healthy and the infirm, the descript old man and the helpless young child are alike turned away from these public conveyances, if perchance, they happen to be possessed of "a skin not colored like our own." The wife of a colored soldier who has been wounded in the service of his country, and who may be lying, agonized and helpless, in one of the military hospitals of West Philadelphia cannot be allowed to enter one of these street cars as she goes to visit her husband, and to minister to his necessities. This bill is born of my own observation. I have seen it made impossible for the friends and families of sick and wounded soldiers to go them on errands of mercy and missions of love. I have seen a soldiers with but one leg— the other having been given to his country — rudely prohibited from entering the cars and forced to plod his weary way through storm and darkness as best he might! Outrages of this nature are liable to be of daily occurrence. What a spectacle for the civilized world to contemplate! A soldier of the republic having done heroic battle and risked his life that his country may live, returning to his home in Philadelphia, scarred and perhaps permanently disabled, is denied the privileges extended to the very lowest and most repulsive vagabond of the city — denied by men for whose sake and safety he has periled all, even life itself! Can we rationally hope to have the curse of war lifted from our land so long as we tolerate such wrongs upon the race, to avenge whose wrongs.
"God has let upon us the dogs of war"?
Now, I do not deny the right of a railroad corporation to exclude an individual from its cars for sufficient cause. The mere accident of color is not sufficient cause. If a man is bestial in his habits, or intoxicated, or afflicted with any deadly contagion, or otherwise unfitted for contact or association with the travelling public, be may be properly forbidden to enter a railway car. And I shall not argue the right to prohibit an individual, even where no apparent cause exists for such corporation to discriminate for or against any race or nationality as such. And this is precisely what the railways of Philadelphia are doing — in flagrant violation of the divine law and
<c02>
in defiance of every principle of justice. They institute a false standard of rights, founded in mere prejudice, purely arbitrary, and wickedly despotic, It is as ridiculous as it is brutal. What should we say of a corporation that should discriminate against every man whose head might be illuminated with red hair, or against all people below a given nature? Yet such discrimination would be no more absurd than the one which aims to regulate a franchise according to the particular hue of the skin or the curl of the hair. Chatters are admitted to be capable of covering a multitude of sins, but they cannot with impunity practice the sum of all villainies longer. It may be said that this is purely a matter for each corporation to decide and regulate. It is held that having vouchsafed to them their corporate franchises, our control over them has ceased—they have grown out of our power and jurisdiction. I deny this. I have yet to learn that the creature can be greater; than the creator. We cannot confer what we cannot prohibit. If a railway company has the legal right to exclude any one race of people from its cars, it may exclude any other race and all races. It may, indeed, by the mere exercise of arbitrary will, defeat the very object of its existence. If it may, as a common carrier, institute arbitrary distinctions between different classes of the same community, I know not how or where you can fix a limit to its despotic power. If it may make the color of the skin its test, it may, with equal right and propriety, base its discrimination on the color of the hair or of the eyes. If the public mind had not been poisoned on the subject, through half a century of slaveholding practice, either of the last named distinctions would be seen to be as ridiculous and absurd as the other. It has been a part of the fell and subtitle work of the slave power in this country to instill through the North a diabolical prejudice against the black man. This Northern prejudice has been the slave-driver's strong hold of power. It alone has kept slavery alive to the present hour. In proportion as they succeeded in diffusing and strengthening a hatred of the negro in the North, have they been enabled to enslave him in the South. To overcome this prejudice now is to overcome slavery—to rid ourselves of the one is to ensure the simultaneous destruction of the other.
I stand for the absolute equality of all men before the law. This is God's eternal law—this is divine ethics. "God hath made of one blood all nations of men." The Government that acknowledges the existence and jurisdiction of God, must also acknowledge His law of human equality. Happily our Government, at its outset, admitted this eternal truth; for it is written, " All men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." Fidelity to this principle is national life, prosperity and safety—desertion of it is national weakness, decline and death. The government or the corporation that defies it does so at its peril, for it defies God. Every man if born with inherent rights—they are his by virtue of his manhood. They are not contingent on race, condition or color. We have been false as a people to this fundamental principle; and if we would not invite further chastisement from the Almighty's hand, we must return to it, and adhere, to it. Thank God, we are returning; and may lie have mercy upon the man who raises his voice or his hand to prevent our return! Absolute equality before the law, then, is the goal towards which we tend. Each man must be willing to concede to every other man the rights which he demands for himself. You may call this" abolitionism." for it is such—" only this and nothing more. "You may call' this "fanaticism," but it? wisdom, religion, patriotism, statesmanship.
But to return to the particular phase of this question now before the Senate. I ask you, sir, who are they that oppose the admission of colored people into the street cars? What class is it that fears defilement by contact with a black man? It will be found that it is not the refined, the educated, or the truly polite. It is not the solid citizen or the lady of virtue and respectability that objects to riding with colored people. There are two classes of objectors. The first is made up of political hucksters, hangers-on and harlequins, who want votes, and who think they can best obtain them by catering to what they suppose to be a popular prejudice. The other class embraces the low, the vile, the unlettered and the unwashed. Your blathering, bestial vagabonds, reeking with filth, whose raiment is odorous of tobacco, and whose breath is a perpetual offering of incense to Bacchus, he it is that fears contamination by contact with the "negro." The painted and polluted prostitute is exceedingly afraid of "negro equality." The swaggering, bullying loafer, already far down in the scale of true respectability, is concerned for his reputation if he rides a square in a horse-car where colored people arc admitted! But men of brains and men of character have no such fears. Since this resolution has been pending in the Senate, a large and respectable meeting of the citizens of Philadelphia has been held to protest against the outrage upon the people of color. Men and women of wealth, character and standing attended the meeting. The elite of Philadelphia were there. This demonstrates on what side of this question the better classes of community are arrayed. It demonstrates that the railway companies are allowing themselves to be governed in this matter by the vicious rather than the virtuous—by the low and illiterate rather than by the sober, the industrious and the learned—by the party of misrule and disorder instead of law and order. They are basely bowing down at the feet of superstition, and doing abject homage at the shrine of ignorance.
I cannot close without paying my tribute to the colored people of this country. Their conduct, since the breaking out of this war, has been such as to extort praise and gratitude from every right-minded man—from every lover of the country and the country's cause. With what noble patience, calmness and forbearance they waited upon the logic of events—the advent to sense and feeling to the American people! They lifted no hand to mar the programme or interrupt the policy of the war, but, silent in their suffering, and mute in their suspense, they contemplated the spectacle of war, and patiently awaited the coming of the Lord. Instinctively loyal to the Government, they remained true and faithful to the old flag through all the earlier stages of the conflict when the Government, by its cold and cruel treatment of them, invited them to take up arms against it, and link their destinies with the rebellion. At length, when stern necessity compelled us to ask them to come to our aid, and help save the country, with what eager alacrity and heroic zeal they flew to the rescue Bravely, and with unfaltering tread, they marched into the jaws of death, into the mouth of war. The world has never witnessed superior heroism. They save plucked victory from defeat, and crushed the minions of rebellion at Fort Wagner, Olustee and Petersburg. Freely have they presented their bodies a living sacrifice upon the altar of their country. Where the peril has been greatest, there have they been found. When the very ground upon which we now stand was menaced by the foe, and our State authorities besought al- 
<c03>
most in vain, two hundred and fifty brave black men appeared on these grounds, and offered their services in that evil boor. The loyalty of the blacks is earnest and universal. They are the only loyal class, at class, in the whole land. And yet, this is the class that, of all others, we continue to ostracise, to discriminate against, and to deny the courtesies of life and the rights of humanity. Returning to their homes after fighting our battles, we drive them from our street cars, as though they were ministers of death rather than to life! Behold the spectacle of people calling upon the black man to help save their government, and then basely denying them civil and social rights under the government which they have helped to save!
Robert Small, who gallantly captured a vessel of war from the hands of the enemy, and presented it to the American navy as a token of his patriotic regard for the government, is refused accommodation upon the railways of Philadelphia. The regulation, being wholesale, crushes all alike. Euclid, the profoundest mathematician of ancient or modern times, were be alive and desirous of witnessing the attractions of the city of Brotherly Love, would not be allowed to make his observations from the windows of the street cars. Banneker, the greatest of American astronomers, would be turned rudely away. Alexander Dumas, one of the most gifted of the French writers of romance, now meditating a tour in this country, must be careful not to presume too much upon his own fame and our Christian system, when le sets foot in the Quaker City. Frederick Douglass, one of the most brilliant of American orators, living or dead, cannot travel from his hotel to Concert Hall when he goes to address the elite of Philadelphia. Since the introduction of this question, I have been made the subject of a gross attack in regard to it, in the editorial columns of a paper of this city. The editor of that paper need entertain no fears of ever being placed upon an equality with the negro. He does not seem likely to rise to that dread level. While he is to be pitied, the negro is to be congratulated. Between that editor and myself, the widest possible difference exists. He is the friend of caste and aristocracy—I am the friend of fraternity and pure democracy. He swears by the Dred Scott decision—I by the Golden Rule. He would demand he expulsion of the gallant Robert Small from the street car—I would rise, and relinquish my seat in favor of him who performed so daring a deed in my country's cause. He would re-enslave the negro after the danger is past and the war over—I would reward him with freedom and justice. He believes in Davis and the devil— I believe in Lincoln and liberty. I leave him with his conscience and his God! 
Mr. Speaker, since I offered a previous resolution upon the subject, I have been the subject of attack from a newspaper editor in this State. From him, however, I have nothing to fear. It will be long before he will occupy the elevated position of a Robert Small. I have no issue to make with that person; he is true to his instincts, and I am true to mine. He would not let a man like Robert Small ride in a railroad car, but would rise to give his seat to the murderer of Robert Small; I would not do that. Such a man, sir, cannot rejoice when our country claims a victory over its foes; but I can. But I suppose he is carrying out the mission to accomplish which he was sent on earth; and I am trying to carry out my mission. 
SENATOR SUMNER. 
The recent political canvass has afforded me the opportunity of bearing many of our foremost men upon the platform. I propose to give you a little sketch of a few of them, as space may occur in this and my next letter. First, Hon. Charles Sumner. Senator from Massachusetts, comes to mind. I have lately heard this distinguished statesman deliver a great oration on public affairs. His personal appearance is not exactly what I had supposed. He is not strikingly graceful in form and gesture, in elegant in speech; yet be is not inelegant in either. The grace of his periods and the dignity of his attitudes and gestures are lost sight of in the impression he gives of force and earnestness. Mr. Sumner is about six feet in stature, moderately stout, has a massive head, and on the whole a dignity and manliness of form, feature and manner which are quite prepossessing. He comes upon the platform and advances to speak with the unelaborate and yet not neglectful air of a man who has a message, and is eager to deliver it. His voice is heavy and round, but does not find a full, smooth utterance, and is not so effective as it might well be made. Mr. Sumner owes little of his power to elocution. With such an opulent voice as our lamented Starr King had, Mr. Sumner would obtain a vast increase of power. By the way, I have not yet heard a voice equal in force or melody to Mr. King's. Even Wendell Phillips, Henry Ward Beecher and Dr. Chapin seem to me inferior to Mr. King in vocal majesty. 
As to the matter of Mr. Stunner's addresses, every one knows what its characteristics are. If I were asked to characterize it in one word, I would call it "colossal." He is a statesman of broad and comprehensive views, but in his comprehensiveness of scope he does not ignore the stubborn facts of history and experience, which give so much trouble to theorizers. The intellectual structure he builds, while true in type to his grand theoretical views of policy and progress, is yet with remarkable patience reared upon foundations of solid fact, and formed, from base to cope, of the slowly aggregated materials of historical and experienced verities. To propound magnificent theories is mere bubble-blowing or cloud-building; but to erect a practical policy that shall stand proportioned to the needs of a great nation, ample, sheltering and strong—this is the work of a profound scholar and a prudent statesman. 
Sumner is eagle-eyed to detect fallacies, and he applies logical rules with inexorable severity to an opponent's argument. His intellectual vision is microscopic. He analyses every fact and principle and proposition with marvellous persistency and acuteness. I once heard him unravel the meaning of the term slaveholder, and by his showing it clearly contained within it almost every possible crime. Occasionally he rises from a toilsome and triumphant course of reasoning to a transient pathos, and then is quite royal in his sway. After showing, by compact argument, the drift of the peace-at-any-price doctrines, I once heard him ask, with thrilling effect, "Is this nation, then, so enamored of funerals that it is willing to stipulate for a long carnival of death?" 
Sumner seems to put all his manhood into his words, and even his most close and severe processes of argument are not uninteresting to a popular audience. When he has at length gained the serene summit of his mountain of argument, his earnest appeals are thrilling and grand. 
MISS ANNA DICKINSON.
I heard this young oratress, for the first time, just before election. Her theme was "Chicago Platform and the Last Ditch." Now, I must acknowledge that I am not, in theory, predisposed to favor female 
<c04>
oratory. We cannot afford to let the finer edge of be female character be dulled by the collisions of public life; and yet when a lady can speak as Miss Dickinson does, why, it seems to me her gift is proof of her mission. 
As to the personal appearance of the gifted lady upon the platform, I very much wish, for the sake of your lady-readers, I were skilled in the dialect of the milliner and the dry-goods merchant. Not being posted in the abstrusities of female apparel, I cannot say what Miss D. "had on." This I can say, however. Her dress was neat and elegant; she wears short hair—school girl fashion. She is not fully beautiful, but has an intelligent, thoughtful face. She is calm and peaceful in manner, and altogether feminine in utterance and action, although her thought has masculine vigor. She walks up and down the platform considerably while speaking. Her gestures are not very frequent, and are always appropriate. She has a decidedly feminine way of putting her foot down by way of emphasis. Her voice is clear and musical, and it fills the large hall of the Cooper Institute quite pleasantly. Her addresses are usually about an hour and a half in length, and she carries the audience with her triumphantly to the close.
Miss D. is a good reasoner, not impatient of logical restraint, but still apparently delighted to leap from the slow approximations of reasoning to the swifter flights, and perhaps truer results, of a keen, womanly intuition. She detects absurdity or duplicity very quickly, and in exposing either, uses relentless sarcasm. I have never heard the Chicago platform treated more severely than Miss Dickinson treated it in her recent lecture. Its proprietors, and the Major General, its candidate, all were shown forth clearly and grotesquely, and even pitifully, by the magic lantern of feminine irony. I think this irony is all the more potent for being so purely feminine. The blows of a heavy, flashing sword may be parried, but the little, polished pen-knife blade is more subtle, and quite as deadly. 
In pathetic passages Miss Dickinson is brilliant and queenly. She evidently has a heart in thorough sympathy with all the advanced ideas of the day. Her strong feelings throw a radiance over words and sentences, and so completely magnetize her language that few can resist its spell. I have seen no grander tributes to the power of oratorical excellence than those manifested by the immense audience which heard Miss Dickinson's last address on public affairs in this city. Hats, handkerchiefs and voices bore frequent testimony to the intense sympathy of the audience with the speaker and her cause.—N. Y. corr. American Flag, San Francisco. 
A GLANCE BACKWARD. 
WASHINGTON, Jan. 15,1865. 
To the Editor of the Boston Journal: 
While the telegraph must now be used to chronicle what is transpiring, and to predict what may take place, I may be permitted to take up my pen occasionally to recall past events, interesting on account of their connection with present transactions. For example—we came very near being able to welcome here, yesterday, the Hon. Henry S. Foote, a fugitive member of the Confederate Congress, who did his best to escape from Richmond by one of the underground routes originally established by negro slaves. Turning his back upon his native State, and upon the Confederacy which has slavery as its corner-stone, he sought refuge among a free people, and would doubtless have soon enrolled himself among the most radical emancipationists. Reformed drunkards used to make the most zealous Wash-tonians, and these ex-slaveholders become the most ultra abolitionists. Tres bien! but let us look back on Gov. Foote's record, just to see how the world moves. 
Not seventeen years ago—it was on a pleasant April day in 1848—there was a pyrotechnic display of indignation in the old Senate Chamber by the Southern chivalry and their Northern allies. John P. Hale, who then stood alone in the Senate as the champion of freedom, had introduced an act to prevent riots. The office of a newspaper which had dared to advocate freedom in this District had been mobbed, and the Senator from New Hampshire had the audacity to introduce this bill, providing for the punishment of rioters. The bill, as was shown in the debate, was actually copied from: he statutes of Maryland. 
Mr. Calhoun first attacked the bill, which, said he, should not be introduced "to repress the just indignation of our people from wreaking their vengeance upon the atrocious perpetrators of these crimes, or those who contribute to them, without a denunciation of the cause that excited that indignation." He hoped that he would not be "almost the exclusive defender of this great institution of the South, upon which not only its prosperity but its very existence depends." "Delay," the arch-agitator went on to declare," is dangerous on this question. The crisis has come, and we must meet it, and meet it directly; and, I will add, we have ample means to meet it." 
Senator Westcott of Florida next defended the mob, confessing that he was present; and then Senator Jefferson Davis of Mississippi took then .floor, commencing his remarks by saying, in his impressive manner: "The Senator from South Carolina has remarked that he expected that younger members of this body would notice the motion of the Senator from New Hampshire to introduce a bill, the purpose of which is the protection of incendiaries and kidnappers. I have only to say that it is from no want of accordance in feeling with that honorable Senator, but from deference to him who has so long and so nobly stood foremost in defence of the institutions of the South, that I remained silent It was rather that I wished to follow him than that I did not feel the indignation which he has so well expressed." 
The present leader of the rebellion went on to denounce all who dared to discuss the slavery question:— 
"Why is it," he asked, " that in the Senate, once looked to as the conservative branch of the Government—once looked to as so dignified that it stood above the power of faction—that we find the subject of this contest so insulting to the South—so irritating always when it is agitated—introduced on such anoc-casion? Is this debatable ground? Not It is ground upon which the people of this Union may shed blood, and that is the final result If it be pressed any further, and if this Senate is to be made the theatre of that contest, let it come—the sooner the better."
Then rose the colleague of Davis, Mr. Foote, who was looking forward to the gubernatorial chair of Mississippi, which be afterward occupied. He made one of his spread-eagle harangues, denouncing abolitionists in general, and closing with the following personal remarks to Mr. Hale. "If," said Mr. Foote, "the Senator from New Hampshire realty wishes glory, and to be regarded as the great liberator of the blacks; if he wishes to be particularly distinguished is the cause of emancipation, as it is 
<c05>
called, let him, instead of remaining here in the, Senate of the United Stales, or, instead of secreting himself in some dark corner of New Hampshire, where he may possibly escape the just indignation of good men throughout this Republic—let him visit the good State of Mississippi, in which I have the honor to reside, and no doubt he will be received with such hosannas and shouts of joy as have rarely marked the reception of any individual in this day and generation. I invite him there, and will tell him beforehand, in all honesty, that he could not go ten miles into the interior, before he would grace one! of the tallest trees of the forest, with a rope around his neck, with the approbation of every virtuous and patriotic citizen; and that, if necessary, I should myself assist in the operation."
Mr. Hale denied all personal cognizance of kidnappers, and said in his good-natured way: "He invites me to visit the State of Mississippi, and kindly informs me that he would be one of those who would act the assassin, and put an end to my career. He would aid in bringing me to public execution—no, death by a mob. Well, in return for this hospitable invitation, I can only express the desire that he would penetrate into some of the dark corners of New Hampshire, and if he do, I am much mistaken if he would not find that the people in that benighted region would be very happy to listen to his arguments, and engage in an intellectual conflict with him, in which the truth might be elicited."
That Mr. Hale should be hung was evidently the opinion of the ultra Southern Senators, who looked at him with indignant hatred, and many present expected that he would be personally assailed. But the sturdy New Hampshire Senator kept up the contest manfully, even when Hannegan came to the relief of his Southern Democratic allies, and Douglas endeavored to occupy a neutral ground, the latter saying: "It is the speeches of Southern men, representing slave States, going to an extreme, breathing a fanaticism as wild and as reckless as that of the Senator from New Hampshire, which creates abolitionism in the North. The extremes meet. It is no other than Southern Senators acting in concert, and yet without design, that produces abolition."
This again excited the wrath of Calhoun, who cracked his whip over the Little Giant, declaring —" I must object to his course, and say that it is at least as offensive as that of the Senator from New Hampshire." Those slave-drivers tolerated no one who undertook to preserve a neutrality, and they required a man to become a truckling vassal, or they denounced him as their enemy. 
But Hale merited hanging! Liter in the debate, Foote again so declared himself. "I can use no other language," said he. " I cannot but repeat my conviction, that any man who dares to utter such sentiments as those of the Senator from New Hampshire, and attempts to act them out anywhere in the sunny South, will meet death upon the scaffold, and deserves it."
Jefferson Davis also repealed his conviction, and indorsed the declarations of Foote. "His ground," said the present President of the Confederate States, was that which the peace and security of the South have justified, and which will, of necessity, be their position in future. When Dr. Johnson heard that a man, whose life had been a course of villany, had committed suicide by hanging himself, he replied, 'It was right that a life which had been uniformly oblique should be terminated by a perpendicular.'"
CELEBRATION AT BEAUFORT.

BEAUFORT, S. C, Jan. 6th, 1865. 
MR. EDITOR:—Time passes, and the year of 1864 is no more, and the new year of 1865 is upon us. It was ushered in here with great joy as the anniversary of a great event; and on Monday all the people, old and young, came together upon the green in front of the "Library Building," to congratulate each other in speech, song and martial music; to shout and clap their hands in honor of the return of the day which set them free. The school children were marshalled in procession, preceded by the colored band, and a carriage decked with evergreen and the national flag, drawn by six white horses, in which were thirteen misses, waving miniature flags, one also with the cap of Liberty, representing the Goddess of Freedom, and others representing the different States in which the slaves were freed by the Proclamation. Four hundred children followed, marching two by two in good order, much to the admiration of all. The procession moved though the principal streets of the town to the place of meeting, the children all the while keeping their places in fine order. The carriage stopped just front of the speakers' stand, and the children filed in and around the stand. Their behavior was excellent throughout, fully equal to any gathering of white children which I have ever witnessed. Gen. Saxton presided, and called upon Rev. Mr. Harris to open the exercises by invoking a blessing, which was followed by a song from the Goddess of Liberty with her attendants. The General then made a brief, appropriate speech, and read a poem written for the occasion by Mr. Judd. He.was followed by your humble servant Good speeches were also made by Mr. Tomlinson, Mr. Hume, and the colored Chaplain of the 102d Michigan Regiment. The remarks of all the speakers were well received, and were interspersed with songs by the children and music by the band. It was a joyous, happy occasion, in which all took a deep interest and manifested much delight. 
There was one feature connected with it that showed what wonderful changes even three years of freedom had wrought with this people. It so happened that on the same morning, 150 colored refugees arrived here from Sherman's army. They were invited to join with us, which they did with apparent delight But the contrast was great, not only as you viewed their ragged, dirty appearance, as compared with the neat and tidy dress of the thousands around them, but in their manners. With the poor refugees it was downcast, dejected and sorrowful; with the others it was more manly and hopeful, as though they felt the inspiration of freedom coursing through their veins. I believe they did. 
You remember the song sung by the three white slaves last summer, which begins, "In 1861, hurra! hurra!" and closes with, " Hail to freedom's flag!" We taught the children that which was entirely new to them, and they sung it with thrilling effect. I so arranged my remarks as to have it come in at the close as a part of my speech, as it were. Then when the cheers subsided, I added—" Mr. President —one word more. We read in classical history that, on a certain occasion, the mothers were required to present their jewels, for a special purpose, and one noble woman came forward with her children, and said,' These are my jewels!' So do I, on this joyous, happy day, as the Superintendent of the Schools of this town, and of many others in the Department, being the representative of fifty teachers, present to you these children <illegible> jewels of our 
<c06>
present rejoicing. Sir, you may not see in them just now all that refinement, taste and polished manners, which you have witnessed at your northern home; but, sir, let me say to you. and to this large assembly, that the diamond is there. It only needs to have its rough edges hewn away, and to be polished, that it may be seen and read of all SMB. Their hearts glow warmly with affection and love; Their minds give evidence of intellectual strength and power, which, when more fully developed, will unquestionably prove them to be worthy of the freedom bestowed, and capable of holding such a position as to be respected as honorable and worthy citizens of our common country. I have no doubts misgivings relative to this. My heart, sir, is in this work, and I have witnessed enough already to be convinced that the diamond is to be found under the dark skin as well as the white. Time alone most show which will prove the more brilliant. May we all labor in love as the children of one common Parent." Three cheers were given with a will.
Eighteen thousand troops have arrived here from Savannah. Where are they going? They reply, "We don't know." I guess Charleston. They look tough and hardy, and are in the best of spirits, ready to go to C. when "Uncle Billy says so." 
Yours, respectfully, 
GEO. NEWCOMB.
Corr. of Dedham Gazette. 
PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
Perhaps in the absence of that statesmanlike presence of mind and fertility of resources for which no one would give Mr. Lincoln any considerable credit, the greatest quality he has shown, and that by which he has most distinguished himself from his more eminent colleagues, is a certain naturalism of mind, closely connected, perhaps, but not identical with his high integrity, which has enabled him to look at the position of the Government, and the movements of the popular feeling as if he stood outside both, and were studying their situation and the influences which affect them almost as a student of natural history Would study the instincts of an animal, and judge of its chances in a deadly struggle with another of different nature. Compare his few and well-marked speeches and acts with the false and feverish anticipations of Mr. Seward, or the energetic proselytism of any of the parties which strove to push him on or poll him back. He has not exactly guided the people or the Government, but he discovered accurately the time when the people were ripe for a fresh stride forwards, has declared the hour come, and never receded with that deceptive backward movement of the wave which is really only the preparation for another advance. Mr. Lincoln has never gone out of his way to anticipate or hope. He has simply announced, from time to time, the maturity of a new stage of opinion, the conditions under which alone the war could be successfully prosecuted, but without misleading the public by dangling out political baits. He has kept silent when other politicians administered injurious stimulants to public opinion. In moments of triumph he has not been elated, and in moments of disaster he has not given any symptom of depression. He has never swerved for a moment, even under the excitement of the first great responsibility, front the principles he had accepted before his election, and has been apparently the most unimpassioned of critics as to the new steps necessary to prevent the surrender of any of those principles. And we believe this strict naturalism in the treatment of the popular forces has suited far better the mass of Northern Americans than one of Mr. Carlyle's " Kings or Canning men." who might have tried to mould too fast the slow fibre of American constitutionalism.—London Spectator. 
ELOQUENT EXTRACTS.
We met a school boy the other day, who was inquiring for a "piece" for his exercise in declamation. Possibly this paragraph may meet the eyes of other boys in a like case. If so, we cannot do better in April last to a mass meeting at Knoxville in Tennessee, by Andrew Johnson, now Vice President elect of the United States. Though a poor boy in his childhood, and without the advantage of schools, his utterances here quoted are equal to anything in the thrilling passages of Patrick Henry: 
"My country men! my heart yearns toward you. I am one of you. I have climbed yonder mountains which you have climbed, mountains rock-ribbed and glowing in sunshine, in whose gorges and caverns your sons, hunted like wild beasts, have fallen to rise no more. I do not speak of these things to draw your tears. It is not the time for tears, but for blows. I speak of them that I may fire your hearts with holy indignation, and nerve your arms for unconquerable fight. And I speak of them because the mountains seem to talk to me. My house is among the mountains, and, though it is no far away, I cannot go to it. It is the pace where I met and loved and married her who is the mother of my children. Do I not love the mountains then? And if liberty is to expire, if freedom is to be destroyed, if my country, in all its length and breadth, is to tremble beneath the oppressor's tread; let the fag, the last flag be planted on yon rocky heights, and upon it let there be this inscription: 
"Here is the end of all that is dear to the heart and sacred to the memory of man!"
Since this matter is in hand, another extract is offered for a like purpose. It is the concluding part of Gov. Andrew's remarks in his recent inaugural address, on the duty of the State to encourage education through the agricultural college: 
"When the commonwealth touches such a subject, she ought to feel herself to be like the priestess advancing to touch the sacred symbols, and on holy ground. She should remember her own dignity, the immortality always possible to states, the error of which she is the promoter hereafter, if she commits herself to error now, and the boundless scope of her good influence, the millions of men on whom her influence may be made to tell through all the amplitudes of space and time. When I contemplate such a subject, the reason is content to yield to the imagination. I remember the photograph, the magnetic telegraph, the discovery of vaccination, the painless operations of surgery—the triumphs, the miracles of genius. I seem to see, for the earth herself and her cultivators, the coming time when husbandry, attended by all the ministries of science and art, shall illumine and rejuvenate her countenance, and re-create our life below." 
In the city of Memphis, Tenn., there are eight colored schools taught by nineteen teachers of whom some are white, and some are colored. These teachers have under their instruction nine hundred scholars, both young and old. The majority of them, but a short time ago, laid by their chains.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"Ilay this down as the law of nations. I say that limitary authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive managements of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the that theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interferences with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERRED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slave taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a w<illegible> power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded."— J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
UNIVERSAL SUFFRAGE.
The following is the concluding portion of Henry Winter Davis's Fourth of July oration, in Chicago, in which be takes strong and high ground in favor of universal suffrage:
We cannot govern these immense regions by military power. That is to create proconsuls, to whom armies will become devoted, in whom the spirit of ambition will grow and become strong, and, who, like Caesar, may march across the Rubicon, and under the insidious pretext of public good, America may become as Rome was. Military government over our vast territory is inconsistent with the permanence and integrity of the American nation. That idea must be excluded. If you wish to attempt civil government, let it be organized; but the great American principle is that not only of personal freedom but of State government. We want no rebel State government—we want still less a military government. We do not want oligarchies of pretended Union men, who have been so low and so far out of sight that nobody can define their relations to the rebellion, who have meanly sympathized with the power that was, and now are willing to be the instruments of the power that is. We want free government by the loyal masses, who will maintain our rights, and are powerful enough to maintain the government. It may be there is no white population in the South, taken en masse, that will conform to these conditions, after you have eradicated from the list every man that you can prove to be a secessionist; after you have sifted out those who have sympathized with the rebellion, and paid their money to the rebellion. Those you can call in any sense of the word loyal men, to be relied upon in any emergency to stand by the cause against every secession friend at the North and secessionist at the South, are rare. The secessionists at the South are the heroes of the South. Robert Lee, to-morrow, could carry every Southern electoral vote for President of the United States, and I am not sure that he could not carry some Northern States. (Laughter.) The reorganizing, therefore, of a State, on the basis of the white population, involves the instant change of the basis of power, the South having actually acquired representatives by the abolition of slavery, and coming back to us more powerful than before. But there is a mass of population there who are on the side of the United States against all secessionists; who to-day have an interest in the Declaration of independence; who have won it on the battle-field by the side of these gentlemen wearing the uniform of the nation. (Referring to Major General Hurlbert, Brigadier General Webster, and other military officers on the platform.) They have proven themselves to be men and not beasts. (Applause.) Will anybody on this subject venture to moot the small, paltry question that hitherto has divided and worried people in other States, of the vote of a handful of negroes scattered in the midst of a white million? Is that the way to state the question, or is it wise in these gentlemen of the opposite habitually to talk about "justice and humanity," as if justice and humanity ever determined any question in this world? It is not a question of morals; it is a question of political dynamics. It is a question of salvation; not of morals. In South America there are twice as many negroes as there are whites. In Mississippi there are more than whites. In Alabama, in Louisiana, in Georgia, they are very nearly equal. They can control the result of any election. "They will vote with their masters," insidious gentlemen tell us. Then at least let their masters be under the necessity of touching their hats to them to get their votes. "They are not intelligent enough to vote!" They know, fellow-citizens, a gray uniform from a blue one. (Applause and cries of "That's so.") They know a Yankee from their master. They fought under Yankee leadership—may be they can vote as intelligently under Yankee leadership. (Applause.) They are not spread in their mass over the Southern country; they are crowded in broad districts. They border the shore of the Atlantic and the Gulf of Mexico, and the borders of the Mississippi. They are in immense majorities in only one part of the congressional districts of the South. That one fact alone breaks the terrible and overwhelming unity of the Southern vote which plunged us into the rebellion. Men who are not capable of understanding considerations like these had better go and whine about negro votes. (Applause.) I have seen about as much of negroes as any of you, having lived among them for years. I suppose I have as much of prejudice as anybody else. But for anybody else to talk of prejudice, when we have been allowed to take the negro from the plow and put a musket in his hand, is terrible folly, infinite meanness. If you did not want him to have the rights of a man, why did you put him on the battle-field? You white men of Illinois, why did you not fill your quota so that the negro should not have been needed? (Applause.) It was proved to them that the negro could relieve them from military service. If he is their equal on the field of battle, he is their equal at the ballot-box. And if he is not their equal on the battle-field, then they cheated the United States and endangered themselves. (Applause.) Steps have been taken to reorganize, that do not conclude this question either way. I could desire that a step further had been taken by the gentleman whom we elected President. But there is nothing in his proclamations which concludes, or, if it had assumed to conclude, covers all the United States on this great question. He may have had more confidence in the white people of the South than I have. He may have desired to give them a golden opportunity of refuting every slander and silencing every doubt. He may have fondly hoped that, when the white population should be called upon to vote on the constitution, they, seeing their sins, their delusion; seeing what humanity requires; seeing what the long-hated people of the North will naturally suppose their safety requires; they will incorporate universal suffrage as the basis of their constitution. I shall rejoice with him if that result shall come about. I will not believe, until I learn the contrary, that that was his purpose, his will, his intention. But I will not believe any declaration of any person who says that he is opposed to it, and I will incline to believe that he knows that the only authority that can recognize State government at the South is Congress, which must admit every member of Congress, which must admit every Senator; and I turn to that assembly with some doubt, but with earnest hopes, and I feel that they should make ready for any emergency, not to yield to any blandishments, not to yield to any solicitation, not to take any man's declaration as to the safety of entrusting the whole mass of rebels at the South with the control of the Southern States. It must be remembered that a revolutionary minority can stop legislation; that a minority of the Southern representatives would impose conditions upon every bill; that legislation may be made impossible; and the very wheels of government stopped on an effort to pay the interest on your public debt, or to impose taxes for its payment. Or you may be forced to reinstate the rebel officers in your army, or place their wounded on your pension list. I pray gentlemen of the next Congress to look this thing directly in the eye, and, if they have any regard for justice and humanity, which are so earnestly pressed on them by some friends of the negro race, I would say to them," I, like you, am no enthusiast; I, like you, am no worshipper of the negro; I have no extreme idea of his intellectual superiority to the white race. I know that his votes are important, and, if I have not much respect for justice and humanity, I have great respect for the five-twenties. (Laughter.) It is numbers, not intelligence, it is right intentions, not philosophic judgment, that casts the vote at the ballot-box. I pray that they will pass a law prescribing universal suffrage—let them pass by their two-thirds majority, which they have, an amendment to the constitution, consecrating forever the mass of the people as the basis and criterion of republican government, and submit it this very winter to the Legislatures for their confirmation; and when it shall have received the assent of three-fourths of those that are now recognized as States and represented in Congress, let them instantly proclaim it as the fundamental law of the land, the supreme law as valid and binding as the constitution itself, of which they made it a part, and under which they sit, which no State coopers, no accident of political parties can ever shake or call in question. Then, fellow-citizens, all the glorious truths of the Declaration of Independence will have been confirmed and made stronger. This government will rest on the basis of individual liberty, and the right of every man to die in behalf of the country whose laws he obeys, whose bayonet he bears.
This is the fullest report we have seen of Mr. Davis's oration, but it is not very intelligently reported in some places, and in others we have had to amend it in the best way we could. Still, its radical tone is cheering as pertaining to the suffrage question.
<c02>
GEN. BANKS ON SUFFRAGE. 
The following extract from the verbatim report of Gen. Banks's speech at New Orleans presents some new ideas with his customary force and felicity:
"If you ask if they (the freedmen) are competent, if you ask if they are fit, I inquire of you if every man of the Methodist sect, or of the Roman Catholic sect, or of the Presbyterians, or of the Baptists, or of whatever religious denomination our people may be devoted, if every one of those men is fit to be invested with the right of suffrage, is a fit exponent of the will of the people, and is capable of directing safely and wisely the destinies of the nation? Every man must say’ No, it is not to be expected.' So I say, as a corollary to the position I have assumed, that fitness and capacity are not the sole ingredients of suffrage or of participation in the affairs of our Government by all classes of its people. Fitness and capacity are the attributes of all rather than of a part. (Applause.) It is the concentrated wisdom of the multitude that has led our country and its Government through all its trials to its present prosperity and power. You may draw from the intellectual and cultivated a tenth, or a quarter even, and you will not abase or lower the standard capacity represented by the Government. You may increase by a tenth or a quarter if you please the inexperienced and unlearned that participate in the affairs of our Government, without deteriorating from the success of our institutions.
It is therefore strictly, logically, philosophically and religiously true that fitness and capacity are the result of the concentration of powers, and not the attribute of each individual that chooses to exercise, or that is invested with the power to exercise, the rights of freemen. If you make three millions of freemen invested with the rights of suffrage three millions five hundred thousand, who is afraid of the result? (Applause, and cries of’ Nobody, ‘Nobody.') Nobody but a rebel. (Great applause and cheers.) It is death to him-(laughter)—but it is life to us and our nation. (Tremendous enthusiasm.) On the other hand, it is equally philosophically and religiously true that if you withdraw from three millions of voters in our country a million, whether it be of the ignorant or enlightened classes, you weaken the capacity and strength of the people for government. It is better, as every man knows, that all should be represented at the ballot-box, than that only a part should be represented. (Applause.) Because all are wiser and greater than a part. The multitude of men of every nation is nearer to God than any one man that lives within it. There is more of His spirit and His power in the race than there is in any fragment of the race, whatever may be its attributes and its position. In that, where God has given the full share of His ability and power, we have the greater reason to trust than in that, whatever may be its earthly attainment, which has a less and imperfect share. Therefore, I say again that fitness and capacity are not the sole nor the principal test. The test of safety is in the heart of the people—the instructed heart of the people—instructed not in any catechism, nor in a spelling-book, but in faith to God and love to men.
And who shall say that the four millions of people that have been acquired lately, as it were by a new birth to the American nation—who shall say to me that their hearts are not as pure, that their spirit is not as loyal, not as faithful to the Government, not as faithful to the interests of the people and God, as that of any other class? (Great applause.) It may be that they are unlettered; that they cannot decipher the mysteries of Egyptian hieroglyphics, or wander through the mazes of geometry and the occult sciences, but these things do not help to make a man wise—they help to make him learned; they do not help to make him useful, they assist to make him ornamental. But so far as the depository of political power is concerned, it is to be exercised for the benefit of all. Give me an honest and faithful man without letters, before the most occult and abstruse scholar, who knows nothing of the political affairs of life. I see this not merely as a matter of choice, as a matter of political reflection, as a matter of necessity, but as a providence for which we have reason to be as grateful to God as for any other providence—that the four millions of people that have been baptized in the spirit of American citizenship, should be assisted to perform their duties, and admitted to their rights-(Great applause.) If anything is to be done, the quicker it is done, and well done, the better for all."

The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 28, 1865.
FIRST OF AUGUST.
One more observance of the anniversary of West India EMANCIPATION it is proposed to hold, as in years past, at ABINGTON GROVE. The Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society will unite with the citizens of Plymouth County, and others, in holding a public meeting for that purpose on TUESDAY, August 1st, in that well-known and beautiful spot. To this meeting are invited all who desire that Emancipation in our own land may be established on a juster and better foundation than it has been in any European colony,—all who desire and propose that the labors and sacrifices of the last quarter of a century, and especially of the last four years, shall not fail of bringing forth fruit worthy of the Republic, worthy of the heroism and martyrdom of our brave brothers on land and sea, worthy of the great principle of Liberty which inspired them, and whose service is ever our highest honor and reward.
The claims of the cause, the attractions of the spot, the social gathering of many friends, will be reasons enough for the gathering of a large company on the occasion.
Rev. S. R. CALTHROP, Mrs. FRANCES E. W. HARPER, WM. WELLS BROWN, ANDREW T. FOSS, NATHANIEL H. WHITING, Esq., and Rev. J. B. MARVIN, are among the speakers expected to attend the meeting.
CARS will leave the Old Colony Depot, on that day, for the Grove, at 9 o'clock, A. M.; leave Plymouth for the Grove at 9.30, A. M.; both trains stopping at the usual way stations. Returning, leave the Grove for Boston at 4.25; for Plymouth, at 6.
Fares—from Boston to Grove and return, sixty cents for adults—forty cents for children under twelve years. From Plymouth, and all way stations, half the usual fare.
SAMUEL MAY, JR., } Committee of Mass. A. S. So.
CHARLES K. WHIPPLE, } Committee of Mass. A. S. So.
MICAH H. POOLE, } Committee of Plymouth Co.
ELBRIDGE SPRAGUE, } Committee of Plymouth Co.
SAMUEL DYER, } Committee of Plymouth Co.
GRIDLEY BEALE, } Committee of Plymouth Co.
BOURNE SPOONER, } Committee of Plymouth Co.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for August, is received. The following is the table of contents: Among the Honey Makers, by Harriet E. Prescott. Countess Laura, by George H. Boker. Strategy at the Fireside, by Epes Sargent. Around Mull. Part II. by Maria S. Cummins. John Bright and the English Radicals, by G. W. Towle. Needle and Garden. VIII. The Willow, by Elizabeth A. C. Akers. My Second Capture. Dr. Johns. VII. by Donald G. Mitchell. Letter to a Silent Friend. The Chimney-Corner. VIII. by Mrs. H. B. Stowe. Peace, by Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney. Reconstruction and Negro Suffrage. Reviews and Literary Notices. 
Ticknor & Fields, Publishers.
A Richmond paper calls for English, Scotch and Irish emigrants to come South, where they will find, among other advantages, "indulgent taskmasters." The dialect of the people of the rebel States, everywhere, shows that the ideas of slavery still hold possession of their minds. Those who labor under their supervision will still find themselves regarded substantially as "niggers," and treated as nearly so as the new state of things will permit. But then, you know, the slaves were always" well treated"!
The public fountains in Boston discharge 125,183 gallons gallons an hour when in full play, the large one on the Common itself flowing 112,030 gallons.
<c03>
WHTTIER'S"NATIONAL LYEICS."
The third number of the "COMPANION POETS FOR THE PEOPLE," in illustrated volumes, published by Ticknor & Fields, 135 Washington street, contains a choice and copious selection from the heart-stirring Anti-Slavery Lyrics of John G. Whittier; and being afforded at a low rate, and printed in a very neat and compact form, should find a host of patrons and readers. Some may conclude, that as slavery has met the fate of the rebellion which was commenced for its perpetuity, these Lyrics are no longer of vital interest and sterling value; but no inference can be more erroneous than this. While oppression in any organized form exists, while there is a conflict any where for the right against the colossal forces of wrong, while there are hearts to melt with pity at the tale of human suffering or to be kindled to a flame by the bugle-notes of freedom, they will cause the pulse to thrill, the eye to flash, and the spirit to do and dare for the downfall of tyranny, the liberty and equality of the human race. They may be read a thousand times, and never become trite by repetition. Not all the poets of the world together have done so much by their effusions to excite sympathy for the oppressed, and vindicate the inalienable rights of man, as Whittier. To him must be accorded a large share of whatever credit or applause may be given to those who, against the most tremendous odds, dared to grapple with the Slave Power for its overthrow, and who by God's help have at last come off conquerors. He is a poet of the first rank, but yet more to be prized as a philanthropist and reformer of the best type.
This volume appropriately opens with those quickening stanzas, commencing—
"Our fellow-countrymen in chains!
Slaves—in the land of light and law!
Slaves—crouching on the very plains
Where rolled the storm of Freedom's war!"
and as appropriately ends with the "Lines on hearing the bells ring for the Constitutional Amendment abolishing slavery in the United States"-
"It is done!
Clang of bell and roar of gun
Send the tidings up and down.
How the belfries rock and reel!
How the great guns, peal on peal,
Fling the joy from town to town!

Ring and swing
Bells of joy! on morning's wing 
Send the song of praise abroad;
With a sound of broken chains,
Tell the nations that He reigns,
Who alone is Lord and God!"
Between the two periods thus designated—covering about the life time of a generation—what conflicts of opinion, what divisions of feeling, what tumults of passion, what throes of agony, what alienations of friendship, what outbreaks of violence, what combinations of evil, have been witnessed in the land as the results of an impartial advocacy of the self-evident truths of the Declaration of Independence, on the one hand, and of a desperate purpose to indefinitely extend and perpetuate "the vilest system of oppression that the sun ever looked upon," on the other!
In the darkest hours—at every stage of the tremendous struggle—no matter how strong the foe or feeble the anti-slavery ranks—the tone of the Quaker poet has been calmly confident and inspiringly hopeful—often sublimely defiant. Thus:—
"Whoso shrinks or falters now,
Whoso to the yoke would bow,
Brand the craven on his brow!
Freedom's soil hath only place 
For a free and fearless race—
None for traitors false and base."
Again:—
"Think ye one heart of man or child 
Will falter from its lofty faith 
At the mob's tumult, fierce and wild-
The prison cell, the shameful death?
No!—nursed in storm and trial long, 
The weakest of our band is strong!
Oh! while before us visions come 
Of slave-ships on Virginia's coast—
Of mothers in their childless home,
Like Rachel, sorrowing o'er the lost—
The slave-gang scourged upon its way—
The bloodhound and his human prey-
We cannot falter! Did we so,
The stones beneath would murmur out,
And all the winds that round us blow
Would whisper of our shame about.
No! let the tempest rock the land;
Our faith shall live—our truth shall stand."
And again:
"Pride of New England! 
Soul of our fathers!
Shrink we all craven-like 
When the storm gathers?
What though the tempest be 
Over us lowering, 
Where's the New Englander 
Shamefully cowering?
Graves green and holy 
Around us are lying— 
Free were the sleepers all, 
Living and dying!
Back with the Southerner's 
Padlocks and scourges! 
Go—let him fetter down 
Ocean's free surges!
Go—let him silence 
Winds, clouds, and waters— 
Never New England's own
Free sons and daughters!
Free as the rivers are 
Ocean-ward going— 
Free as the breezes are 
Over us blowing."
The strengthening effect of such appeals, at such a crisis, upon the minds of the little band of consecrated Abolitionists, called to breast every form of oppression, cannot be estimated; for when those appeals were made, to any other eye than that of faith it seemed as though the powers of darkness were to have every thing their own way to the end, and that it would be easier to "create a soul under the ribs of death" than to convert the nation to abolition sentiments. Alas! at that time, for" New England's own free sons and daughters"! With here and there a solitary exception, through the promptings of selfish interest, religious and political complicity with slavery, and cruel prejudice against the negro, much rather inclined to bow the supple knee to the slave oligarchy than to "back with the Southerner's padlocks and scourges"! And here let the clear sighted intrepid, unfaltering poet speak again:-
"On the oppressor's side was power;
And yet I knew that every wrong, 
However old, however strong' 
But waited God's avenging hour.
I knew that truth would crush the lie,— 
Somehow, sometime, the end would be;
Yet scarcely dared I hope to see 
The triumph with my mortal eye.
But now I see it! In the sun 
A free flag floats from yonder dome, 
And at the nation's hearth and home 
The justice long delayed is done."
In such a trustful, devout spirit was the Anti-Slavery cause carried on from its inception to its glorious consummation; yet how was it maligned, caricatured, assailed as the embodiment of all that was evil! Even now, though much of its reproach has been wiped away, the time for its full vindication has not come. Slavery having been abolished rather from national necessity than national repentance, there is still much to be done to convince the popular mind of its matchless cruelty and wickedness, and to strengthen the sentiment of freedom in every section of the country; and to this end no more powerful instrumentality can be used than a wide dissemination of these thrilling National Lyrics. Onward, then, to the perfect finishing of the mighty work so well begun, so far accomplished!
THE PRINCIPIA, a weekly journal, edited by the venerable William Goodell, was suspended nearly a year since on account of pecuniary embarrassments. The proprietors, having come into possession of the subscription list and good-will of the National Era, (which was discontinued some years since, upon the death of its editor, Dr. Bailey,) have now resumed the publication under the title of The Principia and the National Era. Mr. Goodell is still the editor, and it is understood that Dr. Cheever will be a frequent contributor.
<c04>
ADDRESS OF WENDELL PHILLIPS.
On Tuesday forenoon last, the seventy-second annual festival of the Public Schools of Boston took place in Music Hall. There was, as usual, a densely crowded attendance of the parents and friends of the children. The Hall was handsomely decorated for the occasion. The choir of children numbered twelve hundred, under the direction of Mr. Carl Zerrahn. Addresses were made by Mayor Lincoln, Rev. Henry Burroughs, Jr., Hon. Richard H. Dana, and Wendell Phillips, Esq. Mr. Phillips spoke in the following interesting and instructive manner, as reported in the Journal of Wednesday morning, in which is a full report of the proceedings:-
FELLOW-CITIZENS,-I was invited by the Mayor to address the scholars of the schools of Boston, but, like my friend Mr. Dana, who preceded me, I hardly know in what direction to look in the course of this address for the scholars. I can hardly turn my back on them, nor can I turn my back on you. I shall have to make a compromise—that everlasting refuge of Americans. (Applause.) I recollect, when I was in college, that when a classmate came upon the stage, we could recognize in the audience where the family, the mother or sister were, by noticing him when he made his first bow. He would look toward them, and they would invariably bow in return. By this inevitable sign I have distinguished many a mother, sister and father among the audience to-day.
This is the first time, for many years, that I have participated in a school festival. I have received no invitation since 1824, when I was a little boy in a class in a Latin school, when we were turned out in a grand procession on yonder Common at nine o'clock in the morning. And for what? Not to hear eloquent music; no, but for the sight of something better than art or music—that thrilled more than eloquence—a sight which should live in the memory for ever—the best sight which Boston ever saw—the welcome of Lafayette on his return to this country after an absence of a score of years. I can boast, boys and girls, more than you. I can boast that these eyes have beheld the hero of three revolutions; this hand has touched the right hand that held up Hancock and Washington. Not all this glorious celebration can equal that glad reception of the nation's benefactor by all that Boston could offer him, a sight of its children. It was a long procession, and, unlike other processions, we started punctually at the hour published, They would not let us wander about, and did not wish us to sit down. I there received my first lesson in hero worship. I was so tired after four hours' waiting, I could scarcely stand. But when I saw him—that glorious old Frenchman! —I could have stood until to-day. Well, now, boys, these were very small times compared with this. Our public examinations were held up in Boylston Hall. I do not believe we ever afforded banners; I know we never had any music. Now they take the classes out to walk on the Common at eleven o'clock. We were carried out into a small place eight feet by eleven, solid walls on one side and a paling on the other, which looked like a hencoop; there the public Latin scholars recreated themselves. They were very small times compared with these.
As Mr. Dana referred to the facilities and opportunities that the Boston boys enjoy, I could not but think what it is that makes the efficient man. Not by flowing with the current. You must swim against it to develop strength and power. The danger is that a boy, with all these facilities, books and libraries, may never make that sturdy scholar, that energetic man, we would wish him to become. When I look on such a scene as this, I go back to the precedent alluded to by you, sir, of him who travelled eighteen miles and worked all day to earn a book, and sat up all night to read it. By the side of me, in this same city of Boston, sat a boy in the Latin School, who bought his dictionary with money earned by picking chestnuts. Do you remember Cobbett? And Frederick Douglass, whose eloquent notes still echo through the land, who learned to read from the posters on the highway? And Theodore Parker, who laid the foundation of his library with the book for which he spent three weeks in picking berries? 
Boys, you will not be moved to action by starvation and want. Where will you get the motive power? You will have the spur of ambition to be worthy of the fathers who have given you these opportunities. Remember, boys, what fame it is that you bear up—this old name of Boston! A certain well-known poet says it is the hub of the universe. Well, this is a gentle and generous satire. In revolutionary days, they talked of the Boston revolution. When Samuel Johnson wrote his work against the American colonies, it was Boston he ridiculed. When the king could not sleep over night, he got up and muttered "Boston." When the proclamation of pardon was issued, the only two excepted were the two Boston fanatics—John Hancock and Sam. Adams. (Applause.) But what did Boston do? They sent Hancock to Philadelphia to write his name on the Declaration of Independence in letters large enough, almost, for the king to read on the other side of the ocean. Boston then meant liberty. Come down to forty or fifty years ago. What did Boston mean when the South went mad, and got up a new flag, and said they would put it in Boston on Faneuil Hall? It was Boston that meant Liberty, as Boston had meant Independence. And when our troops went out in the last war, what was it that gave them their superiority? It was the brains they carried from these schools. When Gen. Butler was stopped near the Relay House with a broken locomotive, he turned to the Eighth regiment, and asked if any one of them could mend it. A private walked out of the ranks, and patted it on the back and said: "I ought to know it—I made it." When we went down to Charleston, and were kept seven miles off from the city, the Yankees sent down a New Hampshire Parrott that would send a two hundred pound shot into their midst. The great ability of New England has been proved. Now, boys, the glory of a father is his children. That father has done his work well who has left a child better than himself. The German prayer is," Lord, grant I may be as well off to-morrow as yesterday!" No Yankee ever uttered that prayer. He always means that his son shall have a better starting-point in life than himself. The glory of a father is his children. Our fathers made themselves independent seventy or eighty years ago. It remains for us to devote ourselves to liberty and the welfare of others, with the generous willingness to do toward others as we would have others do to us.
Now, boys, that is my lesson to you to-day. Be as good as your fathers, unless you are better. You have your fathers' example—the opportunities and advantages they have accumulated—and to be only as good is not enough. You must be better. You must copy only the spirit of your fathers, and not their imperfections. There was an old Boston merchant, years ago, who wanted a set of China made in Pekin. You know that Boston men, sixty years ago, looked at both sides of a cent before they spent it, and if they earned twelve cents they would save eleven. He could not spare a whole plate, so he sent a cracked one, and when he received the set, there was a crack in every piece. The Chinese had imitated the pattern exactly. (Laughter.) Now, boys, do not imitate us, or there will be a great many cracks. Be better than we. We have invented a telegraph, but what of that? I expect, if I live forty years, to see a telegraph that will send messages without wire, both ways at the same time. If you do not invent it, you are not as good as we are. You are bound to go ahead of us. The old London physician said the way to be well was to live on a sixpence, and earn it. That is education under the laws of necessity. We cannot give you that. Underneath you is the ever-watchful hand of city culture and wealth. All the motive we can give you is the name you bear. Bear it nobly!
I was in the West where they partly love and partly hate the Yankee. A man undertook to explain
<c05>
the difference between a watch made in Boston and one made in Chicago. He asked me what I thought of it. I answered him as a Boston man should: "We always do what we undertake to do—thoroughly." That is Boston. Boston has set the example of doing: do better. Sir Robert Peel said in the last hours of his life:" I have left the Queen's service; I have held the highest offices in the gift of the crown; and now, going out of public life, (he had just removed the bread from the table,) the happiest thought I have is that when the poor man breaks his bread in his cottage, he thanks God that I ever lived." Fellow-citizens, the warmest compliment I ever heard was breathed into my ears from the lips of a fugitive from South Carolina. In his hovel at home he said: "I thank God for Boston, and hope before I die I may tread upon its pavements." Boston has meant liberty and protection. See to it in all coming time, young men and women, you make it stand for good learning, upright character, sturdy love of liberty, willingness to be and do for others as you would have others be and do unto you. But make it, young men and women—make it a dread to every one who seeks to do evil. Make it a home and a refuge for the oppressed of all lands.

"SLAIN IN THE HIGH PLACES."
Numerous have been the Discourses in England, as well as in this country, upon the assassination of President Lincoln. From an excellent Discourse, delivered in Gallowtree Gate Chapel, Leicester, by the Rev. J. Allanson Picton, A. M., we select the following extracts:—
Renewed spiritual life starts from disappointment and regret, like shoots from the wounded limbs of trees. The object of our grief becomes the centre of countless fresh beauties, which root themselves in his ruin; and in the course of a few years' time, the departed relative, or the slain leader of men, whose sudden death distracted and bewildered us, has become a natural, necessary, and harmonious feature of the new world in which we live. So let it be with Abraham Lincoln, whom a growing sense of justice (blind and dim it might be, but still a growing sense of justice) had placed in the summit of power; whom Divine Providence made the centre of an awful struggle, and who, in the very moment of victory, has been snatched away by an assassin's hand. So let it be with Abraham Lincoln, whom immortality will make the spiritualized ideal of his country's highest resolve; whose words of generosity to the vanquished will, we hope, echo in a yet more impressive tone amidst the silence of the tomb; and whose dire and dreadful death, by the very wrench of its agony, may deepen and solemnize the national feeling.
Of the enthralling interest which attaches to the general course of God's Providence in the recent history of America—a course which has baffled every prophecy that ever was made on the subject by any one of any party—we will speak no further at present, because the hour is not yet come: nor is that the subject proposed. For our eyes are on a bereaved nation, a desolate home, a sudden, a terrible, and yet a glorious grave. But, encircled as these are by the lightnings of such an apocalypse, some flash of the burning vision ever and anon dazzles our sight, and gives a lurid glow even to our saddest regrets. Henceforth, let our thoughts be with the dead alone, and with the lessons taught by his, to us, so amazing and so shocking death. His terrible labors were almost over; he was victorious beyond expectation; his large heart longed to embrace the vanquished; he was the pillar and the centre of all hopes of a speedy peace, and the sure reliance of all who trembled at the possible passions of a conquering army. In truth, the whole world watched the movements of his hands and hung upon the words of his lips. A thousand telegraphic wires trembled at the impulse of his thoughts. Merchants in Europe, Australia, India and China rushed to hear the news of his decisions, and contemplative spirits viewed him almost with awe, when they thought of the destinies which might lie germinant within his counsels. But the weary head and the overburdened heart had need of rest. And pleasure-loving human society must needs grace its rejoicings with some illustrious presence. There he sat, amidst the flaming lights, above the radiant crowd, happy in the nearness of that one woman's love which had a charm more intense than the lustre of empire, or the incense of grateful praise. There he sat, the centre of boundless trust and hope; not exultant, we know—not gloating over the downfall of enemies. Every utterance of his last days disproves it. But over his spirit, I doubt not, there stole that sweet and blessed sense of relief which comes after a night of agony with the first streak of the morning's dawn. The dread necessities of his position, as he viewed it, had been successfully worked out; and he might well believe that not another household need be desolated, nor another drop of blood need be spilt, to end that miserable war. The people looked with pride upon him who personated their resolve; or, whatever might have been their opinions, they felt that the best hopes of the nation, at this supreme crisis, hung on him; and in their confident security none had thought that any danger could be nigh. But malevolence is only less omnipresent than the love of God. The assassin's step was on the stairs— was in the passage—was at the door. In the silence of the house a short, sharp pistol shot rang on the ear, and a woman's piercing shriek told the sudden anguish of a widow's heart; and the bereavement of a nation—of a world! Down from the gallery a man leaped upon the stage before the bewildered crowd; for a second there he stood, flourishing a bloody knife above his head, with that miserable vanity which too often simulates heroism. And before the fascinated multitude could draw a breath, he was lost in the darkness of the night. The dramatic contrast of the inward light and outer darkness, the gaiety and the glare, the boundless abyss of ignominy and misery, remind us of St. John's significant words concerning Judas of old—"immediately he went out, and it was night." But no cannon battery that ever roared, no mountain thunder that ever pealed, reverberated in such multitudinous, world-wide echoes as that pistol shot. It was heard in slumbering villages, and they were roused to search the shadows of the night with muttered vengeance. It was heard in the conquered States; and I doubt not at that instant every truly heroic heart felt its first impulse of sympathy for a conquering foe. Hitherward it rolled across the sea; and the wild excitement showed how the soul of the nation was stung with indignant abhorrence, which melted into genial sympathy, as the storm brings out the fragrance of the summer fields. And onward through the world it speeds, shaking indifference to decision, and sloth to ardor; so that the generous and manly feelings, which are deeper than all differences of opinion, were never, perhaps, more intense in union, and never mightier in volume, than they are at the present moment. Still onward through all ages it shall ring; and generations yet unborn, perhaps, shall date the impulse of their nobler life from the shock that the world has suffered now. The time has hardly come for an entire estimate even of the late President's character, much less of his deeds. One thing only we may affirm, without fear of contradiction, that the more he was known throughout the world, the better was he loved, and the more deeply was he reverenced. And never-all will agree-never shone he with as bright and pure a lustre as just before his shameful assassination.
When he was elected to this office, he never made any plausible pretext to catch the enthusiastic abolitionist. On the contrary, like many an honest man, he sat between two fires, careless alike of either, so that he did his duty to his country, and to his God. The time came, however when he thought) that he was right in using emancipation as a means of carrying on the war; and, having once thought so, he resolutely declined every offer that was made him, if he would give it up. "No," he said," if the blacks are
<c06>
sent back into slavery, it will not be by my hand; it will be another hand than mine that does that wrong." When the opportunity was thus forced upon him, he accepted it, in the fear of God. The event has proved that there was as little risk of servile insurrection and massacre in such a measure, as there was desire for it on the part of Lincoln. Without any such danger, it withdrew the negroes in tens of thousands from their masters, whose infatuated obstinacy in clinging to their idol made that proclamation of freedom the means of draining their resources. But whatever we may think of his policy, at lease it showed as little the conceit of immaculate perfection as the arrogance of tyranny; for, to prove that, I only ask you to look at his speech at the time of his last inauguration. What did he say then? He spoke as a man oppressed with the miseries of his native land. He spoke as a man in agony of mind at the fearful task that Providence had laid upon him. He spoke of himself and his opponents as common instruments in the hand of the Almighty in carrying out this direful needed revolution. And he said then that" neither he nor his opponents would have any right to complain before God if, for every drop of blood drawn by the lash, another was taken by the sword." It was a homely expression, but it was the expression of an honest, God-fearing man. And at that time, in the spirit of an earlier speech already quoted, he declared that whatever might be the difficulties of the principles he represented, he would rather be assassinated on the spot than surrender them. That in such perilous times this was no idle vaunt is too sadly shown by the terrible event over which we mourn.
We also make other extracts from a very feeling Discourse delivered on Mr. Linclon's tragical fate, delivered in the Ashton Town Hall, by Rev. S. Alfred Steinthal:-
A great crime has been committed in America. With one great and noble outburst of the natural goodness of the universal human heart, a cry of horror has gone up to heaven, declaring that not only does the family which has been bereaved, not only the nation on whom the loss most directly falls, but all men, everywhere, feel that the most precious sanctities of the race have been attacked, and all that men deem holy has been outraged.*** On this side of the Atlantic, all forms of government, all parties have combined in denouncing the crime which has been committed. With few exceptions, even those who have in the last four years felt sympathy with the cause against which President Lincoln waged war, who have been known among us as supporters of the Southern cause, have seized upon the first opportunity afforded to them of joining the universal condemnation of this awful deed. I am desirous of doing this justice to these men, because I cannot avoid, in the course of the remarks I am about to make, condemning the principles they have advocated, and declaring that those principles have, whether they know it or not, borne but their natural fruit in the deed which we all deplore. Against no one man who has taken a prominent part in the rebellion of the South, nor against any particular body, do I bring this charge; but I do not feel that I had fulfilled my duty, if I simply made myself the mouthpiece of the universal sorrow we all feel, and did not strive to uncover the source of the crime, so that, as far as I have power to influence men, they may guard against the recurrence of such atrocities, and frame their conduct so as to destroy, if possible, the spring whence such polluted streams flow forth.
When the tidings first reached us that Abraham Lincoln had fallen the victim of an assassin, our hearts refused to believe the awful intelligence. Rejoicing in what we deemed the assurance that the war was over, and that once again the regin of peace was dawning upon the long-vexed fields of the United States; rejoicing that slavery had received its deathblow, and that henceforth, founded on principles of universal justice, the American Republic would take its due place in the onward march of human progress, we waited anxiously to hear the consummation of all our hopes. when suddenly this heavy blow came upon us, prostrating for a time all our hopes, and for a season making us almost despair, we did not know what to look forward to, what to expect; and while our grief overpowered for a time all other faculties, we felt ourselves stricken by the huge calamity, and could find utterance for nothing but the righteous indignation which the flendish crime evoked. This was our feeling here, far from the scenes in which that noble life had been spent-far from the land in which the pure patriotism of the martyr had, by degrees, won the affections of hearts once set against him, and the respect of all-even of those who had at first disapproved of the measures he had so wisely and so ably planned and executed. What must have been the feelings of his countrymen, for whom he had so freely spent the energies of his great mind, for whose well-being he had consecrated the rich faculties of his highly gifted nature; what must they have felt who had been privileged day by day to watch, in intimate intercourse, the development of his benevolent designs, and had seen how wisely and how patiently he had worked, how resignedly he bore with hopes deferred, and how humbly he at last received the tidings of the triumph of his well-laid plans! And reverently let us ask what those must feel, whose affections have received so sharp a shock, as one bound to them by the natural ties of domestic love-made all the closer as his heart would seek at home for fuller and more tender sympathy than could be given even by the warmest admirers, outside the charmed circle of home-what must his widow and children have felt when he was suddenly struck down, just when his career was most full of promise? Deep as may be our sorrow, what is our loss compared with that of our American brethren, and what the loss of those who knew the President in his public career alone, compared with that which the widow and fatherless ones have to bear? It is well to think of them, and as far as we can to help them in their grief, not by vain attempts to lessen its bitterness, but, by striving to share their sorrow with them, to give them strength in their sore need.
Standing by the fresh grave where sleeps the noble heart which, while it beat, was ever filled with magnanimous forgetfulness of all personal wrongs, and was animated by the sole desire that justice and peace might rule the earth, let us resolve to aid, as far as in us lies, the consummation of those grand designs which have enrolled Abraham Lincoln's name by the side of Washington's, on the scroll of fame. Mistaken some have been, and the noblest of the mistaken ones have confessed their error; let us not permit the same short-sighted prejudice to guide our future course. Some who should have learned their lesson have begun to encourage the enemies of right by heaping on the present ruler of the States the same indignities which they profess to repent having directed against his predecessor. The nation which showed its wisdom by selecting Abraham Lincoln has a right to claim that we should confide in the man whom they placed nearest to him in power.
DEATH OF ARTHUR TAPPAN, ESQ. At the ripe age of 80 years, this once distinguished merchant of New York, princely philanthropist, and for many years the honored President of the American Anti-Slavery Society, was translated to a higher sphere of life, a few days since, in New Haven. He was one of the earliest Abolitionists, encountering all possible obloquy and running through great perils with wonderful serenity and courage, giving liberally to sustain the righteous cause, and exerting an immense personal influence through his pure Christian character and spotless integrity. We owe to him our liberation from the Baltimore prison in 1830, and on that benevolent act what far-reaching events have since hinged!-
Happily, he was permitted to see the abolition of the slave system, and his beloved country redeemed and disenthralled, before he was called to his eternal rest. Forever honored and blessed be his memory!
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
The following is the correspondence between a committee of the Union League in Savannah and Hon. Charles Sumner, in relation to a petition of its members to the President, asking for the right of suffrage:
SAVANNAH, June 15th, 1865. 
Hon. Charles Sumner, Boston, Mass.:
SIR,-We the undersigned Committee of the Union League of Savannah, Ga., have the honor to present to you these our petitions to His Excellency, Andrew Johnson, President of the United States, signed personally by the hands of some three hundred and fifty loyal citizens. We respectfully ask that you will present them to His Excellency the President, and we beg that Your Honor will use all of your influence in our behalf, and oblige,
Very respectfully, your humble servants,
Jos. C. JACKSON, Chairman. 
GEORGE R. J. DOLLY, Cor. Sec. 
BENJ. W. ROBERTS, 
PETER DUNCAN,
JOSEPH S. TISON.
BOSTON, July 8th, 1865. Gentlemen-Your petition, asking for the right to vote, has been forwarded to me here, with the request that I would present it to the President. I regret much that my absence from Washington has prevented me from doing this in person; but I have lost to time in forwarding the petition to the President, with my most earnest recommendation. 
You need not ask me to use my influence in your behalf. I cannot help doing so to the extent of my ability.
Allow me to add that you must not be impatient. You have borne the heavier burthens of slavery; and as these have ended, be assured that the others will also. This enfranchised republic, setting an example to mankind, cannot continue to sanction an odious oligarchy, whose single distinctive element is color. I have no doubt that you will be admitted to the privileges of citizens. 
It is impossible to suppose that Congress will sanction any governments in the rebel States which are not founded on “the consent of the governed.” This us the corner-stone of republican institutions. Of course by the “governed” is meant all the loyal citizens, without distinction of color. Anything else is a mockery.
Do not neglect your work; but meanwhile prepare yourselves for the duties of citizens. They are yours of right, and I do not doubt that they will be yours in reality. The prejudice of caste and a false interpretation of the Constitution cannot prevail against justice and common sense, both of which are on your side-and, I may add, the Constitution, also, which, when properly interpreted, is clearly on your side.
Accept my best wishes, and believe me, fellow-citizens, Faithfully yours,
CHARLES SUMNER. 

TROUBLES AT CHARLESTON. 
The Commanding General at Charleston has issued the following orders: 
HEADQUARTERS CITY OF CHARLESTON,}
CHARLESTON, S. C. JULY 12.
GENERAL ORDERS, No. 61.
1. The attention of the commander of this post having been called to the defiant and discourteous spirit manifested in the city between the troops and the civilians, both white and colored, causing of late serious and disgraceful disturbances, it is deemed necessary, and is hereby ordered, that all citizens remain at their homes after eight o’clock (8) P. M., abstaining from noisy discussions, or assembling in groups on the streets or other public places, day or night. 
II. Some citizens disguised as soldiers having been engaged in disorderly acts, it is ordered that any citizen hereafter found in the United States uniform will be arrested, and turned over to the provost marshal.
III. At this time of comparative peace, when the energies of the nation are absorbed in the restoration of harmony, and the establishment of good feeling among all classes entitled to the rights of citizenship, discourtesy toward civilians is beneath the dignity of soldiers. Respectful deportment among soldiers, as well as toward their officers, is an indication of good discipline in any command, but courtesy without humility toward those who have no claim except upon your manhood, is the best guarantee of good breeding and nobleness of character. It is enjoined upon the enlisted men in the city that they behave insolently to 50 person of whatever color; that they do not monopolize the sidewalks, or assemble in crowds to the inconvenience of women or other passers by. Citizens should remember that civil rule is not established, and that any act of theirs which may lead to difficulties with the troops will tend to protract that end. Their bearing should be in no manner defiant or discourteous to the troops, and any insolence leading to disturbance will subject the offenders to punishment. Upon the creation of any disturbance during the day or night, the commanding officer of the district of the city in which it may occur will at once send patrols, under commissioned officers, to arrest all persons found in the streets in the vicinity of the disturbance, except persons on important business, who will be required to report at the nearest guard for an escort.
By order of Brevet Brig. Gen. W. T. Bennett, commanding the post.
CHARLES F. JOY,
First Lieut. Fifty-fourth Mass. Vols. and A. A. A. Gen.

OUTRAGE ON A COLORED CHAPLAIN. 
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune: 
SIR,-Will you please publish the following statement, and hold me responsible for its truth? 
On the 21st of June, the steamship Continental, Capt. Sumner, sailed from New Orleans for New York. As passengers, she had several rebel officers and their black servants, also many officers of our own army. The officers of both armies dined at the same table, and, so far as could be seen, enjoyed each other's society. Now, it so happened that the Rev. George W. Levere, Chaplain of the 20th U. S. Colored Troops, was also a passenger. This, it may be remembered, was one of the regiments put into the field by the Union League Club of this city-the same regiment that had such a splendid ovation on their departure.
This chaplain, now fully eighteen months in the service, was on a short leave of absence from his regiment, and furnished transportation to this city. 
He applied for his meals to be served like other officers, but this was refused him; and between the hesitancy of the captain and the positive refusal of the Irish purser and his subordinates, the chaplain went without food for fully twenty-four hours, and was finally allowed to eat at the table of the colored servants of the rebel officers, after all others had been served, being denied presence at the table of the ship's servants. At this table, the merest refuse of all the other tables was served, and all this after charging him the full fare of the officers. 
This is a short statement of the insult and wrong offered to a United States officer who has served our country in a most acceptable and honorable way. 
J. S. S. 
In a subsequent number of the Tribune, Capt. Sumner pronounces these charges as utterly destitute of truth, and adds-
“Mr. Levere, the Chaplain referred to, was not charged for his board, as were other officers on the Continental, and had the same accommodation as some fifty others, without distinction of color, for whom there was no room at the first table, on account of the large number who were furnished transportation by the U. S. Quartermaster, the vessel being in Government service. I have no purser, Irish or otherwise, and confidently appeal to Mr. L. to contradict the statement officiously and anonymously made in his behalf.”
COPPERHEADS ON THE RAMPAGE. At Belvidere, N. J., on the 4th inst., Rev. Mr. Landon delivered a <illegible> address, which was not relished by the copperheads. So soon as the address was concluded, Judge Jacob Sharp forced himself upon the stand, excitedly proclaiming that there had been “an abolition prayers” and “a nigger political speech"” made, and that there had been no Fourth of July, "winding up by inviting the democracy to assemble at the stand at two o'clock, to listen to able democratic speeches and prayers, in opposition to the political speeches and prayers, in opposition to the political speech and prayer, that had just been delivered. But not satisfied with this demonstration, Judge Sharp proceeded to the tables where the ladies were giving the returned soldiers a dinner, and, mounting one of the tables, attempted to break up the dinner, assisted by his copperhead friends. One of the rowdies began an harangue, denouncing the dinner as a Republican affair. A fight ensued, during which Judge Sharp's Southern son-in-law ran up and down the enables, smashing the crockery and destroying the eateries. With much difficulty order was restored, and after some Union demonstrations, the copperheads drew off their forces.
SYCOPHANTS. Under this caption, the Raleigh (N. C., Progress has the following cutting paragraph:
“The New York News and World, if published south of the Potomac, would most assuredly be suppressed by military if not civil authority. Not an issue of either of these papers appears on our exchange table that. is not filled with treasonable utterances, and peevish, puerile fault-findings with the present condition of affairs. On their knees, and crawling in filthy, sycophantic slime, they bespatter the South, and the leaders in the late rebellion particularly, in a manner that, beyond all doubt, would influence the feelings of the North against us, were it not for the fact that the sycophancy is so plain that no one heeds their mutterings.”
<c02>
A CONFUSED GOVERNOR. Hon. James Johnson, Provisional Governor of the United States for the State of Georgia, has recently made a speech at Savannah. The Governor says that he has been appointed simply to enable the Georgians to form a Government. It is very fortunate that he is to do no more, as he has evidently a very confused conception of the situation. 
Thus the Governor says that "the people of the Confederate States find themselves without government." Will the Governor explain what are "the Confederate States," and who are their people? 
He adds that "War has existed between the United States and the South." Will the Governor inform as where "the South" is situated, which he thus describes as a power foreign to his country? 
Governor Johnson also says: "The slaves, upon the surrender of our armies, were captured legally, if not actually." Mr. Johnson is a citizen of the United States. His authority as Governor is derived from the United States. It is supported by the army of the United States. When, therefore, he speaks of the surrender of "our" armies, what does he mean? Does he, a sworn officer of the United States, call the late rebel forces "our armies"? If so, what does Governor Johnson call the armies of the United States?—Harper's Weekly. 
THE NEW GOVERNOR OF GEORGIA ON SLAVERY.—Provisional Governor Johnson, in his speech at Savannah, made this argument for the validity of emancipation by the President's proclamation:—
"It was a war power, and by virtue of this power to command the armies of the United States, he issued that proclamation as a rule of war., for the purpose of suppressing the rebellion. The slaves, upon the surrender of our armies, were captured, legally if not actually—in law it makes no difference whether they were actually captured or not—and tonight, by virtue of that proclamation, they stand emancipated. I state this to be my opinion as a lawyer; and, as a lawyer, I state that, in my opinion, such will be the decision of the Supreme Court. I could wish myself that such had not been the case, and that the change had not been thus violently and abruptly made. But slavery, in any event, is gone, and gone for ever, and I have no tears to shed or lamentations to make over its departure." 
REPUDIATION THREATENED AT THE SOUTH. The Tribune's correspondent, writing from Augusta, Ga., lets us see what we may expect if the rebels obtain power in Congress:—
"The people here are all rebels, and it must take a long time for them to work it out. It is in their bones. One rebel captain, whom I found in Savannah with no means, which is very pleasant there, said he would repay me the cost of his living as soon as he arrived. His father was a cotton factor here, and well to do, but he has not called on me since to thank me. These men are to day asking credit of the North, and will repudiate the debt at the first convenient opportunity. Two prominent men of this town, yesterday, in my hearing, openly advocated the repudiation of the public debt, and said the South, as soon as organized, must go in strong for that measure. Merchants of New York, look to your interests!"
VIRGINIA FEELING. A Boston lady just returned from Norfolk, where she has been engaged in teaching colored children, says the feeling of disloyalty among the whites there is very strong, and during the last three weeks they have been very bold and outspoken in ventilating their hatred of the government. They are exceedingly bitter on the negro question, and declare that they will kill every "d—d Yankee teacher." 
JEFF. DAVIS'S FATAL BLUNDER. An exchange relates a conversation that occurred in the Smithsonian Institution, at Washington, in 1854, when Jeff. Davis predicted that the Union would soon be divided into two republics: 
"Where will the division or boundary line be?" interrogated Professor Jewell, the librarian, to whom the conversation was addressed. 
"The line separating the slave and free Status," answered Mr. Davis. 
“Then," said the professor, "you expect to claim the national capital?" 
“Of course," was the reply; "and this very Smithsonian Institute will be within the Southern republic." 
"But," asked the professor, "how will you bring about such a division of the country? Do you think the free States will agree to it without a resort to arms?" 
"Sir," said Jefferson Davis, in his sententious manner, "the North will never fight us on that question. There will be no bloodshed. When the South says she will (secede and become a distinct nationality, the North will be glad to let us go, and that peaceably. It will be a bloodless revolution." 
Will he give us his present opinion of the North? 
WHAT JEFF. DAVIS SAID. The Port Royal (S. C ) New South, commenting upon the rapid improvement and good health, of that place, tells this story of Jeff. Davis: 
Jeff. Davis said to us on board the Clyde, "I supposed the heat and fevers of this coast would have driven you away long ago. I had no idea the Northern people could stand the climate so well.”
This was not the only mistake that Davis made in his estimate of the Northern people. 
HE HAS NO FRIENDS. TWO gentlemen from Georgia (says the Atlanta Intelligencer) made an appeal to Mr. Seward, the Secretary of State, to the effect that some privilege promotive of his comfort and health should be bestowed upon the Hon. A. H. Stephens, then and now a prisoner, as our readers know, in Fort Warren. The Secretary kindly assured them that he would institute proper inquiries, and if it could, the privilege solicited would not be withheld from the distinguished prisoner. ‘But, gentlemen," said the Secretary, eyeing them keenly, "have you not a word to say for Mr. Davis—no petition to present for him?" Surprised and confounded, our Georgia friends hesitated, when the Secretary quickly remarked, "Since his (Mr. D's) arrest, save from Mrs. Davis, not one appeal has come from the South in his behalf." 
THE GERMANS. It is gratifying to all true Americans to witness the noble stand taken by the German emigrants as a class, in favor of free institutions and universal suffrage. Their course is much more consistent with the logic of democracy than that of many who profess the name. The Chicago Tribune says: 
"The Germans have no ignoble fear that if black men are allowed to vote, they will secure the offices, show themselves superior to whites, marry all our most beautiful women, and rule the country. They are not afraid of black men as competitors in business, politics or social life, but are willing to give them all the rights and opportunities to live, and rise, aye, and shine it they are able to do so, which are possessed by the whites. On this issue not only the entire Republican, but the whole Democratic and even the late Copperhead German press are on the side of true democracy. The Staats Zeitung of New York (Copper head) unites with the Demokrat (Republican) of that city; and the latter holds true of the Democratic press of St. Louis and Cincinnati, as well as here in Chicago. It is well to affirm that the weight of three millions of the German people, of whom two-fifths have been Democrats, and of whom one hundred thousand are voters, will be thrown in one solid vote into the scales in favor of negro suffrage at the South. They honestly inquire what right they as foreigners have to exclude native-born citizens from the ballot-box." 
UNIVERSAL SUFFRAGE IN SOUTH CAROLINA.—James Redpath recently forwarded to Gov. Andrew, for transmission to the President, a petition signed by 1,800 colored loyalists of Charleston, asking for universal loyal suffrage, and the appointment of one of the following gentlemen as Military Governor of South Carolina; General Fremont, or General Brisbane, natives of South Carolina; Gen. Saxton or; Gen. Butler. The large majority of the signatures were autographs. A loyal league (chartered by the National League) numbers already 1,000 members; 4,000 pupils attend the public schools; 500 adults attend night schools. A reading room and library have been established. We are told that, among the colored people, the only question discussed is that of suffrage. Many of the leaders assert that they dart not live in South Carolina without it. 
The Savannah Herald contains an address by ex-Gov. Brown to the people of Georgia, in which he rages them to support not only the government of the United States, but the administration of the present Chief Magistrate. He appeals to them to take the Amnesty oath and to observe it in good faith. He argues that slavery is now dead forever As to his own slaves, he will immediately emancipate and treat them as free, giving them a part of the crop or wages for labor. To those who cannot support the Constitution of the Government, he suggests emigration from the country. 
The Herald says the Sixth U. S. Infantry are to garrison Charleston. 
The 4th of July was celebrated in Augusta, Ga., by a colored procession with banners, on which "death of disunion and slavery" and "freedom and equality" were inscribed. In the afternoon the troops paraded, and in the evening there was a display of fireworks. 
<c03>
A NOBLE WILL. We learn some facts in regard to the will of the late Sylvia Ann Howland, of this city, which deserve mention. The bequests are most munificent, and disclose, a good judgment in the disposition of a great estate, the more gratifying as it is so rare. Of an estate valued at two and a half millions, about one million is given away in legacies of various amounts, and many of these to persons whose good fortune will gratify the public almost as much as themselves. Of the bequests which are of a public character we may properly speak. The sum of $20,000 is given to the Orphan's Home, and the further sum of $15,000 on the decease of three persons who are to receive the income during their lives. To the city of New Bedford is given the sum of $l00,000, to be expended under the direction of the city government toward the introduction of pure water into the city, and the encouragement of manufactures requiring steam power. To the city of New Bedford is given a farther sum of $100,000, to be invested by the city government, and the income appropriated to the encouragement of liberal education here, and the enlargement of the free public library. To the trustees is given $50,000, to be invested by them, the income to be carefully divided among such aged and infirm females of this city as may need relief. The trustees under the will are George Howland, Jr., Dr. William A. Gordon, and Edward D. Mandell, to each of whom is given the sum of $50,000, and to Dr. Gordon, as a mark of the testatrix' personal esteem for his worth, a further sum of $50,000. Thomas Mandell is the sole executor of the Will.-..—New Bedford Mercury. 
A HISTORY OF THE LIFE OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN. We learn that our distinguished fellow-citizen, Hon. William H. Herndon, is writing an authentic history of the life of the late President Lincoln. In order to prepare himself for this important and interesting task, Mr. H. visited Menard county and various other localities, rich in incidents connected with the early life of the distinguished man; has conversed with men who acted with Mr. Lincoln as friends or opposed him as enemies, and has collected many facts known only to the few, which will place the noble martyr higher in the estimation of the world than ever before. Every incident connected with the early life of Mr. Lincoln, so far as they can be obtained, will be embodied in the forthcoming volume. Mr. Herndon is eminently fitted for the work, having been the law partner of Mr. Lincoln from 1844 to the time of Mr. Lincoln's death, and, consequently, knows more of his inner life, habits of thought, sayings and doings, than almost any man living, and will therefore be able to produce a work full of interest and perfectly authentic Springfield (Illinois) paper. 
COTTON IN EGYPT. The profits of cotton-growing have become so enormous that it is said the whole valley of the Nile has been converted into one vast cotton plantation. In place of producing breadstuffs for the inhabitants, with a vast surplus for exportation, the inhabitants are now supported with grain from Asia. The rebellion in America has thus revolutionized the industrial pursuits of the East. While the cotton-fields of the West have been converted into corn-fields, the rice and wheat-fields of the Orient have become as fertile in the great Southern staple as the sea islands of South Carolina. With the suppression of the rebellion, there will he a return to the cultitivation of cotton, and the cheapness and abundance of its production will probably arrest the cultivation of it in Egypt.—Porland Advertiser. 
Gen. Carl Schurz has just received his final instructions from the President, and is to sail in a day or two on a tour of observation along the Southern coast. He is charged to notice minutely the temper of the persons professing to be loyal, and assuming control in the reorganizing State Governments, to examine into the condition of the blacks, and, in general, to report on the working of the President's experiment. ’But,' asked Gen. Schurz, when these instructions were given, ’am I to understand, Mr. President, that your policy is not yet fixed? If it is not, I shall be glad to make any observations, and contribute any facts that may aid you; but if it is, I decline to undertake a useless trip to report on the good or evil workings of a system already determined upon.' The President replied that his policy was not settled, that he desired to see how the present experiment was working, and that for this reason he wished Gen. Schurz to make the trip.
SINGS OF THE TIMES. The New York News, which has been coppery so nearly up to the treason point that its conductors could hardly keep out of jail, now holds that every emancipated slave is by right entitled equally with white folks to the privileges of citizenship. The Boston Post says: 
“We repeat what we have often said before, namely: that, had we the power to confer, every citizen who has sufficient knowledge to exercise the right of suffrage with a full understanding of his action—for instance, who possessed the qualifications required by the laws of Massachusetts—should be a voter, whatever his color might be." 
EMANCIPATION AGITATION IN BRAZIL. A private letter, dated Rio Janeiro, says:
"A large and intelligent party are agitating the question of Emancipation. Senator Silveiro de Motta has, with general approval, brought in a bill prohibiting foreigners from buying slaves, and requiring those who now own them to liberate them within two years. A similar bill was rejected last year, but it is hoped that this may now pass. 
Another Senator, the Viscount de Jequitinhonha, has introduced a bill providing for the emancipation in ten years of all slaves over twenty-five years of age, and for the complete abolition of slavery in fifteen years. It is not expected that it will at present pass. But the anti slavery party is rapidly gaining ground. The books on emancipation which the Rev. James C. Fletcher took out with him were eagerly sought and read. It is hardly possible that the abolition of slavery in the United States should not have a very marked influence in Brazil, especially if our commercial and social relations become more intimate." 
Gov. BUCKINGHAM OF CONNECTICUT. In his final message to the Connecticut Legislature at its adjournment last Friday, Gov. Buckingham took occasion to decline a nomination. The Hartford Press says it was the feeling of the people of the State that he was providentially sent them at the great crisis in the history of the country, with the honor, the integrity, the firmness and purity, the high personal character and dignity that become a great office, to guide the State through its great peril, and that they had not been disappointed in their opinion. "When,” the same paper says, "all the little jealousies and petty ambitions of the day, all the adverse party feelings, are at rest, then only will it be clearly seen how great and good a man we have had -for our Governor; and how fully be represents that rarely appearing character in history, but the highest character of all, a Christian statesman." 
TREATMENT OF THE INDIANS. It will be remembered that a village of Cheyenne Indians, near Fort Lyon, in Colorado Territory, was attacked last winter by about nine hundred United States soldiers, under Col. Chevington, and men, women and children barbarously put to the sword. The Committee on the Conduct of the War, after characterizing in the strongest terms the conduct of the soldiers, and condemning Gov. Evans and Col Chevington, close with the following recommendation:—
"Your committee are of the opinion that, for the purpose of vindicating the cause of justice and up holding the honor of the nation, prompt and energetic measures should be at once taken to remove from office those who have thus disgraced the government by whom they are employed, and to punish, as their crimes deserve, those who have been guilty of these brutal and cowardly acts."
Mr. Calvert Comstock, late of the Albany Argus, has been making a speech, wherein he says: 
"We of the Northern States must not be uncharitable toward those of the Southern States who hesitate to admit to the control of public affairs men just emerged from the condition of slavery." 
Good so! We admit the plausibility of this. It sounds well. Now try it this end foremost: 
"We of the Southern States must not be uncharitable toward our Northern brethren who hesitate to admit to the control of public affairs men just emerged from the condition of treason."
"How docs Mr. Comstock relish that?—N. Y. Tribune. 
Recently a terrible tornado swept over a portion of Vernon, Wis., taking the village of Viroqua, twenty-eight miles southeast of La Crosse, in its track, with the following results: 
Killed—J. S. Barstow and wife; Dr. L. Dean, wife and daughter; Dr. Weeden's child; Miss Lydia Gillette. 
Wounded—The Hon. J. M. Bennett, Mr. and Mrs. Drake and son; Dr. and Mrs. Weeden, a girl at the Hon. W. S. Perry's, Mrs. Silver, the Hon. W. S. S., White and wife; Wm. Lindley, J. Dawon, Mrs. Davis and child; Mr. Dean, Daniel Schisler, Mrs. Colonel Bierce, M. J. Gordon. 
A schoolhouse, one and a half miles east, was carried half a mile and dashed to the ground, killing eight school children, and wounding all the others. 
In the vicinity of Viroqua, about a dozen persons were killed.
Twenty-five buildings in the village were demolished, and thirty-six badly damaged. Houses, barns, fences, trees, stamps, cattle, men, farming; utensils, etc., were carried by the wind to the distance of half a mile in some instances. 
<c04>
DEATH OF BISHOP POTTER. A despatch from San Francisco announces the death of Bishop Alonzo Potter, of Pennsylvania, at that place, on the 4th instant. He was born in Lagrange county, New York, was nearly sixty-five years of age,. and a graduate of Union College. He became Rector of St. Paul's, in Boston, in 1826, and was chosen Bishop of Pennsylvania in 1845. 
The deceased was a man of ability, having been the author of several valuable works, and was much esteemed. He went to California about two months ago, hoping that his health would be improved by the visit. 
DEATH OF ONE OF JOHN BROWN'S RAIDERS.—A Rochester (N. Y.) paper of late date has the following:—"Last evening, a colored man by the name of David Cunningham, who resided on the corner of Spring and Fitzhugh streets, died of typhus fever. He was one of the men concerned in the John Brown raid in Virginia, and at the time of the arrest of the Old-Dominion terrified, he fled to Pennsylvania. He afterward went to the West, working in several different States, and a few years ago came to this city, where he has been employed mostly in cooking for the soldiers. Latterly, he has been at the camp on the Fair Grounds. He was a man. of great physical strength." 
DEATH OF DR. WINDSHIP. We regret to announce the death of Dr. Charles M. Windship, at his residence on Dudley street, Roxbury.. Deceased was an eminent physician, and a well-beloved and highly esteemed citizen. He was the father of Dr. George B. Windship, (the strong man,) and was about sixty-six years of age. He died of diptheria. 
DEATH OF HON. R. S. FAY. Hon. Richard S. Fay died at Liverpool on the day of the departure of the steamer Africa, which arrived here last week. It is reported that he was on his way to the steamer, and dropped dead in the street. The deceased was about sixty years old, and a graduate of Harvard College. 
Nathaniel Hay ward died at Colchester, Conn., but week. He was the original inventor and discoverer, after years of experiments, of the invaluable compound of India rubber with sulphur, by which alone the rubber is preserved from the action of heat. Mr. Hay ward was a native of Easton, Mass., where he made the first rubber shoes that were ever put in the market 
A SOUTHERN BLACKGUARD. For pure blackguardism, Southern writers and orators are unsurpassed. Vituperation and abuse seem a part of their stock in trade, and they delight in opportunities to display their impudence. Personal character and official station afford no protection against their vile attacks. The latest illustration of this trait of Southern character is a letter addressed by Emerson Etheridge, of Tennessee, to President Johnson, published in the St. Louis Republican. It relates, of course, to the recent arrest of Etheridge for disloyalty. In it, Etheridge gives free rein to a vindictive spirit and a foul tongue. 
LOSS OF STEAMER QUINNEBAUG. A Fortress Monroe letter of July 22d says, the U. S. steamer Quinnebaug was wrecked on the bar off Morehead City on the 21st. About thirty persons are reported as lost or missing. Capt. Jerome was in command of the vessel. There were some 800 soldiers on board, but they were nearly all landed on the shore. The Quinnebaug left Morehead City on the 21st for Fortress Monroe, with 250 soldiers belonging to the 9th Maine and 76th Pennsylvania regiments. After passing outside of the bar, the steamer became unmanageable and went ashore, proving a perfect wreck. One name of the lost has been ascertained, that of Lieut. W. F. Deming, of the 9th Maine regiment, whose body was washed ashore. 
THE MANN STATUE. The majestic statue of Horace Mann, now standing on its pedestal before the State House, was modelled entirely from photographs, evidently a difficult task, and yet it is accurate and faithful to the original as if taken from a plaster cast. Miss Emma Stebbins, of New York, the modeller, is a delicate woman, now in the seventh year of her study of art, and this model was designed by her three years since For the superior manner in which she has accomplished this work, Miss Stebbins is entitled to the warmest thanks, not only of all lovers of art, but of all the friends of the illustrious man whom the statue commemorates.—Tribune. 
A STATUE OF JOHN BRIGHT. The Manchester Examiner contains a letter from Acting Secretary W. Hunter to our Consul at Liverpool, expressing the sincere acknowledgments of the people of the United States to Thomas J. Blain of Manchester, England, for presenting a bust of John Bright, "The great English friend of America." The bust was originally designed as a present to Mr. Lincoln; but, on learning of his assassination, the owner asked permission to present it to the American nation. The bust has already been received at Washington, and will henceforth adorn the house of the American Presidents. 
GEN. ORD. A Petersburg, Va., paper recently asserted that the arrest of the rebel Gen. Lee having been ordered by Secretary Stanton, Gen. Ord, then in command at Richmond, offered his resignation rather than execute the order, and by the interference of Gen. Grant the order for Lee's arrest was withdrawn. Gen. Ord writes to a New York paper concerning this matter, saying: "The whole statement is false. No such order was ever issued; and had it been issued, my duty would have been to obey. The statement which leads to the inference that I declined to obey an order because I thought it unpleasant, improper or uncalled for, is unfounded in fact, and in principle a severe and unjust reflection upon me as a soldier." 
EGYPT. A letter from Alexandria, dated June 28, furnishes details regarding the cholera, &c. It says the existence of the cholera was officially declared on the 11th of June, on which day three deaths occurred. By the end of the first week the deaths increased to about 100 per day; by the end of the second week they reached about 200 per day, and on the 27th the number was 250. There was much alarm, and about 30,000 had left the city. 
THE POST-OFFICE A PAYING INSTITUTION. The Post-Office Department shows a net profit, for the last six months of 1864, of $732,230 69, or at the rate of a million and a half a year. The profits of the first six months of 1865 will be yet larger. During the last six months of Mr. Buchanan's administration, the loss for carrying and distributing the mails was $3,400,000. The postal receipts from the States in the Union in 1864 exceeded those of all the States in 1861 by $2,972,000. 
GEN. BUTLER. The Lowell News has the best authority for saying that Gen. Butler has not resigned his commission, nor has he any knowledge of a summons to Washington or elsewhere. He has, it is true, intimated to President Lincoln and President Johnson his readiness to have his commission cancelled at any moment, but by special desire of each the matter bas been held in abeyance to this time. 

GOOD! Gen. Howard hat issued an order, that if the planters in Lower Maryland do not cease turning off their old slaves to starve, or neglect to employ them, the General will take possession of their firms, and put the freedmen to work on their lands. 
NASHVILLE, (Tenn.) July 23. Gen. Fisk, Assistant Commissioner of the Bureau of Refugee Freedmen and abandoned lands, has directed that no more refugees from Georgia and Alabama be transported southward from Louisville, without special authority from him. 
THE POTTAWATOMIE MASSACRE. Charles A. Foster, of Kansas, has written a letter to the St. Louis Democrat, giving particulars of the "Pottawatomie massacre" of May 21, 1856, and in which he proves that John Brown, who has been charged with leading the massacre, was not a participator in it, and knew nothing of it until it bad occurred. 
THRIFT. Thirty-five years ago, Asa Packer left Mystic, (Conn.) having no earthly possessions but a bundle of clothing which he carried with him. He proceeded to Pennsylvania, where, by industry, he has risen to wealth and influence, and has been Governor of the State. Recently he gave $500,000 to found a college in that State. 
ELECTIONS will take place as follows:—Kentucky, members of Congress and State Treasurer, 1st Monday in August; Vermont, Governor, Lieut. Governor, and State Treasurer, first Tuesday in September; Maine, Governor and Legislature, second Monday in September. 
CONTRADICTED. The family of Admiral Do Pont desire to contradict the statement, made without any authority, that he had left his prize money, to the amount of $175,000, to a charitable institution in Washington. No such bequest was made; and the whole amount of the prize money received by him was something short of $50,000.—Army and Navy Journal. 
THE REBEL COTTON. The Confederate Cotton Agent for Alabama has recently been captured, with all his books, papers and other documents, containing the names of all who had ever given a pound of cotton to the rebel government, or aided it in its hellish work of destruction in the slightest manner. 
Richard H. Hinton, of the 83d U. S. C. T., and late aid-de-camp of Gen. Curtis, has been detailed for service in the Freedmen's Bureau, and ordered to report to Gen. Fisk at Nashville. His office, we understand, will be that of an inspector, and it will require him to go among the freedmen in Ken-tacky and Tennessee., to inquire into their condition and prospects, and to protect them in the enjoyment of their rights. He was a trusted friend of John Brown, "whose soul is marching on," and will no doubt fill his new office with credit to himself and to the cause of freedom.—Independent.
<c05>
EMIGRANT SHIP BURNT. Ship William Nelson, Capt. Smith, from Antwerp, June 4th, of and for New York, with passengers, was burned on the banks of Newfoundland on the 1st inst. About thirty of the passengers were picked up, and taken to St. John, N. F. The boats, with crew, &c., are missing, and it is supposed 400 lives have been lost. 
THE BURNING OF THE WILLIAM NELSON. Newfoundland papers furnish further particulars respecting the burning of the American emigrant ship William Nelson, by which so many lives were lost. The rescued passengers describe the scenes daring the fire as truly heart-rending. Mothers threw their babes into the water, and fell back themselves into the flames. Whole families died together in excruciating torments. Brothers and sisters, parents and children, ran frantically about for help they were not to find. The saved passengers also say that when the captain found he could not save the ship, he got his boats out, and with his officers, the crew and the cabin passengers, left the remaining unfortunates to their fate. A number of very young children were placed in the "channels" of the ship, as being furthest from the fire, bat they had not long been there when the flames burst through the side of the vessel upon them, and in an instant they were consumed. Of such horrible scenes is the account made up.
POLITICAL. Col. Mundy, candidate for Congress in the Louisville district of Kentucky, made a telling oration on the Fourth, in which he took decided ground in favor of the constitutional amendment abolishing slavery. He also affirmed the remarkable doctrine for a Border State politician, that "emancipation must be accorded as a natural right, and with it the attendant privileges of a state of freedom.” 
Parson Brownlow occasionally finds relief from the cares and duties of Governor of Tennessee, and pens a paragraph for the Knoxville Whig. Recently he referred to the democratic leaders as follows: 
"As we never did act with them, so we never intend to act with them, and the reason is we know them. We would not start with them on a journey to heaven, feeling assured that before we got far on the way these men would land us, and all following them, in the infernal regions!" 
General Santa Anna, one of the most wonderful men developed by the revolutions in Mexico, is now dwelling upon one of the lofty peaks of the Island of St. Thomas, W. I. His establishment is that of a gentleman of ample fortune and refined taste—an elegant villa, with ample grounds and beautiful shrubbery. He is now an old man, at least seventy years of age; but he is represented to be in excellent health, and though he has one artificial leg, walks without the aid of a cane, and with his tall form of six feet, as erect as ever. 
FATAL ACCIDENT. At Belfast, Maine, last week, Mrs. Grace White, wife of Job White, went into her husband's mill, and passing near an upright revolving shaft, her dress caught in the coupling, and she-was instantly drawn around it, and her body shockingly mangled. Her head was literally torn from her body, by being brought in contact with the chimney near the shaft in its revolutions, and her lifeless remains thrown over the circumference of ten feet. She was 68 years of age. 
LIBERALISM IN ENGLAND. The London and Metropolitan boroughs return all the sixteen Liberal candidates, including Stuart Mill, Mr. Hughes, the author, Sir Charles Wright, the electrician, and Baron Rothschild. The Liberals have lost eighteen seats, and gained twenty-four, and the indications are that the Government will be increased in strength in the new Parliament. 
CAPTURED REBEL ARCHIVES. The N. Y. Times despatch says, Major Shipman has arrived at Washington with forty boxes of captured rebel archives, containing a complete record of the proceedings of the Rebel Provisional Congress at Montgomery. Also, the entire official history of the rebel army of the Tennessee, under Bragg, Johnston and Hood; also, the books of the rebel Treasury Department. 
The sculptor Powers, says a correspondent of the Christian Watchman, on being asked not long ago by an English lady, who visited his studio in Florence, whether he had executed a bust of Jefferson Davis, replied: "No, madam; I hope that before long an artist of another profession than mine may have the pleasure of executing him." 
Half a million federal rations have been distributed among poor North Carolinians, at Raleigh. Two-thirds of the applicants are whites, and many of these were wealthy before the war. 
Iowa and Wisconsin were visited by a tornado lately, which proved to be a regular sweeper, and destroyed property to the value of $200,000. Seventeen persons were killed, and one hundred wounded. 
The Leavenworth Bulletin of a late date says: "Senator Pomeroy arrived at Atchison yesterday. He has taken positive ground in favor of reconstruction, with the right of suffrage extended to loyal blacks in preference; to disloyal whites. We trust he will visit Leavenworth, and talk to our people." 
Two regiments of colored troops have been sent from Point Lookout to Richmond, much to the disgust of Gov. Pierpont's new Union (?) friends. 
A movement has been started in Hartford for raising a fund to erect a suitable monument commemorative of the talents and virtues of Mrs. Lydia H. Sigourney. Letters may be addressed to Rev. Dr. Clark, Hartford. 
COMFORTABLE INCOMES. Wm. B. Astor returns as his income for 1864, $ 1,300,000. Cornelius Vanderbilt returns $576,551. 
Gen. Grant assisted at the celebration at Albany on the 4th inst. The tattered flags of an hundred New York regiments were formally presented to the State, and accepted by Gov. Fenton. They were presented by Gen. Butterfield. 
Iowa sent seventy thousand men to the war, at an expense of $800,000. 
Massachusetts has furnished, during the war, for the army and navy, 157,393, and stands at the close 5338 ahead of all calls. 
It will cost about thirty millions to put the railroads of the South in good repair. 
The log hut occupied by Gen. Grant during the siege of Richmond and Petersburg has been removed to Philadelphia. This hut was for many eventful months the dwelling and office of the Lieutenant General of the armies of the United States. All the internal fittings of the but are preserved, together with several! pieces of furniture and the camp and cooking utensils. 
A terrible freshet visited Leavenworth, Kansas, on Thursday night, carrying away two stone bridges, eighteen or twenty houses, and property of all kinds. Seven dead bodies have already been found, and it is feared that many more were swept away. Loss, $200,000. 
MAJOR GEN. MEADS IN BOSTON. A public levee was held in Faneuil Hall, last week, in honor of Gen. Meade, who was introduced to the crowded assemblage by Mayor Lincoln. The General expressed thanks for the courtesies extended to him, and in a few well-chosen words urged the claims of disabled soldiers to the fostering care of a grateful country. 
Mr. Crane, a well-known artist connected with Frank Leslie's Illustrated Newspaper, was found dead in his bed at the National Hotel, Washington. He retired in usual health. 
DIED, in London, recently, Mr. Charles James Jeffries, the author of "Jeannette and Jeannette," a popular song a dozen years ago. 
Abraham Day, a Revolutionary pensioner, died at Cornish, Me., June 14, aged 110 years. 
Albert Tennyson, the poet laureate of England, is failing very fast. He was just recovering from a severe attack of throat disease, when, walking late one evening in his Isle of Wight garden, he took cold, and now, it is stated, symptoms of consumption are evident. 
On Tuesday last, Gen. Forrest, of Fort Pillow notoriety, had both his shoulder-bones broken by an accident on the railroad near Senatobia, Miss. The car in which Forrest was seated was thrown down an embankment for a considerable distance. 
Green Smith, son of Gerrit Smith, returned to the Government as a donation a check covering his ten months' salary as second lieutenant 
Within the past two years, the colored people of Alexandria, Va., have built over a thousand dwelling-houses, costing from $300 to $1000 each, and three churches, and have invested over $5000 in ground rents. Out of a population of eight thousand colored persons in the town, only twenty-three were drawing rations from the government on last Saturday, while more than four times that number of whites were received from the same source. 
On account of the shameful conduct of the 165th New York regiment towards the negroes in Charleston, they have been sent to Morris Island, where they will remain until mustered out of service. Not even an officer is to be allowed to leave the is land. In addition to this the colors of the regiment have been taken away by order of Gen. Gillmore. 
The conspirators' trial lasted for seven weeks, during which time about 362 witnesses were examined. Nearly one hundred others, who received summonses, did not appear. 
The number of troops sent from Washington to their homes from May 30th to July 17th was 208,037. 
<c06>
THE RADICAL: 
A JOURNAL FOR SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS CULTURE. 
PUBLISHED MONTHLY, BY S. H. MORSE, BOSTON.
TERMS:—One dollar per year, payable in advance. Single copies, 10 cents. 
The August number will contain Rev. Robert Collyer's Sermon preached before the Western Unitarian Conference in Cincinnati, June 16, called "The Holiness of Helpfulness.” Extra copies of this number have already been ordered by persons who heard the discourse, for circulation. No person desiring to contribute his or her mite for the spread of rational views of life, could find a better method than this.
Any number can be furnished (if the request come before the 10th of August,) at the rate of six dollars per hundred. 
All communications must be addressed to S. H. MORSE, at Haverhill, Mass. 

THE NATION, 
A WEEKLY JOURNAL OF POLITICS, LITERATURE, SCIENCE AND ART, 
Will be published July 6, 1865.
Its main objects will be—
First—The discussion of the topics of the day, and, above all, of legal, economical and constitutional questions, with greater accuracy and moderation than are now to be found in the daily press. 
Second- The maintenance and diffusion of true democratic principles in society and government, and the advocacy and illustration of whatever in legislation or in manners seems likely to promote a more equal distribution of the fruits of progress, and civilization.
Third—The earnest and persistent consideration of the condition of the laboring classes at the South, as a matter of vital interest to the nation at large, with a view to the removal of all artificial distinctions between them and the rest of the population, and the securing to them,. as far as education and justice can do it, of an equal chance in the race of life. 
Fourth—The enforcement and illustration of the doctrine that the whole community has the strongest interest, both moral, political and material, in their elevation, and that there can be no real stability for the republic so long as they are left in ignorance and degradation. 
Fifth—The fixing of public attention upon the political importance of popular education, and the dangers which a system like ours runs from the neglect of it in any portion of our territory. 
Sixth—The collection and diffusion of trustworthy information as to the condition and prospects of the Southern States, the openings they offer to capital, the supply and kind of labor which can be obtained in them, and the progress made by the colored population in acquiring the habits and desires of civilized life. 
Seventh—Sound and impartial criticism of books and works of art. 
THE NATION will not be the organ of any party, sect or body. It will, on the contrary, make an earnest effort to bring to the discussion of political and social questions a really critical spirit, and to wage war upon the vices of violence, exaggeration and misrepresentation, by which so much of the political writing of the day is marred. 
The criticism of books and works of art will form one of its most prominent features; and pains will be taken to have this task performed in every case by writers possessing special qualifications for it. 
It is intended in the interest of investors, as well as of the public generally, to have questions of trade and finance treated every week by a writer whose position and character will give his articles an exceptional value, and render them a safe and trustworthy guide. 
A special correspondent, who has been selected for his work with some care, is about to start in a few days for a journey through the South. His letters will appear every week, and he is charged with the duty of simply reporting what he sees and hears, leaving the public as far as possible to draw its own inferences. 
The following writers, among others, have been secured, either as regular or occasional contributors: 
HENRY W. LONGFELLOW, 
J. R. LOWELL, 
JOHN G. WHITTIER, 
SAMUEL ELIOT, (Ex-Pres. Trin. Collage, Hartford,)
Prof. TORREY, (Harvard,) 
Dr. FRANCIS LIEBER, 
Prof. CHILD, (Harvard,) 
CHARLES E. NORTON, 
Judge BOND, (Baltimore,) 
EDMUND QUINCY, 
Prof. W. D. WHITNEY, (Yale,) 
Prof. D. C. GILMAN, (Yale,) 
Judge DALY, 
Prof. DWIGHT, (Columbia College,) 
Judge WAYLAND,
FREDERICK LAW OLMSTED, 
Rev. Dr. MCCLINTOCKM, 
Rev. Dr. THOMPSON, 
Rev. PHILLIPS BROOKS, 
Rev. Dr. BELLOWS, 
C. J. STILLE, 
HENRY T. TUCKERMAN, 
BAYARD TAYLOR, 
C. A. BRISTED,
C. L. BRACE, 
RICHARD GRANT WHITE, 
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, 
SYDNEY GEORGE FISHER, 
THEODORE TILTON, 
GAIL HAMILTON, 
R. H. STODDARD, &c. &c.
Terms, $3 per annum. 
JOSEPH H. RICHARDS,. Publisher, 
No. 130 Nassau st., New York. 
June 16. 

WOOL. 
THE undersigned, late in the employ of Messrs. HALLOWELL & COBURN, having leased the lofts at Nos. 6 and 8 Channing Street, is prepared to do the WOOL COMMISSION and BROKERAGE business 
He takes this method of calling attention to his facilities for selling, his store being admirably located, and his acquaintance with manufacturers large. Consignments are respectfully solicited, and Consignors are assured that all Wool sent to him will be carefully graded and faithfully handled. Liberal advances made when required. 
Orders from manufacturers for the purchase of Fleece or Pulled Wools, either in the Boston, New York or Philadelphia, markets, will receive immediate attention. 
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, JR. 
References: 
Messrs. HALLOWELL & COBURN, Boston.
Messrs. HALLOWELL, PRESCOTT & Co. New York. 
Messrs. DAVIS, FISS & BANES, Philadelphia. 
Boston, July 14, 1865. 

Dr. Ayer's Cathartic Pills 
ARE the most perfect purgative which we are able to produce, or which we think has ever yet been produced by anybody. Their effects have abundantly shown to the community how much they excel the ordinary medicines in use. They are safe and pleasant to take, but powerful to cure. Their penetrating properties stimulate the vital activities of the body, remove the obstructions of its organs, purify the blood, and expel disease. They purge out the foul humors which breed and grow distemper, stimulate sluggish or disordered organs into their natural action, and impart a healthy tone, with strength to the whole system. Not only do they cure the everyday complaints of everybody, but also formidable and dangerous diseases. While they produce powerful effects, they are, at the same time, in diminished doses, the safest and best physic that can be employed for children. Being sugar-coated, they are pleasant to take; and, being purely vegetable, are free from any risk of harm. Cures have been made which surpass belief, were they not substantiated by men of such exalted position and character as to forbid the suspicion of untruth. Many eminent clergymen and physicians have lent their names to carry to the public the reliability of our remedies, while others have sent us the assurance of their conviction that our Preparations Contribute immensely to the relief of our afflicted, suffering fellow-men. 
The Agent below named is pleased to furnish gratis our American Almanac, containing directions for the use and certificates of their cures, of the following complaints:-
Costiveness, Bilious Complaints, Rheumatism, Dropsy, Heartburn, Headache arising from foul stomach, Nausea, Indigestion, Morbid Inaction of the Bowels and pain arising there from, Flatulency, Low of Appetite, all diseases which require an evacuant medicine. They also, by purifying the blood and stimulating the system, cure many complaints which it would not be supposed they could reach, such a Deafness, Partial Blindness, Neuralgia and Nervous Irritability, Derangements of the Liver and Kidneys, Gout, and other kindred complaints arising from a low state of the body, or obstruction of its functions 
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations which they make no profit on. Demand AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it. 
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and old by all druggists. 
June 2. 2m.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
GONE!
A TRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF OUR SOLDIER-MARTYES.
"There is a tear for all who die,
A mourner o'er the humblest grave;
But Nations swell the funeral cry,
And Triumph weeps above the brave."
Gone! and the banner of peace is waving 
Over the land they died to save?
Gone? and Summer her garlands twining
Over each far off Southern grave.
Green are the turf-mounds above our heroes,
Their spirits rest with the martyrs' God;
And a Nation bends in tearful reverence,
In grateful homage, above the sod.
Brave hearts and true! they never faltered
'Mid leaden rain or the iron hail;
Firmly they stood as the Spartan legions,
So world-renowned in Grecian tale.
Some fell 'mid the rush and din of battle-
Death came with the bullet and bursting shell;
Some slowly waited his lingering summons
In pain and anguish words may not tell.
And, alas! alas! in the loathsome prison,
In lingering torture the brave hearts pined;
While Hatred, with skill a fiend might envy,
Death's cold arms with untold horror entwined.
They are laid to rest by the flowing rivers,
In quiet vales, and on hill-sides lone;
And thousands lie 'neath the ocean-billows,
Their only dirge the wild wave's moan.
In the opening dawn of early manhood.
The dew of youth on each young brow,
Their lives were pledged at Freedom's altar,
And truly and well have they kept their vow.
We reap the harvest their life-blood nurtured;
The olive of peace from their graves doth spring;
And borne on the breeze is their paean of triumph,
In the jubilee songs the Freedmen sing.
Tis ours their memories to fondly cherish,
With Fame's brightest garlands their names to entwine,
And ever remember the priceless treasure
They laid for us on Freedom's shrine.
Tis ours to guard, with care unceasing,
The priceless gift their life-blood bought;
Remembering for aye the solemn lesson
We've learned-by sorrow and suffering taught.
And never again let Truth and Justice
Be bartered for Commerce's shining gold;
Knowing that tyranny, wrong and oppression
The Angel of Peace will never enfold.
Brooklyn, N. Y., 1865.CARRIE.

RE-VISITED.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
Read at the "Laurels," on the Merrimac, June, 1865.
The roll of drums and the bugle's wailing
Vex the air of our vales no more;
The spear is beaten to hooks of pruning,
The share is the sword the soldier wore!
Sing soft, sing low, our lowland river,
Under thy banks of laurel bloom,
Softly and sweet, as the hour beseemeth,
Sing us the songs of peace and home.
Let all the tenderer voices of nature
Temper the triumph and chasten mirth,
Full of the infinite love and pity
For fallen martyr and darkened hearth.
But to Him who gives us beauty for ashes,
And the oil of joy for mourning long,
Let thy hills give thanks, and all thy waters
Break into jubilant waves of song!
Bring us the airs of hills and forests,
The sweet aroma of birch and pine;
Give us a waft of the north wind, laden
With sweet-briar odors and breath of kine!
Bring us the purple of mountain sunsets,
Shadows of clouds that rake the hills,
The green repose of thy Plymouth meadows,
The gleam and ripple of Campton rills.
Lead us away in shadow and sunshine,
Slaves of fancy, through all thy miles,
The winding ways of Pemigewasset,
And Winnipissogee's hundred isles.
Shatter in sunshine over thy ledges,
 Laugh in thy plunges from fall to fall;
Play with thy fringes of elms, and darken
Under the shade of the mountain wall.
The cradle song of thy hill-side fountains
Here in thy glory and strength repeat;
Give us a taste of the upland music, 
Show us the dance of thy silver feet.
Into thy dutiful life of uses
Pour the music and weave the flowers;
Let the song of birds and the bloom of meadows
Lighten and gladden thy heart and ours.
Sing on! bring down, O lowland river,
The joy of the bills to the waiting sea;
The wealth of the vales, the pomp of mountains,
The breath of the woodlands bear with thee.
Here, in the calm of thy seaward valley,
Mirth and labor shall hold their truce;
Dance of water and mill of grinding,
Both are beauty and both are use.
Type of the North-land's strength and glory,
Pride and hope of our home and race,-
Freedom lending to rugged labor
Tints of beauty and lines of grace!
Once again, O beautiful river,
Hear our greetings and take our thanks;
Hither we come as Eastern pilgrims
Throng to the Jordan's sacred banks.
For though by the Master's feet untrodden,
Though never his word has stilled thy waves,
Well for us may thy shores be holy,
With Christian altars and saintly graves.
And well may we own thy hint and token
Of fairer valleys and streams than these,
Where the rivers of God are full of water,
And full of sap are his healing trees!
N. Y. Independent.

PATRIOTIO HYMN.
The following was written by Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, for the Fourth of July celebration in Boston.
Our fathers built the house of God;
Rough-hewn with haste its slabs they laid,
The savage mad in ambush trod,
And still they worshipped undismayed.
They wrought like stalwart men of war,
Who wrong the State from heathen hands;
Who bore their faith's high banner far,
And in its name possessed the lands.
The skill of strife to peaceful arts,
Their perils over, glad gave way;
The bond of freedom joined men's hearts
More near than meaner compact may.
We, followers of their task and toil,
Inherited their dangers too;
Drove bloody rapine from our soil,
The oppressor dared, the murderer slow.
Our heavy work, like theirs, at end,
Returning from the death-won field,
Brother with brother, friend with friend,
Again the house of God we build.
Oh! may our ransomed freedom dwell
In truth's own citadel secure,
And blameless guardians foster well
The mystic flame that must endure.
The flame of holy human love,
That makes our liberties divine;
Let each strong arm its champion prove,
And each true heart its deathless shrine.
<c02>

The Liberator.
A CRITIC ADRIFT.
Among the too sweeping or otherwise inaccurate statements of a very able article entitled "The Drift Period in Theology," in the July number of the Christian Examiner, I wish to note the following:-
"The mind that thinks for itself will think for itself on all subjects. The will that asserts its own independence will assert its independence in every sphere. The reason that moves freely amid sensuous objects will soon insist on moving freely amid sensuous objects; and one kind of authority will be as easily dislodged as another."-pp. 8, 9.
If a not were supplied to each one of these sentences, they would express the truth more nearly than at present. The precise truth is, that independence of thought tends to become universal, though the obstacles that it meets in the direction of theology, and the misplaced reverence felt by the community for the professional manufacturers of these obstacles, still prevent free thought in that direction among nineteen in twenty of those who exercise it in other directions. This is shown, not only by all past history, but by the present state of the (measurably) independent men and women known to each of us. It is a contradiction of our whole experience to say that he who dares not venture in this or that particular direction has no independence. Everybody sees that the sailor takes risks that would appal the fox-hunter-and vice versa. But it is just as plain that, up to a certain point in his reformatory course, Luther dared not consider the supremacy of the Pope as an open question, to be decided on evidence; and that he never, to the end of his life, dared to consider the doctrine of Biblical Inspiration an open question, to be decided on evidence. Inconsistency is a constant trait of human character, and it appears in this matter of independent thought not less than in other matters.
As to the last of the assertions above quoted, it is absolutely and entirely erroneous. Spiritual authority exceeds all other authority in tenacity and effectiveness. The late President Hitchcock, of Amherst College, had courage enough, in the pursuit of science, to meet "the world's dread laugh, which scarce the firm philosopher can scorn"; but when his creed came in question, when Geology came in conflict with Genesis, he dared not say more than that, by one method of explanation or another, the verses of the Hebrew Scripture might be made to accord with the facts written in granite and sandstone. 
I quote another extravagant statement from the Examiner's article. Speaking of the Rationalists and other theological innovators in Germany, it says-
"Eichhorn, DeWette, Paulus, Strauss, Schwegler, Baur, and the rest, put their shoulders against Church, Creed, Bible, and pushed them out into the current of general thought. They started with no purpose of unsettling the traditions of Christendom. . . . . . . But the movement now started went on till it affected the whole intellectual world, and heaved the old Bible everywhere from its place in the regards of thoughtful men."
There could hardly be a statement more thoroughly erroneous than the one I have italicised. It grossly misrepresents the position even of Germany. Even there, the class of men fairly represented by the writers abovementioned is proportionably very small, and an immense majority of the churches of that country are either Roman Catholic or Orthodox. Extreme theological dissent, far from "unsettling the traditions of Christendom," has not even unsettled those of Germany. The great majority of its people hold the creeds of half a century ago. 
Our author uses similar extravagance of statement in regard to his own country, about which, at least, he ought to be well-informed. He assumes, in regard to the American people, "their complete emancipation from establishments and traditions." Free from establishments, are they? The Church of England itself is not more firmly established in a steady, blind adherence to its doctrines and usages, its faith and worship, than the Episcopal, and Presbyterian, and Methodist and Baptist sects in this country are in theirs. Free from traditions, are they? Let us see, taking for a specimen the most liberal among the group of sects which call themselves "Evangelical," the Orthodox Congregationalists of the United States.
During the very week while this Christian Examiner was printing, the representatives, lay and clerical, of three thousand churches of this order were holding a "National Council" in Boston. One part of their ten days' work was the manufacture of a "Declaration of Faith." They had power to act just as their consciences dictated in the premises. There was stuff enough for the purpose, of various materials and patterns-Old Unitarian, New Unitarian, Parkerish, Transcendental, Rationalistic, Spiritualistic-lying about, all around them. Did they take a single stick of all this timber? No more than if it had been the wedge of Achan. They marched, in a solid column, in the old ways-by the old paths. They went, both figuratively and literally, down among the bones of the Pilgrim Fathers, and standing on the Burial Hill at Plymouth, they solemnly reaffirmed and adopted the same old dogmas that came over in the Mayflower. They seriously presented to their three thousand churches, as the best doctrines, theoretically and practically, for this present year of our Lord, the doctrines "held by our fathers, and substantially as embodied in the confessions and platforms which our synods of 1648 and 1680 set forth as reaffirmed." That is to say, they endorse, "substantially," the old "Cambridge Platform," the old "Saybrook Platform," the old "Savoy Confession," the old "Westminster Confession," and the old Catechisms, shorter and larger, compiled by the Assembly of Divines at Westminster. How much drifting is there about the position of these people? Let it be remembered that the men who took this ground were chosen by the three thousand churches to do this work for them. If they had preferred others, they would have sent others. They chose these because they liked them, and because they liked the ideas of which these men were the known representatives. The vote of acceptance of this "Declaration of Faith" in the Council was unanimous. And the three thousand churches, most of whom have before this time read the full report in their newspapers, have not as yet uttered one word of dissent. Is there much drifting in this denomination?
Here is another instance of extravagant breadth of assertion, in regard to the effect of the movement called "Spiritualism":
"The fact, imaginary or otherwise, the inference, just or not, moved the received theology to its foundations, unseated every dogma, made the churches tremble; and set the creeds driving headlong down stream.”-p. 13.
Spiritualism has done much, and has become a power in the world. But the things above rehearsed are precisely the things that it has not done; has not even tended to do. The little fact upon which this mass of exaggeration rests is that a very small proportion of orthodox church-members have accepted more or less of the theory of Spiritualism. Some remain in their churches, others have gone out of them. But, alike in each case, their change of belief has produced no effect upon the church, except to call forth expressions of contempt for the superstition, or holy indignation at the heresy displayed by the receivers of the new doctrine. As to the theology, the dogmas, the creeds held by those churches, they remain absolutely unaffected, in any manner or degree, by the existence and the success of "Spiritualism." The only important manner in which that system affects the Orthodox Church is in occupying the hunting ground that the Church wishes to monopolize, and pre-proselyting those in the community ("the world") who would otherwise be the natural prey of its proselytism.
Our author expends a page of really forcible rhetoric and logic, in showing how many dogmas of the Orthodox Church are annihilated by the premises of Spiritualism. But wait a little. To logical reasoners, who receive these premises as true, such an effect
<c03>
undoubtedly follows. But neither by the churches as bodies, nor by any but an insignificant minority of their individual members, are those premises accepted. They are sincerely looked upon by these people as either superstitious or wicked, and at any rate as baseless and foolish. Select an orthodox church-member (hitherto untouched by this influence) for experiment, and you can as easily convert him to Brahminism or Islamism as to Spiritualism. The "rappings and tippings," the "communications," the "appearances," glide off from him like water from a duck's back. He does not for a moment look at them as matters to be seriously considered; as matters possibly true. His armor of bigotry effectually withstands all such assaults. Greatly, therefore, as the community has been moved by Spiritualism, the Church and its creed remain unmoved by it.
The writer of this article proceeds to declaim and argue against the system or the school called "Theism." To him, "Theism seems not only far off, but aside from the road." Unfortunately, he does not define it-for to call it "the religious belief of the pure reason" is not defining it-and until this shall be done, we cannot tell whether it is "aside from the road."
Theodore Parker sometimes used the word Theism, meaning by it "the absolute religion," or pure Christianity. The advantage of the term was three-fold, as I understand it. First, to express a religious system, the opposite of Atheism, both in faith and character; and next to distinguish it on one side from Deism, the unreligious (not necessarily irreligious) recognition of the existence of God-and on the other side from the thing popularly known as Christianity, which includes much erroneous and irrational tradition. When Mr. Parker spoke of Theism as the religion of the future, I understand him to mean, not that it will supersede Christianity, but that it will supersede the erroneous estimate of Christianity now prevalent. He believed that the follies and errors which the majority in our country now receive as not only parts, but the most important parts, of the Christian religion, will be recognized, with the increase of knowledge, as foreign to, and inconsistent with the admirable system really taught by Christ; and that, therefore, the religion of the future will be at once positively Christian, and very different from the present popular estimate of Christianity. Theism, then, as Theodore Parker uses it, instead of being "the religious belief of the pure reason," and thus out of the reach of the majority of men, is rather the result of the exposure and rejection of those errors which tradition and priestcraft have attempted to fasten upon Christianity, and to represent as component parts of it. In his mind Theism, and pure Christianity, and the Absolute Religion were one and the same thing.
Miss Frances Power Cobbe, to whose advocacy of Theism the critic in the Examiner refers, differs from Mr. Parker in the point just mentioned. She considers Christianity as really including some errors and superstitions, and therefore expects Theism, accepted as a better system, to supersede it. But the critic utterly misrepresents both these able writers, and also the system which they call Theism, by saying (on the same page which records their advocacy of it) that it excludes prayer. No religious writers, of any class whatever, have taught more decidedly the need, the usefulness and the comfort of prayer, than Mr. Parker and Miss Cobbe. They both speak of it with enthusiasm, as a prominent part of their religious system, and an essential element in a religious character. Indeed, the very definition of prayer given by Theodore Parker-"an effort of the soul to enter into communication with the Heavenly Father, and to obtain somewhat of Him''-shows the error of saying, as the critic does, that Theism cannot yield to the impulse of prayer, "cannot implore."
Some of the objections to Theism stated by this Unitarian critic are no less than amazing. He says, p. 20-
"Under Theism, stated and formal worship tends to decline; for in its view and under its influence all life becomes worshipful, all service is divine, the distinction between sacred and secular is abolished, all days are holy days, and all work is holy work."
Would it really be a loss to substitute the teaching which tends to produce this state of things for the teaching under which our use of Sunday as separate holy time has grown to be what it is?? In my judgment it would be great gain. But the writer goes on to complain of Theism as establishing a sublime and majestic monotony throughout the universe. Under this system, he says-
"The central Being blots out subordinate divinities as the sun blots out the stars."
Very true! But what subordinate divinities does the Unitarian critic wish to retain?? And is the rule of the Wisest and Best objectionable from its monotony?
Equally amazing are the two pages of fervent eulogy (21-23) bestowed on the system called Pantheism, and the declarations that the tendency of modern speculation is towards it, and that the (continental) European mind and the American mind are saturated with it. Whether these things be so or not, the assertion that "Theodore Parker was as much Pantheist as Theist" is utterly erroneous. The whole scope of his writings, alike in sermon and essay, in letter and spirit, contradicts this assumption. His God was the conscious, actively-loving Father and Mother of each individual of the human race. He seems never to have even leaned in the Pantheistic direction. The very existence of his volume of Prayer suffices to contradict the critic's assertion, and the letter and spirit of every one of those prayers intensify the contradiction.-C. K. W. 

THE RENOVATION OF THE SOUTH.
Among the many suggestions relative to the development and renovation of the South, there is one that seems to have not received due attention from the public. That the rejuvenation of that section must involve the rise and progress of the colored people now there, and their descendants, will probably not be denied by any reasonable mind. That it will be a long time before the whites, especially the poor and degraded class will admit the claims of the negroes to anything like equality of civil rights, is equally manifest; for there is no doubt that they, as a class, are more deeply sunk in vice than the blacks. And while doubtless there is some truth in the statements of Gen. Banks and others in regard to the mortality of the blacks, during the last four years in some sections, it must be remembered that the mortality has always been great. The severe and prostrating labors of the sugar culture, spurred on by the cupidity and avidity of the white masters, annually consigned multitudes of the poor slaves to an early grave-in the climate, too, best adapted for their comfort. And again, while the negroes have died by thousands, the whites have gone by camp-life, battle, and domestic privation, by tens of thousands; and to speak in general terms, the bone and sinew of the superior color, so called, has wilted before the brightness of the coming of the day of regeneration.
We leave out of our present reckoning the criminal class of wealthy planters and rich aristocrats who made the war, dominated over the people, and ruined themselves; for by the terrible power of confiscation, rigidly followed up by the government, they will be reduced to poverty, and made to swell the ranks of the poor and ruined whites. No great help then can be expected of them for one generation at least. The middle-aged will encumber the earth a few years, drag out pitiable lives in poverty, and their sons and daughters, taught, or impelled by the strong hand of necessity, will become laborers and artizans, like other civilized men, and rise slowly in the scale of intelligence and thrift.
So, then, if we cast about for domestic elements with which to work out the rehabilitation of the South, the only class, reliable for the purpose, now there, is the colored. They are measurably healthy, strong, robust and fruitful, inured to physical labor. A fortune in itself, for a self-dependent class, and the first
<c04>
element in the line of commercial value on which to build a commonwealth-adapted to that section in which the white man does not and cannot flourish, and what is more to the point, of amiable and docile disposition, and ardently desirous to learn from books. They also possess fair mechanical genius, and a capability to rise to eminence in the line of artistic skill and beauty, and more than all, are devoutly religious. Slavery has, by its godless infidelities, and swinish greed for gain, engrafted on them too many of its baneful influences to be got rid of at once; and doubtless multitudes will be influenced and injured by them, till a new generation springs up that has not known the taskmaster. But, with all these elements in the problem, this is the only reliant class of persons in the South that can be claimed as ready co-workers in the labors of Southern development.
Now, this class, just emerging from bondage, must either be left to grope their way slowly, through many mistakes, frauds, cheatings, and robberies, or at least through great tribulation, to the light of self-reliance and self-dependence, so that they can act together in unity and with efficiency; during all which time they will, as now in Tennessee, have the ill-will of the whites, whether Unionists or rebels, and be made the unhappy objects of ungodly, discriminating laws, or else they must have help from their true friends in the North. And now we come to the gist of our argument. We have at the North, in decent abundance, the very elements of help and moral influence to them, specially adapted by nature, grace, and education for this blessed work. We mean our intelligent, well-behaved, well-educated colored friends and neighbors, whose record through all these years of prejudice, abuse, contempt, and oftentimes outrage, has been of the noblest type of Christian forbearance and eminent manhood. Our colored citizens, all over the old free States, have always been an improvable and improving class, ready and willing to learn, using well the smallest advantages, and gradually climbing higher in the scale of educated excellence; till now, for numbers, and eminence of ability, of its best developed members, it rivals the whites. How wonderful the change we have seen in twenty-five years! Then not a colored lawyer or physician in the United States; very rarely a colored teacher; very few colored scholars; some decent colored ministers; very rarely a colored public speaker who could command attention. A few had accumulated wealth, but they were hardly known outside their own circle. Now let any one investigate, and he can find cause to open his eyes wider than ever. 
Now this large element of intelligent and refined colored people have a great and grand duty to perform towards their fellow-sufferers in the South. Their advice would be heeded. Their words of instruction would be listened to, and believed. Their teachings would find acceptance everywhere. Their refined and gentle manners would inspire the uncultivated black, by showing him what is attainable to the negro. The poor slave, now a freedman, perhaps feels that he never can rise to the dignity of the white folks of the better class around him. But let him meet with one of his own race who has done it, and it will inspire active hope, ardent resolution, and determined effort. We verily believe that if a delegation of twenty or thirty thousand of our excellent colored people could be properly scattered among the freedmen of the South, one year would witness such moral and intellectual progress as the world never saw before in the same time, among the same number of people.
All of our colored friends would be more or less teachers there. And they would naturally be the leaders, the influential men, the molders of public sentiment, the developers of that great mass of humanity that is to make so prominent a part of our future civilization. Ethiopia is to stretch forth her hands unto God first in the United States. Sooner or later, the belt of territory around the Gulf of Mexico, from Charleston to Vera Cruz, will be in the grasp of the strong-armed black, and he must have furnished him intelligent brains to wield its destinies well. There is untold wealth in that region. It is the gateway to the tropics, to paradise. The whole temperate zone will pay tribute to it for its semi-tropical productions, and the colored residents there will command the Bourse of the world, with the rice, cotton, sugar, semi-tropical fruits, and probably coffee and tea. Perhaps many new varieties of vegetables may grow there. Who knows but the mandioc, cocoa, palm and other fruits may flourish there? We want energetic colored men there to try it, to make the discovery, and get the benefit of it; to build the towns and cities, railways and canals, mills, school-houses, bridges, ships of the live oak, and man them all over the seas, developing a commerce that shall shame the gluttonous and riotous Babylons that now deride the negro as a baboon, and sneer at his civil rights as though he were an ourang outang.
Now, is not here a field of effort, which our friends in Boston, New York and Philadelphia would do well to explore? Is it not safe to say that they can now organize, with the aid, if needed, contributed by their sympathizing friends, if not by the government, and send into all parts of the South persons as teachers, mechanics, preachers, speculators, developers of the industry of that region, who would enable the freedmen to master the situation; and work intelligently to the great end of building up that section on principles of right and justice, which are the only sure foundation against the contempt of men and the wrath of God?
And how easy now for them to get a foothold! The government actually needs them. Land is plenty and cheap, and by going into the right sections life would be secure. Old South Carolina ought to feel, first of any State, the expanding influence of colored effort. That State, ought to be taken possession of by the free blacks of the North. It is hoped they will stand ready, organized with the requisite funds, to purchase every confiscated estate. We want to see those fertile river valleys cut up into small farms, owned and cultivated by the colored citizen, and developed into a young garden of Eden. And it can be done by our Northern neighbors if they will organize soon, and go earnestly to work for the purpose. And now is the ACCEPTED TIME.

FROM SOUTH CAROLINA.
Extract from a letter, dated "Camp Detachment, 55th Mass. Vols., Fort Mott, S. C., July 9th, 1865”:
"We have here, every day, to see us, specimens of the so-called Southern chivalry. They all acknowledge themselves whipped, and are now very desirous to have things here as near as possible as they used to be. They are constantly complaining of the insolence and independence of the negroes. On the other hand, we have numbers of the freedmen visiting us, and complaining of the brutality of their former owners; how the planters have threatened to shoot them, prohibiting them in many places from leaving the plantation without passes, and whipped their children. Across the river, and only five or six miles from us, a colored man was shot dead a little over a week ago. We sent an officer and a squad of men to arrest the murderer, but he was not to be found. We are in hopes to catch him yet, and bring him to justice.
Many of the planters try to drive as close a bargain as they can in their contracts with their freedmen; and if they could possibly avoid it, would make no contract at all with them. If the planters are allowed to get control of the civil authority in this State again, there will be serious trouble. They are likely to pursue the same course that the West India planters pursued after emancipation there. The sooner these plantations are broken up, and divided into small farms, the better it will be for all classes here. Allow the negro the ballot, get a Northern and foreign emigration to come South, and the institutions and customs of the North will soon get the upper hand, and all will be well."
We heartily endorse the views of the writer of this letter as to what should be done in the premises. 
<c05>

RESOLUTIONS OF THE RADICAL GERMANS.
The Radical Germans lately assembled at Indianapolis, and the following are some of the resolutions adopted on that occasion:
The Southern rebellion and the war produced by it have not only shown the corruptions of slavery, and the inconsistency of the doctrine of State sovereignty in the true light, but also proved the dangers which are connected with the present system of Executive power-a system which places the fate of the whole nation in one man's hands; which makes the salvation or destruction of the republic dependent upon the person of one single man, having the entire disposal for a succession of years of all the forces and all the means of the country; and which gives also to this man, through a truly royal patronage, a corrupting influence which can be counterbalanced by no action of the people. Such a system is thoroughly anti-democratic; it is truly monarchical, and engenders at the same time, with a continually growing tendency towards centralization of all power, in the same proportion, a growing danger for democracy and republicanism. We hold it as a pressing necessity of the times that the present monarchical system of Executive power be changed; that the Executive be united with the Legislative, and exercised through a committee of the House of Representatives; and through direct dependence of the latter upon the people, a true democracy will be established.
We hold to the most decided maintenance of the Monroe doctrine, so much the stronger the more we have learned to know from our own experience the fruits of the monarchical system, and to know how to estimate its corrupting influences in its contact with republican institutions. But we hold it be a false policy to limit ourselves to the defensive in preparations against those influences, and to leave to the enemy time to fortify himself in his strength, and to form dangerous coalitions. We are of the opinion that monarchical intervention in America should be opposed by republican intervention in Europe, and that a suitable support of the European revolution is the most effective, surest, and at the same time cheapest means to make an end forever to all monarchical intrigues on this continent.
The principle of non-intervention of the State authorities in matters of religion and faith is certainly recognized in the Constitution, but the unhesitating and constant violation of the same has degenerated to a real institution. The State must maintain the rights and duties of the citizens, but not control their belief and their thoughts. The appointment of days for fasting and prayer, the Sunday constraint, the oath on the Bible, the opening of legislative assemblies with prayer, the exclusion of Infidels from political rights, &c., are direct violations of the Constitution; they make out of religion, which can and should be only a private matter, a State business. Since they only proceed officially from a certain, here predominant, faith, they do violence to every other faith, and force every person who thinks otherwise to become either a transgressor of the law or a hypocrite. Judging by previous practice, the republic is pursuing the same course which monarchies have pursued, namely, to instal a prevailing State religion as a means of policy, deprivation of certain rights, and tyranny. We, who have learned in Europe the insupportableness of this tyranny, which places the priest as assistant beside the politician, and the policeman beside the priest, declare our most decided opposition to it, and hope to see the republic secured against the dangers and disorders which the making use of religion by the political power must bring with it.
On the other hand, we wish as decidedly to be secured against the dangers which arise from abuse of the so-called religious freedom. We are of the opinion that a hierarchical organization, which is under the direct command of a foreign potentate, namely, the Pope, stands opposed not only to the spirit of the Constitution, but is a decided violation of National sovereignty, which can tolerate no functions from servants of any foreign rulers without special permission under precautionary conditions. No monarchy concedes to the servants of the Pope the dangerous independence and powerful position which they possess in the United States. The Romish hierarchy has already become co-ruler in the republic, and she strives here, as everywhere, to become sole ruler.
Although the United States, through their greater freedom and rich resources, offer to poverty and labor better means for relief, and more opportunities for well paid activity, than other countries, still the condition of the poor and the situation of the working population here also, is not of such a kind that they can be left to themselves. The strife between abused labor and abusing capital is here as little adjusted as elsewhere, and legislation, which has to settle all differences among hostile parties, is still everywhere in the hands of the monied interest. We regard it as a pressing necessity to provide for the laboring and neglected classes a stronger representation in the Legislature, and to assert there the principle that the State's help in all cases must come to the relief, where, for any individual, his own help is not sufficient for the satisfaction of just demands, and for securing an existence worthy the dignity of a man.
For the Executive Committee,
K. HEINZEN, President.
H. LIEBER, Secretary.

MR. NASBY LAYS DOWN A PROGRAMME FOR THE COMING CAMPAIGN.
SAINT'S REST, (which is in the Stait uv Noo Gersy,) Joon 12, 1865.
These is the dark days of the Dimocrisy. The misforchoons that befell our armies in front uv Richmond, the fall uv our kappytyle, follered by the surrender uv our armies to Grant and Sherman, hez hurt us. Our leeders are either pinin in loathsum dunguns, inkarseratid by the heavin-defyin, man-destroyin, tyranikle edix uv our late lamented President, or air barskin in the free air uv Italy and Kanady. We hev no way uv keepin our voters together. Opposin the war won't do no good, fer before the next eleckshun the heft of our voters will hev diskivered that the war is over. The feer of drafts may do suthin in sum parts uv Pennsylvany and Suthren Illinoy, fer sum time yit; but that can't be dependid on.
But we hev wun resource fer a Ishoo-ther will alluz be a Dimocrisy, so long ez ther's a nigger.
Ther is a uncompromisin dislike to the nigger in the mind uv a ginooine Dimocrat. The Spanish bull-fighter, when he wants to inflame the bull to extra cavortin, waves a red flag afore him. When you desire a Dimocrat to froth at the mouth, you will find a black face will anser the purpus. There4 the nigger is, to-day, our best and only holt. Let us use him.
Fer the guidanse uv the faithful, I shell lay down a few plain rools to be observed, in order to make the most uv the cappytle we hev:
1. Alluz assert that the nigger will never be able to talk care uv himself, but will allus be a public burden. He may, possibly, give us the lie by goin to work. In sich a emergency, the dooty uv every Dimocrat is plane. He must not be allowed to work. Associashuns must be orgenized, pledged to neether give him employment, to work with him, to work for enny one who will give him work, or patronize any one who duz. (I wood sejest that sich uv us es hez bin foretoonit enuff 2 get credit, pay a trifle on account, so ez to maik our patronidge worth suthin.) This course rigidly and persistently follered up, wood drive the best uv em to steelin., and the balance to the poor-houses, proovin wot we hev allus claimed, that they ar a idul and vishus race. Think, my brethren, wot a inspirin effeck our poor-housis and jails full of niggers wood hev onto the people! My sole expans ez I contemplait the deliteful vishun.
2. Likewise assert that the nigger will come North, and taik all the good places, throwin all our skild mekaniks out uv work by underbidden uv em. This mite be open 2 obgecshuns, to wit: It crosses slitely Rool the 1, and men mite say, ef there's jist enuff labor fer wat's here, why not perhibit furriners from cuming? I anser: Its the biznis uv the voter to reconsile the contradikshun-he may beleeve either or both. Ez to the sekund objecshun, wher is the Dimokrat who cooden't be under-bid, and stan it even to starvashen, if the underbiddin wuz dun by a man uv the proud Kaukashen race? and wher is the Dimokrat so lost to manhood ez not to drink blud, ef the same underbidden is dun by the nigger? The starvin for work ain't the question it's the color of the cause uv the starvashen that maiks the diffrens.
Nigger equality may be workt agin 2 advantage. All men, without distinckshun uv seeks, air fond uv flatrin theirselves that sumbody's lower down in the
<c06>
skale uv humanity than they is. Ef twan't fer niggers, what wood the Dimocrisy do for someboddy 2 look down upon? Its allso shoor to enlist won style uv wimmen on our side.
In times gone by I've notist gushin virgins uv 45, full 16 hands high, and tuff ez wire, hold's aloft banners onto which wuz inscribed "Save us from Nigger Equality." Yoo see it soothed em 2 bev a chance uv advertisin, 1st, That they wuz trale, helplis critters, and 2d, That anshent and tuff ez they wuz, some one wuz still goin for em.
Ef ther amt no niggers, Sentrel Committis most furnish em. A half dozen will do fer a ordinary county, ef theyr hustled along with energy. Ef they won't steel, the Sentrel Committis must do it themselves. Show yer niggers in a township in the mornin, and the same nite rob the clothes lines and hen roosts. Ever willin 2 sacrifice myself for the cause, I volunteer to do this last duty in six popular counties.
These ijees, ef follered, will, no doubt, keep us together until our enemies split, when we will reep the reward uv our constancy and fidelity. May the Lord hasten the day.
PETROLEUM V. NASBY,
Lait Paster uv the Church uv the Noo Dispensashun.

REMINISCENCES OF MR. LINCOLN.
Since the death of the late President, his many friends have added largely to the stock of anecdotes and incidents of his life, tending to illustrate those elements of public and private character which won the hearts of the people to such a wonderful extent. Many of these, without doubt, will find a permanent record in the biographies of Mr. Lincoln which are already in course of preparation. They will, if faithfully preserved, invest his biography with an interest which works of this class have rarely afforded.
It was not our good fortune to know much, personally, of the late President. In fact, the only time we ever saw him was on the occasion of a business visit to Washington in the last days of March, just before the fall of Richmond. Our special errand related to an unfinished matter already in his hands, and, a moment's attention to it being all that was required, we made our way to the White House, fully resolved not to be intrusive, nor to worry him with impertinent matters, of which he had, already, more than enough. Our card was passed in, and we awaited our chances in the ante-room, with a dozen comers, perhaps, among whom were recognized senators and members of the “popular branch.” One of the latter, coming from the President's own State, gave us a hint that this waiting for "an audience" was a decided uncertainty, often resulting in hope deferred. Our friend added that he had been himself waiting and watching for his chance nearly three weeks. His case was simply that of a widow's son, who had deserted, and who was therefore liable to be shot.
The mother was half-distracted with grief, and her petition for pardon was to be urged. Presently walked in, with nimble step, a middle-sized, well-built, stern-visaged man, with his budget of papers, and who, as if at home, was immediately ushered into the President's room. That was Secretary Stanton. The waiting gentlemen who recognized the Secretary of War here gave knowing winks of discouragement, as much as to say, “It’san all-night business; Stanton has important dispatches from the front." But a half-hour sufficed, and, when the Secretary passed out, the grey-haired messenger, whose open, pleasant Irish countenance has been familiar to callers at the White House since it was occupied by President Jackson, notified the gentlemen in waiting-the Illinois member was now, unluckily, not among them-that the President would now see them all at once; and all were ushered in. This was our first and only view of Abraham Lincoln face to face. His countenance bore that open, benignant outline we had expected, but what struck us, especially, was its cheerful, wide-awake expressiveness which we had never met with in the pictures of our beloved chief. The secret of this may have been that he had just been hearing good news from Grant-for such was the fact.
But our chief purpose in this sketch is to describe, in brief, the bearing of the President in this short interview. After saluting his little circle of callers, they were seated, and attended to in turn. First in order was a citizen of Washington, praying for pardon in the case of a deserting soldier.
"Well," said the President, after carefully reading the paper, "it is only natural for one to want pardon, but I must in such a case have a responsible name that I know. I don't know you. Do you live in the city?" "Yes." "Do you know the Mayor?" "Yes." "Well, bring me his name, and I'll let the boy off." The soldier was pardoned.
Next came a well-developed man of French accent from New Orleans. He was evidently a diffident person, not knowing precisely how to state his case, but the burden of it was, that he was a real-estate holder in New Orleans, and since the advent of military rulers there he could not collect his rents, which were his living. "Your case, my friend," said the President, "may be a hard one, but it might have been worse. If, with your musket, you had taken your chance with our boys before Richmond, you might have found your bed before now. But the point is, what would you have me do for you? I have much to do, and the courts have been opened to relieve me in this regard.” The applicant, still embarrassed, said, "I am not in the habit of appearing before big men." "And for that matter," it was quickly responded, "you have no need to change your habit, for you are not before very big men now," playfully adding, "I can't go into the collection business." The New Orleans man was finally satisfied that a President cannot do everything that ought to be done to redress individual grievances. These instances, though not specially remarkable in themselves, serve to set off in a strong light those traits of character which shed such a radiance over the life of Mr. Lincoln. He studied intently the grievances of the humblest. There was no appearance of affected dignity on account of the high post which he filled. He had a fellow-feeling for his countrymen-a love for justice-above all, a true fear of God-a sacred regard for the rights of all. These were our first-sight impressions of Abraham Lincoln. They are likely to be lasting.-Lowell Citizen.

PERSONAL REMINISCENCES OF MR. LINCOLN.
Mr. Noah Brooks, who was to have been Mr. Lincoln's private secretary, gives some interesting personal reminiscences of our late President.
MR. LINCOLN'S SIMPLICITY.
"All persons agree that the most marked characteristic of Mr. Lincoln's manner was his simplicity and artlessness. This immediately impressed itself upon the observation of those who met him for the first time, and each successive interview deepened the impression. People seemed delighted to find in the ruler of the nation freedom from pomposity and affectation, mingled with a certain simple dignity that never forsook him. Though pressed with the weight of responsibility resting upon him as President of the United States, he shrank from assuming any of the honors, or even titles, of the position. After years of intimate acquaintance with Mr. Lincoln, the writer cannot now recall a single instance in which he spoke of himself as President, or used that title of himself, except when acting in an official capacity. He always spoke of his position and office vaguely, as 'this place,’ 'here,' or other modest phrases. Once, speaking of the room in the Capitols used by the Presidents of the United States during the close of a session of Congress, he said, 'That room, you know, that they call'-dropping his voice and hesitating-'the President's room.' To an intimate friend who addressed him always by his own proper title, he said, ‘Now call me Lincoln, and I'll promise not to tell of the breach of etiquette -if you won't-and I shall have a resting spell from Mister Lincoln.'

HIS DIGNITY.
With all his simplicity and unacquaintance with courtly manners, his native dignity never forsook him in the presence of critical or polished strangers; but mixed with his angularities and bonhomie was something which spoke the fine fibre of the man; and, while his sovereign disregard of courtly conventionalities was somewhat ludicrous, his native sweetness and straight-forwardness of manner served to disarm criticism, and impress the visitor that he was before a man pure, self-poised, collected, and strong in unconscious strength. Of him an accomplished foreigner, whose knowledge of the courts was more perfect than that of the English language, said, “He seems to me one grand gentilhomme in disguise.”
