THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHIGNTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentleman constitute the Financial Committee, <Illegible> are not responsible for any debts of, the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR. 
WM. LLYOD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 29. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 17, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1693.
Refuge of Oppression.

<c01>
SPEECH OF FRANKLIN PIERCE.
Extracts from a speech delivered before a Democratic, copperhead Mass Meeting at Concord, N.H., July 4th, 1863, by Franklin Pierce, Ex-President of the United States:-
Such was the Union, as conceived and administered by Washington and Adams, by Jefferson, and Madison, and Jackson. Such, I say, was the Union, on the evil times befel us; ere the madness of see <illegible> hatreds and animosities possessed us; ere, in the third generation, the all-comprehensive patriotism of the Fathers had died out, and given place to the passionate emotions of narrow and aggressive sec <illegible>
Then we were the model Republic of the world, honored, loved or feared where we were not loved, respected abroad, peaceful and happy at home. No American citizen was then subject to be driven into exile for opinion's sake, or arbitrarily arrested and incarcerated in military bastiles-even as he may now be-not for acts or words of imputed treason, but if he do but mourn in silent sorrow over the desolation of his country; no embattled hosts of Americans were then wasting their lives and resources in sanguinary civil strife; no suicidal and parricidal civil war then swept like a raging tempest of death over the stricken homesteads and wailing cities of the Union.
Oh, that such a change should have come over our country in a day, as it were- as if all men in every State of the Union, North and South, East and West, were suddenly smitten with homicidal madness, and "the custom of fell deeds" rendered as familiar as if it were a part of our inborn nature; as if an avenging angel had been suffered by Providence to wave a sword of flaming fire above our heads to convert so many millions of good men, living together in brotherly love, into insensate beings, savagely bent on destruction of themselves and of each other, and leaving but a smouldering ruin of conflagration and of blood in the place of our once blessed Union!
Can you forget, ought I especially to be expected to forget, those not remote days in the history of our country, when its greatness and glory shed the reflection at least of their rays upon all our lives, and thus enable us to read the lessons of the Fathers, and of their Constitution, in the light of their principles and their deeds? Then war was conducted only against the foreign enemy, and not in the spirit and purpose of persecuting non-combatant populations, nor of burn in undefended towns or private dwellings, and wasting the fields of the husbandmen or the work-shops of the artisan, but of the subduing armed hosts in the fields. Then the Congress of the United States was the great council of the whole Union, and of all its parts. Then the Executive Administration looked with impartial eye over the whole domain of the Union, anxious to promote the interests and consult the honor and just pride of all 
the States, seeing no power beyond the law, and devoutly obedient to the commands of the Constitution.
How is all this changed! And why? Have we not been told, in this very place not two weeks ago by the voice of an authoritative expositor; do we not all know that the cause of our calamities is the vicious intermeddling of too many of the citizens of the Northern States with the constitutional rights of the Southern States, co-operating with the discontent of the people of these States? Do we not know that the disregard of the Constitution, and of the security it affords to the rights of States and of individuals, has been the cause of the calamity which our country is called to undergo? And now, war!-war, in its direst shape-war, such as it makes the blood run cold to read of in the history of other nations and of other times-war, on the scale of a million men in arms— war, horrid as that of barbaric ages-rages, in several of the States of the Union, as its more immediate field, and casts the lurid shadow of its death and lamentation athwart the whole expanse, and into every nook and corner of our vast domain.
Nor is that all; for in those of the States which are exempt from the actual ravages of war, in which the roar of the cannon, and the rattle of the musketry, and the groans of the dying are heard but as a faint echo of terror from other lands, even here in the loyal States, the mailed hand of military unsurpation strikes down the liberties of the people, and its foot tramples on a desecrated Constitution. (Applause.) Aye, in this land of free thought, free speech, and free writing-in this republic of free suffrage, with liberty of the ought and expression as the very essence of republican institutions-even here in these free States, it is made criminal for a citizen soldier, like gallant Edgarly of New Hampshire, to vote according to his conscience; or like that noble martyr of free speech, Vallandigham, (prolonged cheers.) to discuss public affairs in Ohio; aye, even here, the temporary agents of the sovereign people, the transitory administrators of the Government, tell us that in time of war the mere arbitrary will of the President takes the place of the Constitution, and the President himself announces to us that it is treasonable to speak or to write otherwise than as he may prescribe; nay, that it is treasonable even to be silent, though we be struck dumb by the shock of the calamities with which evil counsels, incompetency and corruption have over-whelmed our country. (Loud applause.)
My friends, let those obey such behests who will: you and I have been nurtured here among the granite hills, and under the clear skies of New Hampshire; into no such servile temperament. True it is, that any of you, that I myself, may be the next victim of unconstitutional, arbitrary, irresponsible power. But we, nevertheless, are free men, and we resolve to live, or if it must be, to die such. ("Amen!” "That's it" and cheers.) Falter who may, we will never cease to hold up on high the Constitution of the Union, though torn to shreds by the sacrilegious hands of its enemies. (A voice-"We'll do it.") How strikingly significant, how suggestive to us, on this occasion, is the contemplation of that august spectacle of the recent Convention at Indianapolis of seventy- five thousand citizens, calmly and bravely participating in the discussion of the great principles underlying their sacred rights as freeman-neither awed by cannon frowning upon their liberties, nor provoked by threats into retaliatory violence. I would say to you, fellow-citizens, emulate that exhibition of wisdom and patriotism. Be patient, but resolute. Yield nothing of your rights, but bear and forbear. Let your action show to the world that, with courage to confront despotism, you have also the discretion to avoid inconsiderate action in resisting its advances.
Let the disregard of others for what the Revolutionary Fathers achieved, and for the compact which they made, subdued as they were in all things but a sense of right and honor by the sufferings of a seven years' war, now stand out before us. Let the people
<c02>
realize what this constant ringing in their ears of the charge that "the Constitution is a covenant with Death and a league with Hell," has brought about. And then let them see and feel what we had in eighty years of unexampled prosperity and happiness under that Constitution. Let them look back upon those 
eighty years of civil liberty—of the reign of constitutional law—eighty years of security; to our homes, of living in our castles, humble though they may 
have been, with no power to invade them by night or by day', except under the well-defined and exhibited authority of law—a written, published law, enacted by themselves for the punishment of crime and for their own protection—eighty years of the great experiment which astonished the world.
My friends, you have had—most of you have had-great sorrows, overwhelming personal sorrows, it may be, but none like these, none like those which come welling up, day by day, from the great fountain of national disaster, red with the best and bravest blood of the country. North and South; red with the blood of those in both sections of the Union whose fathers fought the common battle of Independence. Nor have these sorrows brought with them any compensation, whether of national pride or of victorious arms. For is it not vain to appeal to you to raise a shout of joy because the men from the land of Washington. Marion and Sumter are baring their breasts to the steel of the men from the land of Warren, Stark and Stockton; or because, if this war is to continue to be waged, one or the other must go to the wall—must be consigned to humiliating subjugation? This fearful, fruitless, fatal civil war has exhibited our amazing resources and vast military power. It has shown that, united, even in carrying out, in its widest interpretation, the Monroe doctrine on this continent, we could, with such protection as the broad ocean which flows between ourselves and European powers affords, have stood against the world in arms. I speak of the war as fruitless: for it is clear that, prosecuted upon the basis of the proclamations of Sept. 22 and Sept. 24, 1862, prosecuted, as I must understand those proclamations, to say nothing of the kindred brood which has followed, upon the theory of emancipation, devastation, subjugation, it cannot fail to be fruitless in everything, except the harvest of woe which it is ripening for what was once the peerless republic.
Now, fellow-citizens, after having said this much, it is right that you should ask me, what would you do in this fearful extremity? (Voices—"That's what we want!") I reply, from the beginning of this struggle to the present moment, my hope has been in moral power. There it reposes still. When in the spring of 1861, I had occasion to address my fellow-citizens of this city, from the balcony of the hotel before us, I then said I had not believed, and did not then believe, aggression by arms was either a suitable or possible remedy for existing evils.—Voices "Good, good!" and cheers.) All that has occurred since then has but strengthened and confirmed my convictions in this regard. I repeat, 
then, my judgment impels me to rely upon moral force, and not upon any of the coercive instrumentalities of military power. We have seen in the experience of the last two years, how futile are all our efforts to maintain the Union by force of arms; but even had war been carried on by us successfully, the ruinous result would exhibit its utter impracticability for the attainment of the desired end. Through peaceful agencies, and through such agencies alone, 
can we hope "to form a more perfect union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, 
and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity," the great objects for which, and for which alone, the Constitution was formed.
Selections.

EX-PRESIDENT PIERCE’S SPEECH.
It is sad to see one who has enjoyed the highest honors of the Republic making such a spectacle of himself as is portrayed in Ex-President Pierce's speech at Concord on the Fourth of July. Here was a man who might be supposed to have a peculiar pride and concern in the integrity of his country, speaking on a day specially devoted to patriotic associations, and just after the announcement of a great victory won by our soldiers—our own neighbors and kindred—over the armed foes of the Government and the invaders of a sister State. And yet he had not a word of exultation that the tide of destructive invasion had thus been turned; not a word of praise for the heroism (as noble as that displayed at Bunker Hill or Bennington) which had achieved this victory; and not a word of condemnation of that revolt against the Constitution and the laws which has filled the land with bloodshed and mourning! And still this man pretends to be a patriotic statesman, and there were thousands who heard him with apparent approval! The time is surely coming when this anomaly will be put in its true, sad light.
But the peculiarities of Ex-President Pierce's speech were not wholly negative. He did specify the cause of the rebellion. He found it to be "the intermeddling of too many of the citizens of the Northern States with the constitutional rights of the Southern States." He did not seem to see any intermeddling in the constant labors of Southern statesmen to strengthen and perpetuate human slavery; in the seizure of nearly all our Southern forts and arsenals; in Beauregard's guns with Fort Sumter, in Lee's career of plunder in Pennsylvania, which had been going on all the while that the Ex-President had been preparing the polished periods of his speech. No, he had no thought of these things, but after making the above brief statement, he shut his eyes to the whole of this gigantic invasion, as if it were a thing of no account, and devoted all the rest of his time and melodramatic eloquence to the “despotism” at Washington, which he affected to consider the only source of danger to the country. Such cold-blooded trifling as this would not be believed, did we not see it exemplified by a certain section of politicians. But the fundamental good sense of the American people guaranties that this exhibition will not last much longer.
But even Mr. Pierce cannot evade that practical question, “What are you going to do about it?" which so often troubles theorists and cunning demagogues. What should we do in this great national crisis? Mr. Pierce has always, be said, relied on “peaceful agencies." But what if these agencies fail? Hear his Delphic reply: 
"Then, all efforts, whether of war or peace, having failed, my reply is, you will take care of yourselves with or without arms, with or without leaders, we will at least in the effort to defend our rights as a free people, build up a great mausoleum of hearts, to which men who yearn for liberty will in after years, with bowed heads and reverently, resort, as Christian Pilgrims to the sacred shrines of the Holy Land.”
If any one can tell us what this means, we shall be greatly obliged to him. How shall we take care
<c03>
of ourselves, and what is the precise object of building up that "great mausoleum of hearts”?—a monument which, would certainly "smell to heaven" of 
cowardice and treason. It is an act of charity to suppose that the Ex-President himself did not know what he was talking about, but took this way of vanishing in his own smoke, to avoid the perplexities of a "tight corner." He appeared, however, at the close of the meeting as a Democratic contributor is the wants of the soldiers’ families, (his first appearance, if we may believe common report, in that role.) His $50, tardily taken from the $50,000 with which he retired from the Presidency, will undoubtedly he acceptable; and his motives in proposing that the contribution should come "from this party," in order “to show that the Democratic party is not behind others" in that work, may be good, but they are, to say the least, characteristic. But if Mr. Pierce thinks that the soldiers will not thoroughly understand the canting hypocrisy of this contribution, he is utterly mistaken, the faction which, in a State Convention, allowed one of its orators to denounce the soldiers as mercenaries, nay, received his speech with applause, is not likely to buy the favor of these same soldiers with a paltry thousand or two of dollars. They entirely misapprehend the feelings and sentiments as well as the intelligence of the men who have gone out to fight the battles of their country.—Boston Journal.

THE COPPERHEAD EX-PEESIDENT.
Amidst the rejoicings over victory, and amidst the sighs and sobs of thousands who have helped purchase victory by costliest sacrifices, there comes in a weak, miserable, discordant voice, that would awaken indignation if it deserved anything but contempt. One who has been the nominal head of the government of this, then united, prosperous and powerful country, and whose fawning, and sycophantic, and short-sighted policy did as much as it could to encourage the arrogant assumptions and insolent demands of the Slave Power conspirators, comes forward at this tremendous crisis to renew the wretched subserviency, and play the ignoble part of the spiteful and disappointed partizan. And he plays it well.
He declaims the old platitudes. He re-hashes the thread-bare falsehoods. He rings the changes on the misrepresentations of the record of the past, and the facts of the present. Professing democracy, he sympathizes with and truckles to the most unmitigated aristocracy that the world has ever known. Pretending to be the friend of the people and of free institutions, his course is disgustingly inimical to the best interests of both. With an armed, desperate, and unprincipled domestic foe threatening the existence of the nation, with the best blood of New England flowing like water on the battle-field, this man has only words of vindictive censure for those who would defend the nation's integrity.
From the time of the assault on Sumter, he has been skulking in silence. The community has been listening in vain to catch from him a feeble whisper of manly loyalty and generous patriotism. Whilst men of all shades of political opinion have forgotten their differences in devotion to the Union, and in their determination to save the land to freedom first and freedom always, he has stood aloof. Now, when it happens to be safe to play the demagogue with a factious clique of chronic haters of everything that is truly liberal and truly democratic, he emerges from his shirking privacy, only to crown the failures of his public career with a sorry exhibition of recreancy to the claims of the hour.
It is not because of his former political relations that his present position is censurable. A majority of those who voted him into the Executive chair will 
join in that censure. His talk and attitude now are spurned as essentially traitorous—too plainly so for any of the-pompous generalities of the partizan to conceal. He misrepresents the American heart; he is false to democratic principles and democratic ideas; he is recreant to the spirit of the Constitution; he turns his back to all that makes the glory of a republic, to cringe to the autocratic despotism of Southern slaveholders. Thus he has added to the history of his imbecility as a ruler, an appendix to tell the story of his delinquency as a citizen.
Posterity will be his impartial judge, and its retributory sentence will be ineffaceable. When Andrew Johnson, Dix, Dickinson, Cass, Butler, Stanton, Holt, and a host of other Democrats, too true to democratic principles to sell themselves to those alike the foes of those principles and the united nation, are gratefully remembered, this politician will either be entirely forgotten, or thoroughly despised. —Boston Transcript.

PIERCE.
To Ex-President Franklin Pierce may be accorded the distinction of having made a little the meanest speech on national affairs which the present crisis has evoked. After a skulking silence of nearly two years, while parricides and traitors were using every endeavor to destroy the country of which he was once the chief magistrate, he came out of his obscurity in a day of darkness and disaster, to heap obloquy upon those who are engaged in the struggle to preserve the life of the nation, and to join with the rebel orators at Richmond and Charleston in declaiming upon the “tyranny” of the government at Washington. Not a word of reproach had he for the miscreants who initiated this gigantic treason by seizing the forts and arsenals of the nation, and firing upon the garrison of Sumter, and, finally, after drenching the nation in blood, had consummated their career of wickedness by invading, with their hordes of plunderers and incendiaries, the peaceful valley of Pennsylvania. So far is he from censuring these devilish excesses, that he cannot help expressing his admiration for what Virginia "has taught," and "done," and "now is,"—a State that "has taught" the heresies that have led to rebellion, and "now is the” chief supporter of treason, joined with treachery of the deepest dye.
After this warmth of expressed admiration for the authors of so much misery, it is not strange that he indicates his disapprobation of any of the "coercive instrumentalities of military power." The invaders of our soil, the miscreants who insult our flag, plunder our national treasures, seek the lives of our citizens who remain true to their allegiance and duty, he would bring back, by "moral power!" What hypocrisy and cant! What a mockery of intelligence and reason! Alas, that one who has occupied the honored seat of Washington and Adams should descend to such a depth of baseness and humiliation!—Yarmouth Register.
GEN. McCLELLAN. The Boston Courier calls for the publication of Gen. McClellan's report, saying that the extraordinary condition of things "demands him to come forward." The General was always backward in coming forward, preferring the advance only when the army was retreating, and the shelter of a gunboat when retreat was no longer possible.-Worcester Spy.
<c04>
"THE IRREPSESSIBLE CONFLICT." 
Extract from the eloquent Oration of Prof. OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES, delivered before the City Authorities of Boston, July 4th, 1863:-
The struggle in which we are engaged was inevitable; it might have come, a little sooner, or a little later, but it must have come. The disease of the nation was organic and not functional, and the rough chirurgery of war was its only remedy.
In opposition to this view, there are many languid thinkers who lapse into a forlorn belief that if this or that man had never lived, or if this or that other man had not ceased to live, the country might have gone, on in peace and prosperity until its felicity merged in the glories of the millennium. If Mr. Calhoun had never proclaimed his heresies; if Mr. Garrison had never published his paper; if Mr. Phillips, the Cassandra in masculine shape of our long prosperous Illium, had never uttered his melodious prophecies; if the silver tones of Mr. Clay had still sounded in the senate chamber to smooth the billows of contention; if the Olympian brew of Daniel Webster had been lifted from the dust to fix its awful frown on the darkening scowl of rebellion, we might have been spared this dread season of convulsions. All this is but simple Martha's faith, without the reason she could have given: "If Thou hadst been here, my brother had not died.”
They little know the tidal movements of national thought and feeling, who believe that they depend for existence on a few swimmers who ride their waves. It is not Leviathan that leads the ocean from continent to continent, but the ocean which bears his mighty bulk as it wafts its own bubbles. If this is true of all the narrow manifestations of human progress, how much more must it be true of those broad movements in the intellectual and spiritual domain which interest all mankind!! But in the more limited ranges referred to, no fact is more familiar than that there is a simultaneous impulse acting on many individual minds at once, so that genius comes in clusters, and shines rarely as a single star. You may trace a common motive and force in the pyramid builders of the earliest recorded antiquity, in the evolution of Greek architecture, and in the sudden springing up of those wondrous cathedrals of the twelfth and the following centuries, growing out of the soil with stem and bud and blossom, like flowers of stone whose seeds might well have been the- flaming aerolites cast over the battlements of heaven. You may see the same law showing itself in the brief periods of glory which make the names of Pericles and Augustus illustrious with reflected splendors; in the painters, the sculptors, the scholars of "Leo's golden days;" in the authors of the Elizabethan time; in the poets of the first part of this century following that dreary period, suffering alike from the silence of Cowper and the song of Hayley. You may accept the fact as natural, that Zwingli and Luther, without knowing each other, preached the same reformed gospel; that Newton, and Hooke, and Halley, and Wren, arrived independently of each other at the great law of the diminution of gravity with the square of the distance; that Leverrier and Adams felt their hands meeting, as it were, as they stretched them into the outer darkness beyond the orbit of Uranus in search of the dim, unseen planet; that Fulton and Bell, that Wheatstone and Morse, that Daguerre and Niepce, were moving almost simultaneously in parallel paths to the same end. You see why Patrick Henry, in Richmond, and Samuel Adams, in Boston, were startling the crown officials with the same accents of liberty, and why the Mecklenburg Resolutions had the very ring of the protest of the Province of Massachusetts. This law of simultaneous intellectual movement, recognized by all thinkers; expatiated upon by Lord Macaulay and by Mr. Herbert Spencer among recent writers; is eminently applicable to that change of thought and feeling, which necessarily led to the present conflict.
The antagonism of the two sections of the Union was not the work of this or that enthusiast or fanatic. It was the consequence of a movement in mass of two different forms of civilization in different directions, and the men to whom it was attributed were only those who represented it most completely, or who talked longest and loudest about it. Long before the accents of those famous statesmen referred to ever resounded in the halls of the Capitol; long before the "Liberator" opened its batteries, the controversy now working itself out by trial of battle was foreseen and predicted. Washington warned his countrymen of the danger of sectional divisions, well knowing the line, of cleavage that ran through the seemingly solid fabric. Jefferson foreshadowed the judgment to fall upon the land for its sin against a just God. Andrew Jackson announced a quarter of a century beforehand that the next pretext of revolution would be slavery. De Tocqueville recognized with that penetrating insight which analyzed our institutions and conditions so keenly, that the Union was to be endangered by slavery, not through its interests, but through the change of character it was bringing about in the people of the two sections; the same fatal change which George Mason, more than half a century before, had declared to be the most pernicious effect of the system, adding the solemn warning now fearfully justifying itself in the sight of his descendants, that "by an inevitable chain of causes and effects, Providence punishes national sins by national calamities." The Virginian romancer pictured the far-off scenes of the conflict which he saw approaching, as the prophets of Israel painted the coming woes of Jerusalem; and the strong iconoclast of Boston announced the very year when the curtain should rise on the yet unopened drama.
The wise men of the past, and the shrewd men of our own time who warned us of the calamities in store for our nation, never doubted what was the cause which was to produce, first alienation, and finally rupture. The descendants of the men "daily exercised in tyranny," the "petty tyrants," as their own leading statesmen called them long ago, came at length to love the institution which their fathers had condemned while they tolerated. It is the fearful realization of that vision of the poet where the lost angels suuff up with eager nostrils the sulphurous emanations of the bottomless abyss,—so have their natures become changed by long breathing the atmosphere of the realm of darkness.
At last, in the fullness of time, the fruits of sin ripened in a sudden harvest of crime. Violence stalked into the senate chamber, theft and perjury wound their way into the cabinet, and, finally, openly organized conspiracy, with force and arms, made burglarious entrance into a chief stronghold of the Union. That the principle which underlay these acts of fraud and violence should be irrevocably recorded with every needed sanction, it pleased God to select a chief ruler of the false government to be its Messiah to the listening world. As with Pharaoh, the Lord hardened his heart, while He opened his mouth as of old He opened that of the unwise animal ridden by cursing Balaam. Then spake Mr. "Vice President" Stephens those memorable words which fixed forever the theory’ of the
<c05>
new social order. He first lifted a degraded barbarism to the dignity of a philosophic system. He first proclaimed the gospel of eternal tyranny as the new revelation which Providence had reserved for the western Palestine. Hear, O heavens! and give ear, O earth! The corner stone of the new born dispensation is the recognized inequality of races; not that the strong may protect the weak, as men protect women and children, but that the strong may claim the authority of Nature and of God to buy, to sell, to scourge, to hunt, to cheat out of the reward of his labor, to keep in perpetual ignorance, to blast with hereditary curses throughout all time, the bronzed foundling of the New World, upon whose darkness has dawned the star of the occidental Bethlehem!
After two years of war have consolidated the opinion of the Slave States, we read in the “Richmond Examiner“: "The establishment of the Confederacy is verily a distinct reaction against the whole course of the mistaken civilization of the age. For 'Liberty, Equality, Fraternity,' we have deliberately substituted Slavery, Subordination, and Government.”
A simple diagram, within the reach of all, shows how idle it is to look for any other cause than slavery as having any material agency in dividing the country. Match the two broken pieces of the Union, and you will find the fissure that separates them zigzagging half across the continent like an isothermal line, shooting its splintery projections, and opening its re-entering angles, not merely according to the limitations of particular States, but as a country or other limited section of ground belongs to freedom or to slavery. Add to this the official statement made in 1862, that “there is not one regiment or battalion or even company of men, which was organized in or derived from the Free States or Territories, anywhere, against the Union;" throw in gratuitously Mr. Stephen's explicit declaration in the speech referred to; and we will consider the evidence closed for the present on this count of the indictment.
In the face of these predictions, these declarations, this line of fracture, this precise statement, testimony from so many sources, extending through several generations, as to the necessary effect of slavery a priori, and its actual influence as shown by the facts, few will suppose that anything we could have done would have stayed its course, or prevented it from working out its legitimate effects on the white subjects of its corrupting dominion. Northern acquiescence or even sympathy may have sometimes helped to make it sit more easily on the consciences of its supporters. Many profess to think that Northern fanaticism, as they call it, acted like a mordant in fixing the black dye of slavery in regions which would but for that have washed themselves free of its stain in tears of penitence. It is a delusion and a snare to trust in any such false and flimsy reasons where there is enough, and more than enough, in the institution itself to account for its growth. Slavery gratifies at once the love of power, the love of money, and the love of ease; it finds a victim for anger who cannot smite back his oppressor, and it offers to all, without measure, the seductive privileges which the Mormon gospel reserves for the true believers on earth, and the Bible of Mahomet only dares promise to the saints in heaven.
Still it is common, common even to vulgarism, to hear the remark, that the same gallows tree ought to bear as its fruit the arch traitor and the leading champion of aggressive liberty. The mob of Jerusalem was not satisfied with its two crucified thieves, it must have a cross also for the reforming Galilean, who interfered so rudely with its conservative traditions! It is asserted that the fault was quite as much on our side as on the other; that our agitators and abolishers kindled the flame for which the combustibles were all ready on the other side of the border. If these men could have been silenced, our brothers had not died.
Who are the persons that use this argument? They are the very ones who are at the present moment most zealous in maintaining the right of free discussion. At a time when every power the nation can summon is needed to ward off the blows aimed at its life, and turn their force upon its foes,—when a false traitor at home may lose us a battle by a word, and a lying newspaper may demoralize an army by its daily or weekly stillicidium of poison, —they insist with loud acclaim upon the liberty of speech and of the press; liberty, nay license, to deal with government, with leaders, with every measure, however urgent, in any terms they choose, to traduce the officer before his own soldiers, and assail the only men who have any claim at all to rule over the country, as the very ones who are least worthy to be obeyed. It these opposition members of society are to have their way now, they cannot find fault with those persons who spoke their minds freely in the past on that great question which, as we have agreed, underlies all our present dissensions.
It is easy to understand the bitterness which is often shown towards reformers. They are never general favorites. They are apt to interfere with vested rights and time-hallowed interests. They often wear an unlovely, forbidding aspect. Their office corresponds to that of Nature's sanitary commission for the removal of material nuisances. It is not the butterfly, but the beetle, which she employs for this duty. It is not the bird of paradise and the nightingale, but the fowl of dark plumage and unmelodious voice, to which is entrusted the sacred duty of eliminating the substances that infect the air. And the force of obvious analogy teaches us not to expect all the qualities which please the general taste, in those whose instincts lead them to attack the moral nuisances which poison the atmosphere of society. But whether they please us in all their aspects or not, is not the question. Like them or not, they must and will perform the duties of their office, and we cannot stop them. They may be unwise, violent, abusive, extravagant, impracticable, but they are alive, at any rate, and it is their business to remove abuses as soon as they are dead, and often to help them to die. To quarrel with them, because they are beetles and not butterflies, is natural, but far from profitable. They grow none the worse for being trodden upon, like those tough weeds that love to nestle between the stones of court yard pavements. If you strike at one of their heads with the bludgeon of the law of violence, it flies open like the seed capsule of a snap-weed, and fills the whole region with seminal thoughts, which will spring up in a crop, just like the original martyr. They chased one of these enthusiasts, who attacked slavery, from St. Louis, and shot him at Alton, in 1837; and on the 23d of June just passed, the Governor of Missouri, Chairman of the Committee on Emancipation, introduced to the Convention an ordinance for the final extinction of slavery. They hunted another through the streets of a great Northern city, in 1835, and within a few weeks a regiment of colored soldiers, many of them bearing the marks of the slave-driver's whip on their backs, have marched out before a vast multitude, tremulous with newly-stirred sympathies, through the streets of the same city, to fight our battles in the name of God and Liberty.
<c06>
The same persons who abuse the reformers, and lay our troubles at their door, are apt to be severe, also, on what they contemptuously emphasize as "sentiments" considered as motives of action. It is charitable to believe that they do not seriously contemplate, or truly understand, the meaning of the words they use, but rather play with them, as certain so-called "learned" quadrupeds play with the printed characters set before them. In all questions involving duty, we act from sentiments. Religion springs from them, the family order rests upon them, and in every community, each act involving a relation between any two of its members implies the recognition or the denial of a sentiment. It is true that men often forget them, or act against their bidding, in the keen competition of business or politics. But God has not left the hard intellect of man to work out its devices without the constant presence of beings with gentler and purer instincts. The breast of woman is the ever-rocking cradle
of the pure and holy sentiments which will sooner or later steal their way into the mind of her sterner companion; which will by-and-by emerge in the thoughts of the world's teachers, and at last thunder forth in the edicts of its lawgivers and masters. Woman herself borrows half her tenderness from the sweet influences of maternity; and childhood, that weeps at the story of suffering, that shudders at the picture of wrong, brings down its inspiration "from God, who is our home." To quarrel, then, with the class of minds that instinctively attack abuses, is not only profitless, but senseless; to sneer at the sentiments which are the springs of all just and virtuous actions, is merely a display of unthinking levity, or of want of the natural sensibilities.
With the hereditary character of the Southern people moving in one direction, and the awakened conscience of the North stirring in the other, the open conflict of opinion was inevitable, and equally inevitable its appearance in the field of national politics. For what is meant by self-government is that a man shall mike his convictions of what is right and expedient regulate the community, so far as his fractional share of the government extends. If one has come to the conclusion, be it right or wrong, that any particular institution 
or statute is a violation of the sovereign law of God, it is to be expected that he will choose to be represented by those who share his belief, and who will in their wider sphere do all they legitimately can to get rid of the wrong in which they find themselves and their constituents involved. To prevent opinion from organizing itself under political forms may be desirable, but it is not according to the theory or practice of self-government. And if at last organized opinions become arrayed in hostile shape against each other, we shall find that a just war is only the last inevitable link in a chain of closely connected impulses, of which the original source is in Him who gave to tender and humble and uncorrupted souls the sense of right and wrong, which, after passing through various forms, has found its final expression in the use of material force. Behind the bayonet is the lawgiver's statute, behind the statute the thinker's argument, behind the argument is the tender conscientiousness of woman,—woman, the wife, the mother,—who looks upon the face of God himself reflected in the unsullied soul of infancy. "Out of the mouths of babes and sucklings hast thou ordained strength, because of thine enemies.”
The simplest course for the malcontent is to find fault with the order of Nature, and the Being who established it. Unless the law of moral progress were changed, or the Governor of the Universe were dethroned, it would be impossible to prevent a great uprising of the human conscience against a system, the legislation relating to which, in the words of so calm an observer as De Tocqueville, the Montesquieu of our laws, presents "such unparalleled atrocities as to show that the laws of humanity have been totally perverted." Until the infinite selfishness of the powers that hate and fear the principles of tree government swallowed up their convenient virtues, that system was hissed at by all the decent members of the old-world civilization. While in one section of our land the attempt has been going on to lift it out of the category of tolerated wrongs into the sphere of the world's beneficent agencies, it was to be expected that the protest of Northern manhood and womanhood would grow louder and stronger until the conflict of principles led to the conflict of forces. The moral uprising of the North came with the logical precision of destiny; the rage of the "petty tyrants" was inevitable; the plot to erect a slave empire followed with fated certainty; and the only question left for us of the North was, whether we should suffer the cause of the nation to go by default, or maintain its existence by the argument of cannon and musket, of bayonet and sabre.

PRESIDENT LINCOLN'S DIFFICULTIES.
Much is said about the arduousness of Mr. Lincoln's task as President in this time of rebellion and civil war. His task is certainly one of great difficulty, unlike that of any former President, and one in the performance of which be can be guided by no precedent. But his greatest difficulty, as it looks to outsiders, grows out of his want of a settled plan—formed with a view to the requirements of the times and the situation—and faith and firmness in following it. He has appeared very much like a ship drifting at sea, steering no fixed course, sometimes stationary, sometimes showing retrograde movement, but, on the whole, making progress in the direction of the prevailing wind. His policy, which at first was carefully conservative of slavery, has tended more and more toward emancipation; though never with a boldness and decision which afforded any help in shaping or educating the public sentiment for freedom. Instead of leading and accelerating the march to liberty, the Administration has walked in the wake of popular sentiment, with manifest "fear and trembling," and sometimes, as in the last annual message to Congress, betraying a disposition to retreat.
Had it been possible to satisfy and reconcile all parties and all prominent individuals, Mr. Lincoln would have done so. No man ever tried harder. But the times were never so unpropitious for such a work. The copperheads ply him with threats and anathemas against every measure damaging to the rebels-anti-slavery radicals demand unsparing blows to be dealt against both rebels and slavery, that both may perish together, and that speedily—and conservatives beseech him to use all his energies against the rebels, and let slavery alone. And while these three Northern parties are distracting him with their conflicting demands and arguments, the rebels are pushing him in the field with a vigor that well may cause alarm.
Now while there is such division of views among those from whom the resources (of men in great part, and money wholly) are to be drawn to conquer the rebellion, the President manifestly ought to surround himself with cabinent counsellors who are not only statesmen in the largest sense of the word, but 
who sympathize with the measures and policy which his own judgment approves as adapted to the exi-
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAD POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPTION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERRD WITH, from a claim of indemnity of slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the Invaded territory.”-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
gencies of the times and the country. Mr. Lovejoy and other intimate friends of the President assert that he is convinced that Slavery must perish before the country can be restored to health, and is earnestly desirous to compass its destruction as soon and as fast as Northern sentiment will sustain him in the work. If such is really the case, he ought to tolerate in his cabinet no such men as Montgomery Blair, to work for the perpetuity of slavery in the Border States, and the appointment of pro-slavery generals like Schofield, of Missouri, nor to go on missions through the North stirring up opposition to emancipation by such infamous tirades against emancipation as the following, taken from his late speech in Concord, N. H.
Who would suppose that the retailer of such slang about amalgamation as the object and necessary result of emancipation was one of Mr. Lincoln’s Cabinet ministers and Constitutional advisers? If such slavery-bred asses as Montgomery Blair will consider the case of their “piebald” brothers and sisters, and their own "hybrid" children, they will find that this “mixing the black and white” was owing to the fact that the mothers were slaves, and had “no rights that white men were bound to respect." Let slavery terminate, and the Blair blood will run purer through the veins of future generations.
It is hardly to be wondered at that a conciliatory, yielding man, like President Lincoln, should be full, of troubles and at his wits' end between the strong drift of events towards freedom, and the slavery- saving counsel of such advisors as Blair. It was through his influence, no doubt, that Gen. Curtis was removed from the Western Department, and pro-slavery Schofield inflicted upon Missouri—followed by a similar change in the minor military appointments, and throwing that State into pro-slavery and semi-secesh control. It was owing to his counsel, no doubt, that the President recently advised Missouri not to adopt immediate emancipation—advice which the Convention but too gladly accepts.
True enough, the President has trouble, and he will have trouble, and the country too, until he discards such advisers as Montgomery Blair. Galesbury Free Democrat.

THE WAR POWER AND ITS EXERCISE.
We make the following additional extracts from an able and lucid treatise by Hon. Daniel Agnew, President Judge Seventeenth Judicial District, (Pa.) entitled, "Our National Constitution: its Adaptation to a State of War or Insurrection”:-
The provisions of the Constitution relating to the President are these:
His oath of office: "I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully execute the office of President of the United States, and will, to the best of my ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution." Art. 2, $1, cl. 8.
"The President shall be commander-in-chief of the army and navy of the United States, and of the militia of the several States, when called into the actual service of the United States." Ibid. § 2, cl. 1.
“He shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed." Ibid. § , 3.
To sum up these provisions of the Constitution and laws in a single sentence, we see,—
That, when the laws are obstructed or opposed by combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary civil process, the President, who is the constitutional head of the army, navy, and militia, and who in constitutionally enjoined by oath to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution, and to take care that the laws be faithfully executed, is commanded to use the whole military power of the United States to suppress such combination, and cause the laws to be duly executed; and that he is the sole and exclusive judge of the. facts calling the exercise of this power into requisition.
We have seen that treason was complete by the levying war in South Carolina before the 1st day of January, 1861, and a combination too powerful to be suppressed by civil means existed.
It is therefore, clear that the duty, the power, and the means provided by the Constitution and laws to suppress the insurrection by force of arms were plenary. No Government, however despotic, could confer greater power, or provide better means, than the Constitution and laws thus grant to the President; and this (I beg you to mark it) without a single proviso or restriction, or a letter of instruction as to the mode in which he shall proceed.
The insurgents had "levied war." Nothing less than a counter war could repel theirs. The President was bound by Constitution and law to carry on a war to suppress the rebellion.
This brings us to the second question,—How shall the military force be applied? The Constitution and laws here are silent.
They give the injunction, but prescribe no rule or mode of action. The whole is left to the judgment of the President. Nor is this strange. Congress could not for see all the movements and resorts of the enemy, and those adhering to him; nor the embarrassments attending the measures to subdue him. A war of force, from its nature, knows no rules of action, nor how nor where the force must be used to meet the exigency. Congress cannot foresee the infinite variety of circumstances attending war, and therefore legislated most effectively in vesting in the President the whole power of the Government, and leaving him to act upon the circumstances. Hence the means to be used, and expedients resorted to, in the prosecution of the war to subdue the enemy, and defeat the schemes of his aiders and abettors, from necessity, not of choice, rest exclusively in the sound discretion of the President, subject only to the customary rules of civilized warfare.
The necessities of warfare are often unforeseen, immediate, and controlling. The commander-in-chief may, therefore, declare martial law, define what is contraband of war between the enemy and loyal citizens, blockade his ports, capture and destroy his property, arrest those who give him aid and comfort by conveying information or encouragement, stirring up sedition, seducing troops, and hindering military action, and may, in short, resort to every suitable and necessary means demanded by the exigency. The exigency proceeds from the acts of the enemy or his abettors. It is this exigency, therefore, he must meet.
Here it is so many who criticise the powers of the President fall into error, forgetting to trace the source of the war powers be exercises to the Constitution itself. They overlook the fact, that the injunctions of the Constitution, and the Acts of Congress in pursuance, are a grant of express, unlimited, and unconditional authority to use the whole physical force of the nation, according to his own judgment, in quelling traitors, their aiders and abettors, and compelling them to submit to the laws; and that this express grant, without limitation, for a purpose involving the very life of the nation, and the defence and preservation of the Constitution, on every principle of law, logic and necessity, requires the exercise of all incidental powers necessary to the execution of the main purpose of suppressing the insurrection.
We have now the means of testing: every act of the President in this war against rebellion.
Thus, it is the purpose of the Constitution, and his duty, to put down insurrection. To this end, the whole military force is at his command. All the powers incident to the express grant, and essential to its exercise, are vested in him. In the use of these powers be acts according to his own sound discretion, upon the circumstances as they arise, and subject to no restraint but the customary laws of civilized warfare.
This is the true character of the emancipation clause. It was an Executive effort to detach from the rebel cause the involuntary labor which fed and supported it. If successful, the rebellion must fail. The act was military, for it struck directly at the source of the enemy’s supplies. It does not assume to legislate; it does not affect to repeal State laws.
In effect, it is an offer of amnesty, an Executive appeal to the slaves, as persons, to abandon the cause of rebellion, and accept the protection of Government, in order to divert their forced labor from the support of treason. As a means then seeming, in time of national gloom and adversity, to be absolutely essential to the preservation of the Union and the life of the nation, it was proclaimed as a military act to meet the exigency. As a military act, it thus falls within the carte blanche of military power conferred upon the President, for the purpose of suppressing the rebellion and causing the laws to be faithfully executed. Whether it will prevail or fail, it may be difficult to foresee. It may turn out to be an error, and may not accomplish the good it promised; but it is and may not the less justifiable in point of legality and authority, and cannot, therefore, be pronounced a usurpation of power.
The act is now past recall, and it is our duty when the necessities of war demand all our loyalty, to trust that it will at last prove its wisdom as well
<c02>
as its lawfulness. If not, it is at most an error in the exercise, not an assumption, of the power.
The Proclamation of the. President of the 24th of September is also the subject of criticism and censure. The complaint against it is, that it declares new offences, unknown to the laws, and proclaims martial law in the North, where no necessity prevails.
But, what says the Proclamation itself? After reciting that "disloyal persons are not adequately restrained by the ordinary process of law from hindering" the draft of the militia, "and from giving and comfort in various ways to the insurrection,” it “proceeds:” "Now, therefore, be it ordered, that during the existing insurrection, and as a necessary means for suppressing the same, all rebels and insurgents, their aiders and abettors within the United States, and all persons discouraging volunteer enlistments, resisting the militia draft, or guilty of any disloyal practice, affording aid and comfort to the rebels against the authority of the United States, shall be subject to martial law, and liable to trial and punishment by courts martial or military commissions”
It will hardly be contended that rebels, insurgents, their aiders and abettors, are subject to no military cognizance in a time of dangerous war. But is there a better reason for excluding from the same authority, persons discouraging volunteer enlistments, or resisting the militia drafts, or guilty of disloyal practices, affording aid and comfort to the rebels, and against the authority of the United States? What is the crime of the rebels? Resistance to the law. What the lawful means of over-coming this resistance? Calling out the militia of the States, volunteer or drafted. What is the discouragement of the enlistment, or resisting of the draft?? A direct interference with and obstruction of the law calling out the militia to suppress the rebellion, and to cause the laws to be faithfully executed. What is a disloyal practice, affording aid and comfort to the rebels, and against the authority of the United States? Treason and participation in the rebellion. Remember the language of C. J. Marshall. No matter how minute his part, or how remote from the scene of action, if leagued with the rebels, he is a traitor.
What then is the -substance of the whole objection? That treason and insurrection may be rampant—that full power by law may be given to quell it by military means; but that if this military means be frustrated by disloyalty, it has no power of self-preservation. Was there ever an objection so suicidal of national life, and contrary to sound reason? The President, by the Constitution and the law, is bound to take care that the laws shall be faithfully executed; but how are the laws for enlistment and drafting to be duly executed, if they may be obstructed in their execution, and the President have no power to enforce them in a state of war and emergency? And in what respect does obstruction to these laws in the North differ from obstruction to other laws in the South?
Governor Seymour, in his definition of martial law, would confine it to the narrow limits of army operations. But arms, munitions, and men, must come from a wider field; the power to call forth the army to battle must precede the fight; and must be a dead letter, if it be vigor less to deal with those who obstruct its execution. Then the sphere of war in its acts, its influences, and its resources, is wider, extending over North and South.
Can it, therefore, be maintained that martial law cannot be declared on loyal soil?
Cincinnati was the theatre, of martial law. There it was not the character of the soil, but the extent of the necessity, which justified.
The power to wage war carries with it the authority to declare martial law. It is a need of warfare, and be who carries it on must judge of the necessity. To other minds, the necessity may not appear; still it belongs to him who has the right to declare it. The necessity is the mischief which this law is intended to remedy. The extent of the territory over which it operates must, therefore, be coextensive with the mischief it seeks to remove.
Is this war to endure always, or to end disastrously? or must disaffection lurk in our midst, poisoning the streams of national life, and paralyzing the arm of force? Surely there is a power in military authority to extend the area of martial law, coequal to the field of mischief it is required to remedy. The true patriot, the philanthropist, the loyal man, never can doubt it.

"DISUNION ABOLITIONISTS.”
This is a slang phrase that yon hear daily, from every copperhead and every "conservative." So far as it applies to any persons in this country now, it is mere slang, and the use of it is unworthy of any intelligent politician. The time was, when many ultra Abolitionists desired a dissolution of the Union, because they held that the Union was the means of keeping slavery in existence. They did so honestly, because they "believed that slavery ought not to exist by such means, and that it was better that the Union should be dissolved than that slavery should continue. Such were once "disunion Abolitionists." But when the war was fairly inaugurated, the cause for being disunionists ceased with them, and they have become most earnest Union men. GARRISON and WENDELL PHILLIPS are instances, and with them nearly all of that class of Abolitionists. Now that the President has proclaimed emancipation, they are among the warmest supporters of the Union, as it is the means they now rely upon to make freedom permanent.
In the Cleveland Herald of last Friday, we noticed an article on Mr. CONWAY’S foolish proposition to MASON, in which the editor very properly denounces it, but very improperly says that Mr. C. was lately editor of a “disunion abolition" paper. The Commonwealth, here alluded to, never was a disunion paper in any sense; nor has CONWAY been the advocate of disunion. Of those who sent him to England, we don't believe the first name can be produced to back up this MASON negotiation. As to GARRISON, upon whose devoted head all this slang is daily hurled, he speaks for himself on this very point. The editor does himself great injustice when he talks about "abolition copperheads.” They do not exist, though there are conservative copper-heads in abundance, whom he might find very frequent occasion to denounce. This swiftness to fasten disunion upon men who have been life-long earnest supporters and advocates of the very policy on which the salvation of the Union now depends, is not becoming in any one; and we regret to see in it, much too often, a lurking hatred of men whom it was once the fashion to denounce. With the present abolitionism of the Herald, it is in bad taste to sneer at the veterans in the “anti-slavery work." —Ashtabula Sentinel.

CONWAY—MASON.
Mr. James M. Mason is an old Virginia gentleman, having his residence near Winchester, whence his slaves ran away a year or more ago, but he is temporarily lodging at London, where he hopes to be one day received as Embassador from the man-stealer's Confederacy. Mr. Moncure D. Conway is a young and ardent Virginian, though also of an old family, born and reared near Fredericksburg in old Virginia ideas, but perverted by a Harvard education into an Abolitionist., Transcendentalist, and all sorts of a "fanatic," as they are called; though he doesn't believe in anything he can't bite.
Mr. Mason having gone to London as an unacknowledged Embassador, Mr. Conway followed as an amateur in the same line, and has been spending some time in England in that capacity. And, as neither he nor Mason had any recognized function as a negotiator, the bright thought appears to have struck him that though they could not negotiate with anybody else, they readily might with each other. So he set about it. And in order to have a power behind him, Mr. C. introduced himself to Mr. M. as representative of the Abolitionists, just as Mr. Mason is of the insurgent slaveholders.
Unlike all but very green diplomatists, Mr. C. played his best card first. If Mr. Mason would get the Rebels to abolish Slavery, Mr. Conway would undertake to make the Abolitionists oppose the further prosecution of the War for the Union, and favor the recognition of the Confederacy! The bait was large and tempting, but Mason is a shy old fish, and don't bite at the showiest fly. He wanted to know what authority Mr. C. had to speak for the Abolitionists. That was a staggerer; and Mr. Conway could only say in reply, that be would send over to America and get it. Fancy an Embassador sending three thousand miles for his credentials! So here the matter dropped, and Mr. Mason sent the correspondence at once to The Times, hoping to make some capital for his master out of it. We guess it will amount to little more than a demonstration that the old Virginian is a little craftier than the young one.—N. Y. Tribune.
<c03>
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 17, 1863.
FIRST OF AUGUST!
Emancipation the only Safe and Just Policy.
The 29th Anniversary of West India Emancipation; will be celebrated, under the auspices of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, at
ISLAND GROVE, ABINGTON,
on SATURDAY, August 1st; to which all are invited who desire that, hereafter, it may be in our power to celebrate the anniversary of a day which shall see every slave in the United States emancipated, and every root of slavery extirpated from the American soil. Come, all friends of liberty! Aid us in making this the most effective meeting for justice and for our country ever held on Old Colony ground. Let the true word give impulse to the right, just and brave deed; and every heart be nerved afresh with the determination to utterly crush the rebellion of the slave-holders, South and North, and with the rebellion, its origin, support, motive, and end—Human SLAVERY.
Among the expected speakers are WM. LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, WM. WELLS BROWN, HENRY C. WRIGHT, &c. &c.
An Excursion Train, on the Old Colony Railroad, will leave the Depot, Kneeland Street, Boston, at 9 1/4, A. M. on that day. Leave Plymouth at 9.20, A. M. Both trains will stop at usual way stations, and at the Grove.
RETURNING, leave the Grove at 5 1/4, P. M.
FARES—Boston, Savin Hill, Dorchester, Neponset, Quincy and Braintree, to the Grove and back, for adults, 50 cents; children, 25 cents.
Plymouth, Kingston, Plympton, and Halifax, to the Grove and back, half the usual rates.
Excursion tickets good on other trains.
In case of rain, the meeting will be held in Abington Town Hall, near the Grove.
By order of the Managers,
EDMUND QUINCY, President.
R. F. WALLCUT, Rec. Sec.

OVERTURE OF MR. CONWAY TO MR. MASON.
ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
Whereas, the London Times publishes a correspondence between the Rev. Moncure D. Conway and J. M. Mason, (both of Virginia,)—the latter Emissary and Envoy of the Confederate States,—in which Mr. Conway declares:— 
“I have authority to make the following proposition on behalf of the leading Anti-Slavery men of America, who have sent me to this country:—If the States calling themselves the Confederate States of America’ will consent to emancipate the negro slaves in those States, such emancipation to be guaranteed by a liberal European Commission, the emancipation to be inaugurated at once, and such time to be allowed for its completion as the Commission shall judge to be necessary and just, and such emancipation once made to be irrevocable,—then the Abolitionists and Anti-Slavery leaders of the Northern States shall immediately oppose the prosecution of the war on the part of the United States Government, and, since they hold the balance of power, will certainly cause the war to cease, by the immediate withdrawal of every kind of support from it.”
And whereas, the public may infer from this statement, that Mr. Conway represents or is authorized to speak for the Abolitionists of this country, we deem it our duty to declare that he has no authority from this Society, nor, as we believe, from any member of it, or any sympathizer with it, to make any such offer—or, indeed, to enter into any conference with any one on national affairs; and that his visit to England, as far as we can learn, was entirely of his own motion, and that he was neither sent by the Abolitionists, nor is in any sense their agent. And while we have not the slightest doubt of Mr. Conway’s zealous intentions to serve the cause of impartial liberty, at home and abroad; while we esteem him for what he has said and done so heroically and effectively in behalf of the millions in bondage, to his own outlawry from his native State,—and believe the sole object of his correspondence with Mr. Mason was to unmask more clearly to the people of Europe the slaveholding designs of the Confederate States as the only ground and motive of their rebellion,—we, nevertheless, utterly repudiate his action in this particular as ill-judged and unwarrantable; deeming our Government wholly in the right in this struggle, and its success the best hope for all races and all interests on this continent; and regarding any other overture to the Confederate States, except that of immediate and unconditional submission, to be equally uncalled for and mischievous.
In behalf of the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President. 
Boston, July 13, 1863.

THE REIGN OF TERROR INAUGURATED.
As the time for enforcing the new draft ordered by President Lincoln, in accordance with the law of Congress, has approached, it has been the remorseless aim and effort of such incendiary and seditious papers as the New York World, News, Express, and Boston Courier, so to inflame and deceive the ignorant masses of society, (particularly the Irish, of course,) in regard to its true intent and spirit, as to stimulate them to overt acts of resistance, arson, rapine, murder and treason,—in which anarchical undertaking these journals have been encouraged by such oratorical traitors as Franklin Pierce, Fernando Wood, Gov. Seymour, and C. L. Vallandigham, all of whom are justly amenable to the charge of high treason. No worse conspirators against the public peace have ever appeared in any age or country. The results of their joint labors are witnessed in the frantic and demoniacal scenes enacted by their horribly depraved and demented tools in the cities of New York and Boston, as briefly chronicled in another page. Truly, "hell from beneath is moved.”
This bloody resistance of the law—this treasonable uprising against the government—is unquestionably but a part of an infernal programme as well understood in Richmond as in New York, to be developed, and, if possible, carried out in every considerable city of the North—any number of daring and desperate rebel emissaries acting in complicity with their Northern sympathizers and abettors, and seeking to fill the entire North with indescribable horrors. Their audacity and fury increase in exact proportion to the success of the Federal arms; and the defeat of Lee, and the fall of Vicksburg and Port Hudson, are warnings to them to lose no time in paralyzing the arm of government in the manner attempted in New York and Boston. Hence the commencement of this work of death and hell.
The Boston Transcript scathingly remarks:—" The mob which now disgraces the city of New York is a mob so unutterably base that it fires school-houses, destroys orphan asylums, steals sanitary stores, plunders railroad passengers, and robs private citizens in the streets, besides indulging in miscellaneous arson and murder. The burglar and assassin element in it now seems to have obtained the predominance. If the city of New York chooses to be governed by such a power, and elevate to the City Hall those who should be in its prisons or on its scaffolds, the rest of the country might not be disposed to complain, were it not that the mob also claims the right to nullify a law of the United States.”
The draft is only the pretext, not the real cause for, this treasonable outbreak; which owes its and origin and stimulus to that brutal hatred of the colored race, and, consequently, of all efforts for the abolition of slavery, which curses so large a portion of the population.
<c04>
EMANCIPATION IN MISSOURI.
The Post declares that the people of Missouri have arranged and established a plan of emancipation "with-out the aid of philanthropy." It is perfectly true that regard for the rights and welfare of the negroes had nothing to do with the act in question, since the de-sign and effect of the ordinance are that slavery shall not cease within the life-time of the present voting population of Missouri. It is a leaf taken out of the book of that crafty old slaveholder, Henry Clay. At a time when abolitionist ideas were gaining ground, and the tenure of the peculiar institution was becoming insecure, Clay drew up a plan of prospective emancipation, to be used, in case of need, to slave off any real abolition of slavery in his time. The details of it were not unlike those of the Missouri ordinance just passed, and its effect was designed to be to secure a continuance of slavery as long as he and his children should live. Under the pinch of existing facts and prospects, the slaveholders of Missouri are willing to make the same compromise, and to bar future generations from the exercise of despotic power under the name of Democracy, if they can thus secure a continuance of that power through their own time. After them, the deluge may come, and welcome.
This sort of gradualism—the giving an inch of futurity for an ell of actuality—the yielding of one point in the remote distance to secure that present possession which includes the other nine points— -is not so bad as an established perpetuity of slavery. On the other hand, it is not good enough to be for a moment consented to. The emancipationists of Missouri, who have been defeated by the passage of this ordinance, are even now contesting it, and making new efforts to secure an immediate abolition of slavery. Let us hope that they may succeed; and (to use the beautiful language of Holmes's Fourth of July oration) "that Liberty, the one of the two claimants who swears that her babe shall not be split in halves and divided between them,” may prove to be "the true mother” of Missouri. But hoping is not enough. We must work to this end. Every lover of liberty in the land should raise his voice to encourage the opposes of slavery in Missouri. And the first thing to be done is to expose the impudent imposture of calling an ordinance composed of such provisions, and passed under such circumstances, an act of emancipation. It is, in fact, an act to secure the present continuance of slavery.
The present hour is truly, as Mr. Conway stated it, the golden hour for energetic and incessant efforts for the overthrow of slavery. Now that the revelations of secession have so fully proved that institution in-compatible with the continuance of our system of government—now that war, shaking all things, has so extensively fractured the branches and loosened the roots of the slave system—now that the President's proclamation, assuring freedom "now and forever" to three-quarters of all the slaves, is the law of the land —now that so many converts to the idea of universal liberty have arisen from the depths of party politics, and from the almost hopeless recesses of hunkerism— now that the' army chaplains, converted to abolition-ism by their experience in the South, are bringing up the very church towards opposition to slavery—and, finally, now that powerful minorities in the Slave States themselves have come to see that their only chance for the return of peace and prosperity lies in the extirpation of the slave system—now is the time for action, vigor, energy, greater than were ever shown before, in the diffusion of anti-slavery truth, and in cooperation with all those, in whatever State or Territory, who are combatting this great, chief enemy of the American Union.—C. K. W.
THE FRATERNITY (a portion of the 28th Congregational Society of Boston) made their annual summer excursion on Wednesday, July 8th, to Ban-croft's Grove, in Reading; a place well suited to such festivities. The forenoon was devoted to recreations, dancing, swinging, athletic games, &c. A picnic dinner followed. And in the afternoon, brief addresses were made by Thomas M. Hathaway, Elizur Wright, Charles Lenox Remond, and Mr. Toohey, of New York. The state of our country and our duties in relation to it were the principal topics of remark. The audience gave attention and applause to the speakers, and the occasion seemed heartily enjoyed by all.
The 28th Congregational Society heard an admirable discourse on “The Times” from Wendell Phillips last Sunday, and are now to take their customary summer recess, resuming their exercises the first Sun- day in September.—c. K. W.
ENLISTMENT OF COLORED REGIMENTS IN PENN. —An esteemed correspondent in Philadelphia informs; us that the colored-enlistment business has been undertaken with great enthusiasm in that city. Leading men of all classes that are loyal are engaged in it— men of the highest social and political distinction. This is seen in the names appended to the Address of the “Supervisory Committee,” in another column. The Committee has had to be augmented twice to accommodate gentlemen who desired to serve upon it. It now embraces seventy-five members, including some of the most prominent merchants, bankers, professional men, &c. Its number was originally 25— then 60—now 75.
The “Supervisory Committee” has undertaken to raise $50.000 to defray extraordinary expenses, and have already raised nearly half that amount!
Camp Wm. Penn (!) at Chelton Hills has about 400 recruits, and the number is daily increasing.
Our correspondent adds:—
"Mrs. Lucretia Mott, who lives hard by, is to ad-dress the soldiers at the camp next Sunday, at five o'clock. You may be sure she will neither dishonor her own peace principles, or rudely disturb their convictions of duty.
"Now is the golden hour for the black men. They should turn their faces to camp Wm. Penn, the only camp for colored troops east of the mountains. Abolitionists should encourage them to come forward.”
Major George L. Stearns, a faithful servant of the cause, is Commissioner for colored recruits. J. M. McKim, Esq., will give any information that may be desired, so far as in his power, by friends at a distance, if they will write to him.
RAPID SALE. We are informed that the first edition of "THE BLACK MAN," the new work by WM. WELLS BROWN, has been sold, and a second is to be published in a few days. Such rapid sale of a book devoted entirely to an exhibition of the genius, the talent and the heroism of the hated Negro, and advocating his elevation and equality, shows that a great change has come over the minds of the American people, and that justice to a long-injured class is not far off. This work has done good service among those who are impregnated with the idea that the blacks were created for nothing but slaves. The new edition will be revised and enlarged, and will contain an original sketch of the heroic and daring charge of the Second Louisiana Regiment at Port Hudson. The price of the book will remain the same—$1.00.
MR. HEYWOOD'S ADDRESS. At the request of our friend, Mr. Hey wood, we give in full, on our last page, his address on “The War Method of Peace," —a somewhat paradoxical title,—, — delivered before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, at the Melodeon, on Sunday, June 14th. Of course, he alone is responsible for the views he presents; and, certainly, he is to be respected and commended for his conscientious fidelity to his own convictions. But we cannot regard his treatment of the subject, in its relation to the present state- of the country, as peculiarly felicitous; and we think he renders himself liable to be greatly misapprehended in certain particulars. In our judgment, believing that there is “a time to keep silent," as well as “a time to speak," and that, while the whirlwind, the earthquake and the fire of civil war are in foil operation, it is not possible for “the still, small voice" of non-resistance to be heard, we deem it wise not to enter into a discussion of the question for the time being.
<c05>
ENLISTMENT OF COLORED REGIMENTS.
HEADQUARTERS SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE ON COLORED ENLISTMENTS, 1210 Chesnut St., June 27, 1863.—The Supervisory Committee on Enlistments for Colored Regiments ask the cooperation of their fellow-citizens in an undertaking which they deem of the utmost importance to the successful prosecution of the war against rebellion.
Authority has been given by the War Department to recruit in Pennsylvania colored regiments for three years, or the war. These troops, when raised, will be credited to the quota of Pennsylvania under the next draft. The Government receives and musters them in at Camp William Penn, at Chelton Hills, and all previous expenses of recruitment, subsistence and transportation must be provided by the public.
It will be seen that funds to a considerable extent will be required to prosecute successfully and energetically the enterprise which has been entrusted to us. Without bounties or extra allowance for the men, each regiment recruited in this vicinity will not cost less than ten thousand dollars. Yet, to accomplish all that we hope to do, we must look beyond the limits of our immediate neighborhood. In 1860, the color-ed male population of Pennsylvania was only 26,873; and if one in four of these is able to bear arms, we have for our field of operations .only six or seven thousand men, of whom four hundred have already, through our own negligence, been abstracted for the benefit of Massachusetts. Our field, therefore, should not be limited by the narrow boundaries of our own State, and this will necessarily entail increased expenditure. The Massachusetts regiments, obtained by a system of agencies extending from St. Louis to Philadelphia, cost about $25,000 each, exclusive of the $50 bounty per man. The funds for this had, with a wise forethought, been appropriated by the State.
We must rely upon private liberality. The same machinery which was so successfully employed, for Massachusetts is at our command, and the extent of our operations is only to be limited by the amount of funds placed at our disposal. If large, we can make this the centre of recruitment for the colored population of all the States where such enlistments are not permitted by the State authorities.
But it is not only pecuniary aid that we look for at your hands. Our labors can be materially assisted by your influence and sympathy. Whether encouraged or not, the events of the past fortnight have shown that there is sufficient spirit and patriotism in our coloured population to insure a reasonable response to our invitation to enlist; but the extent of that response can be vastly increased by individual efforts, and by the appreciation which the community at large may manifest of the patriotic self-devotion of the negro to a country which has thus far given him but a step-mother's affection.
Six months since, had we appealed to you, we should have felt it necessary to argue the propriety and expediency of negro enlistments. That time, however, has passed. All thinking men have at last been convinced that the mortal struggle in which we are engaged requires us to use all the legitimate means within our power to crush a rebellion which else will crush us. It has been recognized that the severest blow which can be inflicted upon the slave oligarchy must come from the institution of slavery itself; and while we were thus turning upon the rebels the arms which they had been using against us, it would be folly longer to deny to the free colored men of the North the opportunity which they had so earnestly desired of offering themselves as a sacrifice, not only to their race, but the country. Since volunteering can no longer fill the ranks of our armies, and recourse to conscription becomes necessary, unreasoning prejudice only can be blind to the fact that every colored recruit acts as an unpurchased substitute for a white man. If, forgetful of past experience in our two wars with England, many of us believe that the colored race could not face the white man in battle, the generous self-sacrifice of the noble spirits who fell at Port Hudson and Milliken’s Bend has effectually dissipated the prejudice. If, too, we hesitated to place arms in the hands of a race degraded by centuries of servitude, lest their ungovernable fury should repay upon the innocent and unprotected the long arrears of wrong, the result has shown how baseless were those fears. We have seen, that while the negro can exhibit unsurpassed courage on the field, he is thoroughly amenable to discipline, and that, when properly trained and well officered, he may be implicitly relied on to observe the rules of honorable warfare.
The last objection has thus been removed, and no loyal citizen can hesitate to aid in every practicable mode a movement which must prove most efficient in quieting the rebellion. To all classes, therefore, we appeal, with full confidence that we shall receive for the undertaking the active support, both moral and pecuniary, of a community which has never yet failed in its response to every call made in the name and for the cause of the Union.
Contributions can be sent to the office of the Finance Committee, at Messrs. E. W. Clark & Co., No. 35 South 3d-st.
Applications for positions in the regiment should be transmitted through Henry Samuel, Esq., Corresponding Secretary of the Executive Committee, at the headquarters, No. 1210, Chesnut street. Authority to recruit will be given by Maj. Stearns, No. 1210 Chesnut street.
MEN OF COLOR! at length the opportunity is offered for which you have waited so long and so patiently. A gigantic contest, in which the interests of your race are so largely involved, threatens with destruction the land which for centuries has been your home. At the very commencement of the struggle, you eagerly offered your services. They were rejected for reasons which, whether well or ill-founded, were all-powerful at the time. Those reasons exist no longer, and your country now invites you to arms in her defence.
Men of color we speak to you of your country, of the land where God in his mysterious providence has placed you to work out his inscrutable purposes. Yet you have been strangers in a land of strangers, and it is now for you to decide whether that land shall be to you and your children more in the future than it has been in the past We can make no promises, but we have an abiding faith that the Almighty has not visited us with tribulation in wrath, but in mercy; that you and we, thus tried in the fiery furnace, if true to ourselves and to Him, shall emerge purified and redeemed from the sins and the wrongs of the past.
Twice heretofore have you displayed your valor in defence of the republic. In two wars with Great Britain, your strong arms aided to beat back the foe, and Washington and Jackson acknowledged the services which you so willingly rendered. You failed in your reward then; but circumstances now have changed, and a war in which Slavery on one side is arrayed against Freedom on the other, cannot leave you in your present condition, if only you show yourselves equal to the occasion. Old prejudice declared that you could not fight. Your brethren in Louisiana and Mississippi, though degraded by ages of servitude, have gloriously replied to that taunt. You who have long been free are now called upon to respond to it. Prejudice still sneeringly asserts that you will not leave your homes to fight for the flag of the white man. It is for you to repel that insult, and to show yourselves worthy to call that flag likewise your own.
It is true that, even as soldiers, with equality of hardship and danger, there is yet inequality of reward. Your pay is not that of the white man, and you are offered no bounty by the Government. This, rightly considered, should be to you a fresh incentive. If, a year ago, this was all that could be secured by your friends, at a time when colored enlistments had rather to be suggested than openly advocated, it is for you to dispel the remaining mists of prejudice, by showing, in your alacrity, that you are actuated, not by love of gain, but by the promptings of patriotism; that you are capable of honorable ambition, and that no longer as a servile race, but as the soldiers of a free republic, your deeds may prove that the la-
<c06>
borer is worthy of his hire. We feel authorized to assure you that the Administration and a powerful portion of Congress will, at the next <illegible> their influence to remove such discriminations <illegible> pay, not only in the future but to make up to <illegible>Congress by storm. Meanwhile, our <illegible> shall be unremitting to raise funds, which, if they penditures of enlistment and organization, be devoted to your benefit. 
The world will look with interest upon the mighty experiment in which we are engaged, in which a downtrodden race is invited to prove its <illegible> The nation is too deeply solicitous for the <illegible> the experiment to neglect any means r<illegible> for that success. You may, therefore rely on the <illegible> careful forethought and attention. Your <illegible> be tried and experienced men, selected for the purpose by a special Board of examiners that you may not be carried into battle by incompetent leader science can suggest, and the destinies of your <illegible> will be left in your hands-to fall <illegible> may approve yourselves.
An opportunity which has no parallel in history is now before you. Shrink from it now you justify the taunts and sneer, of your enemies and <illegible> Take advantage of it; show yourselves <illegible> and patriots; and a grateful country, watching the flags of your regiments emerging <illegible> from the smoke of battle, cannot refuse the <illegible> which is the due of valor contending for the right.
THOMAS WEBSTER, Chairmen
SINGLETON A. MERCER. Treasurer.
CADWALADER BIDDLE, Secretary.
Geo. H. Boker, Horace Binney, Jr
J.M.McKim, Daniel Smith
Henry Samuel, Algernon S. Roberts
E. R. Hutchinson, Rev. J.W. Jackson
A.E. Borie, Lemuel Coffin
William H. Ashuwt, John E. Addicks
William M. Tilghrnan, E. W Clarks
Caleb H. Needles, benj. H. Brewster,
Thomas J. Megear, Johna P. Ash,
N. B. Browne, James W. Carson
Geo. M. Conarroe, L. Montgomery Bond
Geo. T. Thorn, Henry C Lee
A. G. Cattell, Saunders Lewis,
Geo. T. Trueman, Jr., G.C. Morris
Charles Wise, William Sellers,
John A. McAllister, James L. Claghors,
Jamuel S. White, B. I'. Hunt 
A. H. Franciscus, Wm.G. Wainwright
Abraham Barker, M.Russell Thayer,
Evnn Randolph, Ed. Parker,
Wm. Rotch Wister, Lt. Col. Wm.D.Whiple, USA
R. F. Reimer, ple, U.S.A., 
Wm. D. Kelley, S M. Feiton, 
Thos. P. Stotesbury, James Pollock,
Col. G.H.Crossman, U.S.A., Joshua Spering,
John D. Taylor, James A. Wright 
Thos. Tasker, Sr, Rev. Thos. Brainerd,
B. H. Moore, William S. Pierce,
Theodore Bliss, John S. Newbold,

BRAVERY OF COLORED SOLDIERS.
In front of the Rebel Works at Port House LOUISIANA, June 9th, 1863.
MR. GARRISON:— 
DEAR SIR—I presume you are aware that we have in the 19th army corps, four regiment of colored soldiers. The 1st regiment was commenced in August last, and mustered into the United States service is September; and in this letter I shall tell you how well it conducted itself, in a recent fight in this place. Before doing so, however, I feel strongly inclined to tell yon of the abuse that has been heaped upon them in colored soldiers, and the white officers who have them in charge, by the army at large, and by certain officers in particular; but I must not (at present ) “tell the secrets of my prison house,”-and I know those "in authority."
Little did we imagine when we left Baton Rouge, and marched to Springfield Landing—a place situated five or six miles from Port Hudson— that we were really to take part in a fight. On the 26th of May, we marched to this place, and on the 27th, and attack was made upon the rebel works by the whole, or nearly the whole, of Gen. Bank’s army. We did not, however, get inside the rebel works at any point. Gen. Weitzel and Gen. Paine's divisions lost heavily, Gen. Dow and Sherman were wounded—the latter dangerously.
The two colored regiments, the 1st (Col. Stafford’s) and 3d Louisiana, (Col. Nelson's) were on the extreme right of the line. On the morning of the 27th, these tow regiments, by order of Gen. Dwight, made an attack upon the enemy’s works. Heavy woods <illegible> Port Hudson from the river above to the river below and a road leads into that place at the point of attack by the colored regiments. The 1st with: he 3d regiment in reserve, crossed over a bridge which had been thrown over a bayou, and was met by the enemy’s sharpshooters, who were concealed in trees, and is every conceivable position. The fighting became sharp, when the rebels opened a masked <illegible> Our soldiers were ordered to charge upon this battery and they did charge ! But they were cut down by “cannon on the right of them, cannon the left of them," and were obliged to fall back; but they were not demoralized-for they reformed under five, and made a grand charge upon the central battery and would have taken it but for an impassable bayou. In the mud, the swamp, and among ,the trees the Negro soldiers fought like heroes for eight or nine hours, and when night came, although they had not got inside the enemy's works, they had accomplished as much as any of the white brigades along the line of attack —that if, they held their position.
In the first charge Capt. Callioux and Lieut. Crowder were killed. Both of the officers were black, very black; yet they were brave. Capt. C .fell white cheering on his men, and in advance of his company.
I wish to have this fact put on record, because I have been told that " your niggers wont fight” I must not forget to mention our standard bearer. With what courage he carried the colors into the fight, we all know. He was shot through the head, and, as be fell, he threw the "stars and stripes" around his body, and died in the arms of the glorious flag that he had taken such pride in bearing aloft. Who can say, after this, that our colored soldiers have no courage and valor? They have gained a name for unflinching bravery, that has silenced all opposition to them, in this army, at least. 
The 3d regiment had five or ten killed I do not know the exact number-and eighteen gun-shot wounds. This regiment is composed entirely of exclaves, and all the officers are white. Some of the line officers of the 1st regiment are of African descent, and some of them are white, and have been appointed from other regiments. The regiment went into the fight with live hundred men: of this number, twenty— six were killed, and one hundred and fifty were wounded—many of them mortally.
It is now more than two years since I entered the service, and I may say that first and last, I have seen all kinds of soldiers; yet I have never seen any who, for courage and unflinching bravery, surpass our colored soldiers. As an instance, I may relate that many who were slightly wounded, on arriving at the field hospital, were anxious to have their wounds dressed as quickly as possible, so that they could rejoin the regiment, and again take part in the fight.
I do not intend to detail the operation of the whole army-accounts of these will be printed in due time; but simply to record the gallant conduct of colored soldiers. For nearly two weeks, without shelter, these soldiers have held their position, ready for the word of command; during which they have not been shelled by the rebels.
J.T. PAINE,
Surgeon 1st Reg. La. Native Guards.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
GEN.WILD'S BRIGADE.
Extract of a letter from a Surgeon in Gen. Wild's Brigade,(colored troops.)
Camp Andrew Newbern, N.C., June 14,1863.
DEAR MR.MAY 1 have spent ten days in this department; a part of the time in Gen. Wild's head Quarters,(an elegant but unfurnished mansion, left by a rich old rebel when the city was captured by Gen. Burnside a year ago last March,) and part of the time in camp. There is not much choice so far as creature comforts go,-hard tack and the floor for a bed there-hard tack and the ground here. If it were not for patriotism and the romance of the thing, it would hardly be worth while to come to Dixie. Yet, bating these external things, which the ancient physicians called non-naturals, there is little to complain of and much to exult in. It is much to participate in an enterprise which at this moment excites more interest in thoughtful minds than any other. The emancipation and arming of the slaves, whether for good or ill, is the great event of the war, which is the great event of the age. Friends and foes, abroad and at home, look upon it less as a matter of human policy than as one of those great changes which, though wrought out by men, is shaped by destiny. Men, indeed, link their names with great revolutions, and, like the fly upon the coach, imagine that all the hurly-burly and dust is on their account. But these are the chariot wheels of God's providence, on which the fortunes of races and states and nations are now borne along. I suspect that the most active and pompous personages of this great and bloody drama now performing on the world's stage are only prophets in the eyes of those who look on from a higher sphere.
Yet, though worldly ambition and glory are but vanity, there are excellencies within our sphere of attainment which even angles must respect. The earnest pursuit of wisdom, the faithful loyalty to principle, the devotion which is ready to sacrifice self to a just and worthy cause-these things we see around us as in living examples, and are therefore bound to thank God that he has given us the power to be respectable.
I am led to these reflections by the associations around me. There are men, reared in the lap of refinement, the favorites and ornaments of the brightest and best society which the nation boasts, who have left all the attractions and delights of home to face the dangers and endure the hardships of the roughest and most perilous part in the war. You know the history of Gen. Wild. He has given limb and fortune, and is now giving his life in this cause-choosing a position, the unpopularity of which would frighten meaner minds, and giving the sanction of his name, all are compelled to know, to a movement which so many hate and affect to despise. Of our Colonel it is enough to say that he is a Beecher, (Rev. James C.) to show that he chose his position, and did not drift into it. Our captains and other line officers are men of like character, who have deliberately sacrificed much, as the world counts sacrifice, in accepting their much, as the world counts sacrifice, in accepting their present positions, They have counted the cost, and made what may be called pretty heavy payments in advance. Gen. Wild lost an arm, and was other wise severely wounded at Antietam. Colonel Beecher, though hitherto unwounded, has braved dangers and borne labors which few men have the luck to find the power to endure. In the campaign of the peninsula, though, like the. Lamented Fuller, he was ever foremost in the fight, and when the battle ended, the most faithful and indefatigable in caring for the wounded, working at one time thirty-six hours with-out rest to save the suffering and soothe the dying. Of our captains and lieutenants, all have seen service, and several have lost an arm or hand, or bear the marks of other severe wounds.
One calm, settled purpose pervades and forms the esprit du corps of this department-viz., to accomplish the noble end of saving the nation by the noble means of abolishing the cause of abolishing the cause of its ruin. We have omens of the best success. Emancipated slaves are joining our brigade at the rate of 200 to 300 a week, besides many who offer themselves, but are rejected as unfit to bear arms. We accept none but the strong and martial-looking. It is my duty to examine recruits, and I am obliged to look sharply after physical defects, which they are disposed to conceal, for the sake of a chance to fight. But most who come are stalwart men, and very many are striking specimens of the sledgehammer style, men who, in the days before this villanous saltpetre was digged from the bowels of the harmless earth to be the bane of good tall fellows, would have wielded the war-club with terrible effect upon the ranks of their old tyrants. One who came in yesterday, from some fifty miles away, would have passed, with Barnum's aid, for an antediluvian giant. I never saw such a Herculean frame, though I have, perhaps, seen taller and heavier men. His countenance, too, was noble and expressive, and very different from the aspect of the Tom Hyers, Benicia Boys, and others of the "fancy," whose pictures I have seen, though I never had the honor of their acquaintance. Though erect as the Bunker Hill Monument, he looked as old as a pyramid. To my question, he replied that I might count him about 45, (though others called him 67.) I took the hint, and passed him at his own estimate. It was a case in which years had nothing to do with the matter. Time had forgot-ten or feared to touch him as he passed, and he still towered in the prime of strength. Wo to the rebels to whom he comes in close quarters!
Religious enthusiasm comes in to animate the zeal of our recruits. I question many of them as to why they come to enlist. Their replies always involve ideas of duty. "I thought I might bear my part as well as others." "I can do something as well as the rest." "I don't want to shirk my part," &c. &c. I attended a mass meeting of blacks in Newbern, the other day. General Wild, in passing, stopped and addressed them a few moments. There were singing and praying and shouting and groaning. Never did I see such an outpouring of the spirit. Verily, the old prophets were right, and God is a "man of war," else these honest souls are much mistaken. They have many preachers among them, like the "Dred" of Mrs. Stowe, who are full of the Scripture which predicts the overthrow of their enemies. Orthodox they certainly are, or at least mean to be, though they appear to have either forgotten the devil, (whom Mr. Parker called the fourth person in the trinity of the Orthodox creed,) or to have confounded him with the secesh. Their fervid aspirations are to be delivered from the world, the flesh, and Jeff. Davis-specially Jeff. They look upon General Wild as sent by God to be their Joshua. I send you enclosed a string of resolutions passed at the meeting, which shows their piety and pluck. [Already published.] 
Their aptitude for martial maneuvers is remarkable. I never had much admiration for military display, and May not be a good judge, but I think that in soldierly bearing and military precision they fully equal the best troops I have seen in Boston.
I should tell you that our first regiment is nearly completed. The succeeding regiments will probably be still more rapidly organized. There has been necessary delay. And hindrance, and difficulty, and embarrassment, and hindrance, difficulty, and embarrassment, as in all new enterprises of this magnitude. But, thus far, our success has justified the most sanguine, and we have every encouragement for the future.
Yours, truly, D. M.
WOMEN'S LOYAL NATIONALLEAGUE. The ladies of New York have lately organized the "women's Loyal National League," to act in cooperation with branches of the same established elsewhere, to pro-cure the signatures of a million of men's and a million of women's names to a petition to congress, in December next, for an act of Congress, in general emancipation of all the slaves of the United States. 
A box for contributions in aid of the League has been placed in the store of Messrs. Ticknor & Fields. Any application for petitions, or for any information, made at the room of the League, No. 20, cooper Institute, New York, will be promptly answered.
<c02>
LETTER FROM REV. DANIEL FOSTER.
GETTYSBURG, Pa., July 5th, 1863. 
DEAR GARRISON-"The Lord's hand is not shortened that he cannot save." Disaster has attended upon our military movements while we denied his manhood to the patient, pleading slave. But the moment we adopt the broad issue of justice, and receive the slave as a man, a citizen, and a soldier, the all-wise and just Sovereign stretches forth his hand for our salvation. Grant presses on to the assured conquest of Vicksburg. Banks is confident of success at Port Hudson. Bragg is outflanked by Rosecrans, and the Army of the Potomac routs Lee with fearful slaughter, thus breaking down Richmond and the power of the slaveholders; and all this follows the arming of the slaves. All this we found unattainable till we thus acknowledged this to be a war for Freedom as well as Union. Well, others may account for this as they can; to me, the hand of God is clearly visible. We were to be punished by defeats till we wrote Justice and Freedom for all men on our banners; then we were to succeed.
But I took my pen to give my friends, through your paper, some idea of what we have been doing for the last month. We left our camp near Aquia Creek at 5 P. M. the 6th of June, and marched all night. We went in the fight at Beverly's Ford, and the 33d regiment, which had been chosen by Gen. Howard from the 11th corps, for that expedition, behaved most nobly under a severe fire. After that battle, we were joined by the whole army of the Potomac, and then commenced a march which has rarely, if ever, been equaled in the movement of a large army. Through intense heat and blinding dust for the first few days, then through rain and mud, and wet to the skin, loaded with bed and board and ammunition, the army marched from twenty-five to thirty miles per day. It was often past midnight before we lay down, and then we would start at daylight. We had, at one time, over a hundred men who had fallen out from sheer exhaustion by the wayside, with a permit from the surgeon. They would rest, and then push on, and when we finally stood in position on the battle-field, our men were all on hand, save about a dozen, who came up afterwards. We marched three hours through a heavy rain and swamping mud, without a rest, as fast as we could hurry on, to get upon the field in time for the fight, after the booming of cannon was first heard.
We did not get in a moment too soon. It was the 11th corps, too, let it be remembered, which came up in time to turn the tide, when defeat was apparently inevitable. Gen. Howard chose the position and placed his men in line where the great battle of this war has been fought. As the other corps came pressing in, they took their positions. Our artillery was massed in splendid positions, and the line of battle promptly formed. The rebels were present in full force, with a hundred and sixty cannon. These they got into position, and on Thursday afternoon, the artillery opened with shell, solid shot, and grape and canister. Our regiment lay near the battery, about the centre of the line of battle, exposed to a cross fire from two powerful batteries of the enemy. The shelling continued three hours. Our oldest artillery men say it was as hot a fire as they ever saw. It was a fearful ordeal, but our boys stood it without flinching. The rebels made their first charge on the left. They fought desperately, but in vain. Our soldiers hurled them back, and inflicted fearful loss on them. Just at dark, Jackson's old corps, under Ewell, charged with fierce impetuosity upon our right. Prisoners taken in that charge say that Ewell came on in hot haste, with full confidence of piercing our line. He made three separate charges before he gave it up, the last one directly into the face of the 33d, as we lay behind a stone wall. But all in vain. Our batteries played on his columns with terrific effect, and when the head of his column came within range of our rifles, an incessant storm of bullets was poured into it. The column reached the wall, and a few men tried to break through, but were bayonetted on the spot. Then, with a wild yell of despair, the enemy broke and fled to the cover of the woods. The first day's work was over, and well done.
At daylight the next morning, the cannonading opened again. The rebels had their guns all in position. The prisoners had assured us that Lee would make every possible effort to cut our lines. The cannonading and infantry firing lasted without cessation for eight hours, when the rebels stopped from sheer exhaustion. They made a later and final effort,-a despairing but desperate charge on the left. They only dashed themselves to pieces in vain.
I never saw men fight with more enthusiasm than our whole army has done all through this terrific battle or series of battles. As the men get out of cartridges, they would rush eagerly to the point of supply for more, and hurry back to the fearful conflict. Indeed, they were animated with a spirit which made victory certain.
We have met the enemy and conquered them. The 11th army corps fought as well as men ever did or could; just as they had done before under Sigel, and as they will do again under anybody who leads them as well as Howard has done this time. We have lost in killed and wounded, out of the 33d, between thirty and forty men. What our whole loss is I cannot say. You will know that and the loss of the enemy before this reaches you.
In helping off wounded men from the field, we took the rebels and cared for them as for our own men. I talked with men who declared that they were forced into the fight, and had no heart in it-that they still loved the old flag. From all I can learn, I am satisfied the Southern masses are ready to yield. Let slavery be ended, and we shall become one people, the freest and happiest in the world. Before this comes to hand, I hope you will hear of the utter rout and dispersion of Lee's army. The Lord hath prepared His throne in the heavens, and His kingdom ruleth over all.
DANIEL FOSTER.

CONVENTION OF FRIENDS OF PROGRESS.
DETROIT, Mich., June 29,1863. 
DEAR GARRISON:
Yesterday and the day before, a Convention of the Friends of Progress was held in Farmington. Many were present to participate in the deliberations and discussions. The copperhead Democracy of the region was there, but could not be induced to an open expression of their treason. The following resolutions were offered and unanimously adopted; even some of the leading copperheads voted for them:-
1. Resolved, That the present Democratic rebellion is a war of extermination against freedom, free labor, free schools, free society, free suffrage, and free institutions. 
2. Resolved, That it is the duty of the Government to put down this rebellion, at whatever cost; and that it may accomplish this as soon as possible, it is the duty of the people to supply it with the men and money necessary to that end. 
3. Resolved, That those who seek to prevent the Government from obtaining men and money, by opposing the enlistment of soldiers and the collection of taxes, and by thus giving aid and comfort to the trait-ors, and by adhering to them, are themselves trait-ors, and should be dealt with as such.
4. Resolved, That the Southern Democratic trait-ors and their Northern Democratic allies and abettors, have no rights under the government which they are seeking, by arms and blood, to destroy; and that according to the Constitution of the republic and the laws of nations, they have forfeited to the government, whose destruction they seek, their property and their lives.
5. Resolved, That an act of armed rebellion, whether in individuals or States, is an act of emancipation to the slaves of such individuals and States, as well as an act of forfeiture of property and life.
6. Resolved, That the "slaves of the Democratic traitors to freedom and free institutions are the sinews of the exterminating war which they are now waging
<c03>
against the self-evident truths of the Declaration of Independence; therefore, the speediest and the only way to crush the rebellion and preserve the republic is to abolish slavery, to free every slave, and arm and enrol them in the service of the government, and give them a chance to defend themselves, their wives and daughters against those who enslave them; and thus deprive the traitors and their allies of all hope of success in their efforts to destroy the government and involve the nation in anarchy and blood. 
7. Resolved, That we hail the freeing and arming of the slaves in defence of freedom and free institutions, as the promise of certain victory over all Democratic and slave-hunting traitors, South and North, who are seeking to destroy the republic of freedom, and to establish on its ruins a despotism whose corner-stone is slavery and the slave trade, and whose existence is a piratical warfare against humanity.
8. Resolved, That slavery or liberty, slave labor or free labor, slave institutions or free institutions, must die; therefore, in the language of Harper's Weekly, he who, in this death struggle between the republic and its only enemy-Slavery-" is not an Abolitionist, is a traitor," and should be treated as such.
Two points were established by the Convention to the satisfaction of all-not a copperhead being able or willing to deny them:-
1. The rebellion and civil war were planned, pre-pared and executed by the leaders of the Democratic party, and sanctioned by the party and sustained by Democratic Administrations. The responsibility of all the blood and murder rests solely on the Democratic party and a Democratic Administration. 
2. The civil war against freedom and free institutions was planned and begun, and has thus far been carried on, by Democratic slave-breeders and slave-traders, and their allies.
Every leader of the rebellion against liberty is a life-long known and recognized Democrat and slave-holder. Every rebel Slate has ever been a Democratic and a slaveholding State. Every Northern sympathizer with and abettor of the rebellion has been a recognized leader or member of the Democratic party, and to this hour call themselves such. Very many Democrats, discovering that the party is a traitor to freedom and free institutions, and bent on subjugating the laborers of the nation and continent to chattel slavery, have abandoned the party as hopelessly given over to " believe a lie that it may be damned," and are now among the most loyal and devoted friends of liberty and the republic.
Such has been the spirit and such the action of our Conventions, held in New York and Michigan during June.
 HENRY C. WRIGHT.

THE ANTI-SLAVERY CELEBRATION.
The annual Anti-Slavery Celebration which has been held in the grove at Framingham, for several years past, came off as usual at that place, the present year. The present condition of the anti slavery cause, as connected with the present position and prospects of our country, as well as the attractiveness of the spot, drew a large concourse of people. Mr. Garrison presided with his usual dignity and ability; and we will take the liberty to state here, that everything that Mr. Garrison did or said, during that day, was in strict accordance with an unflinching loyalty to the Union, and an unwavering support of the Ad-ministration in the prosecution of the war. There was a large number of Vice Presidents, and several Secretaries appointed. The first speaker was Wendell Phillips, of Boston, who addressed the multitude for about an hour and a half, in his usual strain of stir-ring eloquence. We have not space to-day to give the faintest outline of his speech, but will assure our readers, that in point of ability, and all that scathing sarcasm and invective, which go far toward establishing the reputation of Mr. Phillips as an orator, was not lacking on this occasion. One thing is true of Mr. Phillips, he never wastes his ammunition in a random fire. He selects his object, takes deliberate aim, and seldom misses his mark. His target on this occasion, was the speech of Montgomery Blair, at Concord, N. H., on the 17th of June last. Mr. Blair, in his speech, had thought fit to connect the name of Mr. Phillips with that of Mr. Calhoun, and charged them both as being instrumental in bringing on this war. It will be remembered that Mr. Blair belongs to that class of politicians who will never consent to hang a secessionist, unless they can see a Northern abolitionist dangling by his side. Under these circumstances, it is not strange that Mr. Phillips should embrace this opportunity of paying particular attention to the Post-Master General. Without deciding at this time on the merits of the Post-Master's speech, it was generally conceded, at Framingham, that there was not much left, after Mr. Phillips had done, of either the speech or its author. But the attempt of Mr. Phillips to connect Mr. Lincoln with the affair was a miserable failure. We cannot believe that Mr. Lincoln had the remotest knowledge of the speech be-fore it was delivered. Neither do we think that Mr. Lincoln has any wish to be considered, or any intention of running, as a candidate for a second term. The other speakers of the day were Rev. Merrill Richard-son, of Worcester, Wm. H. Burleigh, E. H. Heywood, Mrs. Gage, of Port Royal, S. C., Stephen S. Foster, and Mr. Remond, of Salem. Mr. Richardson gave an excellent speech in his off-hand style, which was well received by all. The speech of Mr. Heywood was in-efficient and pointless. Mrs. Gage, who is at the head of a colony of contrabands on one of the South Carolinian Islands, gave a very interesting account of her labors among that people, and made an appeal to the audience for aid in carrying out her work of civilization and patriotism. Mr. Remond spoke in his usual fault-finding strain, giving no credit for any advance in the anti-slavery cause, and making no acknowledgment of the great efforts that have been recently made to elevate the race to which he belongs. He demands an impossibility when he requires that all the prejudice against color which has been ingrained into the very natures of the whole white race by the influence of slavery should be immediately overcome, and the colored man admitted at once into our hearts and homes. We know that this is beautiful, theoretically, and it is right and just, but it is a matter that requires time to bring about. You can neither resolve nor legislate it out of our natures. People are now generally willing to confer on the colored man the rights and privileges claimed by the whites, and this is a great point gained.-Milford Journal.
VERY NATURAL. The rebel General Jenkins treats the copperheads with perfect contempt. A correspondent says:
"When Jenkins was at Chambersburg, he engaged in conversation with a Union man. As the former was speaking, a copperhead stepped up, made himself and his sentiments known, and very obligingly offered to impart any information which might be desired. Jenkins glanced at him for a moment, and then, with an expression of countenance that nearly frightened the skulking vagabond out of his wits, ordered him to leave his presence, remarking that if he had him on the other side, he should adorn the first tall tree they came to."
Many of the rebel Generals, though deluded, are honorable and high-minded men, and it is impossible for them not to feel contempt for the mean and craven-spirited wretches who are traitors to their country and its government. Stonewall Jackson once stripped the shoulder straps from an unworthy officer in the Union army who had skulked from his regiment when it was going into battle, suffering himself to be captured.
BLACK SOLDIERS. A Colonel, in a private letter from General Rosecrans' army to a friend in this city, says:-
"I want to say a word about darkey soldiers. You probably know more about their fighting than I do, but I am satisfied they will fight like tigers when properly managed; but a more useful attachment to a post than a regiment of them was never made. We have a regiment of them here-the 1st Mississippi-and without them, it would be impossible to do all the guarding and fatigue. They relieve us of the fatigue duty entirely, and have built some fine breastworks beside. When soldiers see them hard at work in the hot sun, doing what they would otherwise have to do, the 'opposition' and 'prejudice' to the plan of organizing and enlisting them soon disappear. It is a wise movement of the Government. Never did anything give the army more pleasure than the Conscription Act."
Official advices from Gen. Prentiss, at Helena, Ark., say that our forces whipped the rebels handsomely on the 4th, capturing 1,000 prisoners, 1,200 stands of arms, and 2 colors. The rebels were 15,000 strong, under Holmes, Price and Marmaduke, and their losses not less than 2,500. Ours will not exceed 250.
The rebels at Richmond were congratulating themselves, as late as the 6th inst., that Lee had routed the Union forces and taken 40,000 prisoners! Vicksburg had not been heard from and was believed to be impregnable. Their exultation was soon turned to mourning, and refugees report that gloom subsequently pervaded the city.
<c04>
MOBOCRATIC RESISTANCE TO THE DRAFT IN BOSTON!
MONDAY, July 13.
Messrs. Hill and Howe, Enrolling officers of the 6th district, while engaged in distributing notifications to the drafted men in wards 1 and 3, between 12 and 1 o'clock to-day, were set upon by a mob of men, women and children, and both of them beaten.
Mr. Hill succeeded in getting away from the crowd, and ran to Provost Marshal Howe's office, and gave the alarm. Police were at once despatched to the scene of the riot (at the corner of Charlestown and Endicott streets).
In the mean time, Mr. Howe was rescued from the crowd by Messrs. Wilkings and Keating, all of whom received some blows, but managed to get the enroling officer away from the crowd. 
"Police officer Trask, of Station 2, was stabbed in the face, but not severely.
No arrests were made.
The Enroling officers did not attempt to distribute any more notifications.
The mob followed the officers to the station house, and at 2 o'clock, a crowd numbering about 500 persons, including many women, were assembled in Hanover street, near the house.
The women are apparently much more violent than the men, and threaten every one who goes into or comes out of the station house. 
These serious indications of difficulty caused measures to be taken to increase the police force in suitable locations, and orders were issued to notify the Lancers, the 11th Battery, Capt. Jones, and the 44th regiment to be ready for immediate service. An order was also sent to Fort Warren for troops, and three companies were sent up, which, after being marched through several of the principal streets, were quartered at the Barracks in Beach street. A company of regulars was also sent up from Fort Independence, and nearly a company of the second cavalry from Readville. These precautions, it was believed, would be sufficient to prevent any difficulty during the night. 
As night approached, many young men, in squads of from six to twelve or more, from various parts of the city, were seen moving towards the North End, some of them with sticks or clubs. At about half past 8 o'clock, a crowd of from 500 to 1000 gathered in front of the armory of the 11th battery, in Cooper street, with riotous demonstrations. Capt. Jones warned the crowd of the dangers of a riot, but this did not avail, and an assault was made upon the building. Stones and bricks were freely thrown, the windows were broken, and the doors forced, when some of the rioters entered the building, and several of the members of the battery were injured. It was then manifest that some more effectual measures must be taken, or the guns in possession of the battery would be captured. A gun had been loaded with cannister shot, and when the mob were about to triumph, it was fired, killing several and wounding many more. 
This shot caused the mob to waver, but they did not give way entirely until a bayonet charge was made upon them. The statements during the evening were very conflicting as to the result of the firing, but as near as could be ascertained at a late hour, the killed and wounded were as follows:-A man about 35 years of age, name not known, was killed, eleven shot taking effect in his head and body, and his right arm was nearly shot off. The body was taken to the first station house. Wm. Currier, a man of 71 years, father of officer Wm. W. Currier, who lived near the armory, was killed, it is supposed, by the mob. He belonged in Bow, New Hampshire, and had been living in this city about six months. John Norton, a boy ten or twelve years of age, living at 166 Endicott street, shot through the heart, and died instantly. Michael Gaffy, fourteen years old, living at 31 Cross street, was shot in the bowels, and probably did not survive the night; his hand was also shot off. P. Reynolds, a boy of twelve years, living in Bolton place, was shot in the hip, the bone being badly shattered, and his arm broken. He was sent to the hospital, and may survive.
About the same time with the attack on the Armory, a mob of several hundred persons made a rush into Dock Square, to procure arms. The store of Thom-as P. Barnes, No. 28, was broken open, the door and window being demolished, when the best arms in the store were immediately seized upon and carried away. Not less than one hundred guns, nearly as many pistols, and three or four dozen bowie knives, valued at some $6000, were stolen. From appearances in the choice of the articles, and the position from which some of them were taken, it is believed that the leaders must have had knowledge of their location. The door of the entry adjoining was broken open, and the mob rushed up stairs to the shop of John P. Lovell, gunsmith, but it did not appear that the shop was entered.
The next rush was made for the store of Wm. Read & Son, Faneuil Hall Square. A guard of several officers had been stationed in this store, known to have a larger and more choice stock of fire-arms than any other in the city. When the mob entered Dock Square, John M. Dunn, detective officer, who was at Mr. Read's store, hurried to the 2d station house, fill-ed a carriage with officers well armed, and driving rapidly, reached the store just as the mob was breaking in. One man who struck a blow upon the window was shot in the head, and the mob received a check. This man was James Campbell, very stout and muscular, and although the shot took effect above his eye, causing much blood to flow, it did not appear that he was seriously injured. He was carried to the station house, and locked up. Some efforts were made to effect his release on bail, which, however, proved ineffectual.
As soon as the riotous demonstrations became known, an alarm was given to turn out the military, as well as the police force. It was but a short time be-fore nearly the entire day police force in the city proper reported for duty at the Second Station, with a delegation of some thirty from South Boston. This force was sent to Dock square as fast as assembled, but the mob had separated, departing in different directions. The Mayor, Chief of Police, and Deputy Chief were early at the scene of the riot, promptly and efficiently directing the movements of the Police, and giving directions for the posting of the military. 
The Light Dragoons were early on duty, and were placed as a patrol force in the neighborhood of the Cooper street armory, in Hay market Square, at Faneuil Hall, and other points where there were any gatherings or probability of a riot. The force from the forts was placed in and around Faneuil Hall, to be used as required, with two field pieces loaded in the Square. The cavalry from Readville was posted as a support to these guns. The Lancers were at their Armory, in Sudbury street, ready at any moment's call.
An alarm was sounded about 121/2 o'clock from District 3, which brought out the Department from the North End of the city, but it was found that some scoundrel had broken open a box on Fort Hill, and given a false alarm.
Immediately after this, it was found that the Artillery Armory on Cooper street had been set on fire, and the incendiary was seen to leave the building, but by the prompt action of the military present the flames were extinguished with trifling damage to the property, and without the aid of the engines, which arrived very promptly at the place.
Cooper street bears the marks of a severe encounter. In the street are scattered stones and brickbats, while soldiers with torn, and defaced uniforms are seen at every turn. A large pool of blood directly in front of the armory, marks the spot where one violator of the law paid the penalty of his crime. The front and sides of the armory are evidences of the furious onset of the mob. The windows and doors are stove in, and the building is badly damaged.
Opposite the armory, the houses show the effects of grape and cannister. No 31, occupied by Jeremiah Sheahan and Patrick McDonough, received the greater part of the charge. The steps, basement, windows and blinds were riddled with balls, which made their way in many instances through the house. Every-thing with which they came in contact was more or less demolished. Large indentatations were made in the walls, from which pieces of brick were "chipped” out.
The colored people in Brooklyn had a hard time of it. They were attacked everywhere and beaten. They crowded about the police stations asking for protection, being prevented from going to their homes or even walking the streets. 
The police, to the number of 100, went to New York in charge of Inspector Folk.
There was great commotion in the Navy Yard. The walls were manned and mounted with guns; 13 eighteen pounders are mounted on the Flushing Avenue side so as to sweep everything. Two 32 pounders command the main entrance, and all the vessels have been hauled into the stream, the guns shotted, and everything ready for any emergency.
Several companies of marines, with 60 rounds of cartridges and 12 boat howitzers, rifled cannon, with ammunition boxes loaded with percussion caps, shells, schrapnel, canister and grape shot, were sent to New York toward evening. The marines were accompanied by 300 sailors armed with cutlasses and revolvers.
BUFFALO, N. Y., July 6. There was a difficulty between the Irish stevedores and negroes this after-noon, in consequence of the former trying to prevent the negroes from unloading the propellers. A negro shot an Irishman, it is said, in self-defence, which was a signal for a general onslaught on all the negroes, several of whom are reported killed and a number severely wounded. To-night all is quiet, but the 'longshore-men and stevedores are determined to pre-vent the negroes from working on the docks.
New York, July 13. The Tribune has a special which says that Capt. Belcher of a Maine regiment, who escaped from the rebels, report that they took 4000 prisoners. The rebels estimate their killed and wounded at 20,000.
<c05>
RAPINE, MURDER AND TREASON RAMPANT IN NEW YORK!
NEW YORK. July 13. There is an alarming riot in New York, this 12 M. Laborers are leaving their work-5,000 men are marching through the streets, declaring they will resist the draft. The Provost Marshal's office of the 5th District has been attacked by the mob, books burned, and draft wheel destroyed. Mob armed with clubs, revolvers and pitchforks.
About eight o'clock, a large crowd of men and boys, who had been standing in front of the Tribune office for some time, commenced an attack on that establishment. First a shower of stones was thrown at the windows, and then the mob rushed into the office on the first floor, which seemed to be entirely unprotected, and commenced breaking the desks and dam-aging everything within their reach. The press-room and the composing and editorial rooms were not entered-though they probably would have been broken into and attacked but for the arrival of a force of nearly 600 policemen, under command of Inspector Carpenter.
This force dashed across the Park and took the rioters in the rear. Such a whirling of clubs and such a scattering of people were never before seen in this city. The mob made no attempt to resist the police, but ran out of sight in less than two minutes, bolting down side streets and alleys, pursued and hit and knocked over by the victorious policemen. A large number of the rioters carried away bruised heads and bodies as mementoes of the affair.
NEW HAVEN, JULY 14.-The Evening Post is just received here by the steamer. It contains the following:-
The disgraceful riots of yesterday were resumed at an early hour this A. M. in the upper part of the city. Bodies of the rioters visited large manufacturing establishments, compelling the workmen to fall into the ranks. Other gangs forbade the loading of vessels at the docks, under the penalty of total destruction of the ships.
Pillage has been the order of the day. Several houses have been sacked.
New conflagrations are occurring, and the crowds which were hourly increasing up to noon, threaten more serious work during the remainder of the day. 
The greatest crowd this morning assembled at an early hour on the Third avenue, between 30th and 40th streets. It is estimated that the number of rioters in that part of the city reached to 15,000 persons. This mob extended through the streets on either side of Third avenue to Second and Fourth avenues. They were principally armed with stones, though a few had guns, taken from Mr. Opdyke's armory.
At 10 A. M., a body of 350 policemen, under Inspector Carpenter, were assailed with bricks and paving-stones, while passing through 2d avenue. The policemen upon the word charged upon a row of tenement houses between 30th and 31st streets, and amid showers of stones entered the buildings and ejected the mob. The buildings were then fired, but the flames were soon extinguished. 
Two houses on Lexington Avenue near Forty-fifth street, one of which was said to be owned by Provost Marshal Jenkins, were fired and destroyed. The well-known Bull's Head Hotel in Forty-fourth street was also burned to the ground. The motive of the assault on this building was known only to the mob. They acted upon a frenzied impulse, and were ready to put the torch to any building that anybody pointed out. Not only women, but young girls and boys took a part in these proceedings.
Going northward, this mob attacked and fired the Half-Orphan Colored Asylum, which was also burned to the ground. The children were fortunately removed to a place of safety before the mob reached the ground.
The fury of the mob was directed, at an early hour in the afternoon, to negroes who were found in the streets. They were all attacked and made to run for their lives. Some of them were shockingly beaten, and two or three were said to have been killed. The anti-negro excitement prevailed over all parts of the city, down town as well as up town. Many negroes were assailed while at their work or going home from it. 
As night came on, several small mobs, which appeared to have no connection with the great mob up town, scoured Cherry street. Church, Leonard and Baxter streets, Catherine Lane, and other streets where there are some negro residences, and set fire to them. 
NEW YORK, July 14-1 P. M. The mob have barricaded certain parts of the city to prevent troops coming. The tracks of the New Haven and Hudson River Railroads have been torn up.
The mob revisited the Fifth Avenue Hotel last evening, and intended destroying it, but were persuaded to leave after obtaining whiskey, which they demanded. It is reported that the mob have destroyed the gas main up town. 
The stores in Broadway are generally closed. It is feared that the mob will destroy the Croton Aqueduct and Reservoir. 
Certain parts of the city have been visited where the Irish laborers are employed, who have been induced to leave their labor, and many joined the mob.
Several detachments of soldiers are reported to have fired into the mob, but foolishly used blank cartridges, which only exasperated the mob.
Most atrocious robberies have been committed on the streets by the ruffians, who seize any respectable men and rob them of their watches, money, &c., and then finish by threatening the victim. Scores of such things have occurred this morning.
The mob attacked Mayor Opdyke's house, but the citizens and police rallied after a fierce battle and drove them off. Postmaster Wakeman's house was burned last night; also, Harlem bridge.
NEW YORK, July 14-FOUR O'CLOCK, P. M. Vessels have been hauled from the dock into the stream, and gunboats anchored in certain localities so as to command the streets where the mob is expected to operate. One is anchored off Wall street.
All the stores down town are now closed. The armories and arsenals are fully garrisoned, as well as the public buildings, including the custom-house, etc.
The reserves of our city regiments are now organized, and will soon be operating. It is expected there will be some 5000 effective troops in the city this evening.
Omnibusses have stopped running, and horse cars have suspended operations under the threats of the mob.
A large pork-packing factory on Washington street was burned by the mob early this morning. 
A block of nine buildings, including a planning-mill, on 129th street, were also burnt by the mob this morning.
The mob took possession of a tenement block on 34th street, but were driven out by the infantry, who rushed in, throwing rioters out of the windows, shooting and killing several. It was a desperate affair, and the mob endeavored to rally, but a charge from the soldiers drove them pell-mell.
An attack was made on a detachment of marines near Delancy street, when the latter fired, killing three and wounding six others.
As soon as the soldiers poured their volley into the multitude, they immediately turned and ran, being pursued in hot haste by thousands. The people seemed to follow them up with untiring energy, and it is said that scarcely one escaped from the clutches of those who laid hands upon them. 
The scenes which occurred after these soldiers fired into the people, and commenced their rapid retreat by running down the Avenue, were certainly of an appalling nature. The soldiers threw away their muskets in order the better to expedite their skedaddling, and these were taken by the pursuers, and used against them. When one of them was overtaken, he was beaten almost into jelly, and, fainting from the loss of blood and exhaustion, the poor fellow was thrown into some alleyway, and left to take care of himself as best be might.
GOV. Seymour addressed the mob shortly afterwards from the steps of the City Hall. The gist of his remarks was that he had sent to Washington with a re-quest that the Government should suspend the draft, that he desired to protect the people, and he implored the crowd, therefore, to respect the rights of persons and property, promising them he would see that everything was made satisfactory. [This is a virtual endorsement of the mob.] 
The vast crowd swayed to and fro, racing first in this direction, then in that, attacking indiscriminately every well-dressed man. The general cry was, "Down with the rich men!" Three gentlemen talking together on Lexington Avenue were set upon and knocked down, narrowly escaping with their lives. While the firemen were at work in Third Avenue, Mr. Andrews, of Virginia, ascended a shanty, which stood opposite the burning ruins, where thou-sands were assembled. Behind this was an open space of unfilled ground, occupied by dense masses, whom Mr. Andrews proceeded to address.
He wished he had the lungs of a Stentor, and that there was a reporter present to take down his words. He said he had lately addressed them at a meeting at the Cooper Institute, where he told then Mr. Lincoln wanted to tear the hard-working man from his wife and family, and send him to the war. He denounced Mr. Lincoln for his conscription bill, which was in favor of the rich and against the poor man. He called him a Nero and a Caligula for such a measure. Had the country not given to this war plenty of men? Were they more liberal in supplying men "and money in the time of their Revolutionary Fathers, or in their war with England in 1812, than in the present unhappy struggle? Certainly not. He then advised the people to organize to resist the draft, and appoint their leader, and, if necessary, he would be their leader. (Uproarious cheering.)
A colored man was summarily hung at a lamp post, and his clothes then burnt off his body!
The amount of property already destroyed is estimated at hundreds of thousands of dollars, and the rioters still hold mastery over the city!
<c06>
MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
Receipts into the Treasury to July 10, 1863.
Collections at the New England A. S. Convention, $377 66
Friend in Milford, by Theodore D. Weld, 10 00 
Friend, by Mrs. Chase, Valley Falls. R. I., 5.00
Mrs. Chase, Valley Falls, R. I., 5 00
Charles Richardson, Boston, 3 00
Sarah J. Davee, Plymouth, 1 00
George Higginson,Esq., Boston, 2 00
George W. Staey, Milford, 1 00
C. Cowing, West Roxbury, 1 00
Ira Adams, Dorchester, to redeem pledge, 5 00
Alden Sampson, Charlestown, to redeem pledge 5 00
Sarah D Harris, 3 00
Dr. H. O. Stone, Framingham, 5 00
John Cushing, South Hingham, 3 00
Mary Ann Gardner, for pledge, 1 00
Abby Harris, 1 00
A. W. W., Weymouth, 5 00
Collection at Framingham, 4th July, 99 00
Mrs. Mary May, Boston, to redeem pledge, 50 00
Joshua T. Everett, Princeton, for pledge of July 4, 25 00
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.

COLLECTIONS
By Finance Committee at Framingham, July 4, 1863.
E. Foster, 1 00; A. Wyman, 2 00; G. I. Butts, .25; H. O. Lothrop, 25;. O. D. Clough, .25; -Sherman, .25; J. Finch, .10; H. C. Childs; .25; C. C. Breck, 35; D. P. Cook, .50; D. B. Morey, 1 00; Mary Willey, .50; Mary Clapp, 1 00; Stephen Clapp, 1 00; Martha Clapp, 1 00; Richard Clapp, 1 00; Friend, 1 00; A. Foster, 1 00; J. H. Brigham, 1 00; Miss H. A. Wilson, 1 00; S. A. E. Ford, 1 00; S. L. 0. Allen, 1 00;-Pond, .50; Anna Gardner, 1 00; W. W. Dutcher, Hopedale, 5 00; Henry Damon, 1 00; D. W. Bennett, .25; J. D., .25; Thomas B. Rice, 1 00; Samuel Barrett, 1 00;-Lavina Breed, 100;-Humphrey, .25;-Dutcher, 25; Edward B. Perkins, 1 00; L. Bigelow, 1 00; J. S. Draper, .50; Amos Webber, .25; N. H. Whiting, 1 00; E. Batty, 1 00; T. Davis 2 00; E. D. Draper, 1 00; W. L. Garrison, 1 00; G. W. Stacy, .50; Leslie Knox, .50; D. B. South, .25; Samuel May, Jr., 1 00; D. Patrick, .50; E. Pitts, .25; J. L. Whiting, .50; C. A. Sawin, .50; Mrs. Caroline R, Putnam, 1 00; Mrs. M. A. Dutcher, Hopedale, 5 00.
One of the subscription papers was lost or mislaid, and the above list is imperfect. The entire cash collection was $99 00.
PLEDGES
To Mass. Anti-Slavery Society at Framingham, July 4, 1863. 
Joshua T. Everett, $25 00
C. M. Severance, Boston, 5 00
Hiram Hunt, Milford, 1 00

A PICTURE FOR THE TIMES.
For sale by R. F. WALLCUT, at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, a well-executed photograph of a remarkable drawing by Mr. CARLTON, one of our resident artists, called "Watch-Meeting, Dee. 31, 1862-Waiting for the Hour"-representing a scene "way down South in Dixie," on last New Year's Eve, where some thirty or forty slaves seem to be waiting with great anxiety the hour which, by President Lincoln's proclamation of the 22d of September, shall make them "henceforth and for ever free." Large size, suitable for framing, $2.00. Second size, $1.00. Card photograph, 25 cents.

THE "PECULIAR INSTITUTION" ILLUSTRATED.
We have a photographic likeness of a Louisiana slave's back, taken five or six months after a terrible scourging, and exhibiting from the shoulders to the waist great welts and furrows raised or gouged by the lash, running cross-wise and lengthwise-the victim himself presenting a noble countenance and fine physique. "This card photograph," says the New York Independent, "should be multiplied by one hundred thousand, and scattered over the States. It tells the story in a way that even Mrs. Stowe cannot approach, because it tells the story to the eye." Price 15 cents. Sent by mail, by enclosing postage stamp. Seven copies for one dollar, or $1,50 per dozen.
Address EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR, Boston, Mass.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
WILLIAM WELLS BROWN will speak by invitation at the following places in the State of Maine:-
Bucksport, Sunday, July 19.
Bucksport, Monday, July 20.
Dexter, Friday, July 24.

THE GREAT BATTLES OF GETTYSBURG.
ALSO,
"WHAT I SAW IN TENNESSEE."
BY EDMUND KIRKE.
THE NEW YORK SEMI-WEEKLY TRIBUNE of Tuesday, July 7, contains forty-eight columns of matter of unusual interest and variety, enough to make two good-sized volumes. Among these articles is the first of a series of Letters written expressly for THE TRIBUNE, by "EDMUND KIRKE," author of "Among the Pines," entitled, "What I saw in Tennessee." Mr. "Kirke" has recently made a tour in the Southwest, and proposes to give in these letters an inside view of the Rebellion, for which his familiarity with Southern people and their habits, and his remarkable facility in describing them, eminently fit him. This first letter sets forth the character and portrays the enormities of the Rebellion with a vivid-ness and power not hitherto reached by any other writer. A large portion of the sheet will be given up to a full ac-count of the Battles of Gettysburg-the most intelligent, complete, and best-written narrative of the terrible fighting of last week that has been published, and written by our own correspondents, who were eye-witnesses to what they relate. The account will be brought down to the latest moment. It will contain also a review of the forth-coming work of Mrs. Frances Butler-Life as she saw it on a Southern Plantation-embracing some long extracts from the book.

TERMS OF THE TRIBUNE.
DAILY TRIBUNE.
Single copy, 3 cents.
Mail Subscribers, one year (311 $8.
SEMI-WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
One copy, one year (104 $3.
Two Copies, one year, $5.
Five Copies, one year, $12.
WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
One Copy, one year, (52 $2.
Three Copies, one year, $5.
Fire Copies, one year, $8.
Ten Copies, one year, $15.
Any larger number, addressed to names of subscribers, $1.50 each. An extra copy will be sent to every club of ten.
Twenty Copies, to one address, one year, $25, and any larger number at same price. An extra copy will be sent to clubs of twenty. Any person who will send us a club of thirty or over shall receive. The Semi-Weekly Tribune gratis
Address THE TRIBUNE, 
Tribune Buildings, New York.
154 Washington St, 5 doors South, of Milk St.
May 2.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
BE JUST, AND FEAR NOT.
BY THE DEAN OF CANTERBURY.
Speak thou the truth. Let others fence
And trim their words for pay;
In pleasant sunshine of pretence
Let others bask their day.
Guard thou the fact, though clouds of night
Down on thy watch-tower stoop;
Though thou shouldn't see thine heart's delight
Borne from three by their swoop.
Face thou the wind. Though safer seem
In shelter to abide,
We were not made to sit and dream;
The safe must first be tried.
Where God hath set his thorns about,
Cry not, "The way is plain;”
His path within for those without
Is paved with toil and pain.
One fragment of his blessed word
Into thy spirit burned,
ls better than the whole, half-beard,
And by thine interests turned.
Show thou thy light. If conscience gleam,
Set not the bushel down;
The smallest spark may send his beam
O'er hamlet, tower, and town.
Woe, woe to him on safety bent,
Who creeps from age to youth,
Failing to grasp his life's intent
Because he fears the truth!
Be true to every inmost thought,
And as thy thought, thy speech;
What thou hart not by suffering bought,
Presume thou not to teach.
Hold on, hold on; thou hast the rock;
The foes are on the sand;
The first world-tempest's ruthless shock
Scatters their shifting strand;
While each wild gust the mist shall clear
We now see darkly through,
And justified at last appear
The true, in Him that's true.
—Macmillan's magazine for April.

DOING WITHOUT IT.
BY CHARLES G. AMES.
I've found some wisdom in my guest
That's richly worth retailing:
I've learned that when one does his best,
There's little harm in failing.
I thought to gather wealth untold,
And made my boast about it;
My wit and toil bring little gold,
But I can do without it.
I said, "The world shall hear my name,
And down the ages shout it;"
I shall not win the bauble Fame,
But I can do without it.
Another thing I've had to prove,
Though much I used to doubt it;
One can't be sure of human love,
But one can live without it.
I thought to knew philosophy,
And teach the world about it;
My plummet will not sound the sea;
My ship can sail without it.
I saw the earth with wrong o'ergrown,
And set myself to rout it;
Some age will see it overthrown,
So I can die without it.
I may net reach what I pursue,
Yet will I keep pursuing;
Nothing is vain that I can do
Since soul-growth comes of doing,
—Christian Inquirer.

HOW TO LIVE.
BY H. BONAR
He liveth long who liveth well!
All other life is short and vain;
He liveth longest who can tell
Of living, most for heavenly gain.
He liveth long who liveth well!
All else is being flung away;
He liveth longest who can tell
Of true things truly done each day.
Waste not thy being; back to him
Who freely gave it, freely give;
Else is that being bat but a dream;
'Tis but to be, and not to live
Be what thou seemest! live thy creed!
Hold up to earth the torch divine;
Be what thou prayest to be made;
Let the great Master's steps be thine.
Fill up each hour with what will last;
Buy up the moments as they go;
The life above, when this is past,
Is the ripe fruit of life below.
Sow truth, if thou the truth would'st reap;
Who sows the false shall reap the vain;
Erect and sound thy conscience keep;
From hollow words and deeds refrain.
Sow love, and taste its fruitage pure;
Sow peace, and reap its harvest bright;
Sow sunbeams on the rock and moor,
And find a harvest-home of light.
The Liberator

THE WAR METHOD OF PEACE.
AN ADDRESS TO THE TWENTY-EIGHTH CONGREGATIONAL SOCIETY, BOSTON, SUNDAY, JUNE 14th, 1863.
BY E. H. HEYWOOD
Mr. Heywood said that, waiving their usual selections from the Bible, he would read some later scriptures, which he deemed of great significance in this crisis:-
Extracts from the Declaration of Sentiments of the American Anti-Slavery Society, in 1833.
"We have met together for the achievement of an enterprise , without which that of our fathers is incomplete; , and which for its magnitude, its solemnity, and probable results upon the destiny of the world, as far transcends theirs as moral truth does physical force. . . . Their principles led them to wage war against their oppressors, and to spill human blood like water, in order to be free. Ours forbid the doing of evil that good may come, and lead us to reject, and to entreat the oppressed to reject, the use of all carnal weapons for deliverance from bondage; relying solely on those which are spiritual, and mighty through God to the pulling down of strong-holds. Their measures were physical resistance, the marshalling in arms, the mortal encounter. Ours shall be such only as the opposition of moral purity to moral corruption—the destruction of error by the potency of truth—the overthrow of prejudice by the power of love—and the abolition of slavery by the spirit of repentance. . . . Our trust for victory by is solely in God. We may be personally defeated, but our principles never . . . Submitting this Declaration to the candid examination of the people of this country, and of the friends of liberty throughout the world, we hereby affix our signatures to it, pledging ourselves, under the guidance and by the help of Almighty God, to overthrow the most execrable system of slavery that has ever been witnessed upon the earth. . . . Come what may to our persons, our interest, or our reputation —whether we live to witness the triumph of Liberty, Justice, and Humanity, or perish ultimately as martys in this great benevolent and holy cause.”
Extracts from the Declaration of Sentiments of the New England Non-Resistants, in 1888.
"We cannot acknowledge allegiance to any human government; neither can we oppose any such government by a resort to physical force. We recognize but
<c02>
one King and Lawgiver, one Judge and Ruler of mankind. We are bound by the laws of a kingdom which is not of this world; the subjects of which are forbidden to fight; in which Mercy and Truth are met together, and Righteousness and Peace have kissed each other; which has no state lines, no geographical boundaries; in which there is no distinction of rank, caste or sex; the officers of which are Peace, its exactors Righteousness, its walls Salvation, and its gates Praise; and which is destined to break in pieces and consume all other kingdoms. Our country is the; world, our countrymen are all mankind. We love the land of our nativity, only as we love all other lands. The interests, rights, and liberties of American citizens are no more dear to us than are those of the whole human race. Hence, we can allow no appeal to patriotism, to revenge any national insult or injury. The Prince of Peace, under whose stainless banner we rally, came not to destroy, but to save, even the worst of enemies. 'God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.' . . . We register our testimony not only against all wars, whether offensive or defensive, but all preparations for war; against all appropriations for the defence of a nation by force and arms, on the part of any legislative body; against every edict of government requiring of its subjects military service. Hence, we deem it unlawful to bear arms, or to hold a military office. . . . We believe that the penal code of the old covenant, An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth, has been abrogated by Jesus Christ; and that under the new covenant, the forgiveness, instead of the punishment of enemies has been enjoined upon all his disciples, in all cases whatsoever. 'Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord.’ The history of mankind is crowded with evidences, proving that physical coercion is not adapted to moral regeneration; that the sinful disposition of man can be subdued only by love; that evil can be exterminated from the earth only by goodness. . . . Hence, as a measure of sound policy, of safety to property, life and liberty, of public quietude and private enjoyment, as well as on the ground of allegiance to him who is King of kings, and Lord of lords, we cordially adopt the non-resistance principle; being confident that it provides for all possible consequences, will ensure all things needful to us, is armed with omnipotent power, and must ultimately triumph over every assailing force. . . . In entering upon the great work before us, we are not unmindful that, in its prosecution, we may be called to test our sincerity, even as in a fiery ordeal. It may subject us to in sult, outrage, suffering, yea, even death itself . . . . But we commend these sentiments to the reason and conscience, of mankind, giving ourselves no anxiety as to what may befal us, and resolving in the strength of the Lord God calmly and meekly to abide the issue.”
These Declarations, both written by Mr. Garrison, will stand in history with that of American Independence; and higher—for, while Jefferson is revered as the father of our national freedom, from a single brain here comes the germ of two revolutions — one of which is to establish impartial liberty for all races on this continent; the other will subvert the war system, and ensure peace and good will to men throughout the world.
DISCOURSE.
In the various discourses, which, during the last two years, I have had the honor to address to this Society, I have frequently, as a non-resistant, taken the liberty to question the war method of restoring the Union, or to abolish slavery, as immoral, impolitic, and unnecessary. But my brief acquaintance with political studies of any kind; an unwillingness to embarrass any experiment against slavery, even by the expression of opinions of trivial importance in themselves; and, chiefly, my profound reverence for distinguished Abolitionists, from whom to differ on this point is grave cause for distrusting one’s own decisions, have prevented me making any formal analysis or discussion of this crisis from the stand-point of the Peace principle. Now, however, when many are coming to questions the right to discuss this war, pro and con; when "unconditional loyalty" is made to mean loyalty to partisan views, rather than loyalty to truth and the time-honored guarantees of freedom; and there is a general inclination to merge duty in necessity, and degrade all moral principles to the base level of unscrupulous policy; it may be well for us to tell ourselves, at least, what events think of this war, as well as what speculators and politicians think of it; on what methods and risks we are embarking, and whither they will float us. Availing myself, therefore, of the large toleration which is the chief celebrity of this desk, and of the especial indulgence of your Committee, who have always told me to bring true rather than pleasant things, I would like your attention, for an hour or so, to some things respecting the war method of peace.
There is nothing in human society stronger than truth, and a manly and consistent example of it. Appealing from expediency and tradition to the inner facts of nature, from governments to justice, from men to man, it sinks what is partial, relative, temporary , in the universal, the absolute, the eternal. Those who teach and example less, Democrats booted and spurred to ride the weaker classes, Christians who confess Jesus at the loaves and fishes, and not at the cross. Abolitionists where there is no slavery, and Non-Resistants who believe in peace except when there is war,—such have small faith in a beneficent Providence, or the honesty of man's soul; suspect a malignant agency prevails; distrust ideas, and confer with flesh and blood; think the laws of nature are repealed by this crisis, and the Court of Heaven has ceased its jurisdiction in these quarters. Nevertheless, even amidst "rising sinners and falling stars,” the laws ruling the universe are identical with those which now bring redemption through retribution to the American people. "Interest is the bride of Duty,” and though policy may succeed against policy, it is impotent against truth and sincerity. Much which the world calls success is merely factious interest drifting the general welfare into heaps here, at the expense of bare ground elsewhere. If your advantage is partial and relative, unless "the immediate motive of your will may become a universal rule for all intelligent beings"—unless you are right—you have not succeeded.
The broad ethics of the New Testament, the pure reason of Greece and Rome, the hot enthusiasm of French progress and Anglo-Saxon common sense, first reaching a national expression in the Declaration of Independence, reveal in mankind an expansion of the unit man; that all nations are made of one blood, and the doctrine of human brotherhood is the taproot of human nature. The progress of civilization, the native justice of man's heart efflorescing in Luther, Magna Charta, Puritanism, Democracy, Negro Emancipation, Non-Resistance, is the progress of mankind towards unity and fair play. To force Protestantism into the old Romish strait-jacket of uniformity to build the liberty of whites on the slavery of blacks, to kill aliens and enemies in defence of citizens or friends—all this impairs growth, destroys unity, is retrogressive, disintegrating, anarchical. Hence those who truly believe in men's equality, before God and fraternity, with each other, will discern in war a murderous foe of our race which intelligent reformers cannot tolerate, much less invoke as an agent of progress. A resort to war to put down slavery is a resort to lying to put down falsehood, a resort to stealing to put down theft. Indeed, slavery is an advance on war, since its victims, first prisoners of war, were formerly killed at once, afterwards held to service as an act of humanity.
Then war is wrong—wrong yesterday, wrong today, wrong forever; not an evil merely, but a sin and crime. To Christians, the character of Jesus should be decisive on this point. Was he right in going to Calvary, or should he have marched against Pilate as a Major-General? It was the Cross that made him the moral lawgiver of his race, and has affixed his name to the highest civilization of history. I saw Orthodox epaulettes, wealth and fashion, in soft attire and shining equipage, rolling in gorgeous splendor to church, in the name of the Prince of Peace, who went barefoot! Yet this going to luxurious pews in "Christian" epaulettes is the homage which vice pays to virtue; since, because it was noble for men to be saints in Jerusalem, it is fashionable for sinners to be hypocrites in Boston. Men will worship Love, though they work blood—will preach Jesus, though, as a "necessary evil,” they practise Joshua. Lying is one of the “fine arts“ of war; they call it “ strategy;” that is, falsehood in military boots. Yorktown in the Revolution was won by a lie, and Washington told it-. John Brown went to Harper's Ferry under a false
<c03>
name,—but because he was an Abolition saint, we did not say much about it! Murder is the gravest crime man commits; yet war is murder multiplied by the majority. By what ethics, then, is the man a criminal, and the mass heroes? Can we "serve God individually, and the devil collectively"? If the whole is greater than a part, to kill a man is a gerater sin than to enslave him; for life bases and includes all other human rigts. Self-defence is right; but how much of yourself will you save? Self is composed of soul and body; to save your life by sin, you lose your soul; to lose your life for truth, you save our soul. I go for the soul. You would not do wrong, would not lie, would not steal, to save your life; will you commit the gravest sin to live? To argue that animal instincts prevail; that when the lion and the lamb lie down together, " the lamb must be inside the lion," and hence men are under the dominion of brutish instincts, and cannot resist them, is practical atheism; makes free agency as fiction. The claim that war comes in society as earthquakes come in nature is equally irrelevant If earthquakes are free moral agents, if earthquakes vote and join the church, that argument is in point—otherwise, it is impertinent and absurd.
According to reason, as in Christian ethics, it is a greater sin to kill an enemy than it is to kill a friend, as it is more cruel to strike a sick man than a well man. Because your enemy—unless you are the rascal and he the saint, which is quite likely—your enemy is morally sick, depraved by vicious circumstances. The North and South to-day are not enemies, they are "opposites"—the natural outgrowth of this antagonism of ideas we called a Union. Are they blameful? The scraggy oak on the crest of Wachusett does not want to be scraggy, but it is the best thing the acorn can do under the adverse circumstances of thin soil and bleak winds; planted in the deep loam of the plain, or the rich mud of the intervale, it would have been as robust and respectable as yourselves. So take a "Copperhead"—I think these vile nicknames unworthy the lips of reformers—take a Mozart Hall Democrat; analyze him. The first layer is Fernando Wood; under that, the New York Observer; under that, Jefferson Davis; under that—the devil? no, a germ of manhood fighting up against a corrupt trade, a debauched politics, and depraved religion. Arrest him? Rather arrest the circumstances that made him such.
Patriotism involves much truth and heroism—as when Dutch shopkeepers opened their dykes and buried all Holland beneath the sea to save it from the clutch of Louis XIV.—as when the women of Fredericksburg, on bended knees, besought Gen. Lee to burn their city rather than surrender it to the North- as when these Yankees, who hold their dollar so near the eye that it hides the universe, on the battle-field open their veins by their own vitality to reanimate the drooping State. While, compared with the courage of truth, the courage of principle, the courge of forces is a kind of spaniel cowardice—which goes on four legs or a smaller number—not until the real manhood there is in war is transferred to the cause of peace will the reign of principles subvert the reign of the sword. But patriotism, in its final application, is altogether narrow and selfish; dwarfs the man into an American or Frenchman; makes him a satellite of the government —with two or three facts you may calculate his orbit; of a party or sect; or a satellite of the town-pump; rarely sets the discordant notes of partisan strife to the sphere harmony of justice and impartial liberty. Like the villeins of feudal times, men belong to the soil, are bought and sold with it; adhere to the government in order to adhere to themselves. Each commmunity, state, nation, standing on its own selfish interests, there is no concord, no cosmopolitan feeling. As Sidney Smith said of two housewives scolding from their opposite tenements—they will never agree, because they argue from different premises. Nationality is a minus quantity; the more American, the more Englishman, the less man. The charm of Shakspeare is, that he was a man, not an Englishman, merely; an ocean bathing every shore of human nature. Jesus is Jesus because he loved everybody, especially aliens and enemies.
Government is only a scaffolding to build man; a temporary convenience, to secure order and justice, to vanish as we ascend into unison with ideas; the garment society wears to be refitted for larger life, or left behind for the next, arrival in the cradle. The elements of growth and original sovereignty forever inhere in the people, and no government can be perpetual, any more than a coat can be perpetual. Lord Brougham says, England survives, because she know when to bend, to yield to the expanding life of the nation. So American government, of the people, by the people, for the people, resides in moral power, is founded on the consent of the governed. Hence peaceful revolution as the result of growth, peaceful secession is a moral right. The only authority of a government is in its justice; rebellion began not in 1861, but in 1789, when these States framed iniquity into a law. The logic of the Abolitionists was the logic of events; emancipation as a duty; that refused, disunion in behalf of justice and liberty. There was no union of ideas, of interests, or of sympathy; we were two nations; a revolution was accomplished long before it announced itself at Fort Sumter; revolution, the silent truth of many years, now thundered from the iron lips of war. The opinions of the best heads of America in the opening scenes of this crisis; of Phillips and Seward, of Sumner and Cushing, of Chase and Seymour, of Greeley and Emerson, that it would be better to let the South go out; the serious judgment of the nation in a thoughtful moment was the statesmanship of the hour, and has more weight with me than anything since uttered under the threats of a rampant war-spirit. Since the firing upon Sumter, the people hare viewed the thing through passion, not reason. The clear light of truth is refracted and discolored in traversing an atmosphere thick with the blood and curses of martial strife.
The laws of natural growth, material interests, and the moral welfare of society, will ultimately decree the separation of these States. The opinions of thoughtful men in unbiased moments, of Mr. Parker, Mr. Phillips, and others, that the Federal Union would eventually effloresce into a cluster of republics;; one on the Pacific, one on the Gulf, one on the Lakes, and one on the Hudson and Connecticut; the judgment of our most clear-sighted European critics-"foreigners are the cotemporaneous posterity"—are prophetic of the road civilization will travel here. The same law of growth which radiates South America into diverse States; which makes Europe a mosaic of Nationalities; which severed these colonies from Great Britain, and will sever Canada, India and Australia, will assert its supremacy here. Editors may storm, orators declaim, and armies rage, to the contrary, notwithstanding. But it is not anarchy, not disintegration, any more than a country boy, too large for his coat, growing out of his old clothes in all directions, is disintegration. These variegated, picturesque, forms of political development are the regular and natural progress of society towards the mutual safety of persons and property, and the impartial revelation of justice; and the statesmanship which does not recognize and provide for them is unworthy the name. The fact that the South seceded to secure and extend a slavery does not affect this argument or our duty. Not the Abolitionists, merely, but the enlightened conscience of the North, had revolted against the slave clauses of the Constitution, because the Federal Government was not founded on the Declaration of Independence, but on an unholy and wicked agreement with oppression. Having repudiated your part of the pro-slavery compact, where is your right to hold the South obedient to theirs? There should be honor among thieves, even. As the prophetic vision of Mr. Pillsbury long ago announced, "The South may deserve all they are suffering, but they do not deserve it at our hands; nor is this slaughter of our fellow-sinners any atonement for the joint iniquity of seventy in years' oppression." Need I add, that the attempt to coerce or control the South by the immoral and despotic methods of the sword, or in the remotest degree
<c04>
to sanction a war to restore the Union or abolish slavery, - is utterly inconsistent with peace principles? True, the South were the aggressors; but shall I fight a duel, or go into the ring, because I am challenged? Shall I steal and lie because I am opposed with theft and falsehood? Rather let me adhere to my principles, be the more honest and truthful, knowing that if slaveholders are right, the sword cannot defeat them that if they are wrong, God cannot save them.
As yet, barbarism inspires the methods, and is the leading star of civilization. We have not ascended to the realm of ideas; in the fifth day of creation the world awaits man. The new canary bird in our lady's cage is a foreigner, a nuisance to whip or be whipped as a certificate of citizenship. So the feathered warriors quarrel in order to live peaceably. When the farmer brings home a strange ox, there is a general fight to know which beats. The result of the battle is the basis of a new social order. The canaries and cattle reason well; for victory is a certain presumptive of peace, order and stability. The human being, also, is an animal on his way to be man, and has a right to come up on all fours as far as is convenient. But shall we always wear hoofs, never ascending into the heavenward-looking posture of perfect men? As yet, cattle give laws to man; and there is sad truth in the joke of the English wit, that he went to the Sayers and Heenan fight to see the ruling class of the race. "Statesmen" believe in the fist, not in the soul; not in the gospel according to St. John, but in the gospel according to Sayers and Heeman; make nations mere fighting-cocks, to crow lustily for "honor," and claw out each other's eyes and hearts for "glory." We talk of "first class powers," aglow with visions of mere material supremacy, of commerce whitening every sea, of navies
-”bidding nations quake,
And monarchs tremble in their capitals;"
of armies whose embattled tread shakes the globe; we forget that truth alone is the first class power; Palestine for its religion, Greece for its knowledge, Rome for its Justice, Germany for its insight; such are the only first class powers. Mr. Lincoln said in his last message, that "nations are composed of three elements; their people, their laws, and their territory; and the last alone is permanent." Oh, no, Mr. President, do we ask how many acres Judea had, Greece had, Rome had? We ask whether they believed in truth and the example of it; we ask whether there was a spot large enough to erect a cross, and a martyr to hang upon it! It is not the great nations, Persia, Assyria, Macedon, which most serve the race. In Palestine, Greece, mediaeval Italy, sea-girt England, not the empire whose morning drum-beat circles the globe; in States " so small that, in a day or two, on horseback, you could ride through two or three of them; in such has humanity been glorified.”
This savagery of materialism, the scent of blood rousing ferocious instincts, obtrudes the age of the brute into the age of man. Democratic freedom has not yet cut its wisdom teeth; puts constitutional chains on negroes, and ignores the rights of woman. Yet true democracy goes an arrow's flight beyond equality of race and sect even. "Building for eternity,” it builds on absolute ideas, on unfettered reason, on the eternal moral sense; makes the sword a barbarism, a government of force a nuisance. No doubt, such opinions appear to you wild, youthful, visionary, "veally”; but let me reinforce them with one or two names which are powers in the land. Mr. Garrison said "A bloody war to maintain nationality is incompatible- with moral greatness and Christian love, and for an object which is low and selfish. . . . There will be no real freedom on earth until men beat their swords into ploughshares and their spears into pruning-hooks, and learn war no more. A nation which has adopted that principle cannot be enslaved, any more than the angels of God. . . Wherein does this war differ from any other animated by the spirit of hatred and revenge, and prosecuted by a resort to murderous weapons? Is not human blood flowing like water? Are not the wounded, dying and dead multiplying like the withered leaves of autumn? Are not homes made desolate, firesides voiceless, and fields barren? Our weapons of defence are the same with which we are assailed—the weapons of tyranny in all ages. I groan in spirit that a good cause is defended by the same weapons by which a bad cause is upheld. Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, life for life, is not the way to redeem or bless our race. Sword against sword, cannon against cannon, army against army—is it thus that love and good-will are diffused through the world, or that right conquers wrong? ... It is our duty to remember the fate of all who are involved in this war, whether they are on the right or on the wrong side; for they are all brothers by creation, children of the same great human family, and under the most sacred obligations to love and do good to each other."
These inspired sentiments, addressed to Hungary when, fighting in pure self-defence, and for both freedom and nationality, she was overwhelmed by the combined armies of Austria and Russia, I should cease to reverence, did I not think them as true of America to-day.
Let me climb to the head, to the bright consummate flower of American literature, and pluck a leaf with which to adorn my discourse. Mr. Emerson wrote— it was before he accepted an office at West Point! "War to sane men begins to look like an epidemic insanity, breaking out here and there like the cholera or influenza, infecting men's brains instead of their bowels. A universal peace is as sure as is the prevalence of civilization over barbarism, of liberal govermnents over feudal forms. ... If you have a nation of men who have risen to that height of moral cultivation that they will not declare war or carry arms, for they have not so much madness left in their brains, you have a nation of lovers, of benefactors, of true, great and able men. . . . Non-resistance is the right future of democracy, the American idea. As God liveth, it is the only gun which does not need a gun; the law of love and justice, which alone can effect a clean revolution. . . . We make by distrust the thief, the burglar, and the incendiary, and by our court and jail we keep him so. . . . An acceptance of the sentiment of love throughout Christendom for a season would bring the felon and the outcast to our side with tears, with the devotion of his faculties to our service. . . . Love would put a new face on this weary old world in which we dwell as pagans and enemies too long. It would warm the heart to see how fast the vain diplomacy of statesmen, the impotency of armies and navies and lines of defence, would be superseded by this unarmed child. This great, overgrown, dead Christendom of ours at least keeps alive the name of a lover of mankind; but one day all men will be lovers, and every calamity will be dissolved in the moral sunshine.”
In claiming, therefore, that non-resistance is the true theory of democracy, the to-morrow of free institutions, I merely entrench myself behind the largest heart and clearest brain which America has given to the world—behind the Declaration of Independence and Plymouth Rock—behind Hampden and Magna Charta—behind human nature and the throne of Infinite Truth! There is a democracy higher, purer, more powerful and enduring than that which is nourished in the blood of enemies; it is the democracy which suffers wrong rather than inflict it; the democracy which, speaking from the ashes of Smithfield, the hemlock of Socrates, and—I say it reverently-the cross of Jesus, conquers every foe, and wins the applause and the reverence of all nations, all races, all ages. But the opposite, the deadly foe of all this— the normal school of vice, ignorance and superstition —absolute, unmitigated despotism, inspiring a rampant ascendency of brute force with the most ferocious and vindictive of human passions; the spirit of destruction incarnate, immoral, irresponsible, atheistic —a spirit which, unrestricted, would annihilate society, unpeople the planet, and “make the universe a mob of worlds”-however others may postpone their principles, for myself, I owe to democracy and civilization, I owe to humanity and religion, the abhorrence, with which the war system inspires me!
<c05>
“This world is full of beauty
As other worlds above,
And if we did our duty,
It might be full of love.”
But I was not to argue the abstract question of peace, at length, this morning. Few here, I presume, accept these views; indeed, they would not be true views were they generally accepted; for principles, to be correct now, must involve the condemnation of the American people. I should be alarmed to be endorsed in a period when he is the most honorable and Christian who kills the most enemies. Not particularly anxious myself to be understood, certainly not desirous of hewing to the line when my chips fly in all faces, I yet deem it fit time in war to preach peace; fit time to assert a truth when it is denied—especially by those reputed to accept it, and who once revered this the gravest moral issue that has engaged the attention of men since Calvary. Waiving, however, the immorality of war, as a political expedient the sword rarely promotes the interests of government, or the cause of freedom. In the long run, a government of force is dangerous only to itself; the offspring of fear and partial interests, it is powerful as the exponent of popular passions, but impotent to combat or control them. The despair of ideas, distrust in the heart, it is war in the hand; a mustard seed of hatred, it springs up into a forest of bayonets. “Of all enemies of public freedom,” said Madison, “ war is perhaps the most to be dreaded; it is the parent of armies, debts, taxes; and armies, debts, taxes, are the known instruments for bringing the many under the dominion of the few. No nation can preserve its freedom in the midst of continued warfare.” Jefferson said, “War is an instrument wholly uncertain in its operations, and frequently, if not generally, occasions more evils than it cures or prevents.” " The army,” says Sir James Mackintosh, “is the last resource of power; a tremendous weapon, which, if it did not sometimes happily recoil on those who wield it, would rob all the slaves in the world of hope, and all the freemen of safety.”
I am unable to see that this war has advanced us so . far on the road of national redemption as many predict. With England, slavery stood on a few distant islands, a mere wart upon the body politic, yet it took half a century to abolish it. In France, the problem was alike insignificant compared with ours; and in 1793, in the fervor of a revolutionary moment, emancipation was proclaimed as an act of justice throughout the French dominions. Yet the act was reversed under Napoleon in 1802, and it was not until 1848 that what was decreed as justice in 1793, became a fact in French law. With us, slavery covers an area equal to one fourth of all Europe; its roots run back beneath the strata of centuries; enwoven with every fibre, it has diffused its poison through every member of the body politic; in armed revolt against the Federal life, the President yet apologizes for emancipation as a "military necessity,” assuring posterity that under no circumstances will we be guilty of a generous motive; he hates the negro more than he hates slavery, and, with all his contempt for the guarantees of freedom, there is one law he always respects and enforces—even to banding the manacled fugitive back to bondage from the marble steps of the capital—the Fugitive Slave Law. Yet, in all his pro-slavery leanings, Mr. Lincoln represents the people too well. Now you may gather figs of thistles, or extract sunbeams from cucumbers; but how you will extract justice from such a people before they are converted is not apparent. The French Assembly said, “The Republic would doubt itself could it hesitate for an instant to suppress slavery." But emancipation at Washington has not yet reached the dignity of a moral question. Slavery is the positive pole, freedom the negative; Anti-Slavery takes its method from the South, and drifts in the wake of Jefferson Davis and Mr. Seward. To allow your enemy to choose the field of battle is bad generalship; so in morals, if you follow the devil, you will bring up in hell. The present Anti-Slavery method attempts to cast out Beelzebub by Beelzebub; it stands in a tub trying to lift itself by the ears; it is plus into minus, which always produces minus. The Government yet holds slaves wherever it has the power to do it; and most that has been accomplished for the negro by the Republican party—the border States would have been driven to emancipate by disunion—is incidental to and dependent upon the final adjustment of this question under the Constitution “as it is,” by an unregenerate people, and a court of which Dred Scott Taney is Chief Justice. The distinguished trance medium, Mrs. Hatch, speaking by the inspiration of Theodore Parker—and, as I am not a Spiritualist, I may say that the internal evidence of her discourse was the best argument for the theory of spirit-communication it has been my good fortune to meet—represented him as saying that were he in the body now, he should fight for liberty and justice, but he was not quite certain on which side he should fight to secure liberty and justice! If we are to be saved by our losses, as Mr. Phillips argues, why should not Mr. Parker fight with Jefferson Davis awhile? Unionists pray for the success of the stars and stripes; Confederates pray for the success of the stars and bars; but I don't think the Deity frets himself much about it, either way. God is with every desolate heart, every darkened home, on both sides; but He has instituted moral laws which these States have infringed, and, to be saved, they must answer their own prayers.
That war “educates“ us up to freedom, that you may illuminate men's minds by letting daylight through their bodies, is questionable. Rather, in passing from a commercial to a military democracy, from the reign of gold to the reign of iron, we lose sight of the principles of liberty, which, in English history, hinged upon money oftener than upon the sword. This war power invoked in the service of emancipation is slavery in epaulettes, the old thief under a new alias. The arbitrary suspension of the guarantees of freedom in time of war—as if they were not then most needed; as if inter arma silent leges was the growth of civilization, not a relic of barbarism; this idea, that because there is much darkness you must put out all the lights; the doctrine of constructive treason, unknown to American law, and in England since Erskine, resuscitated; reformers advocating tyrannical measures, who were supposed to believe in liberty as a principle; resorting to questionable means to carry a cause heretofore rested on its inherent goodness; a despair of the people that they cannot be trusted with their own affairs,—these do not evidence an increased knowledge of freedom. And all to save the government; but free speech is the government, free press is the government, right of association is the government, personal liberty is the government; all else is a herd of contractors, a gang of rogues afraid to have their plots looked into! Such a policy would kill the government to save its life. It is not flinging over the cargo to save the ship, it is scuttling the ship to save the cargo! The negro will cover a multitude of sins, but he has not virtue enough for that. Surely, if it is constitutional for Abolitionists to preach disunion and burn the Constitution, as it certainly is, it is constitutional for Democrats to answer their arguments. If it is right to speak for the war, it is right to speak against it. This doctrine, that the military is above the civil authority, puts the republic on the basis of despotism; on the path traversed by your “man on horseback,” your Napoleon, your Alexander, your Caesar,
“Who seeks to wade through slaughter to a throne, 
And shuts the gates of merey on mankind”;
it would erect another slab in the graveyard of empires—" America died of its own bayonets.”
This war is essentially an armed caucus, “ petrifying ballots into bullets;” it is a scheme of political proselyism in quest of "union sentiment,” North and South; one party proposing to abolish slavery, the other to abolish anti-slavery. The tendency of such an experiment—as Judge Conway shows in his late speech, which is the high-water mark of statesmanship in this crisis—is to undo by the sword what has been done by the tongue, to demoralize the free elements of the North, and hand us over to a new compromise with the despotic elements of the South. The Eng
<c06>
lish Commonwealth (an utter failure) is quoted for our imitation; but Cromwell's soldiers, of the best blood of Europe, the most moral and religious that ever took the field, were so demoralized by the military regime, that they threw down every right for which they had fought, at the feet of charles II,; and, as Macaulay paints it, the period which followed the commonwealth was the darkest and most disgraceful in English annuals—days never to be recalled without a blush—days of servitude without loyalty of sensuality without love—of dwarfish talents and gigantic vices—the paradise of cold hearts and narrow minds—the golden age of the coward, the bignt, and the salve.” The French Revolution of 93 planted its standard in one half the capitals of Europe, to end on Waterloo and Louis Napoleon. Are our soldiers more incorruptible than Puritans—braver than Frenchmen? That the Tribune would barter the liberties of three million negroes in the insurgent states“ to save the Union;” that Dr. Brownson, who spoke with applause on the platform of the Emancipation League, would depose Mr. Lincoln and take jefferson Davis as President, “to save the Union"; that Gerrit Smith would risk increased power to slavery, “to save the Union"—such faqcts show how far this people are already "educated” to restore slavery to a controlling place in the Government, should the rebels lay down their arms.
As to the radical scheme, supposing you succeed in the field; supposing Vicksburg falls, Lee is beaten, and Richmond and Charleston surrender; supposing emancipation triumphs under the shadow of swords, and Federal dragoons wash their horses hoofs in the Gulf; what then? The old questions are upon you; we are two nations still. Where are the means to administer free institutions at the South? The elements of rebellion are there intensified, sullen, deflant, ready to spring to arms any moment. To kill off the insurgent whites, were it possible, is simply barbarous. Already we have slaughtered a thousand human sacrifices for a political object, where the king of Dahomey offers one for a religious object. Is there a man here who would make a Poland or a Hungary of the south if he could? (“Yes, yes.”) But, my dear sir, would you be Austria to do it? For I asked for a man, not an Austrian! Gasparan, our out friendliest French critic, says, “ "As in the end, modern governments rest on the consent of the governed, it well certainly be necessary to let those go who could no longer be held, except by armed occupation and the lasting use of force. Free institutions would perish in the attempt. Accepting temporary separation, the North would for the first time be itself. Hitherto the baleful influences of the South have corrupted everything:; now the United States would reappear, and are about to know the greatness of liberty and justice." Professor Cairnes, the able coadjutor of Stuart Mill in our behalf, says, “The armed occupation would eventually imperil the cause of popular institutions in North America; and the loss of popular government would be a heavy price to pay for the subjection of the South, even though that subjugation involved the overthrow of the slave power.”
My friends, among radicals you must allow me to be a little conservative. The principles of the Anti-Slavery Society, Which I have read to you, plainly forbid the use of the sword as an agent of emancipation;—rapine and havoc let loose, States desolated, cities sacked, whole populations driven forth to squalor and starvation, beneath skies lurid with the glare of their burning homes, a million Americans still urged to mutual and unrelenting slaughter—no principles I have endorsed necessitate such barbarous measures! For I aspire to be a man as well as an Abolitionist, and slaveholders are my brothers not less than slaves. I know the grand purpose that inspires freemen in this tremendous conflict,—that this red evening cloud may announce a fair dawn to America; that through the wail of sorrow and desolation, we may hear the music of breaking choirs, the joy of a race restored from slaves to men! But I would not do evil that good may come; I scout the horrid doctrine, that the end justifies the means; therefore, I do not believe in this war. The Abolitionists initiated the true policy, the only policy which liberty has had in this struggle, the policy of principle. Justice as the duty of the master, and the right of the slave, which would have quietly removed the whole cause of disturbance; for immense as is this darkening cloud of war, all its bolts would have drooped harm less into the earth at the heaven-tipped virtue of emancipation. That refused, then separation as a moral duty, repudiating oppressors as the criminals they are, and erecting the North into a nationality on the basis of “No union with slaveholders"; putting the opposite systems each on its own merits, and letting the laws of nature which are all anti-slavery, and God who was always an Abolitionist, take care of the consequences. Thus to wash our hands of the guilt of slavery, and strangle forever the very thought of compromise with it.
That was the readiest, wisest, bravest method of treating this thing. "But, ah! would it be safe?” Where's your faith in your principles? “But would it ensure us cotton from Carolina, and sugar from Louisiana?” Seek ye first the kingdom of heaven, and cotton and sugar shall be added unto you! If the Union were dissolved, would the Mississippi river run up hill? Would not the sun shine, rain fall, corn grow, and flowers bloom as before? As to the river being under the control of two powers, how is it with the St. Lawrence, how with the Danube, how with the Rhine, mirroring several nationalities in its bosom? Commerce clears its own channel. “But slavery would flow abroad!” Rather, girdled with the free sentiment of the world as a ring of fire, the scorpion would sting itself to death. “It would come north!” As well hold slaves in heaven as in massachusetts. "We must return fugitives!” When Edward Everett says “no," what abolitionsit shall hesitate? “But the territories!” In kansas, backed by the whole Federal power, slavery was met by the Yankees, and John Brown went to heaven to heaven to announce the triumph of freedom.
Victor Hugo says, "A cannon ball makes two thousand miles an hour; light makes two hundred thousand miles an hour; light makes two hundred thousand miles a second—such is the difference between Jesus Christ and Napoleon!” It is the simple method of truth that has enabled the Anti-slavery society, a handful of “fanatics,” at an expense of less than a million dollars—less than what your war costs each twelve hours—to revolutionize twenty States; which has ploughed the name of Garrison deeper into the world than any other since Luther. Sumner, the Tribune, the republican party the federal army, they were all born of the Liberator! In that truth and its impartial enforcements, I believe to-day—-a truth which has gone through England, through France, Holland, Turkey, Russia—a truth which has scaled and captured every throne of Europe, and before which, in America, majorities, Unions States, armies, are alike ephemeral—conquering at once in peace and war, by victory, defeat, in prosperity and adversity—co-operating with the world’s eternal tendencies, it will advance through ignorance and superstition, through cowardice and fanaticism, to law, system, empire—
“For I doubt not, through the ages, one increasing purpose runs,
And the thoughts of men are widened with the process of the suns;
Not in vain the distance beacons—forward, forward, let us range;
Let the great globe spin forever down the ringing grooved of change.
Far along the world-wide whisper of the south wind rushing warm,
With the standards of the peoples plunging through the thunder-storm;
Till the war-drum throbs no longer, and the battle-flags are furled
In the parliament of man, the federation of the world; 
There the common sense of most shall hold a fretful realm in awe,
And the kindly earth shall slumber, lapt in universal law.”

JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
No. 6, TARMONT STREET,: BOSTON
Boston, May 1, 1863.
