THE LIBERATOR 
— IS PUBLISHED —
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
— AT THE —
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHELL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS — Two dollars and fifty cents per annum in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents — one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:— FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 44. BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1505.
<c01>
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
THE HARPER'S FERRY INSURRECTION.
In the face of accumulating facts, the plea that neither the principles of certain Republican leaders nor their political action had nothing to do with the Harper's Ferry insurrection, cannot be worth a rush.
 It will not do to allege that the preachers of civil war are ultras of the Garrison school, and that the Republican leaders have nothing to do with such theorists. Garrison, Phillips and Gerrit Smith will not serve as scape-goats to bear off this load of crime. What, as for years, Democrats have justly alleged, can such arraignments of slaveholders as the acknowledged Republican leaders habitually make, result in but civil war? Does not Brown profess the same principles that Seward and Chase and Wilson and Gillette profess? Is not his state of mind the direct tendency of their appeals? Is not his state of mind the direct fruit of their appeals? Is it not the direct tendency of their teachings to make just such fanatics? Only last year, one of the local leaders, John A. Andrew, at the Republican State Convention, thus sounded the trumpet of sedition:— "Whether in 1860 or in 1864, the hour would yet come when the bright sun would rise upon no master, and set upon no slave. Aye, as sure as God lived, these words were true; as sure as human hearts beat and felt.' Here is the spirit of the present dominant party: war on the local institutions of FIFTEEN STATES of this Union.
 Is the irrepressible conflict speech of Senator Seward at Rochester a myth? Did Senator Wilson never writer his emancipation letter to the Garrisonians? Are the terrible words—the things that make fanatics—used by Senators Wade, Chase and Gillette, on the floor of the Senate, forgeries? No! these sentiments are uttered by the Republican leaders; they are the Shibboleth, and the natural, direct fruits of them are fanaticism up to the point of resistance of the law at the North, and insurrection at the South. And never was seen in political annals a case where the connection between cause and effect was more clear than it is in the case of the Brown insurrection. He became a fanatic in abolition doctrines, and he acted out his fanaticism. 
 Was ever cause and effect more clearly traced than it is in this terrible outbreak? Is it not as certain as any thing can be, that it is a direct produce of abolition fanaticism? Is Brown the only Republican, forsooth, who describes slaveholders as murderers and robbers? Is such language as this at all uncommon? Can more atrocious words issue from a demagogue than Giddings has uttered? And is not Giddings honored here at the North, by the Republican leaders, as a brother in the faith? How can political leaders, with such affinities, shake off the terrible responsibility of such work as that at Harper's Ferry? Let them first stop their denunciation of slaveholders; then let the Republicans shake off Giddings, and those who gather round Giddings; and then, and not until then, they may begin to clear themselves of the responsibility of such scenes as those of Harper's Ferry.
Against such incendiary words—against the whole higher law creed—against the fell purpose of abolition legislation—have Democrats and national men at the North constantly protested. How long is it since the leading Republican organs in Massachusetts flatly denied that the Constitution recognized slavery at all? How long is it since, in column upon column, we were called upon to meet such an allegation? How long is it since we showed that, in case of a servile insurrection, the President would be obliged to use the power of the nation to protect slave property by putting such an insurrection down? More: How long is it since eminent citizens of Massachusetts were actually held up to public odium for having expressed an opinion that it was a duty to put such an insurrection down, and for having said that, if need be, they would join in the work? But when it comes to the matter in hand—when the knife of the black man is at the throat of the white man—what becomes of the infamous and incendiary position of Northern fanatics? Does not the patriotism and instinct of men grind it as between the upper and the nether millstone?
For the good of our country, we hope this occurrence will open the eyes of the North to the evil of anti-slavery agitation and will lead good citizens to frown upon it and all its works.—Boston Post.
 The selfish and demagogical leaders of the Republicans have resorted to the promalgation of treasonable doctrines and the practice of traitor deeds. They would arm the North against the South—State against State, brother against brother.—Therefore do we to-day call upon the honest and patriotic masses in the Republican ranks of the State of New York to abandon the brutal and bloody doctrines of Seward. It is for them to pronounce judgment at the coming election upon the iniquitous idea of an 'irrepressible conflict' between brethren.
That the brutal and bloody teachings of Wm. H. Seward and other leading abolitionists are the true causes and incentives of the treasonable acts of Brown and other crazy adventurers, is logical and conclusive. The one is the complement of the other, and both together constitute the 'irrepressible conflict' proclaimed at Rochester.
The main thing proved by this correspondence is, that for the last year and a half, at least, the project of the Harper's Ferry outbreak was well known to Seward, Summer, Hale and others, and that they, in their intense selfishness, and to forward their political or commercial speculations, suffered the project to ripen, and to bear the disastrous fruit that it has borne. They—not the crazy fanatic John Brown —are the real culprits; and it is they, not he, who, if justice were fairly meted out, would have to grace the gallows.—New York Herald.
We should be better pleased if Brown and his followers, instead being shot down like soldiers in battle, were made to die the ignominious death of traitors and murderers. They should have been saved far the gallows—every one of them. Were the slaves themselves to rise in revolt, their guilt, however great, would be light in comparison with the guilt of those while rebels, or rather rapparees. They not only spilled innocent blood, but they did their utmost to draw down destruction on the slave population of Virginia and Maryland, whose good they pretended to have in view, but who would be undoubtedly exterminated in the event of their uprising. Therefore, we say, they were the enemies of black and white, of the people, the slaves and the Government, and hence they should have been made to suffer the most severe and disgraceful death which the humanity of the offended laws can inflict. And here we would protest against the weakness of making any plea of abatement, on the ground that 'old Brown' is not in his right mind. The madness engendered as the spirit of unholy vengeance is not a mood on which the Spirit of Mercy can look with a benignant eye. Like the drunkenness which eulminates in crime, it is but a preliminary stage of that instigation by the devil, which the law itself makes emphatic mention of.—St. Louis (Free Soil) Democrat.
<C02>
WENDELL PHILIIPS AND OLD BROWN.
A Proposition for Mr. Philips to Consider.
To the Editor of the New York Times:—
The crime which has lately been perpetrated at Harper's Ferry must be expiated by a terrible punishment. Society could not exist in the South, if such offences were to be committed there with impunity.
Nevertheless, there is. in the modest and manly hearing of Old Brown, something which commands the respect and touches the sympathies of those who most sternly condemn his conduct. His fanaticism appears to be as sincere as it is undaunted, and his pluck is certainly magnificent. If, without injury to the cause of justice and to the public safety, this misguided old man could be spared the ignominy of being hung, everybody, even the Virginians themselves, would feel a degree of satisfaction at the result.
Now among those who have given to Old Brown the ' bloody instructions ' which he has so faithfully executed, there is one man who, if he will, can , save him.
That man it Wendell Phillips.
If WENDELL PHILLIPS will consent to surrender himself to the authorities of Virginia upon condition that BROWN shall be immediately set free, there can be no doubt that BROWN will be, upon those terms, forthwith pardoned, and suffered to end his few remaining days in peace. In that event, the Virginians will doubtless find some way of visiting upon PHILLIPS the punishment which is now in store for BROWN, and the world will still have the benefit of seeing an instigator of servile insurrection hung.
Why should not Phillips do it? We cannot suppose that so good a man as Phillips, who is deliberately, day by day, stimulating ignorant men like Brown to risk their lives on stirring up insurrection, is unwilling to expose his own life for the purpose of saving the brave men whom his advice has put in peril. Nor can we believe he is afraid to do it. Who talks so bravely as Phillips? Who so eloquently celebrates the glories of martyrdom? If there is anything which Phillips despises, it is cowardice. Because he professes to believe that Daniel Webster was a coward, and showed the white feather in the hour of trial, Phillips has stationed himself at the grave of that great statesman, and has occupied himself there, hour by hour, day by day, month after month, and year after year, in pouring forth upon the memory of the mighty dead the bitterest and the foulest execrations.
Phillips has now an opportunity to make a martyr of himself in a cause which he, at least, professes to regard as the holiest one for which a man can lay down his life. He can at the same time do an act of simple justice towards the unhappy old man who has got into trouble by following his advice.— Now is the time for Phillips to stop talking, and act. It will not answer for him to content himself , with preparing an eloquent eulogy of Brown, to be safely delivered in Boston after Brown shall have been hung in Virginia. No. Let Phillips illustrate in his own person the courage which he professes to admire; let him show himself superior to the cowardice which he proposes to despise; let him save old Brown. He can do it. and he ought to do it; and such an act would be more eloquent than all his orations. If Phillips will do this, he may be assured of one thing, at all events: the whole community would heartily welcome him to the honors of martyrdom. REPUBLICAN. 
To HANG A FANATIC is to make a martyr of him, and fledge another brood of the same sort. Better send these creatures to the penitentiary, and so make of them miserable felons. In the present state of the country, the latter course is, no doubt, the wisest; and if those men in Virginia who desire to apply the Lynch code to the helpless wretches now awaiting trial, reflect for a moment, they will perceive the folly of such a course. They would not only disgrace their State, but place another weapon in the hands of their enemies. The murder of Joe Smith did not check Mormonism, but rather gave it a new impetus; nor would the hanging of scores of Abolitionists have any better effect. Monsters are hydra-headed, and decapitation only quickens vitality, and power of reproduction.—N. Y. Journal of Commerce.
Time will reveal all things, and unless we are very much mistaken, Black Republicanism has reached its culminating point in this country. Where is there a man who loves the Union of the States—the sacred land of his forefathers—that will not denounce treason, let it spring from whence it will? What conservative man will now uphold and support such a fanatical and sectional party? Is there a MAN, either in the North or the South, who is opposed to disunion and civil war, so blind as not to see the intended mission of the so-called Black Republican Abolition party? This attempt at treason should open the eyes of the uninitiated, and all good citizens should rise in their majesty, and crush it at every poll in the country.—St. Louis Bulletin.
At the Republican Senatorial Convention held in Charlestown, (Mass.) last week—
W. H. De Costa offered a series of resolutions, repudiating the insane outrages at Harper's Ferry, and throwing the responsibility of the insurrection upon the administration of James Buchanan, whose policy in Kansas had been the means of rendering Brown insane.
The resolutions were opposed by Wm. H. Allen of Melrose, who thought them uncalled for, and their adoption unadvisable.
Mr. Hurd of Charlestown concurred in the remarks of Mr. Allen. Brown was never a member of the Republican party, and therefore it was not necessary for the Republican party to defend him or his acts. The resolutions assumed that the party was somewhat liable for the outrages at Harper's a Ferry; but Mr. Hurd contended that the Republicans were in no way responsible for them. He had no doubt that the acts of Brown were the result of persecutions of the Democratic party, but still he opposed the resolutions, and moved to lay them upon the table.
Capt. Snow of Somerville hoped both motions—to lay the resolutions on the table, and to adopt them—would be withdrawn. That was not the place to offer them. They had no sympathy with Old Brown, and he would not have it go oat from the Convention that the subject of his insane attempt had been broached. Brown had gone forward on his own responsibility, and broken the laws of his country. For this he was now being tried, and if found guilty, as they say he is, he (Capt. Snow) hoped he would be hung. The Republican party ought not to extend its sympathy to Brown, any more than to a counterfeiter who might be taken at Charlestown. He repeated, that the Convention was not the proper place for the entertainment of the resolutions, the subject of which, if considered at all, should rightfully come before a State Convention. He hoped the resolutions would be withdrawn.
These remarks were applauded.
Mr. Allen withdrew his motion, and Mr. De Costa then withdrew the resolutions.
<cO3>
SELECTIONS. 
THE HARPER'S FERRY INSURRECTION.
GOVERNOR WISE'S SPEECH. 
On his return to Richmond, Gov. Wise delivered in address to the Virginia soldiers worthy of Caesar. We make some extracts from it, merely to give an idea how a Governor feels after a victory. To commence with, is the following specimen of
HIGH-FALUTIN. 
As telegraph upon telegraph met us on the way, that the fighting was still going on, informing us of the danger of the prisoners held as hostages by the marauders, and of the deaths in the assaults by the troops, your countenances were bright with the cheerfulness that you would be there in the imminent breach. No man turned pale, no cheek blanched, no face was blank, until, within a few miles of the scene, we learned that all was over, and that victory was won without the aid of your right arms. The brightness of your looks faded not until we found, when we got there, we were to look only upon the dead, the dying, and the wounded. On the way, I reminded you that you were already known at home in the character of gentlemen, and that you were called on to win the character of soldiers. That character you have won. (Applause.)
' SOMEBODY,' NOT VIRGINIA, DISGRACED. 
What had happened? What summoned them to shoulder muskets and snatch weopons as they could? What had disturbed their peace? What threatened their safety, and to sully their honor? Alas! to the disgrace of the nation, not of Virginia—I repel all imputation upon her—but to the disgrace of somebody, fourteen white men and five negroes had been permitted to take the United States Arsenal, with all its arms and treasure, and to hold it for twenty-four hours, at that Thermopylæ of America, Harper's Ferry—on the confines of two slave States, with the avowed object of emancipating their slaves at every hazard, and the very perpetration of the seizure and imprisonment of the inhabitants, and of robbery and murder and treason!
DIDN'T CARE FOR HIS RIGHT ARM. 
On Monday night, that gallant and noble Virginia Colonel, Robert Lee, worthy of any service on earth, arrived with his regular corps of marines. He waited only for light. They tendered the assault, in State pride, to the Virginia Volunteers, who were there. Their feelings for the prisoners made them decline the risk of slaying their own friends, and Lee could not delay a moment to retake the arsenal, punish the impudent invaders, and release the prisoners at the necessary risk of their own lives. His gallantry was mortified that the task was so easy. He saw a United States armory in the possession of bandits, from the superintendence of which his profession had been ejected; and he felt that the regular army and his native State were alike dishonored. With mortification, and chagrin inexpressible, he picked twelve marines, and took the engine house in ten minutes, with the loss of one marine killed and one wounded, without hurting a hair of one of the prisoners. And now I say to you, that I would have given my right arm to its shoulder for that feat to have been performed by the volunteers of Virginia on Monday, before the marines arrived there. (Loud applause.) 
GEORGE WASHINGTON WOULD HAVE CAUGHT IT. 
The prisoners were the walls of the marauders—stronger, with our volunteers, than brick and mortar. They loved Washington, and Alstadt, and Mills, and other prisoners, and wouldn't risk their lives. This was wrong but natural, and not cowardly. I chided them for their mistake, and told them that, had I arrived there in time, I would have stormed the stronghold in the shortest possible time; and that if Gen. George Washington had been one of the prisoners, and even if his life had been imperiled by the attack, it should not have been delayed five minutes. (Loud applause.) The lives outside, in this case, were as precious as the lives inside of the prison; and to prove that it was not inhumanity to risk the lives of the prisoners, I would gladly have risked my own life to rescue them, at every hazard of their lives and my own. (Tremendous applause.) Such was my sense of degradation at allowing these marauders to hold that arsenal, with its prisoners, for five minutes, I would not have parleyed with them a moment—I would proudly have risked my life to have gotten my guard there in time, and have taken the place with our own Virginia boys. (Applause.) I was ready to weep when I found the whole force overcome was only some twelve or fifteen men, and the Virginia volunteers had not captured them before Col. Lee arrived.
THE CONSOLATION. 
No negroes rose up to seize the arms he had captured. The negroes he had captured, as soon as they crossed the river with Cook, and got out of his wagon, ran back in trepidation to their masters. All of Mr. Alstadt's returned, and all of Mr. Washington's but one—his carriage-driver's body, the one who drove wagons into town when his master was made prisoner, was found drowned, on Wednesday morning, in the Potomac. And this is the only consolation which I have to offer you in this disgrace, that the faithful slaves refused to take up arms against their masters; and those who were taken by force from their happy homes, deserted their liberators as soon as they could dare to make: the attempt. (Applause.) Not a slave around was found faithless, and not one will have lost his life, except the one of excellent character who was shot , by Brown's party on the bridge, and except this servant of Col. Washington, whose body was found in the river, and whom Cook may have shot in his attempt to escape from him. Brown was not mad, but he was misinformed as to the temper and disposition of our slaves. He ought to have known that all the slaves on our northern borders are held, as it were, by sufferance—their own sufferance—that they can run to liberators in Pennsylvania easier than liberators can come to their emancipation. He was ignorant, it seems, of the patriarchal relation in which our slaves are everywhere held by their masters, and what bonds of affection and common interest exist between them and their masters. 
OLD BROWN NOT A MADMAN. 
And they are themselves mistaken who take him to be a madman. He is a bundle of the best nerves I ever saw out and thrust and bleeding, and in bonds. He is a man of clear head, of courage, fortitude, and simple ingenuousness. He is cool, collected, and indomitable, and it is but just to him to say that he was humane to his prisoners, as tested to me by Col. Washington and Mr. Mills, and he inspired me with great trust in his integrity as a man of truth. He is a fanatic, vain and garrulous, but firm, truthful and intelligent. His men, too, who survive, except the free negroes with him, are like him. He professes to be a Christian in communion with the Congregational Church of the North, and openly preaches his purpose of universal emancipation, and the negroes themselves were to
<c04>
be the agents, by means of arms, led on by white commanders.
And Col. Washington says that he (Brown) was the coolest and firmest man he ever saw in defying danger and death. With one son dead by his side, and another shot through, he felt the pulse of his dying son with one hand, and held his rifle with the other, and commanded his men with the utmost composure, encouraging them to be firm, and to sell their lives as dearly as they could.
GERRIT SMITH—NO LYNCH LAW. 
Among other papers, I found a letter of credit from one of the banks in the State of New York, informing Brown that Gerrit Smith had placed to his (Brown's) credit $100. That is now in possession of the Assistant Prosecuting Attorney at Charlestown. It would not become me to counsel or countenance any one in doing to Gerrit Smith what Stephens and his party did to Col. Washington—take him out of his bed at night, and smuggle him off from home; but if anyone should bring him to me, by fair or foul means, I will read him a moral lecture, and send him back to his home if innocent, or secure him a fair and impartial trial if guilty of aiding and abetting these murders, robberies and treason. (Laughter and applause.) I remained in Harper's Ferry, and went to Charlestown to protect the prisoners we now have in custody against ' Lynch Law,' determined as I am that the laws shall reign whilst I am chief magistrate of this commonwealth. (Loud applause.) Our people were incensed beyond expression; but they felt, as I do, that it would be disgraceful and cowardly to murder their prisoners, after failing to take them for twenty-four hours. (Applause.) They were securely guarded and safely lodged in the Charlestown jail, to be tried in the Virginia court, under Virginia laws. 
VIRGINIA, TO ARMS! 
Under these circumstances, the last thing I did on Thursday morning was to organize a volunteer police guard on the Virginia border around the confines of the ground ceded for the arsenal; and I mean to inform the President of the United States that this guard will incidentally protect the arsenal and property of the United States until he shall make a permanent and safe provision for protection. (Applause.) I armed this guard with part of the rifles captured from Brown. And I shall goon arming and supplying ammunition to our frontiers until every neighborhood where there are slaves has the means of self-defence. Virginia and the other slave-holding States must rely on themselves. This is a severe lesson, and we must profit at once by its teachings. It urges upon us stronger than proclamations, the necessity for the thorough organization, arming and drilling of our militia. I shall implore the people to organize and take arms in their hands, and to practise the use of arms, and I will cause depots to be established for fixed ammunition along our borders, and at every assailable point. As for myself, I have manifested only my devotion to the duty of protecting the honor of the State of Virginia, and the safety of the lives and property of her people. I regret that it has been my fortune to do so little. (Applause.) But I thank you, gentlemen, one and all, for this compliment, as I more than thank you again for your gallant and noble services. 
From the Boston Atlas and Bee.
NOTES ON THE INSURRECTION.
HARPER'S FERRY AS A SUCCESS. 
There is one aspect in which the recent insurrection has not hitherto been viewed—in the light, I mean, of a success. Regarded as an attempt, by the agency of force, to liberate the slaves, it must be admitted that, if not an insane movement, it was, at least, an unsuccessful effort.
But there are certain objects which it has triumphantly achieved.
If, as one writer says, Old Brown regarded it as his mission to render slavery insecure, he has undoubtedly achieved his aim. Never before, among modern nations, did seventeen men produce so terrible and universal a panic as Old Brown at Harper's Ferry. What a posse of policemen would have quelled in ten minutes; and reporters in the Northern States would have barely noticed,—has made fifteen States for nearly fifteen days to tremble in their breeches, and threatened to produce even more ridiculous results. They are not done quaking yet, and I am very much afraid that diapers will be needed before the trial of Old Brown shall be finished.
We, Kansas men, when every one believed the South to be full of fighting pluck, demonstrated at Black Jack, Franklin, Lecompton, Ossawattomie, Fort Titus and Fort Scott, that she was only a cowardly braggard, after all; and now, to confirm our evidence, and convince the unwilling North of the undoubted, and to her disgraceful truth, comes daily accounts of her shaking and her quakings at Charlestown and Harper's Ferry. First, we heard of her chivalry murdering an unarmed prisoner; then blowing off the face of a man who cried for quarter; then firing at a messenger protected by a flag of truce; then stabbing and firing at Ossawattomie, the fearless captain, after he gave up the fight; then kicking and spitting on, and riddling with balls the corpse of Leary, the dead negro; then boxing up the body of the son of Old Brown, to hurry it off for medical dissection; then yelling for the blood of the insurgents who surrendered; then insulting the aged chief as he lay wounded and dying on his bed; then getting dreadfully alarmed by every false report, and putting Harper's Ferry—' in a state of siege! '
Contrast with this spirit and their acts the heroic courage of the Northern boys who fell in the fight, and the dauntless speech of the hero of Ossawattomie as he confronted Gov. Wise, and as he covered with contempt, by the majesty of his moral bearing, the miserable and blood-thirsty conduct of the judge at the first day's preliminary trial!
Who that has a drop of manly blood in his veins, would not rather sit, to-day, in the dock with Old Brown, than on the bench where presides the cowardly Col. Davenport; worthy representative of the pusillanimous mob, who, although the prisoners are shackeled, wounded, feeble from loss of blood, are afraid to give them time to recover or get counsel, or be tried where the passions of the populace are not roused against them. Even the New York Herald, pro-slavery and unprincipled as it is, confesses that ' there is an evident intention to hurry the trial through, and execute the prisoners as soon as possible.'
And why? Because their crime is so great that their presence in Virginia pollutes its holy air—that atmosphere which is redolent with the effluvia from the lacerated backs of women and other chattels, unwilling to toil for ever for no reward? No; but because it 'fears attempts to rescue them!'
O! cowardly excuse of a pusillanimous Commonwealth! Virginia does not dare to go to sleep till Old Brown to in his grave. It will soon close its eyes again, we feel; for, says the Herald:— 
' In the case of servile insurrection, thirty days are not required between conviction and execution, as in other capital convictions.' 
Does any sane man believe that there is any danger
<c05>
of a rescue? Now, that the Federal Government is awake; when every avenue to Virginia is guarded with troops of soldiers; when the prison is surrounded with bristling bayonets and its yard is filled with loaded cannon—who, if he had ten times Brown's daring courage, would attempt so wild a scheme?
But these outcries only prove how dastardly a coward slavery makes of the oppressor.
Every shadow of decency is to be dispensed with in this trial. The charge of the Judge was a hypocritical deception! Read the Herald again:— 
' It is rumored that Brown is desirous of making a full statement of his motives, but the Court has refused all further access to him by reporters'! 
And why? The Herald candidly tells us:—
' Fearing that he may put forth something calculated to have a bad effect on slaves'!
Frightened again! The wounded man in the jail of Charlestown is stronger than the embattled legions of the Southern States. They fear him yet!
Not content with charging the Old Dominion once with cowardice, the reporter of the Herald returns to it again. He says:
' The reason given for hurrying the trial is, that the people of the whole country are kept in a state of excitement, and a large armed force is required to prevent attempts at rescue'!
'Old Virginia never ties '—of quaking!
But why this fear of a ' bad effect on the slaves! ' Has not Governor Wise just declared that no such fear need be entertained? The Herald's report of his speech contains this passage:— 
The negroes he had captured, as soon as they had crossed the river with Cook, and got out of his wagon, ran back in trepidation to their matters. All of Mr. Alstadt's returned, and all of Mr. Washington's but one—his carriage-driver's body. The one who drove wagons into town when his master was a prisoner, wan found drowned on Wednesday morning in the Potomac. And this is the only consolation I have to offer you in this disgrace, that the faithful slaves refused to take up arms against their masters, and those who were taken by force from their happy homes deserted their liberators as soon as they could dare to make the attempt. (Applause.) Not a slave around was found faithless, and not one will have lost his life, except the one of excellent character who was shot by Brown's party on the bridge, and except this servant of Col. Washington, whose body was found in the river, and whom Cook may have shot in his attempt to escape from him. Brown was not mad, but he was misinformed as to the temper and disposition of our slaves. He ought to have known that all the slaves on our northern border are held, as it were, by suffrance, their own suffrance; that they can run to liberators in Pennsylvania easier than liberators can come to their emancipation. He was ignorant, it seems, of the patriarchal relations in which our slaves are everywhere held by their masters. And thus it was that Old Brown, the fanatic of Ossawatomie and Lawrence, who denounced the Missourians as ' Border Ruffians,' became the Border Ruffian of Virginia himself, and is now a prisoner of treason to her authority. The slaves he would incite to insurrection and massacre would not take up arms against their masters. His spears were untouched by them.' 
And now, the slaves being thus delightfully circumstanced— enjoying this 'original old Jacob ' happiness—how does Gov. Wise propose to continue to them the enjoyment of the blessing? Read:
' I shall go on arming, and supplying ammunition to our frontiers, until every neighborhood where there are slaves has the means of self-defence. . . . I shall implore the people to organize and take arms in their hands, and to practise the use of arms, and I will cause depots to be established for fixed ammunition along our borders, and at every assailable point.' 
What! when there is no danger from these faithful slaves—the slaves of patriarchal relations? But liars, however they may gild their falsehoods with rhetorical tinsel, are never logical, and are ever unable to conceal their perversions of the truth.
As a demonstration of the cowardice of the South, then, John Brown's late exploit is a brilliant success. When next we hear a threat from her politicians, let us remember this the first lesson of Harper's Ferry. If seventeen northern men. and five negroes, frightened Old Virginia so badly, what might we expect for her if she presumed to call in question the verdict of seventeen States and five millions of voters? We would shake her out of her boots—not to speak of the intestine vacancies we would create in her midst!
But it is on Anti-Slavery advertisement, chiefly, that the outbreak at Harper's Ferry is an undoubted success. Old Brown throws Bonner into the shade. The Mount Vernon papers must succumb before the Harper's Ferry bullets. Brown believed that slavery must be abolished by a servile insurrection; that—
Who would be free, themselves must strike the blow.'
But the slaves—scattered; closely watched; prevented from assembling to conspire; without arms; apparently overpowered: at the mercy of every traitor; knowing the Saxon race only as their foe—seeming, everywhere and always, that, as the Haytian proverb pithily expresses it, Zie blanc, bouille negnes'—the eyes of the whites burn up the negroes—in order to arise and sound thr tocsin of liberty, needed a positive sign that there were men among the dominant class who sympathized with them, believed in their right to freedom, and were ready to aid them in their attempts to obtain it.
How could this information be communicated to them? Not by printed documents—for she Southern negroes cannot read letters; not by personal agencies—for the slaves of the plantations cannot always be thus reached. Brown hit upon the only plan that could by any possibility be completely successful. He translated the information into the wide-resounding dialect of civil war; and compelled the telegraph, the press, the stump, the fears of the master, the hopes of the politician, the pulpit, the bar-room and the parlor to repeat it in every corner of the land. From the most northern point of Missouri to the most southern coast of Florida; from Delaware to Texas; from Arkansas to the shores of North Carolina, there is not a slave who does not to-day have a NEW IDEA; and a dangerous one, which was implanted in his mind by the outbreak of Old Brown at Harper's Ferry. Truly, if his mission was to render slavery insecure, he will die a successful missionary.
Wise, who hopes to hang him, Brown has pressed into his service; Buchanan, who thinks he put him down, will presently obey his secret orders. What the press and the telegraph leave unfinished, the President's annual message will accomplish.
Since Lafayette left Virginia, she has had but one hero on her soil; and him she is now panting to kill. It is the crime and not the scaffold that disgraces one; and there is sometimes a great honor in the executioner. Next to being honored by the heart of old Massachusetts, I know of no greater compliment that could be paid to a good man than being hanged by the hand of Virginia.
JAMES REDPATH.
P. S. Frank Leslie publishes a most villanous caricature, which he styles a portrait of Old Brown. Frank had better stick to his stump-tailed cows.
<c06>
DECIDEDLY ' CHIVALRIC.'
W. W. Throckmorton, the clerk in the Wager Hotel at Harper's Ferry, in his account of his own adventures during the Virginia ' Insurrection,' reveals the following ' chivalric ' conduct of the F. F. V's, showing how they were inclined to treat their wounded and disarmed prisoners. Mr. T. says:— 
' Stephens, the wounded man, was then brought in, and another fellow named Thompson was brought in a prisoner, and placed in the parlor tied hand and foot. All this time a sharp firing was kept up.
When Beckham was shot, our men became almost frantic. They rushed in here, where the prisoner (Thompson) was, crying, 'Shoot him!' ' Kill him! ' and had it not been for a lady who was in the room, (Miss Christine Fouke, sister of the landlord,) he would have been killed on the spot. They cocked their guns, and pointed at him, crowding around, but she stood over him, telling them " For God's sake, save him! don't kill him in that way, but let the law take its course! "
She said they had him a prisoner, bound, and he could not get away, and begged that they would not kill him. The man said he was willing to die; knew he had to die, and wanted to be shot. They finally got hold of him, took him out on the platform, and shot him. He had more than forty balls fired into him. The citizens around were chiefly concerned in this, but I cannot say who shot him. I could not have saved him if I had tried.
The crowd also tried to get hold of Stevens, who was wounded, and was lying in bed up stairs, but Miss Fouke prevented it, and finally a guard was placed over him.'
Is this a specimen of Virginia ' chivalry,’ of which we have heard so much? A prisoner, tied hand and foot, deliberately taken out and riddled through with bullets, while a woman stands by and implores the infuriated men not to kill him in that way, but to let the law take its course! Such conduct might do for ' border ruffians ' and ' Kansas shriekers,' but for sons of the Mother of Presidents! oh! Virginia, blush!
Even the accounts of the preliminary examination before eight magistrates, as required by the Virginia laws, an hardly such as to commend the ' chivalry ' of the Old Dominion to much favor. The telegraph represents that, on Tuesday forenoon, the prisoners were brought into Court at Charlestown under a guard of eighty armed men—Brown and Coppie manacled together—Brown weak and haggard, with his eyes swollen from the effects of his wound in the head—Stevens haggard and depressed—a battalion of armed men to guard five manacled prisoners, (the larger portion suffering from severe wounds,) and guards stationed around the Court House, and bayonets glistening on all aides, in the heart of Old Virginia, where everything is to quiet and contented and beautiful!—Salem Register.
SCENES AT HARPER'S FERRY.
Correspondence of the Newburyport Herald.
WASHINGON, Oct. 22, 1859.
The horrible tragedy recently enacted at Harper's Ferry seems to have been without a plot, and with so small a corps of actors as to make it one of the wonders of the day. Think of it! Nineteen man and three negroes enter this town at night, which contains 2000 inhabitants, 270 of whom an men daily engaged in the manufacture of fire-arms, and knocking at their doors as they pass along, warn these people to fly for their lives. And what follows? With instant haste the whole population, with the most entire abandonment of the proprieties of dress, rush into the street, wives and little ones, pell-mell; and when in the open air, they have absolutely no choice as to the way they must take, for there is but one road leading through the town to the bridge which crosses over into Maryland. To go up the road is to fly toward the advancing hosts of negroes, wild with their new found freedom.— Mountains and rivers are on all sides of them, and when the bridge is crossed, they must hasten up or down the road; for before them rises Mount Difficult, as it is called, a name probably suggested by the Hill Difficult in Pilgrim's Progress. This is some 800 feet high. It must have been with the greatest possible terror and suffering that these people made their exodus, for the night was chill and cold. And then how still was the hour! No cries, no flashing lights, no signal guns told them where their foes were lurking. It was all the more terrible from the uncertainty into what ambush they were flying. What great rock these wretched outcasts embraced for shelter, and where they, all nestled waiting for day, has not as yet been told us, and we are left to imagine the scenes of that night, the longest in all their lives, and which the actors will be the last to forget. It is impossible to conceive of any fear more paralysing than that which hovers around the pillows, and hangs like a pall on the folds of the drapery around the bed of the slaveholder. The last assurance a husband gives his wife is that the pistols, which lie within his reach, have been carefully examined, and are ready for use. And of night by the cry—' fly! fly for your lives, the negroes are rising,' is of all others the most inconceivably appalling. And though these men of Harper's Ferry are just as brave men as any in the world, yet they are men, whose fist thought is, and ought to be, for the safety of their wives and children.
Governor Wise taunts these unfortunate people with their cowardice, comparing them to a flock of sheep huddled together in a corner. He said to them—' He would rather have lost both legs and both arms from his shoulders and hips than such a disgrace should have been cast upon Virginia. That fourteen white men and five negroes should have captured the government works and all Harper's Ferry, and have found it possible to retain them for one hour, while Col. Lee, with twelve marines, settled the matter in ten minutes—that nineteen men should capture one hundred prisoners, was something like the Irish soldier who captured ten men, and told his officer that,—' Faith, he surrounded them.' They should read Shakespeare, and study Falstaff's oaths.
All this is very brave on the part of the Governor, in broad daylight, with all his military forces about him, and the insurgents lying dead in his presence. These are taunts which will long live in the memory of those to whom they were addressed, and of whom they were spoken. They will be the ink spots of memory, never to be washed out.
OLD BROWN.
From the intense excitement which at present prevails in Virginia, at the insane foray of this enthusiast, we should imagine that the people of that State are waking up to the nature and extent of the combustible social materials by which they are at present surrounded. The whole movement of Brown is but a natural and necessary consequences resulting from the course pursued by the Democratic party in Kansas, where rapine, outrage and murder were indulged without hindrance or remonstrance from the National Executive. In the eyes of God and of the civilized world, Old Brown is a model hero and patriot, when compared with James Buchanan. All accounts agree in this, that Brown had suffered outrages at the hands of the Border Rafians, which
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. . . . There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR PATHRRS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWRAVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. . . . No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.' —WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>  
would have rendered any ordinary man mad with the desire of revenge; without provocation his buildings were burned, his family brutally butchered, and he himself hunted from one part of the territory to the other, with a ferocity known only to Missouri Border Russians. All of these acts were aided and abetted by James Buchanan, whose sole aim in the administration of Kansas affairs seems to have been the utter and complete extinguishment of the free State men. No wonder then that Brown conceived the project of carrying the war into Africa, and succeeded in capturing a national armory, situated in a town of two thousand inhabitants, and holding it for two days, with a force of only seventeen men! The Chivalry of Virginia may well hang their heads, and their arms too, at this most remarkable conflict of modern times. But Brown seems to have been impelled by no desire to wreak hit vengeance upon the inhabitants. He regarded the accursed system of Slavery as the cause of all his sufferings, and against it warred. Judging him by his acts and declarations, he doubtless considered himself as an instrument divinely commissioned to open the prison gates to those that were bound, and to bid the oppressed go free. 
The attempt of the papers in the interest of the Administration to charge this movement of Brown upon the Republican party, is but another proof of the utter and complete demoralization of the Democratic partyï¿½with reference to the Slavery question. The Republican party wage no war against the men of the South, but they are unalterably opposed to the extension and influence of Slavery, an institution which is directly responsible for the exciting scenes just enacted.
What think our Democratic friends now, of the threat made by Gov. Wise himself, in case of the election of Fremont as President in 1856, to seize upon the arsenal at Harper's Ferry, raise an army, march to Washington, take possession of the city, and dissolve the Union? In case the 'irrepressible conflict' between Freedom and Slavery should be brought to a head by the election of William H. Seward as the next President of the United States, we trust that Gov. Wise, if he holds the same opinion, will be able to find some better troops than those who were so easily overawed by Brown's invading army of seventeen Yankeesï¿½ Dedham Gazette.
THE LESSON OF THE DAY.
When Miss Grimke, of South Carolina, lectured in Boston many years ago on Slavery, we recollect that the first and among the most prominent evils of the system which she mentioned, was its bad effect upon the temper of the masters, and she illustrated it by the fact, among others, that they never could or would enter into any calm discussion of the subject. This evil is not confined to the South; and although some of our abolition friends are not famous for their dispassionate treatment of the evils of the system, they certainly have the excuse of humanity in their behalf, and are now exceeded in bitterness by the Pro-slavery press at the North, or by the intemperate language of those who 'go in with a rush' for our Southern brethren at all times and under all circumstances.
The extraordinary course of some Northern newspapers in attempting to fasten the late miserable, affair at Harper's Ferry upon the leaders of the Republican party is simply absurd and contemptible. Nor will the respectable press at the South, or sensible men anywhere thank them for any such course; for, if it be true that a party which is numerically the strongest in the country, is indeed favorable to a servile insurrection, then the days of slavery are indeed numbered, and when the negroes are once convinced of the fact, there will be little peace or safety at the South. 
The really wise men at the South will treat the whole affair as a most foolish, impracticable and unfortunate scheme, planned and led on by a brave, simple-hearted, unselfish, and modest monomaniac, whose heart has been lacerated by his own sufferings, and whose brain, touched by hereditary insanity, has at length become really affected and diseased. What true wisdom, humanity and good sense require to be done in this case is very plain. But it not very probable that any such course will be taken. Where men are angry, and, particularly, where they are frightened, there is small hope of wisdom or humanity. And the course pursued at the trial of Old Brown is a disgrace to the civilization of the age. Can any one read his simple, touching, and yet plucky appeal for delay, without a tear?
He asked no favors. He scouted the defence of insanity. He made no denial of facts. But he was exhausted, wounded, partially deaf and simply desired to communicate with his friends. Did any one ever before know a case where a man was on trial for his life, and was denied such a request? Never, certainly, where the common law prevails. Never, in a Protestant country. And so the trial is going on in hot haste, and this old man is brought into court daily on his bed, and in defended by men whom he never saw or heard of until he was taken. Whatever may be his guilt or folly, a man convicted under such circumstances, and, especially, a man executed after such a trial, will be the must terrible fruit that slavery has ever borne, and will excite the execration of the whole civilized world. There may be an excuse in some minds for this state of things, from the alarm and excitement in Virginia; but is, there any excuse here at the North for the expression of sentiments abhorrens to every principle of justice and humanity? What shall we say of expressions like this: 'The nearest tree would be the fittest mode of exit from this scene of mischief.' 'Had the guilty parties been sent forthwith to execution by sentence of a drum-head court-martial, it would have been a fitting doom for murderers taken in hot blood.' 'We shoot down a murderer or a robber on the spot, and are justified by all civilized and uncivilized law.' 'The nearest tree.' 'Drum-head court-martial.' This language is not used in Austria by Haynau, but in Boston byï¿½ï¿½ï¿½!ï¿½Boston Transcript. 
SENATOR WILSON ON THE HARPER'S FERRY OUTBREAK.
Senator Wilson appeared before the Young Men's Republican Committee of New York, on Tuesday evening, 25th ult., for the purpose of discussing the political issues of the timet; but he had not spoken but a few minutes before he was attacked with vertigo, and was obliged to suspend his remarks and retire from the hall. After referring to the fact that the Republicans in other States had recorded their verdict against the Administration, Mr. Wilson said:ï¿½
"It is especially important that New York should pronounce her verdict in language not to be mistaken; for at the present time a poor, miserable, futile effort is being made to assail the cause of Republican liberty in the State of New York, by charging the responsibility of an insane man's acts, at Harper's Ferry, on the Republican party. It was indeed a mean, miserable effort, but it had been clutched at by men whom the Republicans had defeated before, and whom they would defeat again. It would fail. I put the prediction, said the speaker, no record to-night, that the effort to charge the responsibility of that mad and insane act will miserably and ignominiously fail. I charge the real responsibility of the act on the pro-slavery Democracy. It is the legitimate fruit of the policy that has governed the country for years past. Dr. Channing said, many rears ago, that the excesses of the French revolution laid at the door of the rulers, who had goaded the people to madness, and in the same way the scenes at Harper's Ferry were chargeable to the slaveholding power. What has been the action of the slave power during the last few years? Our country was divided into two great forces. You may call it the irrepressible conflict, or what you please. On the one hand there is the proposition to extend slavery: on the other to restrict it. The slave power has seized the Democratic party in this country, and has used it for the extension of slavery. There has sprung up a party in opposition to it, accepting the doctrines of the Revolutionary fathers, when the men who laid the foundations of the Government stoodï¿½ï¿½'
At this point, in the midst of an unfinished sentence, Mr. Wilson was seized with an attack of vertige, and fell back upon his seat. He was immediately surrounded by his friends, restorative administered, and as soon as he was able to walk, supported by two gentleman, he was led to carriage, and conveyed to his rooms at the Astor House.
Mr. Wilson was able to attend a Republican gathering at New York the next evening, which he addressed as considerable length, and has since been actively engaged in making speeches elsewhere, with reference to the approaching election in the Empire State. 
<c02>
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT OF MR.GIDDINGS.
Hon. Joshua R. Giddings, a few days since, made a frank, manly and satisfactory explanation of the circumstances of his acquaintance with Capt. John Brown, in his lecture at Philadelphia. He said:ï¿½
'Now, as to Brown: I entertain the opinion that his own account of his objects and designs is correct. I presume he has told the truth when he says that his whole object in going to Virginia was to free the slaves. On that point, I suppose, no one will doubt him. He declares he had no intention of shedding blood. He only did that when compelled to do it. I therefore say that, in regard to his desire for freedom to the slave, he agrees perfectly with nine-tenths of the people of our Free Statesï¿½with nine-tenths of our ministers, who every Sabbath put up petitions to the Most High for the relief of the oppressed. I don't think he has at any time come up to my own views. I do not intend saying now what those views are. I am told it will not answer for me to tell them before a Philadelphia audience. But, while serving in Congress, Mr. Haskell, a slaveholder, inquired of me publicly whether I considered it morally right for slaves to leave their masters. I felt bound to speak frankly. I answered that I not only believed they could do so, but that it was morally wrong and wicked for them to remain in slavery an hour when they had the power to escape, even by slaying those who opposed their freedom; that were I a slave, I would escape, if in my power, though compelled to walk upon the dead bodies of slaveholders from Mississippi to Maiden.
On another occasion, when I was stating the number of fugitive slaves who dined at my house at one time, Mr. Bennett, of Mississippi, publicly inquired if I was not prepared to go one step further. I answered that I was. If a slave-catcher had attempted to enter my dwelling to capture these people, I would have stricken him down upon the threshold of my door. GOV. Gale, of Alabama, inquired if I was willing to make such remarks when slaves were present to near them. I told him I was, and if I had the power, I would release every slave upon earth before the sun would go down. I have not changed my opinions. 
I wish on this, on all occasions, to leave upon record such an expression of my own views that I shall not blushï¿½that my children will not blush to read hereafter. And as an illustration of my doctrines, I have paid probably $200 per year from my limited means to free slaves from bondage. I have also fed and clothed those who called on me while flying to a land of liberty. To others who were pursued, I have given arms to defend themselves, and have constantly spoken of these things in public and private, by the wayside and by the fireside. I am opposed to taking human life, except in defence of life or liberty. In such cases, I believe it a duty. In these opinions I think a large portion of our people of Northern Ohio concur. We do these things when we can do them without violating any enactment; but all will see that the place cannot change the moral character of the act. On feeling thus, men may become so excited as to go even as far as our Government did with the Algerines. I would not; I have not the heroism to do it. My friends have requested me to state my own knowledge of Brown and his designs; and for this episode in my lecture, they must he held responsible. I do not think "the inquisitive gentleman" from my State has been very faithful. He ought to have found a letter of mine addressed to Brown; at least, I wrote him one, directed to West Andover, Ohio, saying we should be glad to see him at Jefferson. He had been at Cleveland, had lectured there. Our people had felt a great desire to see him, and we were a little surprised that he did not call at our village (which is the seat of justice for the county), as it was said he had visited a son who was living in that vicinity. 
I am entirely unable to state the time he was at our place, but have no doubt Brown was correct in his statement. When I came to this city, I would have said I never saw Brown but once. Upon reflection, however, I am of opinion that he came to Jefferson on Saturday afternoon, and that, so far as I am informed, his object was to make arrangements for the lecture. 
On Sabbath, after the regular service, he spoke in our church. The ministers of the church and of other churches, I think, attended the lecture. Ladies and gentlemen were present. Republicans and Democrats all listened to his story with attention. It is impossible for me at this time to give an abstract of the lecture. If any one desires knowledge on this point, I would refer him to the Hon. Jonathan Warner, a Democratic leader of that county. He was present, and one or two of his sons, and being very Pro-Slavery, he would be more likely to recollect particulars than myself. He spoke of his Kansas troubles, of his expedition into Missouri, and bringing off some twelve or twenty slaves, and he urged it as a solemn Christian duty to assist slaves to obtain their freedom. He gave us clearly to understand that he held to the doctrines of the Christian religion as they were enunciated by the Savior. I am not aware that he spoke of going into Slave States to aid slaves in escaping from bondage, but I had the impression that he would do so, if opportunity should present. I think, however, that I inferred this from the fact that he had done it in Missouri, rather than from what he said. After he closed, I addressed a few words to the audience in favor of a contribution, referring to his condition, to the death of his son, and the fact that, in his situation, he had no business which he could follow for his support. I believe every Democrat, as well as Republican present, gave something. 
After the close of the meeting, I cordially invited him to take tea at my home. While there, at the fireside, I inquired as to the particulars of his Missouri expedition. Mrs. Giddings also put questions. I fully expressed my own opinions as to the crimes of Slavery, the right of a slave to his liberty at all times and under all circumstances. I did not express as radical views as I had done in Congress. Such is not my habit. This, I presume, is the conversation which Brown delicately refused to make known to the "inquisitive gentleman" from Ohio. While we were thus engaged, his carriage came, and he left me. 
These are the only times I ever saw him. Neither in his lecture, nor in his conversation, did he say one word as to his having associates, or assistants, or arms; nor did he speak of Virginia, or Harper's Ferry, or of any organization, or of a provisional government: nor do I believe that any men, save his associates, had information on those subjects; nor do I believe he had any established plan for action when he was in Ohio; but this is opinion, merely. I see the telegraphic dispatches represent that some one informed Mr. Brown, or somebody else, that "J.R.G." had taken three hundred dollar stocks, &c. It will hardly be supposed that I would reply to such an intimation from an anonymous writer, directed to an anonymous person. This report will gain no favor where I am known. No man will there believe I ever gave three hundred dollars to Capt. Brown or any other man. I did, however, understand that Brown was in the West; that he led the party which rescued Doctor Doy, who bad been kidnapped in Kansas, and taken to Missouri. That was a subject in which I took a deep interest, and understanding that he was in want of money, I gave three dollars to his son. I think there was not a day from the time that Brown's son was murdered in Kansas to that of his capture at Harper's Ferry, that I would have hesitated to give him whatever money I had, if assured that he was in want. But I little dreamed that this three dollars was to fit out a military expedition with arms, ammunition, and men. capture Harper's Ferry, effect the conquest of the Old Dominion, strike terror to the Executive, and imperil the Government. Of Stephens, who was said to refuse giving answers relating to me, I have no recollection or knowledge whatever. He may have seen me often, may have spoken to me. When I left home, the capture of Brown had been known some few days, but I had heard no intimation that any man from that county was with him. And now, having stated the facts, I would say that if Gerrit Smith and other men contributed money and arms for Brown and his party, with the full knowledge that his intentions were just as Brown himself states them to have beenï¿½that is, the liberation of slaves without the shedding of blood, otherwise than of those who endeavored to hold the slaves in bondageï¿½they certainly offended against no law of Ohio, or, so far as my knowledge extends, of any other Free State. Mr. Smith is-an intelligent Christian gentleman who knows his rights, and understands his duties to God and mankind; and if he does not know them better than his assailants, he ought to be sent-South, and hanged when there. I have been pained at seeing the efforts of editors and Sensation Committees representing Mr. Smith as guilty of crime and about to be sent for by Gov. Wise of Virginia, to be taken to that State for trial. These
<c03>
things have exhibited an ignorance in this Christian land that I little dreamed of. Indeed, the idea that man, if guilty of a violation of law in New York, must be sent to Virginia for trial, is but an illustration of those minds who, though living in the Free States, look to the South for religious, moral, and political direction. They had better study, and know their own rights, before assailing those of their fellow-men. To them I would say, the lovers of liberty are informed on this subject. The time for frightening men has gone by forever. Such men are behind the age. They may be compared to those whom Swedenborg says he met in the spirit world, who, although they had been there twenty, thirty, and some of them forty years, had not found out they were dead.'
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, NOVEMBER 4, 1859.
EXECUTION OF CAPT. JOHN BROWN. 
At a meeting of the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society, held in Boston, Nov. 1st, the following Resolution was adopted:ï¿½ 
Resolved. That it is recommended to the friends of impartial freedom throughout the Free States, in case of the execution of Capt. JOHN BROWN, now on trial or his life in Virginia, to observe that tragical event, ON THE DAY OF ITS OCCURENCE, in such manner as by them may be deemed most appropriate in their various localities,ï¿½whether by public meetings and addresses, the adoption of resolutions, private conferences, or any other justifiable mode of action,ï¿½for the furtherance of the Anti-Slavery cause, and renewedly to consecrate themselves to the patriotic and Christian work of effecting the abolition of that most dangerous, unnatural, cruel and impious system of slavery, which is the fruitful source of all our sectional heart-burnings and conflicts, which powerfully and increasingly tends to promote servile insurrections and civil war, which cannot be more truly or more comprehensively described than as 'THE SUM OF ALL VILLANIES,' which is a burning disgrace and fearful curse to the whole country, and by the speedy extinction of which, alone, can the land be saved from violence, blood, and utter demoralization. 
In behalf of the Executive Committee of the American Anti- Slavery Society, 
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, President. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS, SECRETARIES. 
CHARLES C.BURLEIGH, SECRETARIES. 
Editors of newspapers are respectfully requested to copy the above.
No suggestion more timely and important than this could be made; and now that sentence of death has been pronounced against the brave martyr to his principles, let the day of his executionï¿½FRIDAY, December 2dï¿½be the occasion of such a public moral demonstration against the bloody and merciless slave system as the land has never witnessed. Friends of freedom everywhere! begin at once to make the necessary arrangements. The appeal is made to you all, without regard to sect or party, or different shades of opinion. Let it be a memorable day in the history of the United States. In all the principal cities and towns, let there be some suitable and expressive form of manifestation. Among other things, let there be a tolling of the bells for one hour. 
Read what a noble woman (LYDIA. MARIA CHILD) says of her own feelings, in a private note to us on the subject:ï¿½ 
'My thoughts are so much with Capt. John Brown, that I can scarcely take comfort in anything. I would expend all I have to save his life. Brave old man! Brave and generous, though sadly mistaken in his mode of operation. Whether they put him to death, or he escapes from their hands, I think this will prove the 'Concord Fight' of an impending revolution, and that 'Bunker Hill Battle ' will surely follow. May God make us strong for freedom! I would say that evil days were near, were it not that no days are evil which lead to good.'
FIFTH FRATERNITY LECTURE. The programme of this course of lectures had promised one by Frederick Douglass of Rochester, N. Y., as the fifth in order.ï¿½ It was understood that he was to discourse on 'Self-made Men,' a subject on which he is well qualified to speak. Mr. Douglass, however, did not appear, and the explanation of his absence by the Committee gave us to understand that he does not now consider himself safe in any part of the United States, in consequence of his alleged implication in the Harper's Ferry invasion. 
The vacancy thus made at a late hour had been filled by the voluntary offer of Henry D. Thoreau of Concord, who took for his subject one in whom all mankind are now interested, 'Captain John Brown of Ossawattomie.' This exciting theme seemed to have awakened 'the hermit of Concord' from his usual state of philosophic indifference, and he spoke with real enthusiasm for an hour and a half, giving much information respecting Captain Brown's earlier life, and bestowing hearty praise upon the enterprize at Harper's Ferry, and as hearty dispraise upon the apathy and reserve shown in regard to it by those portions of the periodical press which did not take the equally shameful ground of direct censure. 
Mr. Thoreau took special pains to include the Liberator in the censure which he had at first bestowed upon the press generally. In doing this, he ignored the fact that Mr. Garrison hat bestowed high and hearty eulogy upon Captain Brown, representing him as not only (judged from the ordinary stand-point of patriotism) superior in nobleness to the heroes of the American Revolution, but entitled to the higher praise of faithfully practising towards the most oppressed people of our country the lessons of the Golden Rule; and, moreover, he distorted Mr. Garrison's first statement, (made on receipt of the first day's telegraphic reports,) that the attempt was apparently an insane one, into a charge that he had represented Captain Brown as insane. 
A very large audience listened to this lecture, crowding the hall half an hour before the time of its commencement, and giving hearty applause to some of the most energetic expressions of the speaker. C. K. w.
MORE SLAVEHOLDING VIOLENCE. The Cincinnati Gazette, of Friday evening, states that about half past seven o'clock the previous evening, a mob of some thirty men, citizens of Newport, Ky., entered the printing office of Wm. S. Bailey, publisher of the Free South, and proceeded to make certain depredations upon the printing materials. Bailey and his daughters, who were present, protested against the proceedings of the mob, but without effect. After they had carried out two of the 'forms' into the street and pied them, the girls put out the lights in the establishment, which induced them to suspend further demonstrations. 
As they retired, they informed Bailey that he might consider this attack only a warning, and that if he did not cease the publication of his paper, which they considered a nuisance, they would demolish his entire office. 
Such lawless villany will powerfully tend to 'demolish' the foul system it was designed to protect.
MRS.C.H.DALL'S LECTURES. The first of this course of lectures on the condition of womenï¿½the subject of it, 'Low Wages and Hard Work'ï¿½will be delivered at the Mercantile Hall, in Summer Street, on Monday evening next. We hope to see the Hall crowded. The topics embraced in this course are full of significance, interest and importance, and they cannot fail of being discussed with consummate ability by one so well-educated and well-qualified as Mrs. Dall.
<c04>
PROCEEDINGS OF THE WORCHESTER COUNTY SOUTH DIVISION A.S.SOCIETY, 
At a special Meeting held in Worcester, Oct. 23, 1859. 
[REPORTED BY H.AMANDA ALBES.]
Rev. ADIN BALLOU, of Milford, opened the meeting with the following remarks:ï¿½ 
Our beloved President, though be may be present in spirit, is absent in body from his usual position; and, as the only Vice President of this body present, it is my duty and privilege to call you to order, and introduce the proceedings of the meeting. Permit me to read two or three brief selections of Scripture. 
He then read from the 6th chapter of Micah, the 6th and 8th verses inclusive, and passages from the 7th and 8th chapters of Zechariah. He then offered a prayer; after which, the following persons were chosen as a Business Committee, viZ:ï¿½Samuel May, Jr., of Leicester; Adin Ballou, of Milford; Abby K. Foster, of Worcester; Elizabeth B. Chase, Valley Falls, R.I.; Andrew T. Foss, New Hampshire; Charles L. Remond, Salem; Alfred Wyman, Worcester; William Coe, do. 
Mr. MAY, from the Business Committee, subsequently presented the following resolutions:ï¿½ 
1. Resolved, That this Society, meeting now for the first time since the death of its late President, EFFINGHAM L. CAPRON, desires to record its sense of the loss which the Society and the Anti-Slavery Cause have alike sustained in his decease, and to record its tribute of respect for his character. And as we call to mind the singular consistency, dignity and parity of his lifeï¿½his firm and unwavering adherence to those principles of humanity, justice and freedom, which he early espousedï¿½the calmness and resolution with which he rose above the fear of man and the bondage of sect, and recognized the true Church and the true Christianity in that Cause which 'remembers those that are in bonds as bound with them'ï¿½and while we remember the many other proofs he gave of conscientious devotion to truth, and the great idea of Duty, we cannot but sorrow that we shall see him no more among us in the flesh, and yet are grateful that his presence, his counsel and his example were spared to our Cause so long. 
2. Resolved, That we respectfully offer our sympathies to the children and family-connections of our departed friend, in the great bereavement they have sustained, in which we feel that our own shore is not small. 
Voted, That the Secretary of the Society be requested to communicate to the family of our late President a copy of these resolutions. 
REMARKS OF MR. MAY. 
Mr. May then proceeded to say:ï¿½I am sorry to be the one, in the absence of another far more competent, [alluding to Mr. Garrison, prevented by illness from being present,] on whom it devolves to speak to these resolutions. 
After a few brief remarks in explanation of Mr. Garrison's absence, Mr. May said: 
I wish, Sir, at this time, to speak to but a single point, and that is to present to the meeting, and especially to the younger portion of the meeting, our dear friend Capron's example of steadfastness, and faithful adherence to the Anti-Slavery cause. It is not, I fear, an American characteristic, Sir, to stand firm, and for a whole life, to one cause, however grand and noble. There seems a something of restlessness in our national character, which leads our people from topic to topic, and as with the Athenians of old, to seek out some new thing. We need examples, Sir, of firm adherence to that which is known to be true, just and right; of men willing to stand on that ground, in good report and in evil report, and for all their lives, be they shorter or longer. This point in our friend Capron's character, it seems to me, commends itself to us in a very remarkable degree. Early in life he attached himself to the denomination of Friends. He, with one sister, out of a large family, connected himself with that Society, because their principles commended themselves as eminently true, just and Christian, in all these respects exceeding those of any other denomination with which he was acquainted. It was not a popular step, as I have been told, which thus he took, nor was it one in which his family sympathized. It was a matter of conscience. He adhered to the Society in undoubting confidence for many years. It was his early love; he loved it long and well. But the time came when he saw that there was a higher truth; or, if not a higher truth, that the truths and principles which that Society embraced, and had once borne faithful testimony to before the world, were more faithfully maintained and applied in another quarter, and thither his attention was earnestly drawn. Certainly, if there was a body of professing Christians on the face of the earth, who ought to have been Abolitionists of the straitest type, who ought to have been active and unflinching anti-slavery men, it was the body of Friends. Their own testimonies necessarily led them up to the position of the most radical Abolitionism. It is not necessary to say, what every one knows, that that Society has furnished, in proportion to its numbers, quite as few earnest, steadfast Abolitionists, at any other body in the country. They have sometimes borne a verbal testimony, but they have generally been content with the word, and the deed has been wanting. When that was understood by our friend Capron, he saw that there was another step for him to take. He heard a voice, 'Go up higher,' and he delayed not. He joined the Anti-Slavery Society, and never left it, nor grew cold in his love. As Mr. Garrison told us in the Liberator, some weeks since, one of the first persons who sought him out and found him in that obscure room where he was engaged in printing the early numbers of his paper, was Effingham L. Capronï¿½then on entire stranger to him. From that time to the hour of his death, our friend Capron never wavered. I do not mean that he has never moved, for he has moved, onward and upward. But from that principle he has never swerved. He did not get tired of the old truths, because they were old. In the year of his death he loved this cause, if possible, more warmly than ever before. He saw its importance more and more strongly, and was as ready to make sacrifices for it as ever he had been. It will be time enough for us, friends, to lay off the Anti-Slavery harness when our work is done. We are not only guilty of folly when we leave an old cause, such a cause as this, where every thing of love and liberty, privilege and right, every thing of time and of eternity, belonging to our brothers and sisters in bonds, is violently taken from them,ï¿½we are not only guilty, I say, of a supreme folly, but we take upon ourselves a fearful responsibility, in turning our back upon it, so long as there is one thing which our hands find to do left undone. 
Such was the example of our friend. So would he speak to us, were he here. Nayï¿½he does speak thus to us. We do not need any audible voice; for we know his soul. We know what his life was; we know what his testimony must be, from the heavenly world. So let us accept it as from him, and from one far greater, whom he endeavored to serve, that Infinite Father whose suffering children we ought to seek to relieve; in the spirit of whose children we ought to go to those who ore cast down. Our own character, our own futurity, our own title to the name of honest and Christian men, is involved in our faithfulness. 
Mr. Ballou then called on any one who felt moved, to offer their thoughts on the resolutions. 
REMARKS OF MRS. A.K.FOSTER. 
Abby Kelley Foster arose and said:ï¿½ 
Mr. Chairman,ï¿½I cannot make a speech, but I have a word to say which I was reminded to say, from the fact that our friend Mr. May commended Mr. Capron's example of steadfastness and unwavering adherence to the cause, especially to the younger portion of Abolitionists. It is very grievous indeed, o us all, that there are to few in the rising generation
<c05>
coming up to embrace the Anti-Slavery principles, and carry them out; and no one regretted it more than our friend Effingham L. Capron. Once, in speaking of the Anti-Slavery enterprise, he had occasion to remark how much the young people could do. And among other anecdotes that he related on that point was this:ï¿½That he himself was indebted to a very young woman, a Governess in his family, very young, less than twenty years of age, who was an Abolitionist at that early day. And he said, many a time had he smiled carelessly, at the manner and real with which she enforced the Anti-Slavery principles, and advocated the equality of the colored man. She was not only called pernicious and presumptuous, but she even received a good deal of rebuke. Mr. Capron said it was weeks and months, during which that young woman persistently and earnestly urged upon him the Anti-Slavery principles; until she made him feel that he could not be a Christian unless he became an Abolitionist. That he had no right to be a preacher, without he applied those principles in his lifeï¿½in his every day action to the cause of the slave. And he said, it was to that young girl, Rebecca Spring, to whom I am indebted for getting out of the old tread-mill course of profession, if formalities and religious ceremonies, into the higher life to which I feel I have partially attained. 
I say to you, young Abolitionists here, do not be discouraged, be faithful, and you may accomplish much. Yes, I trust there are those here, that will be willing to work in this cause, although the number is small, (and I suppose it always will be, until 'the good time coming')ï¿½the number will be very small who are willing to stand on the ground of Absolute Christian truth. Every body can see the truthï¿½but, is there one in a thousand, who it willing to take abstract truths, and apply them to their daily practice? But although the numbers are few, I trust they will not be discouraged. 
There are a few in this city who sympathize with the slaves; who, seeing the truth, are determined to apply it to their lives, in its various relations. Let us be patient in well-doing, for we shall certainly reap if we faint not. I felt it was my duty to speak of this experience of our friend Effingham L. Capron, though I consider, as you consider, other questions farther advanced, still more important. We have no right to believe that people will be able to appreciate and sustain the moral responsibilities of that life which 'overcomes evil with good.' They are not able to appreciate that, until they shall be able to appreciate the equal rights of man; until the North shall be able to appreciate the principles of the Declaration of Independence; until the Southern slave shall be able appreciate his manhood. Neither the South nor the North will be able to appreciate the principles of that life which overcomes evil with good, (which is most powerful when realized,) while it remains in its present state. Until the people of this country have learned their moral A, B, C, their moral alphabet, they will never be able to reach that higher doctrine of Christianity, to which I heartily respond.
REMARKS OF ADIN BALLOU. 
I feel that words are poor things on such an occasion. It is impossible that any of us who have associated with our departed friend and President, who have met him amid good report, and evil report, ever faithful and ever diligent in promoting this cause, should otherwise than concur in everything that has been said, and in much more that might be said. He has been faithful; he has been diligent and devoted; he has been true and consistent; he has finished his work well, in respect to this great Cause; and perhaps we may say the same in respect to other good causes. His honor is already imprinted upon his spiritual brow. We can but feel a reverential affection for him; and the thought impressed my soul, that his spirit is even now here, sympathizing with us; not asking our praise and commendation, but asking us to go forwardï¿½to be faithful, and to endure unto the endï¿½assuring us that in so doing, we shall pay the highest tribute of respect to him. I forbear remarks. 
REMARKS OF C.L.REMOND. 
Under some other circumstances, I might be disposed to say a word. But I concur in your belief, Sir, that it is not words that are so necessary, as the prosper guidance of our action, and I accord with the resolutions. But while I am on my feet, and do not propose to attempt the expression of any high wrought eulogy on our departed friend, Mr. Capron, I think as one connected, in a sense that others are not, with the oppressed in this country, I owe it to this meeting to say a word. And I will refer to the testimony which I have always considered Mr. Capron bore on the question of 'prejudice against color.'ï¿½ And, strange as it may seem to many who are present, I do not know what there is in our land that dwarfs so many fellow-men in this country, as rottenness on that subject. 
As I believe our friend Capron has been sound upon it, I could not remain in my seat without adding my testimony. 
I remember my visit to Uxbridge, when a series of meetings was held there by myself. I then took notice, as I ever afterwards took notice, of the firmness of our friend, not only in reference to the Cause in general, but in respect to this question of color. He was one of the few, who never looked over their shoulder to see who were scoffing, when he asked a colored man into his house. I pray God he may have his reward in the sphere into which he has departed. 
I said the last time I was in Worcester, I think I may repeat it, that our cause does not succeed in this country, simply because of the rottenness of the people on the question of color. It seems to be a simple statement, but I do not expect to see the slave emancipated in this country, and colored females made respectable, until this prejudice against color shall be cast out from this land. 
Allow me to take my seat by saying, and I give it as my honest conviction, that in our loss of Mr. Capron, I look around in vain to see the individual whom I think calculated to supply his place. God knows that the slave, and the Anti-Slavery Cause, cannot afford to lose many such. I hope if we succeed in nothing else, we shall succeed in producing on interest in those who have been present. I have seen those in this city, claiming to be Anti-Slavery, who were ever ready to scoff and scorn the colored race. God save me from contact with such, and spars oar Cause from their false professions. 
The resolutions and accompanying vote, were then unanimously adopted, the audience generally rising. 
ADIN BALLOU then submitted an extended series of resolutions, declaratory of his own position, and expressing what he believes to be the only consistent and justifiable anti-slavery ground, for which we are unable to find room at present.
Adjourned to 2 o'clock, P.M.
AFTERNOON. Re-assembled in Brinley Hall, when Mr. May, from the Business Committee, reported the following resolutions:ï¿½ 
3.Resolved, That that which is called 'chattel slavery,' and which is sometimes represented as only one among a host of evils which annoy and oppress men, is the great overshadowing Sin, Shame, Disgrace and Curse of our land; being, itself, 'the sum of all villanies';ï¿½the fruitful parent of every form of vice and crime;ï¿½the deadly fountain of a poison which corrupts the soul, degrades the body, destroys conscience, and annihilates all brotherly regards;ï¿½a system which necessitates a continual state of violence, bloodshed, robbery, and rapine, which makes a constant prey of the helpless and the humble, and exalts the cruel and injurious man; a system which has subjugated to its will what once had a claim to be recognized as the Church of Christ in this nation, and has converted it, with the rarest exceptions, into an assembly of cowards, or of open defenders of oppres-
<c06>
sion, and caused what should be the Temple of God, and the refuge of His suffering children, to become a Den of Thieves, an assembly of mockers against Humanity and God. 
4.Resolved. That we hail with the greatest satisfaction the two forms of Petition to the next Legislature of this State, which have been prepared and published by the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society; believing as we do that, while Massachusetts has a Statute Book, a supreme dishonor rests upon her legislators and her people until a law prohibiting slave-hunting and kidnapping on her soil it recorded there, never to be removed while slavery exists, or the duty of government to protect the weak, the wronged, and the oppressed, continues. 
5. Resolved, That we deem the erection, in the grounds of the State House of Massachusetts, of the Statue of the late Daniel Webster, the Defender and Enforcer of the Fugitive Slave Law, to be a most gross insult to the People of this State, whose principles he derided, whose cause he betrayed, and whose confidence and respect he had forfeited and lost; and we demand the removal of that Statue as the first duty of the Legislature and Executive of the State. 
6. Reserved, That we call upon every man woman in Worcester county, who loves justice and desires mercy, and whose principles in relation to human governments do not forbid them to do to, to sign these petitions, to give no support or countenance, in the Church or in the State, to men who are false to the principles of these petitions; and we pledge ourselves to labor, in every just and proper manner, until that objects contemplated in these Petitions are fully carried out. 
7. Resolved. That the Old South Church of this city, [Worcester] in admitting to its pulpit as a Christian minister the Rev. Nehemiah Adams of Boston, an open and unblushing champion of American slavery, and the lower law of might over right which alone sanctions the abominations, has as really and truly become guilty of the sin of slavery as if it had sent a slave ship to steal men or enslave every working man in Worcester, and by so doing has spread shame on itself and flung insult in the face of the community, so that they have deprived us of all guaranty that the men it sees fit to put forward to teach us religion are themselves not slave-traders, pirates and robbers. 
8. Resolved, That we regard the slaves of this country not only as equal fellow-men, but as equal fellow-countrymen, and as such, especially entitled to sympathy and protection at our hands. 
9. Resolved, That we are required, by the fundamental principles of Christianity, to extend to our enslaved countrymen the same protection, both in kind and degree, which we employ, or ask others to employ, in defence of ourselves and of our own families; and whoever fails to come up to this standard of anti-slavery action proves himself unworthy of the Christian name. 
10. Resolved, That, as Abolitionists, we have no disclaimers to make, no apologies to offer, for the recent attempt of certain Anti-Slavery men at Harper's Ferry, to break the rod of the oppressor by the same means by which our revolutionary fathers secured our own national independence. On the contrary, while, in the absence of all reliable information, we are unable to judge of the wisdom of their measures, we ore prompt to avow our cordial sympathy with the spirit, and our devout admiration of the heroism of that valiant little band, who preferred to die straggling for their country's freedom, to living in a country where education is a crime, where marriage and the family relation are trampled into the dust, and a million of women are daily offered in the market for prostitution. 
On motion, the following were nominated and chosen as a Finance Committee: E.D. Draper, of Milford, James A. Whipple, Sarah E. Wall, Mrs. Harris, and Joseph A. Howland, of Worcester. 
ADIN BALLOU spoke at some length in support of his resolutions, and they were further debated through the afternoon session by Abby Kelley Foster, Stephen S. Foster, C.L. Remond, Andrew T. Foss, Mr. Wilson of Boston, Samuel May, Jr., and Joseph A. Howland. Adjourned to 7 o'clock.
EVENING. Brinley Hall was well filled. The resolutions reported in the afternoon were read again. 
Adin Ballou again spoke, re-affirming his previous positions, protesting against giving the slightest countenance to physical resistance to the slaveholder, which he thought was done by the resolutions just read. He objected to the Petitions for a Personal Liberty law in this State, as virtually asking the State to involve itself in a violent contest with the Federal Government and the Slave Power. He objected also to the Petition for the Removal of the Webster Statue, inasmuch as Governor Banks and the Massachusetts Legislature, themselves supporting tat United States Constitution, cannot consistently censure Daniel Webster for his support of the Fugitive Slave Law. 
To this Mr. May replied that Mr. Ballou's argument, if sound, would well-nigh render impossible any Anti-Slavery movement;ï¿½that we may, and should, ask men to do the right and just thing, even though they have sworn to do the wrong; that the inconsistency is their business, not ours; that our request may be the very means of enlightening them as to the guilt of their position and conduct, and of leading them to repentance; and, at all events, that we are bound to call on all men to cease to uphold slavery, or approve the slaveholder, and to do their utmost, in every just and proper way, to bring slavery to an end, and to fasten shame and disgrace, instead of honor, upon all defenders and apologists of 'the vilest system that ever saw the sun.' 
C.L. Remond also made a spirited and indignant reply; and the whole subject, as presented in the resolutions, was further and ably discussed by Andrew T.Foss and T.W. Higginson. A report of this debate we may be able to give, at some length, hereafter. 
Resolutions Nos. 3 to 10, inclusive, were then adopted by a nearly unanimous vote. 
The resolutions presented by Mr. Ballou were by vote referred to the next meeting of the Society;-their great length requiring more time for examination, and their importance seeming to call for further discussion. 
Adjourned, sine die. 
 W. A. WILSON, Secretary.
ERRATA.ï¿½In my Letter, published in the Liberator, Oct.28th, the following errors occur:ï¿½'The forms it takes are seeds of precious growth.' It should be 'previous growth.' 
You have printed concerning Truth:ï¿½'It may be said as truly as of the human form, 'Soul never dies; matter flies off, and lives elsewhere.' It should be thus:ï¿½ï¿½'It may be said of it, as truly as of the human form, Soul never dies. Matter dies of it, and it lives elsewhere.' 
Concerning the 'despised Samaritan.' you have printed 'human deeds,' instead of 'humans deeds.' 
You have printed, 'veiled the scene with a golden glory, that to their childish imagination made it seem like a revelation of itself.' It should be, 'that to their childish imaginations made it seem like a revelation of heaven itself.'
You have printed, 'Everywhere see men coming out of old forms of the church into the new.' It should be, 'Everywhere we see,' &c.
Instead of, 'The priesthood possessed such a knowledge as there was concerning astronomy, '&c., it should be, 'such knowledge as there was,' &c.
Yours respectfully, L. MARIA CHILD.
These errors were nearly all contained in the manuscript sent to us, which was a copy of Mrs. Child's original letter by some other hand.-ED.LIE.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE HARPER'S FERRY TRAGEDY.
CONCLUSION OF FIRST DAY'S PROCEEDINGS.
The jailor was ordered to bring into Court. He found him in bed, from which he declared himself unable to rise. He was accordingly brought into Court on a cot, which was set down within the bar. The prisoners lay most of the time with his eyes closed,and the counterpane drawn up close to his chin. The jurors were then called and sworn. The jurors were questioned as to having formed or expressed any opinion that would prevent their deciding the case impartially on the merits of the testimony. The court excluded those who were present at Harper's Ferry during the <illegible>, and saw the prisoners perpetrating the act for which they are to be tried. They were all from distant parts of the country, mostly formers, some of them owning a few slaves, and others none. The examination was continued until twenty-four were decided by the court and counsel to be competent jurors. Out of these twenty-four the counsel for the prisoner has a right to strike off eight, and then twelve are drawn by ballot out of the remaining sixteen. The following were the question put to the jurors:
Were you at Harper's Ferry on Monday or Tuesday? How long did you remain there
Did you witness any of the proceeding for which this party is to be tried?
Did you form or express any optional from what you saw there with regard to the guilt or innocence of these people?
Would that opinion disqualify you from giving those men a fair trial?
Did you hear any of the evidence in this case before the examining of court?
What was your opinion based on?
Was it a decided one, or was it one which would yield to evidence, if the evidence was different from what you supposed?
Are you sure that you can try this case impartially, from the evidence alone, without reference to anything you have heard or seen of this transaction?
Have you any conscientious scruples against convicting a party of an offence to which the law assigns the punishment of death, merely because that is the penalty assigned?
The following were finally fixed upon as the twelve jurors: Richard Timberlake, Joseph Myers, Thomas Waston, Jr., Issac Dust, John C. McClure, William Rightodale, Jocob Miller, Thomas Osborne, George W. Boyer. John C. Wiltshire, George W. Tapp and william A. Martin.
The jury were not sworn on the case, but the judge charged them not to conserves upon the case, or to permit others to converse with them. They were dismissed at five o' clock, and the prisoner was then carried over to the jail on his cot, and the court adjourned till morning.
John Copeland, the mulatto prisoner, from Oberlin, Ohio, has made a full confession to the U. S. marshals Martin of Va., and Johnson of the Northern district of Ohio. He has given the names of the parties at Oberlin, who induced him to go to Harper's Ferry, who furnished the money for his expenses, &c. He also states that a movement of a similar character was contemplated in Kentucky at about the same time. Many persons in Northen Ohio, whose names have not been heretofore mentioned, are directly implicated. His confession is withheld from the public until the trial is over, by order of Gov. wise.
THE DEFENCE OF BROWN.
At the trial of Brown, on Thursday, Mr. Green, on the part of the prisoner, after giving the law applicable to the case, said that the jury must bear in mind that they are judges of the law and the facts, and that if they have any doubt as to law or the fact of the guilt of this prisoners, they are to give the prisoner the benefit of that doubt. On the first charge of treason, as a specific act of treason must be proven, it must be proven that he attempted to establish a separate and distinct government, and it must also be proven what was purposed of treasonable acts before you can convict him on those charges.
If it is intended to rely on his confessions to prove treason, the law distinctly says, 'no conviction can be made on confessions, unless made in open court. 'There must be sufficient out of the court and every act of treason.
Second-Conspiring with slaves to rebel and make insurrection. The jury must be satisfied that such conspiracy was done within the State of Virginia, and within the jurisdiction of this court. If it was done in Maryland, this court could not punish the act.
If it was done within the limits of the armory at Harper's Ferry, it was not done within the limits of this State, the government of the United States holding exclusive jurisdiction within the said grounds. Attorney-General Cushing had decided this point with regards to the Armory grounds at Harper's Ferry, which opinion was read to the jury, showing that persons residing within the limits of the Armory cannot even be taxed by Virginia, and that crimes committed within said limits are punishable by the Federal Courts.
Although the jury may doubt about the law on this subject, they must give the prisoners the benefit of that doubt upon the trial. Over murder, if committed within the limits of the Armory, this court has no jurisdiction, and in the case of Mr. Beckham, if he was killed on the railroad bridge, it was committed within the State of Maryland, which State claims jurisdiction up to the Armory grounds.
Although he may be guilty of murder, it must be proven that it was deliberate and premeditated murder to make it a capital offence; if otherwise, the killing was murder in the second degree, punishable with imprisonment. If you have any doubt on these points, you must give that doubt to the prisoners. He was satisfied the jury will not allow any outside excitement to affect them, and that they will do their duty faithfully and impartially.
Our dispatch of the proceeding in Court on Wednesday did not include the following abstract of the speech of Capt. Brown, in support of the motion for the delay of his trail:-
Mr. Brown then arose and said: do not intend to detain the Court, but barely wish to say, as I have been promised a fair trial, that I am not in circumstances that enable me to attend to a trail, owing to the state of my health. I have a server wound in the back; or rather in one kidney, which enfeebles me very much. But I am doing well, and I only ask for a short delay of my trial, and I think I may get able to listen to it; and I merely ask this, that, as the saying is, "the devil may have his dues"-no more. I wish to say, further, that my hearing is impaired and rendered indistinct, in consequence of wounds I have about my head. I cannot hear distinctly at all. I could not hear what the Court has said this morning. I would be glad to hear what is said on my trial, and I am now doing better than I could expect to be under the circumstances. A very short delay would be all I would ask. I do not presume to ask more than a very short delay, so that I may in some degree recover, and be able at least to listen to my trial, and hear what their answer are. If that could be allowed me, I should feel very much obliged'.
The Court refused to postpone.
The trial will go on this morning, and counsel from Ohio are expected for Brown. Brown.
was brought in walking, and laid down on his cot at full length within the bar. He looked considerably better, the swelling having left his eyes.
Senator Mason was present. 
Messrs. Harding and Hunter again appear for the commonwealth, and Messrs. Botts and Green for the prisoner.
Mr.Botts read the following dispatched which was received this morning:-
AKRON, Ohio, 26th Oct.1859. To C. J. Faulkner and Sampson Botts: John Brown, leader of the insurrection at Harper's Ferry, and several of his family have resided in this country many years. Insanity is hereditary in that family. His mother's sister has been two years in the lunatic asylum. A son and daughter of the lunatic asylum, and another son of that brother is now insane, and under close restraint. These facts can be conclusively proven by witnesses residing here, who will doubtless attend the trail if desired. A.H.LEWIS.
William C. Allen, telegraphic operator at the Akron Office, add to the above despatch that A. H. Lewis is a resident of that place, and his statements are entitled to implicit credit.
Mr. Botts said that on receiving the above despatch, he went to the jail with his associate, Mr. Green, and read it to Brown, and read it to Brown, and is desired by the latter to say that in his father's family there has never been any insanity at all. On his mother's side there have been repeated instances of it. He adds that his first wife showed symptoms of it, which were also evident in his first and second sons by that wife. Some portions of the statement in the despatch he knows to be correct, and of other portions he is ignorant. He does not know whether his mother's sister died in the lunatic asylum, but he does believe that a daughter of the sister has been two years in the asylum.
He also believes that a son and daughter of his mother's brother have been confined in an asylum, but he is not apprised of the fact that another son of that mother is now <illegible> and in close confinement.
<c02>
Brown also desires hit counsel to say that he does not put in the plea of insanity, and if he has been at all insane, he is totally unconscious of it. Yet he adds that those who are most insane, generally suppose that they have more reason and sanity than those around them. For himself he disdaines to put in that plea, and seeks no immunity of that kind.
This movement is made totally without his approbation or concurrence, and was unknown to him till the receipt of the despatch above.
Brown then raised himself up in bed, and said: 'I will add, if the Court will allow me, that I look upon it as a miserable artifice and pretest of those who ought to take a different course in regard to me, if they took any at all, and I view it with contempt more than otherwise. As I remarked to Mr. Green, insane prisoners, so far as my experience goes, have but little ability to judge of their own sanity, and if I am insane, of course I should think I knew more than all the rest of the world. But I do not think so. I am perfectly unconscious of insanity, and I reject, so far as I am capable, any attempts to interfere in my behalf on that score.'
Mr. Botts stated that he was further instructed by Mr. Brown to say that, rejecting this plea entirely, and seeking no delay for that reason, he does repeat to the Court hit request, made yesterday, that time be given for the foreign counsel to arrive, that he has now reason to expect. Yesterday afternoon a dispatch was received from Cleveland, Ohio, signed 'Dan. Tilden,' dated 26th October, asking Brown whether it would be of use for counsel to leave last night. To this dispatch answer was returned that the jury would be sworn this morning, and that Brown desired the counsel to come at once. 
The telegraphic Operator here stated that this dispatch would be sent off at once, in advance of the dispatches sent by reporters, and he had learned this morning that it was sent before the storm of last night interrupted communication, and that counsel might reach here by twelve or one o'clock to-night. The course taken by Brown this morning makes it evident that he sought no postponment for the mere purpose of delay, as he rejects the plea of insanity. Still, in his opinion, be could have a fairer trial if the defence were conducted by his own counsel, than if he were defended by the counsel at present here.
CHABLESTOWN, Oct. 28. Yesterday afternoon was taken up by the examination of three witnesses. Dr. Storry, Conductor Phelps, and Lewis A. Washington, but nothing of importance was elicited that was already known. The Court adjourned at 7 o'clock. 
Orders were given to the jailers to shoot all the prisoners, in the event of an attempt at rescue. 
Geo. H. Hoyt, of Boston, arrived here to-day, at counsel for Brown.
Mr. Hoyt, at the suggestion of Mr. Hunter, was admitted as a member of the Virginia Bar.
The trial proceeded.
Conductor Phelps was recalled, and examined on questions prepared by defendant, as to when and by whom firing was commenced. He testified that no attack was made upon Brown, until after the man Hay wood was shot. 
Lewis Washington was re-called. He testified in answer to questions by Botts, that negotiations for the release of prisoners were opened before the general firing commenced on Monday. During the conflict, Brown frequently gave orders not to fire on unarmed citizens. Brown had a rifle in his hands when struck down by the Marines. 
Mr. Hunter here laid before the jury the constitution and ordinances of the Provisional Government. Mr. Hunter proposed to prove Brown's hand-writing, when the prisoner offered to identify it himself; he was ready, he said, to face the music. Mr. Hunter preferred proving it by Sheriff Campbell, who was accordingly called, and identified a large bundle of letters. Brown also acknowledged their authenticity. Mr. Hunter also presented a list of members of the convention, headed by Wm. Charles Morris, President; and H. Kagi, Secretary; and likewise read the Giddings and Gerrit Smith letters, already published.
Armistad Ball, master machinist of the Armory, was then examined. The substance of his testimony has been already published.
John Sworn, one of the prisoners of Brown, testified to the manner in which he and his seven slaves were made prisoners, and taken to Harper's Ferry. Pikes were put into the hands of the negroes. Brown subsequently offered to release both him and Mr. Washington, if they would furnish two negroes to take their places. The witness also gave a narrative of the conflict, and expressed the opinion that the marine who fell was killed by a ball from Brown's rifle.
Alex. Kelly, who was with Burley at the time the latter was shot, and Albert Guest, were next examined, but no new material facts had been elicited. All the witnesses thus far have testified to Brown's anxiety to avoid shedding blood needlessly.
CHARLESTOWN, Oct. 28. A special dispatch says: Gov. Willard, of Indiana, brother-in-law of Cook, accompanied by J. E. McDonald, Attorney General of the same State, and D.W. Voorhees and M. M. Randolph, arrived here to-day, and have had a long interview with Cook.
Henry Hunter, Col. Gibson and Lewis Storry gave important testimony, and the prosecution rested their case.
The defence called Joseph A Brewer, one of the prisoners in the engine house, who testified that he was sent several times to request citizens not to shoot, as the lives of prisoners were endangered. Negotiations were going on between Brown and the prisoners before the general firing commenced. Brown proposed that he should retain possession of what he had, including the armory and negroes. Washington and all seemed to acquiesce. Coss was sent out to confer with Beckman and others. A guard who went with him were fired on. After that, Stevens wanted to shoot, but Kiltmiller appealed to him, and they went out together to stop the firing.
When they did not return, Brown seemed to show temper, and there was a change in the arrangement. After that, Brown said he had it in his power to destroy that place in half an hour, but he would not unless resisted. Think a shot from the water tank struck Coppie. He then returned the fire, and some one said that man's down.'
A. M. Kiltmiller testified that, at the request of Brown, he went out to use his influence to prevent unnecessary shedding of blood.
James Beller was the next witness.
Mr. Green stated that he desired to bring out testimony relative to the shooting of Thompson, one of the insurgents, on the bridge, but the State objected to it unless Brown had a knowledge of that shooting. Mr. Hunter said there was a deal of testimony about Brown's forbearance in not shooting citizens, which had no more to do with the case than the dead languages.
The Court thought the facts part of the res gestae, and the evidence admissible.
Witness.-Hunter called after Mr. Beckman, who saw my grand uncle was shot. I was much exasperated, and started with Mr. Chambers to the room where the second Thompson was confined, with the view of shooting him. We found several in the room, and had levelled our guns at him, when Mr. Foulke's sister threw herself before him, and begged us to leave him to the laws. We then caught hold of him, and dragged him out by the throat, he saying, 'though you may take my life, 80,000 millions will rise up to avenge me, and carry out my purpose of giving liberty to slaves.' We carried him out to the bridge, and the two of us, leveling our guns in the moment of wild exasperation, fired, and before he fell, a dozen or more balls were buried in him. We then threw his body off the tressle work, and returned to the bridge to bring out Stevens, and serve him in the same way. We found him suffering from wounds, and probably dying.
In the course of the proceedings-
Brown arose from his mattrass, evidently excited, and standing on his feet, addressed the Court as follows:-"May it please the Court-I discover that, not withstanding all the assertions I have received of a fair trial, nothing like a fair trial is to be given me, as it would seem. I gave the names, as soon as I could get at them, of the persons I wished to have called as witness, and was assured that they would be subpoenaed, I wrote down a memorandum to that effect, saying where those parties were, but it appears that they have not been subpoensed, so far as I can learn and now I ask, if I am to have anything at all deserving the name and shadow of a fair trial, that this proceeding be deferred until to-morrow morning, for I have no counsel, as I have before stated, in whom I fee that I can rely, but I am in hopes counsel may arrive who will attend to seeing that I get the witnesses who are necessary for my defence. I am myself unable to attend to it. I have given all the attention I possibly could to it, but am unable to see or know about them and can't even find out their names; and I have nobody to do any errand, for my money was all taken from me when I was hacked and stabbed, and I have not a dime. I had two hundred and fifty or sixty dollars in gold and silver taken from my pocket, and now I have no possible means of getting anybody to go any errands for me, and I have not had all the witnesses subpoenaed. They are not within reach, and are not here. I ask at least until to-morrow morning to have something done, if anything is designed. If not, I am ready for anything that may come up. Brown then lay down agaic, drew his blanket over him, and closed his eyes, and appeared to <illegible> in tranquil slumber.
Mr. Hoyt, of Boston, who had been sitting quietly all day at the side of Mr. Botts, arose, amid, great <illegible>, and addressed the Court as follows:-
<c03>
May it please the Court, I would add my voice to the appeal of Mr. Brown, although I have had no consultation with him, that the further hearing of the case be postponed until morning.
I would state the reason of this request. It was that I was informed and had reason to believe that Judge Tilden, of Ohio, was on his way to Charlestown, and would undoubtedly arrive at Harper's Ferry at seven o'clock to-night. I have taken measures to insure that gentleman's arrival in this place to-night, if he reaches the ferry. For myself, I have come from Boston, traveling night and day, to volunteer my services for Brown. I could not undertake the responsibility of the defence as I am now situated. The gentlemen who have defended Brown have acted in an honorable and dignified manner in all respects, so far as I know: but I cannot assume the responsibility of defending him myself for many reasons. First, it would be ridiculous in me to do it because I have not read the indictment through,-have not, except so far as I have listened to the case, and heard counsel this morning, got any idea of the line of defence proposed, and have no knowledge of the criminal code of Virginia, and had no time to read it. I had no time to examine the questions arising in this defence, some of which are of considerable importance, especially that relative to the jurisdiction over armory grounds. For all these reasons, I ask the continuation of the case till to-morrow morning. 
Mr. Botts-In justice to myself, I must state that on being first assigned at counsel to Mr. Brown, I conferred with him, and at his instance took down a list of the witnesses he desired subpoenaed in his behalf. Though it was late at night, I called up the Sheriff and informed him that I wished subpoenas issued early in the morning. This was done, and there are here Messrs. Phelps, Williams and Grist, and they have been examined.
Sheriff Campbell stated that the subpoenas were placed in the hands of an officer, with the request to serve them at once. He must have served them, as some of the witnesses are here. The process has not been returned, and may have been sent by private hands, and failed to arrive.
Mr. Botts thought they had shown, and he was confident he spoke the public sentiment of the whole community, when he said that they wished Mr. Brown to have a fair trial.
Mr. Hunter-I do not rise for the purpose of protracting the argument, or interposing the slightest impediment in any way to a fair trial. This is fair, whether it was promised to Brown or not; it is guaranteed by our laws to every prisoner, and so far as I am concerned, I have studiously avoided suggesting anything to the Court which would in the slightest degree interfere with it. I beg leave to say, in reference to this application, that I supposed the Court, even under these circumstances, will have to be satisfied in some way, through counsel or otherwise, that this testimony is material testimony; so far as any witness has been examined, the evidence relates to the conduct of Captain Brown in treating his prisoners with lenity, respect and courtesy, and this additional matter, that his flags of truce-if you choose to regard them so-were not respected by the citizens, and that some of his men were shot. If the defence choose to take that course, we are perfectly willing to admit these facts in any form they desire. Unless the Court shall be satisfied that this testimony (which I have no doubt is every particle of it here, that could be got) is really material to the defence, I submit that the application for delay on that score should not be 'granted. Some of these witnesses have been here, and might have been asked to remain. A host of witnesses have been here, and gone away without being called on to testify. I simply suggested that it is due in justice to the common wealth, which has some right as well as the prisoner, that information be given to the Court, showing that additional testimony is relevant to the issue. The simple statement of counsel I do not think would be sufficient.
Mr. Green arose, and said, Mr. Botts and myself will now both withdraw from the case, and can no longer act in behalf of the prisoner, he having got up now, and declared here that he has no confidence in the counsel 'who have been assigned him. Feeling confident that I have done my whole duty so far as I have been able, after this statement of his I should feel myself an intruder upon this case were I to act for him from this trice forward. I had not a disposition to undertake the defence, but accepted the duty imposed on me, and I do not think under these circumstances, when I feel compelled to withdraw from ' the case, that the Court could insist that I should remain in such an unwelcome position.
Mr. Harding-We have been delayed from time to time by similar applications, in the expectation of the arrival of counsel, until we have now reached the point of time when we are ready to submit the case to the jury upon the evidence and law, when another application arises for a continuance. The very witness that they now consider material, Mr. Dangerfield, came here summoned by ourselves, but deeming that we had testimony enough, we did not examine him.
The Court-The idea of waiting for counsel to study our code through could not be admitted. As to the other ground, I do not know whether the process has been executed or not, as no return has been made.
Mr. Botts-I have endeavored to do my duty in this matter, but I cannot see how, consistently with my own feelings, I can remain any longer in this case, when the accused, whom I have been laboring to defend, declares in open Court that he has no confidence in his counsel. I make this suggestion, that as I now! retire from this case, the more especially since there is now here a gentleman from Boston who has come on to volunteer his services for the prisoner, that the Court allow him this night for preparation. My notes, my office, and my services shall be at hit command. I will sit up with him all night to put him in possession of all the law and facts in relation to this case. I cannot do more, and in the meantime the Sheriff can be directed to have the other witnesses here to-morrow morning.
The Court would not compel the gentleman to remain on the case, and accordingly granted the desired I postponement, and adjourned at six o'clock.!.
The town has been greatly excited. The guard has I been increased.
CHARLESTOWN, Oct. 31. Court met at 9 o'clock, and trial proceeded. Brown looks better and is evidently improving, but nevertheless he reclined on his bed as usual. 
Mr. Griswold opened for the defence, contending that Brown could not be guilty of treason, inasmuch as he was not a citizen of Virginia; and as to the charge of levying war against the State, the evidence did not sustain that. He admitted, however, that Brown came to Virginia for the purpose of running I away slaves, and for that crime he was amenable to the laws of Virginia. While attempting to carry out that purpose, he took temporary possession of the arsenal at Harper's Ferry, and while there, attempts were made to arrest him, and it was while the prisoner was resisting these attempts that blood was shed and lives taken. This, counsel contended, was not! levying war against the Commonwealth, nor would it! necessarily constitute levying war, even if murder ensued, because the shedding of blood may not have been contemplated, Mr. G. then referred to the Constitution of the Provisional Government, found among Brown's papers, which he contended was as harmless an affair as the organization of a debating or any similar society, which, in this country, are frequently created with all the outside forms and machinery of government. 
Mr. Griswold further argued that the jury could not find Brown guilty of treason, unless they find; him guilty of associating himself with others to organize a government to overthrow the government of Virginia, but if the pamphlet proved anything, it shows that an attempt was made to overthrow the government of the United States, and not of Virginia; but it was in vague and unmeaning language, which really meant nothing but the repeal of obnoxious laws in the Constitution. As to the charge of conspiring with slaves, no one had testified that Brown, or any one with him, said or did one thing to induce ' slaves to rise in rebellion. Slaves were taken possession of for temporary purposes, and placed in the arsenal; but Col. Washington has testified that no one took part in the matter except Phil, who, at the suggestion of one of the prisoners, attempted to drill a! port hole, and that was done, not for insurrection or rebellion, bat to protect themselves. True, they were amenable to punishment, but not as they were indicted. With regard to murder, in the first degree, this involved premeditated murder, but he argued that no such malice had been shown; guns were fired in all directions, and they fired, or intended to fire, only on armed men. Without excusing their conduct for one moment, he would remark that it refuted the idea of premeditated malice; they had not at the time forethought and reflection which the law allows.
Mr. Chilton followed, also fur the defence. While he had no sympathy for the prisoner, being a Virginia, by birth and residence, until within a few years, he had no other motive in the case than to do his duty faithfully. Mr. C. then went at great length into the case, the arguments being of a similar tenor to those of his associate.
Mr. Hunter closed the argument for the State. He I contended that the code of Virginia defines who are; citizens of Virginia at all those white persons born in any other State of this Union, who may become residents here.' The evidence in this case shows with out a shadow of a question that when this man cams to Virginia, and planted his feet at Harper's Ferry, he came there to reside, and hold the place permanently. It is true that he occupied a farm four or five miles off in Maryland, a short time since, bat not for the legitimate purpose of establishing his <illegible>
<c04>
there. It was for the nefarious and hellish purpose of rallying forces into this Commonwealth, and establishing himself at Harper's Ferry, as a starting point for a new government. Whatever it was, whether tragical, or farcical and ridiculous, at his counsel has presented it, his conduct showed, if his declarations were insufficient, that it was not alone for the purpose of carrying off slaves that he came there.
His Provisional Government was a real thing, and no debating society, as his counsel would have as believe, and, in holding office under it and exercising its functions, he was clearly guilty of treason. As to conspiring with slaves and rebels, the law says the prisoners are equally guilty, whether insurrection is made or not. Advice may be given by actions as well as words. When you put pikes in the hands of slave, and have their master captive, that is advice to slaves to rebel, and punishable with death. 
The law does not require positive evidence, but only enough to remove every reasonable doubt as to the guilt of the party.
Mr. Hunter closed at half-past one.
During most of the arguments to-day, Brown lay on his back, with his eyes closed.
Mr. Chilton asked for certain instructions to the jury, bat the only one granted was that the jury must be satisfied that the place where the offence was committed was within the boundaries of Jefferson county. A recess of half an hoar was taken.
THE VERDICT.
When the jury came in. Brown sat up in bed whilst the verdict was rendered.
The verdict of the jury convicted Brown of treason, in advising and conspiring with slaves and others to rebel; and murder in the first degree.
Brown then lay down quietly, and said nothing.
There was no demonstration of any kind.
Mr. Chilton moved an arrest of judgment, on account of error in indictment, and errors in verdict.
A dispatch from Washington to the New York Herald says:-
I have it on the most reliable authority that the death penalty will not be immediately inflicted. He may be sentenced to die on the gallows within two or three days, because the ordinary delay of thirty days between sentence and execution does not apply in the case of one convicted of inciting slaves to insurrection. But Gov. Wise admires Brown's indomitable pluck, and for that, and because he Wishes to show the world how magnanimous Virginia can be, he will probably respite the execution for at least the thirty days. I should not be surprised, from what I learn, if an order will be made directing Brown to be sent to Richmond, and if he should, be kept in the penitentiary there till such time as the Governor fixes for his execution.
The reporter of the New York Herald gives the following sketch:-
When Mr. Hunter closed his peroration to the jury, without further remark, at an intimation from the Judge, they immediately withdrew to consider their verdict. After an absence of three-quarters of an hour (during which the Court took a recess), they returned into Court with a verdict. At this moment the crowd filled all the space from the couch inside the bar, round the prisoner, beyond the railing in the body of the Court, out through the wide hall and beyond the doors. There stood the anxious but perfectly silent and attentive populace, stretching head and neck to witness the closing scene of Old Brown's trial. It was terrible to look upon such a crowd of human faces, moved and agitated with but one dreadful expectancy-to let the eye rest for a moment upon the only calm and unruffled countenance there, and to think that he alone of all present was the doomed one above whose head hung the sword of fate. But there he stood, just that man of indomitable will and iron nerve, all collected and unmoved, even while the verdict which consigned him to an ignominious doom was pronounced upon him. After recapitulating his offences, as set forth in the indictment, the Clerk of the Court said:-
Gentlemen of the Jury, what say you, is the prisoner at the bar, John Brown, guilty" or not guilty?
FOREMAN-Guilty.
CLERK-Guilty of treason, and conspiring and advising with slaves and others to rebel, and murder in the first degree?
FOREMAN-Yes.
Not the slightest sound was heard in the vast crowd as this verdict was thus returned and read. Not the slightest expression of elation or triumph was uttered from the hundreds present, who, a moment before, outside the Court, joined in heaping threats and imprecations on his head; nor was this strange silence interrupted during the whole of the time occupied by the forms of the Court. Old Brown himself said not even a word, but, as on any previous day, turned to adjust his pallet, and then composedly stretched himself upon it.
A motion for an arrest of judgment was put in, but not argued.
Counsel on both sides being too much exhausted to go on, the motion was ordered to stand over till tomorrow, and Brown was again removed unsentenced to prison.
A jury to try Coppie, who was now brought into Court, was subsequently sworn.
The Court, in consideration of Stephens' wounds, allowed his case to stand over, but nothing further was done, and the Court adjourned.
Mr. Griswold has volunteered hit services in defending Coppie.

THE SPOILS OF WAR.
As soon as the neighbors around the Kennedy farm learned of Brown's capture, they pounced at once upon hit house, and speedily rifled it of its contents. There were eight or ten boxes of wearing apparel; boots, quilts, blankets, &c, and these were speedily appropriated by people, some of whom we were assured were sadly in want of them. Barrels of flour were rolled out; the cooking stove and its appurtenances were removed; loaves of bread were distributed to the hungry, and in fact in a short time the house was completely sacked.
FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
The reporters were informed, after the arrival of Cook at Charlestown jail, that he had been even more communicative than Old Brown, but no reporter was allowed to see him. His captors ( who have occasionally made a few dollars by catching runaway negroes), say that Cook told them if Brown had taken his advice, and retreated to the mountains at once, with his prisoners and what arms they could gather, they would have been able to succeed, and as it was, the enterprise only failed through the cowardice of the negro abolitionist, Fred. Douglass. That individual was to have arrived at the school-house with a large band early on Monday, but Cook says, ' I conveyed the arms there for him, and waited till nearly night, but the coward didn't come.
'STRANGERS SUSPECTED.
Every stranger who steps from the cars at Harper's Ferry it closely scrutinized, and at once put under surveillance, especially if at the hotel he registers his name as coming from a Northern or Eastern State; any movement beyond the hotel is sure to be followed by arrest, and an inquisition at to his business. Sometimes ludicrous mistakes are made, as for instance, in the arrest of two Southern gentlemen, one of them a clergyman, on their way to a Presbyterian Synod. At Charlestown still greater -vigilance is maintained, and no travelling agent or pedlar can remain in the place, three or four of that class having already been sent away. On Friday afternoon, white Brown was on trial in the Court House for treason and murder, a well-dressed man who had just arrived in town, and who spoke with a rather natal accent, was on trial before a committee of citizens in the yard of the Court House, on suspicion of being an abolition spy. The man appeared highly indignant at the questions put to him concerning his business, but finally gave a satisfactory account of himself, and -vat suffered to go his way.
ARREST OF CAPT. JOHN E. COOK.
Correspondence of the N. Y. Tribuse at Chambesburg, Pa..
JUSTICE KEISHER'S TATEMENT.
In order to ascertain the truth of the various rumors with reference to the capture of Capt. Cook, I called on Squire Reisher, the Justice before whom the fugitive was brought, and asked for permission to copy the evidence produced in the case. He is a respectable, mild-looking gentleman, who has already pasted middle age. He stated that the testimony had not been committed to paper, but that he would repeat the substance of the evidence of Logan and Fitzhugh if I desired it. I took down his statement in stenographic notes. Hen it is:-
'I was in my office, about 8 o'clock, when two man came in and asked me to go down with them to the Franklin Hotel They said they had a man whom they supposed to be Capt. Cook. I told them they should bring him op hen before me to my office. They said there were a great many persons there, and likely to be considerable excitement, and had better go up with them to sea him.
'I went there and found this man, supposed to be Cook, with a room full of persons and several outside. I then tat alongside of this man they called Cook, and told him that there were accusations to be prefered against him of a very serious nature, and informed him of hit rights, put him on his legal guard, told him that he was not obliged to say anything
<c05>
which would criminate himself. I then found that he looked haggard, and told them to give him something to sat. They did so. Then were at the time about forty persons in the room.
'They brought food, and he ate very heartily. I thought the poor fellow had not eaten anything for sometime before.
After he had eaten sometime, I asked his <illegible>what grounds they had to suspect this man to be Capt. Cook.
'They went on and stated that he had come out of the mountains, and asked for some salt meat; and (this was Fitshugh) stated that he had been hunting in the mountains, and had got out of provisions. F. saw a man called Logan, who is a middling rough kind of a man, and made signs to him to keep with him. Logan let on he had a store up the road, and that he would give him some salt meat. Fitshugh winked at Logan, and whispered that he believed this was Cook, when Logan put his hand on his shoulder and said, You are my prisoner.
'The expression of Logan was, that Cook sprang up like a wire trap. He ran his hand into his pocket. Logan, being a stout man, caught him by the arm and held to. They had a great deal of difficulty, bath of them, to get him down. Logan is a strong, active man, and yet both of them could hardly get him to the ground. Finally they succeeded in getting him down. They then took away his arms. He had a pistol and campaign knife-which is a knife with a fork and a spoon. The pistol were a five-inch revolver, with six barrels, and finely finished. It was fully loaded and capped.
Finding the excitement increasing, I appointed a special police of six, and had Cook conducted to my office.
'The excitement was a commingled matter of pity for the man in the condition he was in, sad curiosity to see him.
'As soon as Cook was brought to my office, I repeated the advice I had given him at the tavern, to put him on his legal guard-when he said that if such was the law, he chose to remain quiet, and not answer any question.
'I then swore the accusers.
'Fitshugh was the first witness, and repeated his statements made at the tavern.'
I inquire where these men captured Cook.
'At Mount Alto,' the Justice said, 'near Hughes's founderies.'
'The hardest place in this country," said a by stander.
'In what respect?' I asked. 'Do you mean morally?'
'Yes,' he said; ' they are the hardest people in this section there-just such folk as would delight to do such actions. Cook could not have chosen a worse locality in all this State than that neighborhood. If he had gone by the North Mountain, he would easily have escaped.'
I asked the character of Fitshugh. He occupies, it appears, a respectable position in the county; he is a nephew of Hughes, the best business man in the county, and is employed at a clerk in his founderies. He told the telegraph operator to send his name in full, as he wanted his uncle Gerrit to see it. He is a nephew of Gerrit Smith, he maintains, by marriage. The last time he was at the North, he said, he called on uncle Gerrit, and complained that he set him down at table 'between two free niggers,' as he phrased it. He is a native of Maryland, and his family an people of some importance in that State.
Logan, on October 14, 1857, was charged before Justice Reisher with attempting to abduct a free black from Pennsylvania, for the purpose of selling him in Maryland or Virginia. He was remanded for trial, but at the instance of one of his prosecutors, a nolle prosequi was entered. He is supposed to have bought him off. He bears the reputation of a negro-catcher. Fitzhugh did not wish Logan to be sworn, on the pretext that his evidence was unnecessary, but for the real purpose of concealing the iniquitous part they both had played in the capture of Cook. The Justice overruled the wish.
Lgoan, after making s rehearsal of the same matter. and saying that Cook would have shot him if he had not held on to his arm, remarked repeatedly that Cook was a good man, a brave man, a man of great nerve; that if there was a brave man in the country, he was one, and if he had been in proper condition, he would not have been taken. Both of the aecusers praised Cook's bravery. Both testified that, although Cook was nearly famished, and a small man, neither of them separately could have managed him.
'After having secured him, they took him down to the house to get something to eat; told him that they pitied his case very much; that he might get clear; that his best course was to go before a magistrate, enter bail, and then, to use Logan's word, sheet, or escape.
'They rather got Cook persuaded-Logan did-that he was friendly to him.
'I then asked the witness,' said the magistrate, ' if he had made any offer or promise of reward to the prisoner, in order to produce this change in his feelings.
'He denied having made any other than that to go before a magistrate would be the easiest way to get off,
'After being sworn. Logan was asked if Cook had made any declaration with regard to whom he was.
'Logan hesitated.
'The question was repeated.
'He hesitated again.
'The question was put again.
'We waited for sometime for an answer. I told him he was bound to tell the truth, and the whole truth, with reference to any conversation he had had with Cook.
'Well, he said, if he must, he must, but that he did not like it. To my mind,' said the magistrate,' when he was making this statement, he wanted to tell all; he wanted to say what he spoke, but not in the presence of Cook. I can compare it to nothing but a girl saying no, no, to what she's wanting all the time.
'He then stated that the prisoner had told him that he was Capt. Cook.
'Cook had stood behind my chair all the time that' far, but now he rather pressed himself forward, and looked at Logan just like a dead man looks at one. Logan cringed beneath his look.
'Logan stated that Cook confessed having been at Harper's Ferry.
'Here the counsel for Cook made some objections, and spoke disrespectfully of Logan. The witness seemed rather to get cross with the counsel, and in proof of one statement, pulled out of his pocket a commission made out to Cook by John Brown.
'Logan fairly cringed under the look Cook gave him as be pulled out this paper.
'Yes, he betrayed Cook-the scoundrel," said a by stander.
'Logan said that this was the commission he got from Cook. He then went on and read the commission. It was signed by Brown as Commander-in-Chief, and I think it was countersigned by Kagi. It was a printed commission: one line of letters, in the form of an arrow, was very peculiar; I could not read it; I never saw such letters before. It was made out to Cook as captain. It was marked No. 4.
'After hearing this testimony, I thought the evidence was sufficient to authorize me to hold the prisoner over to answer. I committed him to prison that night.'
In further conversation with the magistrate, he described Cook's manners and personal appearance so accurately as to leave no doubt on my own mind that the unfortunate captured fugitive is he.
'In the short time I was with him,' he said, I thought him a gentleman. There was no sign of bad breeding about the man. Then was a great deal of candor about him. He is evidently a very brave man. There was not a man here but thought him a person of determination and courage.'
Fitzhugh, having the best social position, finds more defenders hen than Logan. But he is evidently the more guilty of the two villains. Not content with having Cook at their mercy, after disarming sad overpowering him, they loaded him with irons to bring him to town. Cook's offend word of honor and entreaties were impotent to prevent this indignity.
Logan repents of his perfidy already. He excuses himself at having acted on impulse. The price of blood it already troubling him, and the cold chills-so I was told-came over him as he thought for the first time of the probable vengeance of the Abolition Carbonari of America,

COOK IN JAIL.
His conduct in prison was in keeping with his bearing in Court. He refused to answer all questions, and when addressed as Cook, or when inquiries were cunningly proposed to his about Harper's Ferry, merely answered that he had not admitted that he was Cook. Hs asked fox books, and spent the day in reading.

PUBLIC FRELING.
The public pulse here throbs pity for Cook. His coolness, his unassuming but undaunted demeanor, has elicited universal admiration. Unlike John Brown in the motives which guide him, he will, I have no doubt, be as firm as the old man before the cowardly Court to which, as I new write, he is rapidly hurrying.
Both here and in Philadelphia, the conduct of Cook and of Brown in arousing a deeper and broader Anti-Slavery sentiment (outside, as well as inside, of Abolition circle,) which over <illegible> with all its horrows and outrages, failed signally to create. Why? IT HAS APPRALED TO THE RELIGIOUS NATURE OF THE PEOPLE, and water is beginning to flow the Rock Herob.
<c06>
SENTENCE OF BROWN.
HIS ADDRESS TO THE COURT.
CHARLBROWN, Nov.2. Messrs. Russell and Sennott from Boston, reached here to-day.
Cook was brought before the Magistrates Court, and waived an examination,
Coppie's trail was resumed. No witnesses were called for the defence.
Mr. Harding opened for the Commonwealth.
Messrs. Hoyt and Griswold followed for the defendant, and Mr. Hunter closed for the defendant, and Mr. Hunter closed for the <illegible>
The speeches were of marked ability. Mr. Griswold asked for several instruction to the jury, which were all granted by the Court, and the jury retried.
Brown was then brought in, and the court House was immediately thronged.
The Court gave its decision on the motion for an arrest of judgement, overruling the objection that <illegible> cannot be committed against a State. He ruled that wherever allegiance is due, <illegible> can be committed. Most of the Sates have passed laws against treason. The objections as to the form of the verdist rendered, the Court also regarded as insufficient.
The clerk then asked Mr. Brown whether he had anything to my why sentence should not be passed upon him.
Mr. Brown immediately rose, and in a clear, distinct voice said:-
'I have may it please the Court a few words to says. In the first place, I deny everything but what I have already admitted, of a design on my part to free slaves. I intended certainly to have made a clean thing of that matter, as I did last winter, when I went into Missouri, and there took slaves without the snapping of a gun on either side, moving them through the country, and finally leaving them in Canada. I desired to have done the same thing again on a larger scale. That was all I intended. I never did intend murder, or tresson, or the destruction of property, or to excite or incite slaves to rebellion, or to waken insurrection.
I have another objection, and that is, that it is unjust that I should suffer such a penalty. had I interfered in this manner, and which I admit has been fairly proved-for I truthfulness and candor of the greater portion of the witness who have testified in the case-had I so interfered in behalf of the rich, the powerful, the intelligent, the so called great,-or in behalf of any of their friends, either father, mother, brother, sister, wife or children, or any of that class, and suffered and sacrificed what I have in this enterprise, it would have been all right. Every man in this Court would have deemed it an act worthy of reward rather than punishment.
This Court acknowledges too, as I suppose, the validity of the law of God. I see a book kissed, which I suppose to be the Bible, or at least the New Testament, which teaches me that 'all things whatsoever I would that men should do to me, I should do even so to them.' It teaches me further, to 'remember them that are in bonds as bound with them I endeavored to act up to that instruction. I say I am yet too young to understand that God is any respecter of persons. I believe that, to have interfered as I have done, as I have always freely admitted I have done in behalf of his despised poor, I did no wrong but right.
Now, if it is deemed necessary that I should forfeit my life for the furtherance of the ends of justice, and mingle my blood further with the blood of my children, and with the blood of millions in this slave country whose rights are disregarded by wicked, cruel, and unjust enactments, I say, let it be done. Let me say one word further:-I feel entirely satisfied with the treatment I have received on my trial. Considering all the circumstance, it has been more generous than I expected, but I feel no consciousness of my guilt. I have stated from the first what was my intention, and what was not. I never had any design against the liberty of any person, nor any disposition to commit treason or excite slaves to rebel, or make any general insurrection. I never encouraged any man to do so, but always discouraged any ideas of that kind. Let me say, also in regard to the statements made by some of those who were connected with me. I hear that it has been stated by some of them that I have induced them to join me, but the contrary is true. I do not say this to injure them, but as regarding their weakness. Not one but joined me of his own accord, and the greater part at their own expense. A number of them I never saw and never had a word of conversation with till the day they came to me, and that was done for the purpose I have stated. Now I have done.'
While Mr. Brown was speaking, perfect quiet prevailed, and when ha had finished, the Judge proceeded to pronounce sentence upon him.
After a few preliminary remarks the Judge said that no reasonable doubt could exist of the guilt of the prisoner, and sentenced him to be hung in public, on Friday, the 2d of December next.
Mr. Brown received his sentence with composure. The only demonstration made was by the clapping of the hands of one man in the crowd, who is not a resident of Jefferson Co. This was promptly suppressed, and much regret was expressed by the citizens at its occurrence.
After being out an hour, the jury came in with a verdict that Coppie was guilt on all the counts in the indictment. His counsel gave notice of a motion for arrest of judgment, as in Mr. Brown's case.
The Court then adjourned.

WOMAN'S RIFHT TO LABOR.
MRS. DAL;L'S LECTURES. MERCANTILE HALL.
Mrs. Dall will deliver a course of lecture at Mercantile Hall, Summer street, on three successive Monday evenings, to commence
MONDAY, NOV.7, at half-past 7 o' clock.
Nov.7.-Low Wages and Hard Work.
Condition of women employed in slop-work. Way of safety, honorable independence. Dress-makers and governesses. Mayhew's Letters. Noble women among the fallen. Women never forbidden to labor, only ladies. Historical argument. Unhealthiness of French factory labor. Women sold as 'beasts of burden' in England. Metal workers. An absurd fiction in the statement that all men support all women.
There will be no tickets. Editors, Reporters, Clergymen and other lecturers will find free admission.
Single admission 25 ets. Doors open at half-past 6 o'clock.

CUMMINGTON, Mass.-An Anti-Slavery Convention will be held in the Independent Meeting house at East Cummington, on Saturday and Sunday, November 19 and 30, commencing on Saturday at 1 o'clock, P. M. All friends of impartial liberty, and of an honest, uncompromising Anti-Slavery agitation, are requested to attend, and confer together on the best methods of promoting the Anti-Slavery cause.
Among the speakers expected are ANDREW T. FOSS, CHARLES LENOX REMOND,CHARLES C.BURLEIGHT:

CAPE COD ANNUAL MEETING.-The Annual Anti-Slavery Convention, for Barnstable County, will be held at HARWICH, in EXCHAGE HALL, on Saturday and Sunday, November 5th and 6th. It will commence at 2 o'clock, P. M., on Saturday.
ANDREW T. Foss, CHAS. LENOX REMOND, and HENRY C. WRIGHT will attend this meeting. 
ELAM BAKER,
FRANKLIN ROBBINS, Committee.
J. H. ROBBINS,

GLOUCESTER-An Anti-Slavery meeting will be held in Gloucester, in the TOWN HALL, November 12th and 13th; commencing on Saturday evening, the 12th, at 7 o'clock, and continuing on Sunday, day and evening.
ANDREW T. Foss and CHARLES L. REMOND are engaged to be present.
All are invited to come. Let it be a true gathering for Freedom.

ANDREW T. FOSS. CNAS Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture as follows:- 
Harwich, Saturday, Nov. 5. 
East Dennis, Tuesday, Nov 8, 
Dennis, Wednesday, Nov 9 
Hyannis, Thursday, Nov 10 
Gloucester, Saturday, Nov 12 
CHARLES L. REMOND. an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture as follows.- 
Harwich, Saturday, Nov. 5.
Hyannis, Tuesday, Nov 8.
Centreville, Wednesday, Nov 9. 
Sandwich, Thursday, Nov 10.
Gloucester, Saturday, Nov 12.

LADIES' MEDICAL ACADEMY.
MERCANTILE BUILDING, <illegible> STREET, <illegible>
The above school is new open for the enrolment of publics. The Session will commence.on <illegible>Nov.9,1859,and continue four months,during which a regular Course of Medical Lectures will be delivered daily. Special attention will be paid this, taken to <illegible> and the <illegible> OF CHILDREN.
DR.WM.SYMINGTON BROWN,
No.14 Congress street, Boston
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY
For the Liberator..
EPISTLE FROM A GRANDFATHER. 
My lad, you're called the old Bay State to serve,
And guard her sacred rights with pen and tongue, 
To hold blind Justice scales with steady hand
(Ah, lad! I fear me, you are yet o'er young.)
Bot as you go and come where duty calls, 
You pass that graven image day by day, 
Set up by men of money-given power,
To lead our inexperienced youths astray.
If you are urged to bend your knee to Baal, 
Or gaze with reverence on his brazen face,
Ask of the supple worshippers around,
'What has the man e'er done to serve his race? 
Did he love mercy? Did he justly deal?
Walk humbly in his Heavenly Father's sight?
Leave a bright path of spotless purity 
To guide the wandering tribes of earth aright?'
No, not the supplest there would dare deny 
He lived in bold defiance of God's laws,
Polluted, grasping, trampling on the oppress'd; 
Why is he there? Whose treachery it the cause?
Do quickly what ye can to right the wrong,
Lest rasher hands, in the old State's, behalf, 
Do as intrepid Moses did of old
To Egypt-tainted Israel's golden calf-
E'en break it small, and scatter it abroad,
Nor leave one brazen witness to repeat 
To children's children of the coming times,
'How easy 'twas free Northern men to cheat.'
No, not a shard, which when those children ask, 
'What did the man effect to earn his fame?'
Could cry, 'Dishonesty! adultery!
With all their kin-go ye, and do the same!'
My lad, I ne'er believed it wondrous wise 
To stand before a wolf, unarmed and calm;
To smile serenely at his grinning teeth,
And trust the hungry beast will do no harm.
No, meet your fellow-man with hopeful love, 
Till through his treachery that hope is lost,
Then stand at guard, watch every near approach, 
Nor let him seize you, slumbering at your post.
A dieu, dear youth! your absence grieves me sore,
But be my heartfelt loss the public gain; 
' There's something rotten in' the Old State ship!
Be it your care to make it sound again.
The following ' patriotic' effusion (after the manner of Lexington and Bunker Hill) was written many years ago by the late WILLIAM J. SNELLING, Esq. of Boston, and is full of prophetic warning to Southern oppressors at this solemn crisis. As they sow, they shall also reap.
SONG,
Supposed to be sung by Slaves in Insurrection.
BY WILLIAM J. SNELLING, ESQ.
See, tyrants, see! your empire shakes!
Your flaming roofs the wild winds fan;
Stung to the soul, the negro wakes;
He slept, a brute-he wakes, a man! 
His shackles fall; 
Erect and tall,
He glories in his new-found might. 
And wins with bloody hand his right.
Just Heaven! and can it be,-the strong,
With mind to think, and heart to feel. 
Has borne upon his neck so long 
A weak at cruel tyrant's heel: 
When one brave stroke 
Had burst his yoke! 
Day dawns at last on mental night, 
And Samson girds him for the fight.
The land is ours-our fathers' blood 
Free spilled, our own, manures the soil:-
Who gave us evil for our good, 
And paid with stripes our sweat and toil? 
'Twas he, the foe-
Now, blow for blow! 
Remember that the heavy debt 
Of ages it to cancel yet!
Where's he, who, in a cause like this.
Would turn him from the coming fight, 
Again a master's hand to kiss? 
Who shuns to combat for the right? 
Hence, hence away, 
No longer stay!
Go, wretch, in soul and body slave, 
And fill a coward's shameful grave!
Up, Afric, up! the land is free!
It sees no slave to despot bow: 
Our battle cry is LIBERTY!-
On! strike for God and vengeance now! 
Fly, tyrants, fly, 
Or stay-to die!
No chains we bear, no scourge we fear-
We conquer, or we perish here!

A BARGAIN.
The following is taken from a beautiful volume, entitled 'Poets of Vermont.' 
Going! going! going! 
Who bids for the mother's care? 
Who bids for the blue-eyed girl? 
Her skin is fair, and her soft brown hair 
Is guiltless of a curl!
The mother clasped her babe
With an arm that love made strong;
She heaved no sigh, but her burning eye
Told of the spirit's wrong.
She gased on the heartless crowd,
But no pitying glance she saw,
For the crushing woe her soul must know
Was sanctioned by the law.
'Going! gentlemen! going! 
The child is worth your bids; 
Here's a bargain to be gained,-
This chubby thing will one day bring 
A pile of yellow gold.' 
'A dollar a pound!' cries a voice 
Hoarsely from out the throng;
'Two! three! five!.' it calls, and the hammer falls;
'Five dollars, gentleman, gone!' 
Five dollars a pound! and his hand. 
Just stretched to grasp the child.
Is smitten aside by the giant might
Of the maniac mother, wild.
One moment, and the loaded whip
Is poised above her head.
Then down, down, it came on her helpless frame,
Like a crushing weight of lead.
With a tightening grasp on her kidnapped child,
She falls to the cold, damp ground;
And the baby is laid on the scales and weighed.
And sold for five dollars a pound!
And the eye of the sun looks down
Undimmed on such scenes of sin; [dumb,
And the freeman's tongue must be chained and 
Though his spirit burn within 
O God! for a million tongues
To thunder Freedom's name,
And to utter cry which should piece the sky,
The indignant cry of shame!
Our Eagle's talons are red
With the racking blood of the slave,
And he kindly flings his protecting wings
O'er the sight of Freedom's grave!
How long, O Lord! how long!
Awake in thy mercy and might,
And hasten the day which shall open the way
Of Truth, and Justice, and Right!
SARAH A BORCE.
<c02>
From the Practical Christian.
ADIN BALLOU IN REPLY TO J. MILLER MCKIM.
We cordially thank our much respected friend, James Miller McKim, of Philadelphia, for the kind language and spirit of his criticism. We appreciate, and will endeavor to reciprocate it. We cheer fully concede that we are 'not infallible,' and that every man has a perfect right to dissent from us at discretion; nevertheless, we think we were very nearly if not wholly right in our late article on all the points to which be takes exception. And this we will now endeavor to show.
1. What is oar religious position? We have solemnly professed, for more than twenty years, to be a Practical Christian, and, as such, a Christian Non Resistant. Here is a part of a declaration to which we subscribed early in the year 1839:-
'We cannot be governed by the will of man, however solemnly and formally declared, nor put our trust in the arm of flesh. Hence we voluntarily withdraw from all interference with the governments of this world. We can take no part in the politics, the administration or the defence of these governments-either by voting at their polls, holding their offices, aiding in the execution of their legal vengeance, fighting under their banners, claiming their protection against violence, seeking redress in their Courts, petitioning their Legislature to enact laws, or obeying their unrighteous requirements. Neither can we participate in any rebellion, insurrection, sedition, riot, conspiracy or plot against any of these governments; nor resist any of their ordinances by physical force; nor do anything unbecoming a peace-able submission to the existing Powers; but will quietly pay the taxes levied upon us, conform to all innocent laws and usages, enjoy all righteous privileges, abstain from all civil commotions, freely express our opinion of governmental acts, and patiently endure whatever penalties we may for conscience sake incur. We cannot employ carnal weapons, nor any physical violence whatsoever, to compel moral agents to do right, or to prevent their doing wrong-not even for the preservation of our own lives. We cannot render evil for evil, railing for railing, or wrath for wrath; nor revenge insults and injuries; nor lay up grudges; nor be overcome of evil; nor do otherwise than " love our enemies, bless them that curse us, do a good to them that hate us, and pray for them that a despitefully use and persecute us."
With very slight variations, we have scrupulously adhered to this position ever since. Our profoundest convictions are, that it is essentially accordant with the precepts and example of Jesus Christ, and the highest religious and moral position that human beings can take in respect to the duties specified. With us it is absolutely sacred and imperative. We cannot hold it secondary and subordinate to the Anti-Slavery movement, anxious as we are that chattel slavery should be abolished the world over.
Now, we do not expect that people who never took any such position, and who have no such scuples, can deeply sympathize with us in this matter. Even professed peace-men, ultra peace-men, so called, in many instances go, like hand in glove, with pro-war governments, pro-war politics, pro-war legal coercion, and pro-war revolutions. Yes, there are even professed Non-Resistance in the radical Anti-Slavery movement, who obviously hold their Non-Resistance as secondary and subordinate to that movement; who recommend nullification of proslavery laws, and the overthrow of our pro-slavery government, in any way, however violent and Bloody, which the revolutionaries may hold to be a rightful dernier resort; albeit the agitators themselves cannot fight. Such peace-men and Non-Resistance cannot sympathize with our scruples. They must and probably do regard us as over-nice and unreasonably squeamish. But their peaceism and Non-Resistance is as unsatisfactory to us as ours can be to them. It seems to us to be a very expedient, accommodating Non-Resistance, quite unlike that which the Son of God taught and exemplified. It must therefore be considered that our moral aches and pains in this case affect us a great deal more sensibly than they do those who do not feel them. And it must not be wondered at if they are altogether cooler and braver for us, than we are for ourself.
2. What was the position of the American Anti-Slavery Society when we were attracted to it, and what is it now? The earliest Anti-Slavery Constitution that came to our knowledge was that of the New England Anti-Slavery Society, in 1832. Its preamble contained the following declaration:
'While we advance these opinions as the principles on which we intend to act, we declare that we will not operate on the existing relations of society by other than peaceful and lawful means, and that we will give no countenance to violence or insurrection.'
In December, 1833, the American Anti-Slavery Society was formed in Philadelphia. The Convention that formed it first adopted a masterly Declaration of principles, objects and policy. From that Declaration we make the following extracts:-
' We have met together for the achievement of an enterprise, without which, that of our fathers is incomplete, and which, for its magnitude, solemnity, and probable results upon the destiny of the world, at far transcends theirs, as moral truth does physical force.
In purity of motive, in earnestness of zeal, in decision of purpose, in intrepidity of action, in steadfastness of faith, in sincerity of spirit, we would not be inferior to them.
Their principles led them to wage war against their oppressors, and to spill human blood like water, in order to be free. Ours forbid the doing of evil that good may come, and lead us to reject, and to entreat the oppressed to reject, the use of all carnal weapons for deliverance from bondage; relying solely upon those which are spiritual, and mighty through God to the pulling down of strong holds.
Their measures were physical resistance-the marshalling in arms-the hostile array-the mortal encounter. Ours shall be such only as the opposition of moral purity to moral corruption-the destruction of error by the potency of truth-the overthrow of prejudice by the power of love-and the abolition of slavery by the spirit of repentance.
The Constitution of the American Society, formed by that Convention, reads thus:-
'The Society will also endeavor, in a constitutional way, to influence Congress to put an end to the domestic slave trade, and to abolish slavery in all those portions of our common country which come under its control, especially in the District of Columbia,-and likewise to prevent the extension of it to any State that may be hereafter admitted to the Union.
This Society shall aim to elevate the character and condition of the people of color, by encouraging their intellectual, moral, and religious improvement, and by removing the public prejudice, that thus they may, according to their moral and intellectual worth, share an equality with the whites, of civil and religious privileges; but this society will never, in any way,' countenance the oppressed in vindicating their rights by resorting to physical force.'
It is plain, then, that the original platform of the American Anti-Slavery Society was common ground for the most scrupulous Non-Resistants, along with political and legal governmentalists operating in a 'Constitutional way.' But everything bloody, insurrectionary, revolutionary, was precluded. Has there been any change? We will see.
At the Annual Meeting of the Society in New York, May, 1844. the doctrine of 'No Union with Slaveholders' was inserted as a new' plank in the platform. We happened to be present and an actor in that meeting. The new plank, as we will call it, was first considered in a Committee of twenty-five. We were on that Committee. In Committee-session we inquired particularly whether the proposed Declaration of non-allegiance to the Federal Constitution and Union was simply for individuals as such, or for States in their organic capacity; remarking at the same time, that our religious scruples would not allow us to agitate for it as a measure of State Revolution. The answer from its movers, as we understood them, was-It is not organically political or revolutionary at all; it proposes only conscientious, peaceable, individual and social action. We replied, ’Very well then; I have already dissolved my union with all pro-war and pro-slavery governments.' The proposed Declaration was recommended by the Committee, and adopted by the Society. Our understanding of this transaction at the time was clearly expressed in our account of the Meeting in the Practical Christian of May 28, 1844. We give Um following extract:-
'In regard to this movement, it is important that our friends should distinguish between a dissolution of the union, as commonly understood, and a dissolution of the Union between abolitionists and slaveholders. The dissolution of the Union proclaimed by the American Anti-Slavery Society is not a formal political separation of the non-slaveholding from the slaveholding States, in order to set op a new Confederacy. They assume no such responsibility, they advise to no such political movement. But they solemnly pronounce the Constitution of the United
<c03>
States, which is a compact between the people of the States in their primary capacity, essentially pro-slavery in some of its fundamental articles, and affirm that no true-hearted, consistent abolitionist can endorse it as his political confession, or bind himself to support it in practice. As no man can be a qualified voter under that Constitution, or hold any important office without virtually taking an oath of allegiance and fidelity, whereby he covenants with slaveholders, to fellowship them as copartners in government, to share power with them on the basis of a three-fifth representation for their slave property, and to protect them in the maintenance of the slaveholding system so long as they may choose to persist in it, therefore the ground is taken that abolitionists an in duty bound to separate themselves from such a government, to withdraw their assent from such a covenant, and no longer by voting or office-holding allow them-selves to be considered in union with slaveholders. It is purely s question of moral principle, moral integrity, and moral consistency, to be settled, so far as the Society has any thing to do with it, by individuals as such, and not by political causes and State Legislatures. Let all our friends, especially Non-Resistants, be careful to make this distinction between political, corporate State dissolution of the Union, which is left to take care of itself, and individual moral, peaceable withdrawal from political covenant with slaveholders, as heretofore existing under the Federal Constitution. The former may be construed into sedition; the later is at once the duty and privilege of every conscientious man. Let us be peaceable subjects of the powers that be, but never voluntary partakers in their governmental wickedness.'
But what proved to be the use made of the new plank? We were not a little surprised and chagrined to find very soon, that we had somehow sadly mistaken the real design of the movement. Almost from that day to this, the leaden and active mass of the Society have been earnestly agitating for a Dissolution of the Union by States; that is, for the non-slaveholding States us such to dissolve their govern-mental Union with the slaveholding States. This would be right and honorable enough per se, if there were anti-slavery virtue enough in the co-governing people to do it governmentally. But it is a revolutionary movement with which our religious principles will allow us to have nothing to do. It is for agitators, politicians, legislators, revolutionaries and warriors to execute. It is a movement which can go through only under the resolution,' PEACEABLY IF WE CAN, FORCIBLY IF WE MUST.' We were once asked to appear before a Committee of the Massachusetts Legislature in behalf of the Dissolution petitioners; but we could not do so. Nor could we sign any petition of the kind, however carefully framed. Such petitions mean red revolution, and can hardly succeed without it. This has become a prominent object of the Society, either directly or indirectly, and many of the leaser issues have a close connection with it. Of course, the revolutionary and pro-war genius is in the ascendant on the platform. How could it be otherwise?
3. But our esteemed friend McKim seems to doubt our statements on this point. He says, ' They certainly cannot be predicated of that portion of the American Anti-Slavery Society that comes within our purview.' That may be. The Anti-Slavery of his region is mainly of Quaker origin and habits. The war genius is naturally a little cautious in such an atmosphere. But our friend reads, and ought to know what is being said and done elsewhere. We will refresh his memory presently. He says, ' That the war spirit is more than usually in the ascendant just now, all will admit.' ' Abolitionists sympathize with this feeling.' True; and therefore this is just the time for Christian Non-Resistants to stand up for their principles. He says, ' Nevertheless, it may be safely affirmed that no Society in the country embraces so large a proportion of peace men as does the American Anti-Slavery Society.' Perhaps. And it is lamentably true that this Society is converting these same peace men into war men more effectively than any other. Its end is so good, its appeals are so stirring, its advocates are so eloquent, that the Non-Resistants can hardly help going in for a little bloodshed, for the sake of the poor slave, human rights and liberty. It seems almost a duty to do evil that good may come in such a case! He says that having so many peace men in the Society has been ' our chief reproach for nearly twenty years.' Not from the pro-slavery party, has it? But from the political wing of the Anti-Slavery party. And the political abolitionists have launched their reproaches against non-voting, rather than against non-fighting, have they not? This makes quite a difference. There are many non-voters, who have no scruples against fighting to the death in what they deem a good cause. Such stand on very different ground from ours.
He further says, ' Our Anti-Slavery movement has undergone no essential change in this or any other respect. It is the same now that it was in the beginning.' Is not this asserting quite too much, in view of the extracts above made, and the relative facts stated? At first the Society restricted itself from all action that was unpeaceful, insurrectionary and unconstitutional. Now it is avowedly a revolutionary organization, seeking to overthrow the Federal Union and government, as a necessary means of abolishing chattel slavery. Is there no essential difference between these two positions? Or are we completely blinded?
We will now refresh our worthy friend's memory concerning some pro-war exhibitions, about which he certainly must have read. The last Annual Re-port of the American Anti-Slavery Society, for the years ending May 1, 1857, and May 1, 1858, refers to the Massachusetts Disunion Convention, held at Worcester, Jan. 15, 1857, and says, p. 91:-
'As was to have been expected, the Convention was made up mostly of those who, acting with the American Anti-Slavery Society or its auxiliaries, were already committed to the measure it was summoned to discuss; but with these came a few others, willing-in the words of one of them-to enroll themselves 'among those who go for the Abolition of Slavery at the price of dissolution, if need be;' and bold or wise enough to defy or despise the obloquy which such a step would provoke. After three sessions spent in able and eloquent discussion of the subject, mostly but not wholly by the tried veterans of the Anti-Slavery cause, the following Resolutions were adopted.'
Among the Resolutions was the following:-
'Resolved, That the sooner the separation takes place, the more peaceful it will be; but that peace or war is a secondary consideration, in view of our present perils. Slavery must be conquered, ' peaceably if we can, forcibly if we must.'
At the meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society near the end of the same month, Henry C. Wright said:-
'I shall say a word on the dissolution of the Union and the formation of a Northern Republic; and also on the right and duty of insurrection of slaves against their masters. These have been the topics of our past meetings, and they are topics which need to be kept before the people. How can a priest or political leader fill this function properly? Let State, county, and town meetings be called, and issue addresses to slaves, inculcating the right of insurrection-the right to gain their liberty by such means as shall seem best to them.
'I wish to form a new Union on the principle, ' No union with slaveholders.' The people are ready for it-they are only waiting for leaders; and I hope they will soon cease to wait for them. The people have got to begin, and the leaders will follow.'
Mr. Wright offered the following resolution:-'Resolved, That we recognize the right and duty of insurrection on the part of slaves, against the authority and power of those who enslave them; and we deem it our privilege to embrace every opportunity to assist and incite slaves to rebellion.'
This Resolution was modified a little, and passed by the Society, as follows:-
'Resolved, That we recognize it, as a fixed law of our being, that 'Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God,' and that, under this law, it is the right and duty of the slave to deny the authority and resist the power of the slaveholder.'
We were not present at that meeting, bat noticed this proceeding, and protested against it in an editorial article headed, Are Non-Resistants for Murder?
Passing over many sayings and doings of the same sort, we come to those of the last Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, January 1859, in Boston. Parker Pillsbury said:-
'Whoever expects to see slavery extinguished but in a Red Sea of blood, knows little of the philosophy of human experience and of human needs; and who ever believes in the use of the sword, and is not pre-paring himself for its use, is not up to the exigencies of this hour; and the young men who are not training themselves in the art of war, are probably only prolonging a strife that must end at last either in complete submission to the Slave Fewer, or in scenes
of blood at the very mention of which we well might tremble.'
<c04>
Wendell Phillips, said:-
'I like, therefore, these speeches about insurrection; for it seems to me that when the air is full of them, it is because the volcano and the earthquake are at work. That is why we smell the gas. The chinks are opening; the lava is breaking out. Now, net only the South and Southwest, not only valiant old Ossawattomie Brown, but the vanguard of thinkers, doubters, and apprehenders, all over the country, have been talking for the last five years of insurrection. It is not only in our meetings, but if you watch the papers, or look anywhere, you will see it: just as fifteen yean ago. Northern men began to talk about disunion in a whisper, and now it has been talked about until it may almost be said to be capable of cool calculation.'
Mr. Phillips was also understood farther to say at that meeting:-' I am glad that every fire minutes gives birth to a black baby; for in its infant wail I recognize the voice which shall yet about the war-cry of insurrection; its baby hand will one day hold the dagger which shall reach the master's heart.'
Many similar sentiments were expressed by different speakers. Mr. Garrison, and Mr. Holden of Lynn, declared their non-sympathy with such resorts to violence, but nine-tenths of the audience were ready to applaud them.
Theodore Parker, who when at home has always been welcomed to the rostrum of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and always more or less lauded by its leaders, has repeatedly uttered his approval of bloodshed and war in behalf of the slave and the good cause of liberty. He has been rapturously applauded on such occasions by the multitude present, but we have heard no one utter a word of dissent.-His views on this subject are strongly set forth in the following extract from his very last published book, 'Experience as a Minister,' pp. 135,136:-
'Yet I have not preached the doctrine of the Non-Resistant, who never allow an individual to repel wrong by material violence: nor that of the Ultra-Peace men, who deny a nation's right to stave off an invader's wickedness with the People's bloody hand. The Wrathful Emotions are also an integral part of Humanity, and with both nations and individuals have an indispensable function to perform, that of self-defence, which, in the present state of civilization, must sometimes be with violence, even with shedding aggressive blood. It is against needless and wicked wars-the vast majority are such-that I have preached; against the use ambitious rulers make of the soldier's trained art to kill, and of the wrathful, defensive instincts of the multitude. In this age, I think the People do not make war against the peaceful People of another land; nay, in New England, the most democratic country, we have too much neglected the military art, 1 fear,-a mistake we may bitterly regret in that strife between the Southern Habit of Despotism, and the Northern Principle of Democracy, which any day may take the form of civil war, and one day must.'
Once more. In the Liberator of Sept. 23,1859, Henry C. Wright gives an account of the great Anniversary Meeting of the Western Anti-Slavery Society, held at Alliance, 0., Sept. 4. He says:-
'All the resolutions will come to you in due time.' ' Be assured that this Convention is a glorious testimony against slavery, and in favor of freedom in Ohio, showing conclusively that the people are ready, to a great extent, for revolution in favor of freedom; ready to dissolve the union with slaveholders, and form a union with the slaves.
' A UNION WITH SLAVES! Yes, that is what the people of the North will shortly demand. Let every movement towards such a Union-a Union between the North and the Slave-pledging itself to take sides with the slave in all his efforts, whether by flight or insurrection, to free himself from the hell and horrors of American slavery, as sustained and administered by American Christians and republicans.'
If these facts and proofs do not make out our case, it must fail. Bmt they do to our satisfaction, though they are only samples of the mass which must remain unadduced for want of time and space.
4. Concerning petitions to State Legislatures for Dissolution of the Union, nullification of the Fugitive Slave Law, etc. We cannot sign them. Our kind friend McKim says,-' Very well; his duty then is p!ain. Let him withhold his signature. He is not alone in this respect. Others, without a thought of leaving the Society, have the same scruple?. A majority, however, regard it as their duty to circulate petitions of this character. Let them do so; they are responsible, not he, for their acts.' Answer. But this majority act as the Society. They pass Society Resolutions, recommending and urging these measures. They do not merely operate as individuals, nor as actors on some other platform.-This alters the case. The minority are responsible for remaining members of a Society, which, as a Society, is violating what they deem divine principles. Else why is it a duty to come out from the Church and the State en account of pro-slavery and pio-war? Suppose a majority of the Society should pass resolutions recommending the formation of revolutionary Vigilance Committees, Military Companies, etc. This would only be carrying forward the work they have begun. Could the minority still stay in the Society, and not be responsible? We do not see it so.
5. Why do we not ' essay to ripen ' the Anti-Slavery people to come up higher, and stand with us? Our friend says,-'Is the thing impossible? Then he had better doubt the truth of his position. If it can be done, who better qualified for the work than Adin Ballou; or where will more favorable opportunities offer than are afforded on the platform of the American Anti-Slavery Society?' Answer. Is not our brother a little too fast? 'Will be guarantee to us ample opportunity on the Anti-Slavery platform to preach and defend our Christian Non-Resistance principles, as against pro-war and pro-vengeance Anti-Slavery? It he will, we pledge our-j self to accept the task of essaying to ripen some of our I fighting friends to ' come up higher, and stand with us.' But it cannot be so. It has never been considered legitimate to use the Anti-Slavery platform for the advocacy of Christian Non-Resistance, except incidentally. Nothing like a full discussion of the question on that platform would anywhere, even in Pennsylvania, much less elsewhere, be deemed proper. We cannot have misapprehended so plain a fact. If we have, let Br. McKim procure us the Resolve of some Anti-Slavery Society, pledging us a full bearing on the subject, and we will humbly endeavor to do our duty. But so far as we have found suitable opportunities to plead for our principles, we have not been wholly remiss in times past, and hope not to be in time to come. The very article which our friend has criticised, and this reply, are essays in that belief. What is more necessary to this end, than for us to let our Anti-Slavery friends know that we cannot go even with them against our religious principles .
Our friend under the same bead goes on to chide us for 'an apparent despondency 'in our tone.-And he quotas a paragraph from our article in proof of it. Well, we confess that we are so weak as to experience seasons of despondency sometimes. We can almost say, at such times, ' My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even onto death.' We have hoped, more of men and things on the plane of professed Reform than we have realized. We have keenly felt our disappointment. If others are more lion-hearted, they must try to be all the considerate of us. yet we are not utterly east down in despair. We have high hopes still, and some strength left to struggle for what we deem truth and righteousness, even though left in a very meagre minority. Our friend says, ’This looks almost like shirking duty. The voice of the majority imposes no obligation of submission.' Answer. But when the majority is very strong, it sometimes imposes on a conscientious dissenter the necessity of submitting to be silent till he can get a more willing and sympathetic audience. This, however, our friend will not allow to be true in our case; for says he,-' If he does not make it a point of debate, it is because he will not. He has the right, and one would suppose he would feel it to be his duty.' Answer. What! to rise up on the Anti-Slavery platform, and object that the measures resolved upon or recommended are contrary to Christian Nun-Resistance, and therefore ought not to be passed by the Society, and to argue the point on that ground? This is news to us. We never felt that we had any such right on that platform. But if we have, we will soon put ourselves in the way of exercising it at full length; though we know very well before-hand we shall be voted down ten to one It might, however, serve to open some eyes, and convert a few sonls to the ' more excellent way,' and so pay the labor. Yet we have greatly mistaken the genius of the Anti-Slavery platform, if any man would be considered in order to raise such points of debate, and argue them at full length as legitimate. Still we are willing to learn the contrary, if it be true. We can only say, hitherto we have never so understood the matter; and that when we an convinced of our mistake, we will demand such a hearing for our principles as their sacred importance, in our judgment deserves.
<c05>
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who safer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:-
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, ERUPTIONS AND ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES,BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUX, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL DISEASE, DROPST, NEURALGIA OR TIC DOULOURRUX, DEBILITT, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION, ERYSIPELAS, ROSE OR ST. ANTHONY'S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that sea. son of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; bat with this pabulum of life disorder d, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the greet machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else.
During late yean the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.
PREPARED BY
DB. J. C. AVER & CO.
LOWELL, MASS. Price, $1 per Battle; Six Bottles for $5.
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the core of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer's-Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery. Foul Stomach, Erysipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, Liter Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt Rheum, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic. Price, 25 cents per Fox; Five boxes for $100.
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our American Almanac, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & CO., Boston.
BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. HAT, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N. H. Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every where.
6m May 7

LANDS FOR SALE.
A LARGE number of parcels of land are hereby offered for sale to persons of liberal and reformatory ideas and tendencies, sympathizing with the fundamental principles and general objects of the Hopedale Community. These parcels, lying in and contiguous to the village of Hopedale, Milford, Mass., and constituting a part of the original Community Domain, are of different sizes, ranging from two to twenty acres, and present a good variety of tillage and pasturage, together with some woodland-most of the tillage being under a high state of cultivation-and are designed either for simple building lots, or for small farms, as may suit different classes of purchasers. Upon some of them are pleasant dwellings, and tenements in the village may be rented by those unprepared to buy or erect buildings. In the immediate vicinity there is a Foundry, suitable shop room and power, and an unoccupied Mill-privilege, rendering the location a favorable one for mechanics either to commence or continue a business, and especially for those who may desire to combine with their usual avocations such horticultural employment as health, measure, or profit may dictate. Persons also of literary inclinations and pursuits may obtain that quiet retirement, and the opportunity for active, oat-door manual or other exercise necessary to the highest usefulness and success in their chosen field of labor. And any or all of the class to whom the lands are offered, who may desire for themselves and families the superior moral and social influences of Hopedale, or who may wish to secure for their children the advantages of the Hopedale Home School-a flourishing Institution of much excellence, both in its general character and in its methods of instruction, designed to aid in the attainment of thorough, symmetrical, and practical Education--will find here unusual inducements for making themselves at Home.
These lands are within two miles of the Milford Station, on the Boston and Worcester R. R., by which communication may be had three times a day with Boston and the principal thoroughfares of New England.
Prices reasonable, and terms of payment suited to the circumstances of any honest, industrious, economical family.
For further particulars and all necessary information, inquire of E. D. DRAPER,
Hopedale, Milford, Mass,
June 17, 1859.-tf.

HOPEDALE LANDS OPENED FOR SETTLEMENT.
We bespeak attention to Br. E. D. Draper's advertisement as above, offering for sale sundry parcels of Hopedale land. Some two years since, when most of the Joint Stock Property of the Hopedale Community was individualized and divided among the stock-hold-en, a large portion of the Community Domain went legitimately into the private possession of Br. Draper. He has recently caused his lands to be surveyed into homesteads of from two to twenty acres each, with a view to offer them for sale to parsons friendly to our distinguishing principle, who may choose to settle in our midst. We hope that a goodly number of friends, cherishing a general sympathy with our people, and desiring to give their children the advantages of our excellent select and common schools, will avail themselves of the new opening. Seeing that we must be disappointed in not realizing the Unitary social arrangement, the anticipation of which originally at tracted us hither, the next host thing is, to see as good a Neighborhood built op as circumstances will allow. We are therefore pleased with Br. Draper's new plan of offering small homesteads for sale to our friends scattered abroad. May the movement be crowned with success-Pactical Christian.
<c06>
IT IS NOT A DYE! MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER,
The only preparation that has a 
EUROPEAN REPUTATION.
Warranted not to contain deleterious substances.
This pleasant and valuable preparation has been used for many years by Hundreds of the most distinguished and wealthy persons, who have previously tried all nostrums of the day without success, some even injuring their hair and health. this is entirely different from all others.
'IS THERE ANY VIRTUE IN
Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorative'
'We can answer this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived benefit from it. 
'Persons personally known to us have come voluntarily,
and told us of good results to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it became known in St. Louis.' St. Louis Presbyterian.
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S HAIR RESTORATIVE
given universal satisfaction, wherever it has be a used. It can be used with perfect safety, and its perfect freeness from all soiling, renders it a very desirably article for the toilet'.
Ch'n Witness and Ch. Advocate, Boston, Mass 
‘MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLDS HAIR RESTORER is worthy of confidence.’ 
Philadelphia Christian Chronicle
‘Incomparably the best preparation we have ever used'. N. Y. Evangelist.
‘All are compelled to acknowledge Mrs. S.A.AL
Len's as the Hair Restorer'. N. Y. Independent
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer has
taken its place at the head of all article of the kind.' Michigan Christian Herald.
‘Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.'
Knoxville Presbyterian Witness.
‘There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair. published in the Advocate which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that of Mrs. S. A. Allen's.
Buffalo Christian Advocate.
‘Another objection to dyes is the unlife-like color, and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way to have grey hair assume its NATURAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will be effect ual and yet not a dye-MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER will do this.' U. S. Journal. 
'In these times, when every cosmetic is warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day, it is refreshing to come across that which is whit it Pretends to be. A really excellent article it Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S World's Hair Restorer. As am assistant to nature, it is of great service; sad a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Its properties are perfectly harmless it being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilitate the natural growth of hair.'
Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston,
'Those of our readers whose hair is turning grey or losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will find in Mrs. S. A. Alum's World's HAIR Restorer a preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair, possessing none of the burning qualities of a dye. Philadelphia Mercury.
'There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RBSTORER. Why in this? Simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and most extensive, and we begin to think that it is denominated most appropriately the 'World's Hair Restorer.'
Newark Register.
'We have reason to be assured that 'Mrs. S. A. AL-LEN'S World's Hair Restorer ' is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrate that its efficacy is generally appreciated 
Rahway Register..
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER. The most successful remedy of the day. We know of instances where is good effects have hem r-mark-able.'
Weekly Visitor, Franklin N. Y.
From individual cases that have come under our ova
observation, we are satisfied that ' Mrs. S. A. ALUM'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' performs all that it promises, and that instead (as is the ease with other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless waste of lime sad money it is just what it is represented to be, tad will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform. We therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need s remedial agent of this character.’
St. Louis Ledger.
‘Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.-As we were travelling in Massachusetts a short rim since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. Alter some conversation she spoke of her hair, informing us that two years ago, at least one half of it was grey, and that had feared that, before then the whole would have turned or fallen off. But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair, and at length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen's Restorer. She to, and applied it according to directions, and before a year had passed, she assured us that she had as luxurious, even and beautiful head of hair. a when was but sixteen years old. Her statement was confirmed by other members of the firmed, while w were informed that in. the same neighborhood there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produced by applying Mrs. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer.'
Providence Daily Tribune.
‘Among the very few preparations that we deem is-serving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit' Mrs. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER.' It has been thoroughly tested, and found to all its inventor claims for it; and to deny its excellence would be to deny the assertions made in its favor by scores and hundreds of the persons.'
Rahway Advocate and Register.
Mrs. S.A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is the best preparation extant for the various diseases incident to the hair and scalp, and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers, however grey, to their natural color. It having been before the public for many years, and its efficacy in restoring, invigorating, and beautifying the hair fully established, by hosts of persons throughout the country, has led to the manufacture of many worthless imitations which have been successfully palmed off in numerous instances, upon the public as genuine.'
Brooklyn Morning Journal.
'This preparation is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair. It possesses none of the burning, cauterizing powers of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glossy appearance almost instantaneously. The Restorer is easily applied, and will not stain the finest linen. The effect is sure in every instance, if applied according to the directions.' Mercury, Philadelphia.
'We are satisfied that the statements made in advertisement of MRS. S.A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTOPRER are correct.' Boston Olive Branch.
'Its remarkable success is satisfactory evidence.'
Norfolk Argus.
'Those unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success.' Boston Transcript.
'It is just what it purports to be.' Cleve Leader.
We might swell this list, but it not convinced, TRY IT.
We export these preparations to Europe even, and they are superseding all others as well as in the United States.
It does not soil or stain. Sold by all the principal wholesale and retail merchants in the U.S. Cuba, or Canada.
DEPOT, 355 BROOME STREET, N.Y
where address all letters and inquiries.
Some dealers try to sell articles instead of this. on which they make profit. Write to Depot for circular, terms and information. Genuine is singed, Mrs.S.A. Allen, written in ink. Bey are of counterfeits.
See next issue of this Paper for were information, or send to Depot for Circulars.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
