THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty, cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 27. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 4, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1645.
Refugee of Oppression.
<c01>
SLAVERY FOREVER! 
The Missouri State Convention having refused even to entertain a proposition for a gradual and compensated emancipation in that State, the Boston Post Coolly says:-
It is not material, in our view of the case, what considerations lead the people of Missouri to take this view of their duty; still it is worth while to hear what the friends of non-action say about it. The Convention has declined, the St Louis Republican says, “to bring new dividing issues into our politics to distract the harmony of the loyal people, and launch the community, not yet recovered from the exhausting struggles of the last twelve months, upon discussions they are in no temper to entertain, much less decide. In a word, it has very quietly, by a vote of nearly three to one-fifty-two to nineteen are the exact figures-expressed the opinion, that the present is not a time to agitate the question of emancipating the slaves of this State." We should suppose that the common sense portion of the people, even here in Massachusetts, would say at once that this was a wise decision. But, unhappily, everything here is made to centre on slavery; very honest people are under the hallucination that the Union will be nothing, unless at once every man of the negro race is made free; the belief in Charles Sumner's prophetical afflatus is very general; and the present leaders of the Republican party, being very desirous to enjoy the honors and emoluments that flow from the State House and Washington are determined to use this hallucination. Hence the sway of common sense is very doubtful, while adroit leaders still very successfully use the slavery question to perpetuate their power.
But will nothing open the eyes of the people to the suicidal work of ruin to which these selfish leaders are hurrying them? Their course, on its merit, cannot stand a moment. The people of Massachusetts and of New England may not like this decision, and deplore this state of feeling; they may affirm that this shows in that State an inferior plane of civilization; they may say it is immeasurably short of the ideal that our advance corps of reformers-have before them as their excelsior, which can be seen at work in any of the anti-slavery conventions when black spirits and white fraternize. But this is not the question at all. The point is, not what the feelings or ideal of the immaculate Charles Sumner may be, or of Massachusetts may be, but what right have we here in Massachusetts to say that North Carolina shall open schools to teach the blacks to read, or to say that Missouri shall emancipate her slaves? Are we here in New England to enter upon the business of saying to the State of Missouri, you shall declare the negroes in your limits to be freemen, and shall allow them to remain as such in your limits? This intermeddling policy, this propagandist policy, is now the civil question of the time. It has fairly come to this.
The signs of the times are alarming as to civil affairs. Those who have hope for our country can have little hope, if the monstrous test of loyalty is to be the immediate emancipation of the slaves. This would be revolutionary. Indeed, the politicians, unscrupulous partisans, men who have greedy hands in the public crib-the Abolitionists alike with the Secessionists-are the real enemies in our unhappy country.

A SPECIMEN OF MAINE DEMOCRACY.
I desire here to remark that, I do not, by any means, in what I say, allude to the conservative majority of the Republican party. I speak only of the intensified abolition element, which, though contemptibly inferior in point of numbers, still manages to tone the policy of that whole political organization. The real struggle in the Republican camp to-day is, on the part of a few old fashioned Abolitionists to wield the power of that party and the triumphant results of this war to the promotion of their old but ever-repudiated fanatical desires. It is with this faction, really, that the loyal feeling of the country has now to deal. By its vigorous asperity, it domineers over the real strength of the Republican party to-day. It is, confessedly, at the bottom of this war. It announces, under the shadow of the White House even, through the lips of Phillips, &c., that Union dissolution is, and ever has been, its purpose and design. Those infamous declarations were greeted with undisguised applause by Vice President Hamlin, Senators Wilson and Sumner, Garrison, Fred Douglas, et omne genus. These men, some of them, are sworn to support the Constitution of which this traitor Phillips is a confessed but happily-balked assassin, and to whom, with these treasonable sentences yet resting behind his teeth, they extend the right hand of political fellowship!
That sentiment yet applauds Hunter's proclamation-it assails the policy of Lincoln-it sustains the coarse and brutal ambition of Secretary Stanton—it yells for blood, and dreads only a constitutional Union reorganization, resting upon the foundation upon which the Fathers of the Republic originally placed it.
In the same boat must go over the great political Niagara of popular repudiation, Abolitionism, Maine-lawism, and all the other humbug organizations which have now too long afflicted the peace and prosperity of the people. There will be, comparatively speaking, no difficulty in bringing this war to a close when the people shall choose to choke down those voices, in and out of Congress, and in and out of State Legislatures, which, for miserable personal purposes, are daily feeding the fires of rebellion.
We, in Maine, are a loyal, “hard-fisted” people. We do not understand the treasonable sophistry which rules in sentences such as these. We mean the Union,-and we do not mean anything else,-do not care to study the halting patriotism of the following:-
“But if the President will sustain General Hunter, and recognize all men, even black men, as legally capable of that loyalty the blacks are waiting to manifest, and let them fight, with God and human nature on their side, the roads will swarm, if need be, with multitudes, whom New England would pour out to obey your call.
Your obedient servant, JOHN A. ANDREW.”
That Mr. Lincoln has found himself obliged to brave and leave the phantom theories of the Chicago platform, is but another and familiar recognition of the great truth that only upon Democratic principles can this Government be either administered or even preserved. That fact is so-else why have these dusky Republican leaders, behind the flimsy disguises of lame and lame and halting professions, left to Democrats not only the stern performances of the battle-field, but the superadded duty of defending his war policy against their covert and malignant assaults? The “roads of New England will swarm,” says your Governor, “if this war can be converted into a negro-arming, emancipation, Abby Folsom war!
<c02>
Otherwise, our young men are pre-occupied!" That is both rich and patriotic—in street phrase, rather "mixed." Allow me to say, that in that response of your Governor to the appeal of the Federal authorities for the means of its own self-preservation, he displayed the open, black palm of a most intense Abolition hand. No one can doubt his intellectual ability; but who, after reading this most singular response, can confess to his patriotism? Abhorrence, on all hands, greeted its publication here. We in Maine are a hard-fisted people. There are no "ifs" or "conditions" in our determination to support the Federal Government in putting down this war. Our Governor said at the opening of this strife, that a "conditional Union man was an UNCONDITIONAL TRAITOR." Whose head does that cap fit?—manufactured, too, by a Republican Governor?—Correspondence of the Boston Post, Augusta, Me.

WHAT DANIEL WEBSTER SAID.
To the Editors of the N. Y. Express:
"THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT."
Soon after this declaration was made by its distinguished author, and his followers, the abolitionists and fanatics, had joined hands and formed a party organization, a great and good man, who still lives—in memory—said, in the hearing of the writer of this, as follows, to wit: "If these infernal fanatics and abolitionists ever get power in their hands, they will override the Constitution, set the Supreme Court at defiance, change and make laws to suit themselves, lay violent hands on those who differ with them in their opinion, or dare question their infallibility; and, finally, bankrupt the country and deluge it with blood!"
Happy for the far-seeing author of the above, he did not live to see his prediction fulfilled. He now "sleeps his last sleep"; but he will ever "live in the hearts of his countrymen," while those whom he so truly denounced will only be remembered to be cursed by their countrymen and the whole civilized world! They deserve to be hanged—ought to have been hanged before the present "civil" war commenced, and then we should have had peace and prosperity, instead of war and ruin. Well, they may get their just deserts yet, for "God is just," and "truth is mighty and will prevail."
Oh, that "all men" would learn to respect, uphold, defend and live up to the glorious Constitution our fathers made,—mind their own business, and not meddle with that which does not concern them,— the only way we can ever get the Union restored, and live together in peace and prosperity.
TRUTH.
[Our correspondent gives both his name and address.]

CHARLES SUMNER.
The New Bedford Standard sounds the alarm for Sumner. It smells his defeat, and calls upon "the rural districts" to come in, and save him from the plots of the "aristocracy." It takes it for granted that the Republicans can have no other candidate but him, oblivious apparently of the wily, rotund little gentleman at the State House, and, of what is far stronger, the sound conservative sentiment which will appear in its retributive strength when the time comes, and strive to put in place of the whining, shallow rhetorician, who, for twelve years, has been an arch-agitator in Congress, a man capable of fairly representing Massachusetts, her patriotism and business interests, and of wielding properly the influence conferred by the honored Commonwealth upon her delegates in Washington. Surely, there is a better time coming for the old Bay State; a time when she may point with some of her old pride to her Senators, and no longer blush at their incapacity, their demagogism, their utter want of statesmanlike qualities, their persistent, absorbing negrophilism, and indifference to the true needs of the hour. Such a time is foreshadowed by the New Bedford radical, which perks up its head to shout an anti-slavery cry in behalf of Charles Sumner, betraying its fear and his by an early demonstration of the weakness of its candidate throughout the State, and its dread of the reaction that already sounds his political death-knell.—Boston Post.
[From the Boston Courier.]
Mr. Cox, of Ohio, has prepared the epitaph below upon the Congress of which he is a member. The people are impatiently expecting its dissolution, the erection of its monument, the conspicuous inscription of the epitaph, as a memorial to all future times. Warning enough it has already afforded of the infinite evils which have resulted from electing men to national office upon sectional grounds—of the advantage it has afforded to the radical gang, of the embarrassments in which it has involved many men whose sentiments and convictions are averse to radicalism, of the irreparable mischiefs which have thence overwhelmed the country. When the body of this Congress is dissolved, its spirit will evaporate. In the words of Dr. Watts, it may now be said of it—
"Its memory and its sense are gone"-
and then we can complete the couplet—
"Alike unknowing and unknown."

EPITAPH.
HERE LIE THE ASHES OF THE XXXVII. CONGRESS!
It found the United States in a war of
gigantic proportions, involving
ITS VERY EXISTENCE.
It was content to wield the sceptre of Power
and accept the emoluments of office,
and used them to overthrow
the political and social system of the country which
IT WAS SWORN TO PROTECT.
It saw the fate of thirty-four white Commonwealths in 
peril, but it babbled of the
NEGRO!
It saw patriotic generals and soldiers in the
field under the old flag;
It slandered the one, and in the absence of the other,
IT DESTROYED HIS MEANS OF LABOR.
It talked of Liberty to the black, and piled 
burdens of taxation on white people
for schemes utopian.
The people launched at it the thunderbolt
OF THEIR WRATH,
and its members sought to avoid punishment
by creeping into dishonored
political graves!
Requiescat!
HIC JACET. When are we to see this session of Congress end? It cannot adjourn, after fixing a tax bill, too soon for the good of the country. Wendell Phillips says Sumner rules the Senate and Lovejoy rules the House, and then claims that the Abolition element rules them. Too much, far too much has there been to justify this allegation. At any rate, the Abolitionists are in extacies at the course of the ultras; and as the radicals rise, the country will sink. The distrust and disgust for this Congress are daily increasing. It is ruled, not by high aims of statesmanship, but by small, adroit men, who are engineering for party.—Boston Post.
Selections.
<c03>
ON THE RECOGNITION OF HAYTI, AND ON HAYTIAN AMBASSADORS.
The bitterest pill that the Border State slave-masters have had to swallow this session has been the recognition of the independence of the nationality of Hayti. One of the most eminent statesmen of the country,—a man careful of his words,—in speaking of this measure, described it as "a stupendous event." The newspapers have not said much about it, for the reason that the war-fever prevents editors from thinking carefully of any subject not immediately connected with carnage. "At any other time," said the distinguished legislator whom we have just quoted, "all the journals would have been full of it; every speech would have been widely printed, every incident of the debates noted and commented on—but, now, only a few lines will be given to it. Why, if the archangel Gabriel were to come down to the Senate, and deliver an oration such as he would make before the Throne of God, his advent would hardly be noticed."
It is indeed a great event, whether regarded an a prophecy or as a guarantee. It means that this Government henceforth recognizes Blacks as citizens, capable of a National life; not as chattels who have no rights which white men are bound to respect. It means that it may be necessary to create a Continental Hayti, by giving up the Gulf States, or large portions of them, to the colored race. That is the prophecy concealed in it.
It means, furthermore, that the aegis of the American Union is henceforth thrown around the Nationality of Hayti; that if Spain, for example, attempted to conquer it, she would find herself suddenly confronted by the power of the United States. And she knows what that means to her—that Cuba and Porto Rico would be the first trophies of the Yankees. This is the guarantee.
The effect of this act will be highly beneficial in Hayti. When the present President of Hayti took his oath of office, he found 24,000 men in arms. He has gradually reduced this army one-half. But a further reduction has been rendered difficult, we have been told, by the fact that the people fear a quarrel with the United States, and desire to preserve the nucleus of an army. This fear is now removed, and we hope soon to hear that the army has been reduced to 5,000 men, which, considering the population of Hayti, is a large force—sufficiently large for a peace footing. Thus, by the recent act of Congress, 5,000 men will in all probability be restored to agriculture in Hayti—five large industrial regiments added thereby to the labor of the Republic.
There will be commercial advantages also, but these we count of comparative unimportance.
We propose to publish the debate in the House of Representatives on the Recognition of Hayti, and may hereafter have some comments to make on it. At this time we have a few words to say respecting the debate in the Senate, which we have already printed in pamphlet form.
Kentucky has the misfortune to be represented in the Senate by a garrulous old man, named Garrett Davis, the successor of John C. Breckinridge, whom he does not resemble in three particulars—for the ex-Vice President was a man of ability, in manner and in speech a gentleman, and he is now an open rebel. This unfortunate Kentuckian,-on the 24th of April last, after spitting out a large piece of tobacco which he had been chewing, arose, put his hands in his pockets, and addressed the Senate on the Bill for the Recognition of Hayti. Mr. Davis began by saying that he was sick and disgusted—not, as we were, at his filthy habits, but—with the “introduction of slaves and slavery into this chamber." He had no objection to forming treaties of commerce with Hayti and Liberia—like all slaveholders, he was willing enough to make money out of "colored people, to use the mild term," (as he said)—it was the idea of putting them on terms of equality with the whites, that was so abhorrent to his refined Kentuckian sensibilities.
He showed that he was equally illiterate and illbred, by using the following language:—
I have not the least objection to the recognition by our Government of the existence of those two republics as independent Powers, and I have no objection to any extent of commercial relations between our country and those two republics. I have no objection to the negotiation of a treaty of amity and commerce and friendship between our Government and the Governments of those countries; but I oppose the sending of ambassadors of any class from our Government to theirs, upon this consideration: it would establish, diplomatically, terms of mutual and equal reciprocity between the two countries and us. If, after such a measure should take effect, the republic of Hayti and the republic of Liberia were to send their ministers plenipotentiary or their charges d'affaires to our Government, they would have to be received by the President and by all the functionaries of the Government upon the same terms of equality with similar representatives from other Powers. If a full-blooded negro were sent in that capacity from either of these countries, by the laws of nations he could demand that he be received precisely on the same terms of equality with the white representatives from the Powers of the earth composed of white people. When the President opened his saloons to the reception of the diplomatic corps, when he gave his entertainments to such diplomats, the representatives of whatever color from those countries would have the right to demand admission upon terms of equality with all other diplomats; and if they had families consisting of negro wives and negro daughters, they would have the right to ask that their families also be invited to such occasions, and that they go there and mingle with the whites of our own country and of other countries that happened to be present. We recollect that a few years ago the refined French court admitted and received the representative of Soulouque, who then denominated him self or was called the Emperor of Dominica, I think.
Mr. SUMNER. Of Hayti.
Mr. DAVIS. Well, a great big negro fellow, dressed out with his silver or gold lace clothes in the most fantastic and gaudy style, presented himself in the court of Louis Napoleon, and, I admit, was received. Now, sir, I want no such exhibition as that in our capital and in our Government. The American minister, Mr. Mason, was present on that occasion, and he was sleeved by some Englishman—I have forgotten his name—who was present, who pointed him to the ambassador of Soulouque, and said, 'What do you think of him?' Mr. Mason turned round and said, 'I think, clothes and all, he is worth $1,000.'" (Laughter.)
It is due to the Senate to say that the “laughter” which is reported to have followed this coarse story proceeded from the mouth of the speaker only—for no other Senator seemed to see where the humor of it lay.
Without stopping to comment on the vulgarity so clearly shown by telling such a story, and by endorsing the brutality it narrated—without pointing out the ridiculous vanity which causes a Kentuckian
In a subsequent debate he avowed himself ready to confiscate the slaves of rebels, provided they were sold, and the money put into the treasury! but was utterly opposed to their liberation.
<c04>
of low birth to be fastidious where the French court is cordial—we come at once to the facts of the case, and to a vindication of Haytian ambassadors.
This story is told of M. DAMIER, once Haytian ambassador at St. James. We personally know this gentleman, and can aver that he is, both intellectually and in manners, the superior of Mr. Senator Davis. He not only speaks his native language purely, but would be ashamed to mispronounce the English tongue as the Senator from Kentucky does. We have heard Mr. Davis speak in the United States Senate only and certainly he does not pronounce the English language purely thar. And, if not thar, whar does he speak it correctly? But we forbar, and pass on to the others.
Mr. DUPUY was a distinguished financier, and, on being expelled from Hayti by Soulouque, made a fortune in California by commercial pursuits. He is said, by all who know him, to be a man of superior merit and culture.
Mr. LINSTANT PRADINE is the editor of the "Recueil General des Lois et Actes du Government d'Haiti, dupuis la proclamation de son Independence jusqu'a nos jours; avec des Notes historiques de jurisprudence et de concordance,"—an erudite work, whose very title we question whether Mr. Davis can read.
Mr. S. LINSTANT is the author of an "Essay on the means of extirpating the prejudices of the whites against the color of the African and the Mixed Bloods,"—a work which carried off the prize of the "French Society for the Abolition of Slavery," although several eminent English and American writers contended for it.
Mr. MADIOU is the author of an "Histoire d'Haiti," in three volumes, and is the first Haytian who has written the history of his country. This learned work was the first presentation of the Haytian view of the history of the Island, and is a book of established authority.
Mr. ARDOUIN is the author of a history of Hayti, in twelve volumes—a brilliant and philosophical production, which the entire historical literature of the Southern States is unable to equal.
These are the men who have been Haytian ambassadors—all of them men of culture, ability, and refinement; men who would degrade their character by familiar association with either the Senator from Kentucky, or the Senator from Delaware. If any one of them comes to the United States, or whoever comes, the Senator from Kentucky may rest assured that he will fulfil Mr. Sumner's prophecy when he said—
“I have more than once had the opportunity of meeting citizens of these republics, and I say nothing more than truth when I add that I have found them so refined and so full of self-respect, that I am led to believe no one of them charged with a mission from his Government will seek any society where he will not be entirely welcome. Sir, the Senator from Kentucky may banish all anxiety on that account. No representative from Hayti or Liberia will trouble him."—Pine and Palm.

WAR EXPENSES, AND WHO SHALL PAY.
It would require the pen of inspiration to make out the cost of the present pro-slavery rebellion. Human skill at figures would utterly fail. The danger in every computation is to make the amount too small. It is well to think over the matter, however, in the light of dollars and cents, and to keep in mind our extraordinary expenditures.
We cannot estimate the value of liberty, justice, and humanity by any earthly standard of value. Gold and silver, houses and lands, goods and chattels, and all mere creature comforts, sink out of sight and out of mind in the presence of these priceless, heaven-born principles. For these we will fight to the last, pour out without stint our money and our blood, and the God of the poor and down-trodden shall be with us, and give us a glorious victory.
The cost of the war to the Government, up to the 1st day of July, will be not less than $600,000,000. This amount, however, is but a small part of the total expenses of this monstrous rebellion. Who can estimate the damage it has been, and will be, to individuals? Hundreds of millions have already been lost by the depreciation, waste, and destruction of private property. How many ships have been sunk or burned! How many have been idle in our harbors! How many houses, with their contents, have been destroyed! What a vast amount of breadstuff's and other necessaries of life have, been worse than wasted! Who can tell how many millions of days the past year have been idly spent? Time is money.
The loss on the real estate of the country, now going a-begging in all quarters, can only be counted by thousands of millions of dollars. How has business suffered in every city, town, and village! The losses here in profits and by depreciation of stock have been fabulous. The wheels of manufactories have been stopped, machine-shops have been closed, and every channel of trade has been clogged. Mechanics, laborers, and professional men have been forced to join the army to save their families from starvation.
The merchants of New York alone, it is estimated, have lost, in bad debts South, more than $100,000,000. Hundreds here have been utterly ruined in consequence. We know a large number of mercantile firms who, two years ago, were regarded independent, but are now hopelessly bankrupt. Their only hope of relief from the crushing burdens resting upon them is in Congress, whither they now look with distressing anxiety. What Senator or Representative will refuse to give them help?
Nearly the whole capital of the country has been diverted from its ordinary peaceful channels. It is used for war instead of aiding to promote our national growth and prosperity. The accumulated property of generations—the surplus gains of an industrious people, on which have rested our commercial strength and thrift—has thus in a moment been swept away.
We are supporting an army of 600,000 men, who have been producers, but are now consumers. Figures will fail to show the immense loss in this direction. But the expenditures and losses must go on for years to come. Sufferings and privations, caused by this unholy war, may begin now, but they will not end, it may be, for a century. How many have pledged their property—their all—to find means for support through these pinching times! Embarrassments thus begun will, in numerous cases, end in bankruptcy and utter ruin. Homesteads will be sold, and hundreds of thousands of dollars will thus be sacrificed, in many a little family group.
What is to become of the great army of maimed and crippled soldiers? What a mighty host of pensioners, for years, will draw their living from our national Treasury! These patriots, who counted not their lives dear unto them, will now add little to the capital of the country. They must be nursed and tenderly cared for till every tongue among them shall cease to tell the story of our wrongs, and the price they have paid for liberty? The millions for their support we will give ungrudgingly.
The total losses of the nation and of individuals,
<c05>
traceable directly and indirectly to the war, cannot be less than ten thousand millions of dollars.
The losses of other nations have also been, and will be, immense. How vast will now be the war expenditures abroad! Whole fleets—thousands of iron-clad naval ships—must be built. Money will flow like water in this direction.
Could we value the tears, the sighs, the groans, which this war has cost, and will cost, the amount would far exceed all other expenditures. How many homes have been made desolate for ever! How the heart's blood will flow for years to come at losses which neither money nor gratitude can ever repair! The father, the joy and support of a happy home—the darling son, the hope and consolation of loving parents—the affectionate husband—the devoted brother—these by thousands have been snatched away, leaving a void which can never be filled. Here will be loss and suffering which can only be repaired hereafter, in that land where liberty and justice are never imperiled, and where for every earthly trial there shall be full satisfaction.
The nation is now agitated on the subject of confiscation. The question is, who shall pay the expenses of this infernal rebellion? Our voice on that subject shall be loud and plain. We say, most emphatically, Let the burden, for a quarter of a century at least, rest on the shoulders of the rebels. Let there be no more tender-footed marching in that direction. Jeff. Davis & Co. should now be told, in unmistakable language, that those who inaugurated this war, who broke loose from the most benign and prosperous Government on earth, who have directly caused death by tens of thousands, and losses by thousands of millions,—that these men now shall be made to suffer.-New York Independent.

COLOR—NORTH AND SOUTH.
It seems to be a cardinal feature of American policy to exile—by compulsion if necessary—a considerable part of our laboring population. We Whites are so fond of hard, rough, ill-paid work, that we are afraid the Blacks will get it all away from us if we let them stay among us. We don't want to be office-holders, doctors, lawyers, professors, merchants, &c., but hostlers, boot-blacks, and wood-sawyers; and we fear that Sambo, if suffered to remain here, will monopolize the vocations we covet. Then he smells offensively—that is, if free-for none of us are repelled by his odor so long as he remains a slave. Our Southern aristocracy and chivalry are nursed on Black bosoms and dandled in Black arms—Blacks are the playmates of their infancy and the companions of their youth; it is only freedom that makes them so disgusting that we liken them to repulsive reptiles. And it won't do to send them a thousand miles off to live and labor by themselves—they must be thrust out of our country or we cannot rest satisfied.
It is fortunate that this hateful spirit—which is loudly commended as a Caucasian instinct, felt by the entire White race—is unknown beyond our own borders. Hayti has for two years been taking hundreds of these people from our shores, paying their passage out and giving them six months subsistence; but her people, being negroes, know no better. What shall we say, however, to the formal offer of Denmark to take these despised "contrabands" off our hands, and remove them to her island of St. Croix at her own cost? The Danes are at least as white as we are—they are not ignorant of negroes, having had them on their hands, both slave and free, for generations. She has many of them in St. Croix now, and, like Oliver Twist, "wants some more." She is willing to take all we have to spare. And if her narrow island should thus be over peopled, other European Powers that have West India or other tropical colonies will gladly take what she does not need. So it seems that negro-hate, so far from being a universal Caucasian instinct, is scarcely known out of this country. And if slavery were stone dead to-day, the expatriation of our Blacks would no more be urged than that of our red-haired men and women. It is sheer truckling to the slavehold-holder that raises the clamor for negro expatriation. When he is told that the Blacks must be exiled if liberated, he drugs his conscience with the narcotic that it is better to keep them in bondage than to drive them into exile.
So with the popular horror of having Blacks in our armies. Jeff. Davis has had Blacks in his Military service these six months at least, and he has just decreed a new and sweeping conscription, by which he summons all Mulatto as well as White males between the age of 20 and that of 55 to enter the Confederate military service at once. Of course it is fighting, not digging that he wants of these Mulattoes; otherwise, he would call in Negroes as well as Mulattoes. His men fight beside Negroes and Mulattoes; ours, it is said, will not. If so, they are not nearly so much in earnest as the rebels. Shall not these things be taken to heart?—N. Y. Tribune.

NEGRO-PHOBIA vs. NEGRO EQUALITY-PHOBIA.
FRIEND SWIFT—As I have read the remarks of Messrs. Davis, Saulsbury, et al., in the United States Senate, on the question of a recognition of Hayti and Liberia as independent governments, have noticed that their only argument against the bill is the danger of being obliged to receive a colored minister from one or both of them. This, to these gentlemen, is a dreadful thing. They think that it would be a terrible affliction to the people of the South, and, therefore, the bill ought not to pass. This, at first sight, would indicate that these gentlemen, and those for whom they speak, are terribly afflicted with Negro-phobia. If we consider the habits of these people, we shall see that this can not be the case. Why, sir, when these men were little babies, one-half of them were eared for by black women, and drew their sustenance from black breasts; their chosen companions were children from the negro quarters. When that spirit of despotism, which has produced the present rebellion, began to manifest itself, it was by mauling and knuckling negro boys. When the passions of young manhood began to fire their blood, they sought and found unholy gratification in overcoming the virtue of negro and mulatto girls. Even in later years, their wives have often found the presence of a good-looking colored girl a source of trouble. They have lived among negroes all their days. Their houses are full of them. They know not how to do without them, and complain that they cannot safely bring them North when they visit us. Surely, these men cannot be afflicted with this disease.
After some thought, I have concluded that their disease must be Negro-equality-phobia. This must be an awful visitation. Think of the condition of one of these afflicted ones, should he chance to meet a black man who weighed as many pounds, could run as fast, jump as high, fight as well, was as brave, dressed as well, was as rich, owned as many slaves, was as talented, as well educated, as refined, as moral, as high in office as himself. Poor man! Here stands his equal cut in ebony. What is to be done? See him shake—hear him growl—see him froth!
<c06>
Don't yon pity him? It is of no use; them is help for him. If this equal was only a Mongolian, with, straight hair done up like a long tail, who eats rats and puppies, and whose wife bad a little foot, bow different the case would be! Then he might be courted and petted by the President and all his subordinates, and no trouble ensue. But the man is black! O dear! O dear! And there is no help. But, says Mr. D. or Mr. S., do you wish to associate freely with blacks? Would you like to have your son marry a black woman? No, but I should prefer to have, him marry a black woman, and have him live honestly with her, rather than marry a white woman, and then commit adultery with one who is colored. I would choose as an associate a black man with a white heart, rather than a white man with a black heart. The one or the other may be respected in an official position, without social intimacy. But, Mr. Editor, all this is nothing—Negro-equality-phobia is a dreadful disease, and the cause of it, that is, qualified negroes, is increasing. Yankee schoolmasters and missionaries are doing wonders at Port Royal and elsewhere. I fear the afflicted people referred to have a hard time before them. 
SHEVA.
Chatham, May 22, 1862.—[Yarmouth Register.

INHUMAN TREATMENT OF A SLAVE.
The New Orleans Delta says:-
Soon after the arrival of the United States forces in this city, they received information that arms and tents were concealed in the house of one Wm. T. Hunter, who had sworn he would shoot any damned Yankee who should enter his house to look for them. An officer, in due time, was sent to search for them. To his agreeable surprise, he was cordially received by the owner of the house, who informed the officer that it was true he had arms—a double-barrelled gun, an old uniform or two that belonged to his son, and a small tent, which had escaped the wreck of Camp Lewis, which was pitched in his garden as a playhouse for his children, and that he had no other such thing in the house. The officer being satisfied with this frank avowal, said he would not disturb the tent, children, uniform or gun. Thereupon the proprietor politely invited him to take a drink.
On the next day, Hunter proclaimed on 'Change, or in his neighborhood, that he had a large quantity of tents in his garret; that the federal officers did not get them; that he could buy the officer with a drink; and further, that he could buy the whole set with drinks, even from the commanding officer down.
This speech induced another examination, which resulted in the finding of Major-General Lewis's marquee, thirteen tents, and more furniture in Mr. Hunter's attic, and some pistols and two dirks in Mrs. Hunter's keeping. This lady's nerves were too sensitive to accompany the officers in the search, and she directed a negro woman to show the officers through the house.
THE REBEL'S VENGEANCE UPON HIS SLAVE.
Upon removing the contraband articles to the railroad station, Mrs. Hunter followed, and informed the officer that the negro girl had left the house and was intending to go away. The officer said that could not be permitted, and sent a corporal to conduct both women—white and black—to their house, and assured Mrs. Hunter that the girl had expressed no intention of leaving her mistress. Fearing, however, lest the servants should have been suspected of having given information, the officer assured the lady that no information had been received from the servants, and they ought not to be punished.
But the moment the officer retired, the girl was locked up to await the return of the master.
When Mr. Hunter returned, and ascertained what had occurred, he demanded of his wife "why she had not shot the damned Yankees." She retorted, “They took away my arms.” Upon this, Hunter went to the closet, and took from it a heavy riding-whip, and beat the servant over the head in such a manner as to cause heavy bunches. He then took her down into the back yard, chained her feet to a block—the mistress, who claims to be one of the ladies of New Orleans, fastening the shackles to the block. The husband and wife then threw the servant down upon her back, fastened her hands to the feet of another servant, who was forced to hold the girl out to her full length. The suspected girl was then subjected to head-shaving; her clothes were next removed, and Hunter beat the exhausted creature with the horsewhip until he was too tired to stand. He then called for a chair, sat down, and finished his brutal beating in a sitting posture. The screams of the sufferer soon attracted the attention of the neighborhood.
GENERAL BUTLER'S PROMPT PUNISHMENT OF THE SCOUNDREL.
One neighbor sent intelligence of what was going on to General Butler. Before word reached the General, the monster, having flayed the back of his slave until it became raw, washed her down with brine, threw her into a wagon, and at nine o'clock at night conveyed her to the parish prison, with the pleasing information that the rest of the beating—to the extent of 300 lashes—would be inflicted in the morning.
The General ordered all parties in the morning. They came, and the girl was liberated. Upon the hearing, these facts appeared. The General asked the master to state upon his honor, why he washed the girl's back in brine, while reeking in blood. He replied, "It was to ease the pain."
Thereupon, the General informed Mr. Hunter that he would be committed to Fort Jackson until further orders, and that he must behave himself very well there; because the officers in charge would be instructed to chastise him severely, if he did not; because, if they exceeded in the severity of punishment, they would be instructed to wash his wounds in brine; and that the girl would be turned over as a laundress to the care of the Thirteenth Connecticut regiment.
Mr. Hunter, upon this, said he had brought in a physician to prove that he had been sick for a number of months. The General responded that, if he was well enough to inflict the punishment that had been proved, he was in a physical condition, to suffer the punishment which had been imposed. Hunter is a rebel, a thief, (for he had stolen the tents,) a liar, (for be had eluded the officer who had been sent in search,) a brute, (for he had whipped the girl without cause.) And we leave him in Fort Jackson.
The Nashville Union is severe on “radical abolitionists," defining them as follows:—
“By radical Abolitionists we mean wretches who are destroying the system of slavery by sword, and fire, and devastation. The fiends of hell are more humane and noble. They are hastening the overthrow of slavery by bringing on, not only on the South, but on the public, great tribulation. These devils in human shape abound in this city, and call themselves Secessionists, Southern Rights men, Fire-Eaters and Confederates.”
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT or THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaver taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible>array on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."—J.Q.ADAMS.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
STATE SOVEREIGNTY.
To deny that a State cannot forswear her allegiance, is to deny her sovereignty as a State-a sovereignty which is limited with her own boundaries, and the obligations to the provisions of the Central Constitution under which she exists, and without which she would not be a State at all Hence, the voluntary rupturing on her part of this bond or ligament of amity must necessarily destroy her integrity as a State, together with all the local laws peculiar unto her; and in just as great a degree as would be the domestic authority of the wife who had in the most violent and indecent manner violated the marital relation.
It is most preposterous to longer countenance the advancement of the doctrine that a State cannot commit self-destruction. States have done it, and done it in their State capacity. There could have been nothing more deliberate or regular than the manner in which the Southern States absolved themselves of all allegiance to the Union. No State act ever passed with more deliberation and apparent unanimity than the acts of separation. They all owned slaves; and it was because of this that secession became possible, and as they supposed, necessary. It was the pronounced declaration of long-fostered enmity-the enmity which darkness has always had against light from the beginning.
It is evident that, as States, the so-called Confederate States have no laws which the offended Union is bound by any obligations, Constitutional or otherwise, to respect. What may have been the action of the inhabitants of the several portions of territory by which the jurisdiction of these States was circumscribed, it is not now given us to know; and for aught we do know, or have a right legitimately to know, there may not now, in the whole area of Rebeldom, according to the local and municipal laws, be a single slave in existence. What a figure we should make in history, if, peradventure, we should be found, in our anxiety to maintain what, through dint of reiteration, we have been taught to believe was the actual Constitution-slavery-we should ultimately find that we were attempting to unite the living present with the dead and loathsome carcass of the past-slavery! No more ludicrous and inconsistent would this be than to attempt to restore the condition of things which has furnished its own elements of destruction. The President may proclaim freedom to the slaves of the South. Their freedom would not come by any act of his. THEY ARE FREE, and it will be for him and for Congress only to say that they will not re-enslave them.
But it may be said that this suicidal act of the several Southern States was not inaugurated nor consummated by the loyal men of the South. These loyal men, we opine, are like the visits of the angels, few and far between, but their sufferings cannot ignore the fact of the abrogation of all law. In very deed, their sufferings are the strongest evidence in favor of this supposition. But it may be said those men are entitled to indemnity for the loss, by the action of the State, of property guaranteed by the Constitution. Conceding that the Constitution of the Union does guarantee property in man, or rather property in the right to their labor, the Constitution cannot and never could prevent the several States from declaring the emancipation of every slave within their own boundaries with or without compensation. How, then, can the Federal Government be responsible now for the action of a State towards the minority of its citizens, so long as we recognize the Democratic principle, that the majority should rule, and the fact remains that the Federal government never did guarantee the return of a slave to the person claiming him in any State of the Union, both being resident in that State?
We have again and again advanced the idea, plain and palpable as the light at noonday, to those who are not morally blind, that God in his providence has so shaped the actions of arrogant despotism in the Southern slaveholder, that his own desperate acts should, and no doubt have freed the bondsman whose cry for help “has entered into the ear of the Lord of Sabaoth." Let Congress declare the freedom of the slave as a means of terminating, at an earlier period, the horrors of this contest. Let Abraham Lincoln, in his plenitude of supposed power, do the same, and no harm, but good, may come of it. They cannot, however, do what is done already; they may, however, attempt to undo what has been done; and if so, woe be to these United States when the bayonets of our soldiers are used to force back into hopeless bondage four millions of human beings now free! Then, indeed, would we be responsible for all the horrors and atrocities of slavery. Then would be the time when all the civilized world might find a reason for interference and enthusiasm on the part of their people to enter on a crusade against the most stupendous act of barbarism that could be conceived of- Paterson Guardian.

HON. CHARLES SUMNER.
The time is approaching when the people of Massachusetts will have to select its representatives in both houses of Congress, a Senator in the place of Mr. Sumner, whose term expires in March next, and Representatives from the Congressional districts. The political condition of the country is such as to render it most important that this matter shall be seasonably and carefully considered by the people, and that it shall thoroughly understand the aims and <illegible> of political parties, especially of those who are seeking to replace Mr. Sumner by a man of an entirely different stamp and different principles, and to place in the Senate a member of the party which has been for many years in a hopeless minority in this State, but which hopes, by artful combinations and plausible professions, to supplant the Senator who has for twelve years so ably represented this State in the Senate, devoting his entire energies, his varied scholarship, and the influence of his high reputation abroad, to advancing the cause of freedom, to rescuing the nation from its greatest curse and disgrace, to enlightening the public mind as to the evils and dangers of slavery, and, more especially, of late, to removal from the national code of those iniquitous and barbarous laws which bear record to the kind of influence which has hitherto predominated in the national councils.
We take it for granted that the Republican party can have no other candidate for the Senate than Mr. Sumner himself. We are well aware that Mr. Sumner is not a favorite with a considerable portion of the party. We know that the press of Boston, republican or anti-republican, is cold it not hostile towards him; and we have seen indications that papers claiming to be leading representatives of public opinion in that city would prefer to ally themselves with the Courier, in a combination against Mr. Sumner, rather than support him for re-election!
Still, if the dominant party in this State is to have a candidate for the Senate, there can be no other than Mr. Sumner. No other is mentioned. None of the able members of the party, who sympathize with him in sentiment and principle, would for a moment consent to stand in his way. The only way by which he can be supplanted is by a hostile combination, under the specious pretence of a “no party” movement, in which a hotch-potch both of Breckinridge Democrats, Douglas Democrats, Bell-and-Everetts, and extremely conservative Republicans,-men who stand so extremely erect in their anti-slavery as to lean over towards slavery,-shall combine, in a coalition with which that, of which some of them were so long accustomed to speak in terms of such reproach, by which Mr. Sumner's election was first effected, could make no kind of comparison, and put up some of their moderate favorites-their conservative candidates-their men with democratic talk in their mouths and aristocratic principles in their hearts- some of those who do not, like Charles Sumner, ask “indemnity for the past and security for the future” from the evils which slavery has inflicted on the country, but who are sweetly for “the Union as it was, and the Constitution as it is,"-that is, for allowing the odious privileges secured to slavery in the Constitution to remain in full force, for the barbarous laws remanding fugitives to bondage to remain unrepealed, and, in general, for a resumption and restoration of the policy which has cursed the country for a whole generation, and whose overthrow at the last election they hope may prove but a temporary one!
This is the scheme which has been concocting for some time. It was the theme of general conversation in the legislature last winter, when bets were freely offered that Mr. Sumner could not be reelected, and a representative from this city is reported to have said that, if the election had come off then, he could have got but one vote from our delegation.
As we have said, we do not look for any support for Mr. Sumner from Boston. Perhaps we cannot expect much for him from this city, although we believe that a fair vote would show an overwhelming voice in his favor. But Boston and New Bedford are remarkably alike in some respects; and though
<c02>
the latter has the reputation of being a very anti-slavery city, she is easily influenced to act in a way hostile to the anti-slavery cause. The federal appointments have not been such as would be apt to throw the weight of influence in the right way, and it would not be very difficult, while the voting population of the city might be largely in Mr. Sumner's favor, to return a delegation to the House of Representatives decidedly hostile to him. The way things have been managed for some years back shows this plainly enough.
But it is to the heart of the Commonwealth, it is to the rural districts, untainted by the aristocracy which veils itself under the soft term of” conservatism," that we look for the correct decision of this matter. The people of Massachusetts understand well what Mr. Sumner is. They know his principles, his actions during his senatorial career, though they cannot know or appreciate perhaps, the full extent of his labors and his influence. But, from what his actions and principles are, they can judge what would be likely to be those of a hostile candidate, and decide whether they will be such as they will be likely to approve, or such as they would like to see proceeding from the Old Bay State, which has so long been devoted to liberty, and whose ideas are the watchword of the friends of freedom in the present struggle. Let the people of the State watch carefully the plans of the old minority parties that are combining to displace Mr. Sumner, and guard especially in the election of their representatives against being betrayed by the Judas kisses of hypocritical pretensions.-New Bedford Rep. Standard.

SENATOR SUMNER.
The New York Tribune intimates that there is a doubt about Mr. Sumner's re-election to the Senate. We believe it to be mistaken. Mr. Sumner's enemies are settling this point in his favor very fast. Their abuse is divesting Republicans of what disposition there was to oppose him. Here is the high compliment the Tribune pays our Senator, the chief beauty of which is, that every word of it will be admitted as true by his warmest opposers:-
“Never inattentive to or neglectful of any public duty, never even accused of sacrificing or opposing the interest of Massachusetts in any matter of legislation, Mr. Sumner is yet known to believe that her interests can never be truly promoted by sacrificing those of Humanity. In an age of venality and of uncharitable suspicion, he was never even suspected of giving a mercenary or a selfish vote; in an atmosphere where every man is supposed to have his price, and to be scheming and striving for self-aggrandizement, no man ever suggested that Charles Sumner was animated by sinister impulses, or that he would barter or stifle his convictions for the Presidency. The one charge brought against him by his many bitter adversaries imports that he is a fanatic-not that it was ever imagined that he is the special devotee of any fane or sect, but that he sincerely believes it the end of civil government to hasten the coming of God's earthly kingdom, by causing His justice to pervade every act, every relation, and thus making the earth, so far as human imperfection will permit, a vestibule of Heaven."-Norfolk County Journal.
Some journals in other States are suggesting to the people of Massachusetts that they should not reelect Mr. Sumner to the Senate. They are very kind, but it is within the limits of possibility that these Balaams would do themselves some service if they were to mind their own business.-Traveller.

The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 4, 1862
FOURTH OF JULY!
It has been the invariable custom of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society to commemorate this National Anniversary; not, however, in the boastful spirit and inflated manner of those who rejoiced in a Union with Slaveholders, and who could see no contradiction, in such a Union, to the great principles of the immortal Declaration of Independence of July 4th, 1776. Our celebration has ever been with the distinct and simple purpose of recalling to the mind and impressing upon the heart of the people the great “self-evident truths, that all men are created equal, and are endowed by their Creator with an inalienable right to Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness."
Confident that our repeated testimonies on these National Anniversaries have been as good seed, sown upon soil long indeed stubborn and unyielding, but at length fertilized, and now full of promise of a glorious harvest,-soon, we trust, to be gathered in,-we again invite and summon the friends of Freedom, of every name and age, and whether living within or beyond the bounds of this our honored Commonwealth, to meet with us, as aforetime, and in even greater numbers than ever before, at the beautiful and well-known FRAMINGHAM GROVE, on this Fourth of July.
We need say nothing of the beauty and many attractions of the spot, whether for adults or for the young. The day and the occasion constitute the real claims upon our attention, and to these let the Anti-Slavery men and women of Massachusetts, and of New England, respond fitly, as they so well know how to do.
The Boston and Worcester Railroad Co. will convey passengers to and from the Grove, upon their main road and its branches, on that day, at the following rates of fare:-
From Boston, Worcester, and Millbury, 70 cents for adults, 35 cents for children.
From Grafton, adults, 60 cents, children, 30 cents. 
From Milford, Milford Branch, (except Holliston,) Northboro', Marlboro', Needham, Grantville, Cordaville, Southboro', and Westboro', 50 cents for adults, 25 cents for children.
From Natick, Holliston, and Ashland, adults 40 cents, children 20 cents.
Trains will run to the Grove, as follows:-
Leave Boston at 9.15, and Worcester, at 9.40, A. M., stopping at way stations; from Millbury, regular morning train; Milford, at 7.10, or 9.40; Northboro', at 7; Marlboro', at 7.24, or 10.15.
RETURNING, leave the Grove at 5.15 for Boston and Worcester; at 6.15 for Milford and Northboro' branches.
Admission fee to the enclosure of the Grove, for those not coming by the cars, adults 10 cents, children 5 cents. Those who come by railroad admitted free.
The House at the Grove will be open for Refreshments.
In case of rain, the meeting will be held in Waverley Hall, opposite the railroad depot at South Framingham.
Addresses from well-known advocates of the cause, with Songs, and such recreation as this attractive place affords, will occupy the day. Among the speakers expected are WM. LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, ANDREW T. FOSS, CHARLES C.BURLEIGH, E. H. HEYWOOD, HENRY C. WRIGHT, WM. WELLS BROWN, JOHN S. ROCK, Esq., Rev. DANIEL FOSTER, of Kansas, and others.
SAMUEL MAY, JR.,.WM. LLOYD GARRISON,.E. H. HEYWOOD, HENRY O. STONE, CHARLES A. HOVEY,-Committee of Arrangements.
JULY FOURTH. To-day is the Eighty-Sixth Anniversary of American Independence. It finds four millions of slaves yet to be emancipated-the Union dissolved through Southern perfidy and lust of power- the nation bleeding at every pore-the most awful civil war that the world has ever seen wasting its life and substance-and no prospect of peace. Is it a day for boasting and revelry, or for sackcloth and ashes?
ESSEY COUNTY. Intelligence received from Hamilton and vicinity indicates that the Convention there, on Sunday next, will be one of great interest. [See notice in another column.]
<c03>
MORE TROOPS CALLED FOR.
Nearly all the Governors of the loyal States, having subscribed their names, officially, to a letter to the President of the United States, urging an immediate and extensive augmentation of the national forces for the speedy suppression of the rebellion, the President responds as follows:-
EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, July 1, 1862.
Gentlemen,-Fully concurring in the views expressed to me in so patriotic a manner by you in the communication of the 28th day of June, I have decided to call into the service an additional force of 300,000 men. I suggest and recommend that the troops should be chiefly of infantry. The quota of your State would be-. I trust that they may be enrolled without delay, so as to bring this unnecessary and injurious civil war to a speedy and satisfactory conclusion.
An order fixing the quotas of the respective States will be issued by the War Department to-morrow.
(Signed) ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
All this might have been avoided, together with a vast amount of life and treasure already needlessly wasted, if the Government had availed itself of the strength and bravery of the colored population, bond and free, in the rebellious States. Instead of doing this, it has allowed this mighty force (equal to an army larger than has yet been gathered on the battle-field) to remain on the side and in the service of the rebellion. How long is such a suicidal policy to be pursued? It is even threatened, in certain “Democratic" quarters, that, should the Government proclaim emancipation as a military necessity, there will be a formidable revolt in the army. We believe this is a libellous charge; but, if it be true, the sooner the test is applied, the better for the safety of the Government and the suppression of treason, North and South.
THE STANLEY-COLYER CONTROVERSY. 
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune 
SIR-In accordance with the request of his Excellency, Gov. Stanley, I wish it published that I misunderstood his Excellency; that he had no intention of closing my schools for colored people at Newbern, N. C.; that he never intended to put in force the laws of North Carolina; and that until he gets explicit instructions from the Government at Washington, D. C., he will neither interfere with my schools, nor return fugitive slaves to their masters; all of which I do with the most sincere and heart-felt pleasure.
VINCENT COLYER, 
Superintendent of the Poor.
Newbern, June 21, 1862.
It is evident that the universal burst of moral indignation which followed the announcement, that Gov. Stanley had suppressed the negro schools in North Carolina, has had a wholesome effect upon his mind. He now desires to have it understood that Mr. Colyer entirely misapprehended him; that he will not interfere with the schools, return fugitive slaves, nor put in force any of the laws of North Carolina, unless explicitly instructed so to do by the Government. Of course, he will have no such instructions from that quarter; and, of course, the Courier, Post, and all the other satanic journals that came “with alacrity” to the defence of Gov. Stanley, supposing he had been accurately reported, must feel extremely chagrined and wofully disappointed. Will they tell us what they us what they now think of Gov. Stanley? Their pro-slavery villany is immeasurable, and of the dirtiest kind. Here is a venomously libellous assault of the Post upon Mr. Colyer:-
“It is said that Vincent Colyer is the renowned model artist man who was badgered by the police in almost every city in the Union years ago. His present vocation of mischief-making, under pretence of negro teaching, is even worse than his former one. He is a fine individual to teach the black idea to shoot."
The Post knew it was basely confounding two utterly distinct persons in making this assertion.
VISIT TO ENGLAND. Our esteemed and untiring fellow-laborer in the vineyard of Universal Humanity, HENRY C. WRIGHT, expects to leave Boston, for England, in the steamer Africa, August 6th, or in the Great Eastern, at New York, should she leave about that time. Meanwhile, letters may be addressed to him-Care of Bela Marsh, or Robert F. Wallcut, Boston, Mass. He will carry with him our best wishes for his health, safety, and extensive usefulness on the other side of the Atlantic; and we are quite certain that he will receive a very cordial welcome from the many English, Scotch and Irish friends, who know his worth and appreciate his faithful devotion to the cause of freedom and philanthropy for the last thirty years. Wherever he may travel, he cannot be otherwise than interested in the amelioration of the condition of the whole human family; for, dead to all feelings of selfish nationality, with him race, complexion, country are swallowed up in the full recognition of man as man. We regard his visit abroad as particularly opportune at this period, inasmuch as, possessing as he does an accurate and perfect knowledge of the real cause and diabolical object of the Great Rebellion in this country, he will be able to remove much of the ignorance and prejudice now existing in the old world, in relation to its real merits. In the cause of peace, of temperance, of woman's rights, &c., &c., he will ever be found a ready laborer. While sternly uncompromising in principle, he carries a genial and loving nature, is never morbid in disposition, but always hopeful and confident of the triumph of truth over all opposition.
THE BOSTON DIRECTORY, for the year commencing the 1st inst., has been published in good style by Adams, Sampson & Co. By the use of smaller type in some of the departments, and lighter paper, together with the decreased number of names, the work has been somewhat reduced in bulk. It is of convenient size, and, taken as a whole, is a model work of its class. The decrease in the number of names reported is accounted for by the great number of men Boston has sent to the war. A canvas of the city for the State Register, a few months since, revealed the fact that four thousand volunteers for the seat of war had left Boston previous to March 1st, three hundred of whom were commissioned officers.
The Directory of 1853 contained 38,000 names; that of 1862 has 55,000 names, an increase of 17,000 names during the nine years. In the former year, this city had 15,000 houses, now it has 20,000.
The Boston Directory has now been printed more than half a century, and has ever enjoyed the confidence and support of the business public. A complete set of the work would show the outward growth of the city better than anything else. A new Directory is indispensable each year, but the old one should be preserved or presented to some Society, as its value to students of our local annals will increase with its age. Its pages contain information in regard to persons and firms not to be obtained elsewhere. The office of the Directory is 91 Washington street, where copies can be obtained.
A PRIMARY COOK BOOK, by Mrs. Putnam, for New Beginners in Housekeeping. Receipts suited to the times.
This is the title of a small, neat, 12mo- volume of 84 pages, published by Mr. Loring, 319 Washington street. It gives information found in no other work. It shows how comfortable a young married couple can make themselves, who begin housekeeping in three rooms; gives a list of the articles required in each; a routine of the work for every day in the week; what to purchase in the market, and how to select it, and its quality; and then how to cook it. It gives one hundred receipts for cooking meats, soups, fish, puddings, cakes, &c., closing with directions for bachelor's meals, teaching the latter how to make their own coffee, to cook chops and eggs, to stew oysters, &c., &c. The writer is a lady every way competent to the task she has assumed, and her work should be in the hands of every young housekeeper.
CONFISCATION. Mr. Sumner delivered a very able speech in the Senate on Friday afternoon, in reply to Mr. Browning's attack upon him and his views concerning confiscation on Wednesday. He showed conclusively the utter folly of carrying on the war longer to give the rebels the rights of war, while we confined ourselves to the rights of peace.
<c04>
THE PRESIDENTS LAST POSITION.
In the reply of the President to the memorial of the Progressive Friends, as reported in last week's Liberator, occurs the following paragraph:-
“If a decree of emancipation could abolish slavery, John Brown would have done the work most effectually. Such a decree surely could not be more binding upon the South than the Constitution, and that cannot be enforced in that part of the country now. Would a proclamation of freedom be any more effective?"
Since these remarks contain almost all that the President had to say in opposition to the request of his memorialists, they are worthy of examination and criticism. If we mistake not, they are childishly weak and unreasonable. And, to begin with the first sentence above-quoted, will any one show us the logical connection between the former and the latter member-between the supposition and the conclusion? The President argues as if a decree, or the palpable embodiment thereof in parchment and ink, were a self-propelling power, able fare da se-to go alone-or, if you please, a missile, whose effectiveness is independent of the hand which discharges it. For how, otherwise, could any sensible man compare, even by implication, an edict issuing from John Brown at Harper's Ferry and the same from Abraham Lincoln at Washington? The one, a private citizen, without commission or authority, and, above all, assuming a position hostile to laws State and National; the other, the Chief Magistrate of the whole people, the Commander-in-Chief of the whole army, and invested by the Constitution with the absolute, undisputed control of the War Power, together with ample means for the execution of any order or policy in his judgment necessary. The one might have decreed till doomsday and nothing would have come of it, without the exercise of force sufficient for the end proposed; and if John Brown had succeeded in making his avowed idea an accomplished fact, it would not have enhanced a particle the legality of his procedure. But the President and Generalissimo of the United States, unlike the Virginian martyr, has no need of the half million bayonets which attend his call. In changing the status of an enslaved people to that of freedom,-a wheel, by universal experience and consent, which knows no backward turning,-in his lips words are things. The declaration, the legal, constitutional declaration once uttered, the deed is done,-the slave walks erect in a new manhood. He may still be plundered of his rights, still outraged and tortured as of old, still chained and hunted and burned, before he can touch the nation's right hand stretched out to him over the intervening army of rebellion, but his sufferings now may be requited and avenged; the law takes cognizance of him as a citizen grossly injured, and hurls its judgments against his oppressor; while the right of self-defence is restored into his hands, and from a murderer he becomes a justifiable homicide. On the same grounds we hold that Generals Fremont and Hunter, by their proclamations, (which the President did not question their right to issue, but only their liberty,) did, at least until they were officially countermanded, really make free forever those who availed themselves of those instruments in the meanwhile. We say, in the meanwhile, for we are aware that some pretend that such slaves as could not immediately profit by the proclamations alluded to, lost the chance of gaining their freedom as soon these were annulled. For our own part, we do not doubt that any other than an American court would decide in favor of the freedom of every slave covered by the terms of the proclamations, since if two are necessary to make a bargain, the slave's consent to that which gives him liberty can be more certainly assumed than in any other concern of human interest. Lastly, let there be no confusion as to the War Power under which John Brown might seem to have acted, equally with the President. That hero, humane and beneficent as was his purpose, could have found no legal justification for his means but in success. His jurisdiction only equalled the range of his rifles, which constituted his power; what he changed, another stronger might return to its old condition; if his failure was partial, it was complete. The President, on the contrary, is but stressed by law, duty and necessity; his jurisdiction reaches farther than his armies; his fiat is irrevocable, unless the whole nation perishes with him. The difference between abnormal and normal, between revolution and established law, is the difference between John Brown and Abraham Lincoln, and the powers of each.
Now a word as to the sophistry contained in the latter portion of the quotation. It is true, as the President avers, that a decree of emancipation “could not be more binding upon the South than the Constitution," but it would be just as binding, since it would be in perfect harmony with that instrument; and as for the possibility of its enforcement, as Mr. Johnson rightly intimated, it is no worse off than the Constitution, which can be as little enforced, while the one is as deserving of effort as the other. But the falsity of the reasoning lies in the assumption that the claim of allegiance and the declaration of freedom would be directed to the same persons, which is quite contrary to the facts of the case. Unless, indeed, there can be found one so foolish as to propose an order to the rebels to emancipate their slaves for the speedier overthrow of the rebellion! No; why must the President trouble himself about the respect with which the traitors of the South are likely to receive a decree of emancipation? He might guess it beforehand, but no matter; he is not speaking to them. He addresses four million slaves-colored Americans-loyal from the necessities of their social position and the attitude of the combatants in the civil war. And that South will hear!-trust them, Mr. Lincoln! The decree which ”could not be binding" upon the white South, will be religiously regarded by them. They will not clamor for succoring armies to lift them up to freemen; your word will suffice. After that, no more rebel fortifications raised by black hands; no more arms borne by them in battle against Northern liberators; no more corn and hominy planted or gathered for rebel enslavers; but isolation of every rebellious host,-railroads torn up,-bridges burned,-wires cut,-every large city, every hamlet trembling under the never-fading fear of a general insurrection,-and universal demoralization in the army from Richmond to Mobile. All this because the slave will confide in your promise, and because he is able to overthrow the Southern Confederacy the moment he feels that he may work shoulder to shoulder with the government and the North. In spite of our pro-slavery generals and captains, in spite of order No. 3 or No. 333, the slave still comes to us for protection, happy if he may impart the knowledge which will destroy the enemy. But invite him with open arms; promise him liberty not for attack, for bloodshed and revenge, but for desertion simply; and the corner-stone of that infamous league, whose existence shames the age and us, will glide from under the edifice like a glacier or a quicksand, leaving the tumbling ruins to entomb a fouler band of conspirators and a fouler conspiracy than ever claimed a Catiline as their master-spirit.-W. P. G.
TRAGEDY OF ERRORS. “Aux plus desherites le plus d'amour." Boston: Ticknor and Fields.
Thanks to the publishers for this long wished-for volume. We have experienced the same gratification in its perusal that we did in the case of its sequel, the “Tragedy of Success." Great skill is shown in the narration necessary to the comprehension of the plot, where the natural tendency to be prosy has been most successfully overcome; while the scenes which depict the negro love of music and power of improvisation are graceful and fascinating in the extreme. The reader will rise from the book with a feeling of unalloyed pleasure, unless, like us, he regret those passages which seem to strike at the cause of Woman's Rights, of which the talented authoress is really so able a supporter.-W. P. G.
The Provost Marshal of Richmond has issued a notice, earnestly requesting the citizens to lend the army the use of their slaves. Nobody protests! 
<c05>
ANOTHER TURN OF THE SCREW.
It has often been said, and most justly said, by abolitionists, that the President moves, in the direction of emancipation, only as the pressure of events seems to demand, and not as wishing to interfere with the “peculiar" institution; not as recognizing the fact that slavery is the root of rebellion, and that both must be destroyed if we would avoid future catastrophes like that which is now in operation. The Phelps and Butler correspondence, or rather the requests of those officers for specific instructions from the Government, (which may be found in another column,) that they may pursue a uniform course towards those colored refugees who wish to leave the rebels and join the Union party, is a new specimen of the pressure above alluded to, requiring the reluctant Government to explain itself. If the President now resists or evades this pressure, if be either repels these slaves from the cooperation which they offer him against the rebels, or gives an indecisive answer, allowing his subordinates each to pursue such policy upon this great subject as shall seem good to himself, then upon him will rest the heavy responsibility of the permanent transfer of four million souls from loyalty to rebellion. For, considering the constantly increasing failures and losses of the Confederate States, and the spirit of superlative malignity which they now feel toward the North, and the impossibility of their making slave holding profitable in the old way while the war lasts, and the fact that emancipation on their part would be the most effective means of securing that foreign intervention without which they are utterly ruined-considering all these things, I say, it cannot be doubted that they will bind the negroes to their side by emancipation, unless we make this movement in advance of them. It rests with President Lincoln now to say-and the time is short, and every day's delay involves a fearful hazard-whether he will have these blacks for friends or enemies. They have the casting vote in this great struggle. 
“While stands the Coliseum, Rome shall stand! 
When falls the Coliseum, Rome must fall!"
In General Butler's letter, above alluded to, he declares himself to be a soldier, recognizing the right of his Government to command, and ready to obey orders, any orders that may be given him. He intimates his preference for orders which shall exclude the negroes, and reject their offered help. But it is to be remembered that, on a former occasion, when the same question came up for his decision at Fortress Monroe, in asking instructions from the Government he strongly intimated his preference for orders which would combine favor to the oppressed blacks with justice against their rebel masters. It is to the shame of President Lincoln, and history will record it as at once a crime and a blunder on his part, that this intimation was disregarded. Nobody suspected the veteran partisan Democrat of being especially softhearted, or of caring very much for the rights or the welfare of negroes. It was plain that the sagacious old politician saw that that was the right card for the Government to play, and that the Administration would doubly strengthen itself and weaken the rebels, by taking part with the slaves against their former masters. The President then disregarded his subordinate's wise suggestion, and went on with the policy which his birth in slaveholding Kentucky, and his life in negro-hating Illinois, and his very moderate Republicanism, had prepared him for. He held himself aloof from interference with slavery. What wonder that when (owing to the President's continued abstinence from the publication of a settled policy or principle on this subject) the case comes up again for decision, General Butler should try the other tack! What wonder that, having failed to enlist his commander in the prosecution of a course which his own judgment dictated, he should try next the road for which that commander had already shown his decided preference!
The entire responsibility of this decision rests with the President. Let us mark which way he decides, and mark, too, whether he shrinks from positive decision. When further defeats shall have added to the desperation of the rebels, every day's delay of our Government to enlist the slaves on its side will add fearfully to the risk of a permanent loss, both of them and the country in which they live. Oh that President Lincoln may have already decided to make this Fourth of July the day of Freedom and Independence to the slave!-c. K. W.

THE BATTLE AT FAIR OAKS, VA.
BOSTON, June 28, 1862.
FRIEND GARRISON:
I send you herewith some extracts from a letter received from a friend of mine who is a non-commissioned officer in one of the regiments of Massachusetts Volunteers, together with a reply to the same. Make such disposition of them as you please. Perhaps they may be of some interest to the public, both as a clever description of one of the bloodiest scenes in the battle to which they refer, and as indicating a state of feeling in the Federal army, which, if it be as general as he intimates, is likely to place the success of the Government in the present struggle absolutely beyond the reach of possibility. My own view I have endeavored to state in such a way that at least there should be no misapprehension about it.
I have suppressed the name of the writer, as the letter was a private one, and as he is only the representative of a class, more or less numerous, both in the army and out of it. I think the publication may arrest attention, and be a means of learning in what direction we are drifting in this wild hurricane.
Yours for liberty in any event,
N. H WHITING.
CAMP AT FAIR OAKS, (near Richmond,) Va., June 17, 1862.
The excitement of the late battle, fought here on Saturday and Sunday, the last day of May and the first of June, has nearly subsided. The dead have all been buried, and the wounded, such of them as were able to be removed, sent home, or to the hospitals in the different Northern States. It was a most horrid looking scene around here on Monday, the day after the battle. Everything in the vicinity in the shape of a building was filled to overflowing with the wounded of both friend and foe; yet not one-half of them could obtain shelter of any description. Consequently, many with their limbs amputated were compelled to be exposed to the sun during the day, and a drenching rain which fell during the following night.
Our Division (Couch's) was in the thickest of the fight, and was at one time in a most critical situation, being entirely cut off from the main body; and had it not been for the timely arrival of Gen. Sumner, with a large reinforcement, we must have been all cut to pieces or taken prisoners.
Our regiment was detached from the brigade to support a battery of four guns, and we had been in our position not over twenty minutes when the enemy advanced with a force fifteen thousand strong. At this critical moment, Gen. Sumner arrived with Sedgwick's Division and Ricketts' Battery, consisting of six twelve-pound guns. They had barely time to place the guns in position and form line of battle, when the enemy made his appearance out of the woods into the clearing directly in front of us, and not more than sixty yards distant. They fired one volley, and one only. Our two batteries, numbering in all ten guns, now opened upon them, and being all shotted with grape and cannister, and the distance just right for the shot to spread from gun to gun, did actually cut them down by companies. After the battle, I saw two companies that were cut down to a man, apparently, as no vacancy could be seen in their ranks. Officers and men fell in the order in which they advanced upon the batteries. This might truly be called mowing men down. Three times did they charge upon our batteries, and no troops in the world, however veteran, could do it better. But Ricketts' Battery, which is perhaps the best in the service, together with the destructive fire of our infantry, proved too much for them. This battery of Ricketts is the same that
<c06>
Magruder once commanded, and I learn by the way of prisoners that he told his men he must have it if it cost ten thousand lives. You can judge something of the havoc made in their ranks, from the fact that eight hundred of their dead lay upon a space of less than an acre of ground, besides double this number of wounded. This affair took place about half an hour before sunset, Saturday evening.
What do you think of the progress of the war! How or when do you think it will terminate? You stated in a former letter that the war could never end in the restoration or reconstruction of the Union upon its old basis. Have you altered that opinion any of late? For my part, I have never been able to see how it could end otherwise, although it may be the indirect cause of doing away with slavery in some of the border States. It will never do for Congress to pass the Emancipation Bill. It would be equivalent to disbanding the army; for I do not think there are one hundred men in it who would willingly remain, after the passage of such a bill. I have yet to see the first man. This army volunteered to put down the rebellion and restore the Union, not to free negroes. For this, and this alone, we are ready to fight.
But perhaps Congress could raise an army of this class, sufficient to take the place of the one already in the field. If so, all very well; but, with the exception of one or two generals, there are none to be found in the present army.
I should be glad to ear from you in reply. 
Yours, respectfully, 
BOSTON, June 24, 1862
DEAR FRIEND,-I thank you for the letter you sent me under date of the 17th inst. It is no ordinary privilege and satisfaction to receive news direct from an actor on the stage where is being performed the great drama of the nation's life or death. Your description of one of the bloody scenes is graphic and thrilling in a high degree.
The dread arena seems spread out before me. I hear the turmoil and shock of battle,-the rattle of musketry, the shout of charging squadrons, the deep sullen boom of cannon, the curse of murderous hate, the shriek of despair, and the yell of mortal agony. I see in my mind's eye the ghastly spectacle of the dead and dying thousands who are strown so thickly on that prolific field of death, which turned out its human swaths at the rate of two thousand five hundred sheaves to the acre! An awful harvest truly; leading one to exclaim with Fortinbrass in the play: 
“O proud death!
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell,
That thou so many brothers at a shot 
So bloodily hast struck?"
Not often does the Great Reaper carry desolation and woe to so many hearth- stones with one sweep of his remorseless scythe!
We might bear bravely, triumphantly, the untimely loss of kindred and friends, could we know that these young men had bled and died for, and that the sacrifice would advance the cause of liberty and justice. We could sing paeans of thanksgiving, even while our hearts were aching for the fallen and stricken ones of the land. We would canonize those heroes of ours as among the most precious martyrs of all the ages.
But, alas! when I read your letter, and witness the desperate and unscrupulous efforts which are being made to blind the people as to the cause of this war, and exasperate them against those who are alone the friends of good government,-because they are the champions of civil and religious liberty,-I have many misgivings that the end sought for in this vast array of mortal strife is not to establish and conserve human liberty, but to extend and perpetuate human  slavery.
"Some guard through love his ghastly throne, 
And some through fear to reverence grown."
If we could believe the “conservatives” of our land, these immense armies are engaged in deadly conflict, each under some strange hallucination, some unaccountable misapprehension in regard to the other's character and purposes. They would seem to be two bodies of friends, like our troops at Big Bethel, stumbling along in the dark in pursuit of a common foe, engaging in wholesale slaughter under the mistaken idea that they are enemies. Were it not for its fatal effects upon the lives and happiness of our citizens we might look upon the whole thing as one of the most absurd and ludicrous exhibitions of human blindness and folly that history gives us any record of.
Here are two parties madly seeking each other's ruin, the one to save slavery, pure and simple, from destruction, and the other to save slavery and the Union from a like catastrophe,-these last looking upon slavery and the Union as the Constitutional “Siamese Twins," not to be separated without inevitable disaster and death to both. What a spectacle this presents to spirits, both infernal and celestial! -of joy to the former, of sorrow and shame to the latter!
You ask me when I think this war will end. When the cause of it is removed. You may cry peace! Peace! but there will be no peace until slavery is torn up by the roots, and cast into the fire of a free people's consuming wrath.
I know we are told continually that the Abolitionists are the cause of this convulsion, and should be held accountable therefore. There are many who seem fondly to imagine that if they could only hang Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Henry Ward Beecher, Horace Greeley, and a few others of a similar cast, the gaping sutures of the Union would speedily close up; trade would revive, the thirty pieces of silver obtained for the betrayal and crucifixion of the divine principle of liberty would be multiplied a hundred fold, the crack of the driver's whip and the sound of the auctioneer's hammer in his market for human souls would again be heard in the capital of the nation, and, at the roll-call of Toombs’ slaves at the foot of the monument on Bunker Hill, the millennium of the sham democracy would darken the horizon, and speedily run and be glorified over the whole land.
These are bright anticipations to be indulged in by avarice and cupidity, but they can never be realized. No doubt in the same sense that truth is accountable for the corruption and ravages of falsehood, virtue for vice, love for hate, are those men and their compeers responsible for the murderous attack of slavery upon the nation's life. Like the devils in the olden time, it has cried out, “We know thee who thou art. Hast thou come to torment us before the time?” “Put
out the light!” it has cried to its Northern pimps and vassals. But, notwithstanding the “alacrity” with which they have labored in “this foul work of bell," the light has increased, and flashed across the continent, and penetrated the dark prison-house, so that the hideous character of the monster was becoming patent to all eyes. Goaded thus to desperation and despair, it has madly plunged into this stormy sea of rebellion, to meet, we will fain hope, the fate of the demons who took refuge in the swine of Galilee.
Smitten with a blind fatuity, there are those who fancy that the death of a few individuals would appease the wrath of the Slave Power, and restore peace and harmony to these warring States. They do not seem to consider that this is a conflict of ideas, of principles, and not of men merely. Kill these men who are so obnoxious to the slaveholders! It would be like sowing the fabled dragons' teeth: they would spring up armed men-armed not with rifle and bowie knife only, but with the might of everlasting principles.
"These arch agitators,” “these pestilent fanatics," who have for so many years been turning the nation up-side down, and who, that it may at last stand upon its feet, are yet, under God, to break the bonds of wickedness and let the oppressed go free,- these are indeed but globules in the life blood of that universal heart, which, in all ages and nations, has in some way given voice to the immutable truth which, when expressed in the splendid rhetoric of Brougham, declares that “while men despise fraud, and loathe rapine, and abhor blood, they will reject with indignation the wild and guilty phantasy that man can hold property in man." 
Anti-Slavery! Why, it is as old as the sense of justice, the love of truth, the idea of human brother
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
hood, the instinct of liberty, the aspiration for immortality. It will die when they do: never before.
You ask me if I still hold to the opinion that the Union can never be restored on its old basis. Undoubtedly. It is not possible. Nature never repeats herself. Our motion as individuals and nations is circular, but we never come back to the spot from whence we start. We have travelled a long way, since the 12th of April, 1861. It is a vast circle in which we are revolving. When it is completed, we shall have risen much higher or sunk far lower than we were before we began the journey. Our position is in our own hands, so far as ascension or degradation is concerned; but no power in the universe can make us what we were when South Carolina commenced treading the wine-press of rebellion. If the thing were possible, God forbid, say I, that it should ever be repeated! Such an experience as we have had should suffice for one generation, and even for all. Old forms may possibly continue for a time, but the facts out of which they grew are changed forever. 
You say an act of emancipation by Congress would be equivalent to disbanding the whole army. I hope and believe you are greatly mistaken. But if not,-if, after the practical knowledge you have received of the inherent, incurable ferocity and diabolism of slavery,-you still prefer national ruin to salvation with and by the help of the negro, perhaps you can have your choice. But of this be assured, the slave will have his freedom. Those four millions of "poor blind Samsons” down there in the south land are playing, and have yet a more important part to play in this struggle. Woe be to them who persist in seeking to repress and trample out the divine love of liberty which is stirring in their rude, untutored hearts! We cannot succeed without them. Whoever secures their strength in the final grapple, "his party conquers in the strife."
"The army did not enlist to free the negro"! Of course not. You are in the field to maintain the authority of the government, and to obey all its behests while remaining in its service. But your government has no justifiable existence only on the basis of the truths in the Declaration of Independence. You are fighting for the nation; but that rests upon a principle grossly violated in the case of the slave at the South. And will you forsake it when it begins to show signs of an intention to embody this principle into its actual life! The negro in this case stands for the race. Oppression does not seize upon the strong, the intelligent, and the rich, but upon the weak, the ignorant, the poor and friendless. He is the man fallen among thieves, and we have been the allies of the thieves. The blow we aimed at the despised African has recoiled upon our own heads. We have sown the wind: we are reaping the whirlwind.
Do you know that slavery has never confined itself to color, or race even? All races have been driven under its cruel lash. And while I write, there lies before me the portrait of a girl, now grown to womanhood, who, "blue-eyed and fair, with Saxon blood,” shows no visible trace of relationship to the despised negro. She resides in this city, having been redeemed from slavery by a noble Senator of Massachusetts. Do you think that the avarice and cupidity which originated and sustain this system would hesitate to make a profit out of this "cunning pattern of creating nature,” because Caucassian blood flows in her veins! Nay, verily. The negro is your representative as well as mine, in this conflict. The knife you aim at his bosom draws the life-blood from your own.
You want to restore the old order of things! Do you consider what that drags along in its train? Dred Scott decisions! Fugitive Slave laws! lynch laws for all who will not bow down and worship slavery, and sell their birthright for its miserable pottage! slavery in the District! slavery in the Territories! slavery wherever our eagle flies, or our stars and stripes float in the breeze! This is worth fighting for, is it? You are periling " life and fortune and sacred honor " to restore once more the time
“When crime was virtue-gown, and sword, 
And law, their three-fold sanction gave;
And, to the quarry of the salve,
Went hawking with our symbol-bird."
This is brave work! Who is ready to engage in it? Not you, I hope.
No, my friend, slavery has sought to throttle our nation, and build up its filthy empire upon the ruins. It must die! It has appealed to the dread arbitrament of war. It shall abide its fortune. Do you intend to save it from its from its doom?
In the name of the silent dead who lie festering in their bloody graves around you,-of all those who are to die, or be crippled and maimed in this atrocious and wanton rebellion,-the unutterable misery it will carry to so many hamlets and firesides;-for the sake of the justice outraged, the love blighted, the homes made desolate, the humanity murdered;-and in the name of that posterity which, though now "existing only in the all-creating power of God,” is hereafter to stand in our places, and gather the fruit of the tree we this day plant,-I adjure you to leave no rightful means untried by which this great criminal, SLAVERY, can be cast out and trodden under foot of men. The way is now open. All that is needed is the unflinching, resolute will, guided by an unconquerable devotion to our dear country, and that universal freedom and justice it was designed to secure.
This, my friend, is my reply to your request. I commend it to your careful deliberation. That you may be an instrument in the redemption of our land from its great crime and curse, and thus lay the foundation for a brilliant career of prosperity and happiness for all, is the earnest desire of
Your friend, N. H. WHITING.

NO COMPROMISE WITH WRONG-THE LESSON OF THE HOUR.
HARWICH, (Mass.) June 23, 1862.
DEAR GARRISON-Yesterday, according to appointment, I lectured three times in this town-twice in Union Hall, once in the Orthodox meeting-house, Rev. Mr. Munsell the minister. Deep interest in the meeting was manifested in the Hall. In the forenoon, the lecture was on the Unity of the Race. The human family includes all out of the body, and all in it-black, white and red. The kingdom of humanity-which is the kingdom of God-knows no nation, no church, and, of course, embraces all human beings, and none else; politicians, priests and sectarians are excluded from it-sectarism and nationalism being equally and forever shut out. To be a Christian-as the word is understood according to the theory and practice of the church and of Christendom-is a great and daring crime and outrage against humanity. To be a patriot is in like manner a crime and outrage against justice and humanity.
But the meeting in the Orthodox meeting-house, in the evening, is worth special notice as indicative of the great change going on in favor of liberty, and against slavery. Subject: "Compromise." Text: What God hath put asunder, let no man put together. The minister-Rev. Mr. Munsell-opened by prayer-emphatically and in so many words praying, that "the war might continue till slavery is abolished.” In my heart, I cried out, "Hear, hear!" it came out so heartily. Who can help but pray that the pain may continue till the patient is willing to remove the cause of the disease?-that the horrors of war may come to the people till they are willing to abolish slavery-that greatest of horrors, and the source of all our troubles?
It was shown how this nation's effort, for seventy years, to put together what God had put asunder, had darkened the conscience, perverted the reason, and obfuscated the entire moral nature of the people, on all questions of social, civil, religious and domestic life.
But the richest part of the whole meeting was this: The leading man of the church moved a vote of thanks to the lecturer-Henry C. Wright-which was carried by a rising vote! Then the same leading member of the church called for the singing of John Brown's Glory, Hallelujah! and all the congregation
<c02>
arose and joined in singing the chorus, while I sang the verses. Then the minister generously and heartily thanked me for my lecture. All this, dear Garrison, in an Orthodox meeting-house, on Sunday! The world moves!
All just as it should be! Just right! Had all the Orthodox churches of the North treated Abolitionists and the Abolition movement, for the past thirty years, as Rev. Mr. Munsell and his church treated me yesterday, this war had never been-with its anguish and tears, and legacy of wailing, of sighs and sorrow, to generations yet unborn; Abolitionists and Abolitionism had never been arrayed against them, for they would all long ago have been arrayed against slavery, and in their bosoms the dumb and down-trodden had found a sure protection from the enslaver.
My heart is full of hope-cheerful, animating hope. I can see the beginning of the end of slavery. This government can never be restored to where it was, with slave-hunting and slave-representation as a basis. 
The almighty talk! What power in ideas! Before the omnipotence of thought, vitalized by love and sympathy, no evil can stand. Even slavery must fall. Thought has more power to kill slavery than cannon, rifled though they be.
Yours, HENRY C. WRIGHT.

ANTI-SLAVERY AT THE WEST.
LEWISTOWN, (Fulton Co.) Ill., June 23, 1862. 
DEAR LIBERATOR,-If any anti-slavery laborer of your acquaintance thinks our work is already done, or that a more vigorous and faithful prosecution of it than ever will not be more fruitful than ever of good results, let him come, and work and watch in this part of the vineyard, which is now white to the harvest, but in which the laborers are few indeed. He will find here a blind and stupid hatred and dread of the negro, grown to an absorbing passion, and genuine abolitionism looked upon by the majority as the pestilence that walketh in darkness; and yet, the uncompromising worker will see these barbarous notions melting rapidly away before the steady light of truth, and the track of thorough anti-slavery work as readily distinguished by good results as are the lines of irrigation on New England hillsides by the stronger and healthier vegetation. The people come out, and listen with interest and appreciation, and I only wish the laborers were in any proportion to the harvest which might be gathered in.
I have been holding a series of meetings lately, which have been unusually encouraging. At Brimfield, Peoria Co., with the assistance of our good and true friends, the Hucys, we had a fine open air meeting. At Maquon, Knox Co., a place where this gospel was never preached before, we had a stirring time. I spoke on the "Lessons of the Rebellion" until half-past 10 o'clock, after which a lawless limb of the law, imported for the occasion by the Vallandighamers, defended 
the persecuted apologists for slavery, and I rejoined; the meeting continuing with unabated interest till past midnight. The large audience, even the women and children, remained to the close, and the labor was evidently not in vain.
To Mr. L. W. Blakesly, at whose beautiful home I was entertained, and to "Charley" McGrew, I am under many obligations.
In Maquon, as, in some other places, I was waited on by the Republicans, and begged not to discuss the black clauses of the New Constitution, as it would only irritate and alienate the Democrats, whom it was all we could do to hold to the support of the Government by concession and conciliation. Poor, faithless Republicanism! Shivering and cringing yet under the whip of negro-hating, God-denying bullies, who are desperate because their hour is almost come!
In Ipava, Fulton Co., I was greeted by an audience, overflowing both in numbers and enthusiasm; cheering most heartily the most radical sentiments.
At Vermont, a fine substantial town which every way does honor to its name, the Congregationalists gave me the use of their meeting-house, and we had a large and pleasant meeting. Dr. Taylor, a cousin of Bayard Taylor, whom he resembles in feature and in freedom from the trammels of conventionalism, was our chairman. Rev. Mr. Eels and wife, of the Congregational church, gave us a helping hand, (notwithstanding their personal relationship to Parsons Cooke, of the Boston Recorder,)-but to H. S. Thomas, Esq., P. M., formerly an anti-slavery and temperance lecturer, and to his pleasant family, our good cause and its advocates are under special obligations.
At Pleasant Dale, four miles from Vermont, is a Quaker neighborhood, where a society is still in working order. Here I had an appointment for Sunday last. On reaching the place of meeting, we found the good, wholesome-looking Quakers out en masse, and also delegations from Ipava and Vermont, which apparently would have thrice filled the house. The meeting was, therefore, adjourned to au adjacent grove, and in that beautiful temple we enjoyed a season of rare interest It was heart-cheering to look into the soul-lit faces of that audience. H. S. Thomas, Esq., of Vermont, presided, and spoke, too, with excellent effect.
At Hickory Grove, I found a community almost unanimous for slavery. They gave me a hearing, however, and I found here a few thorough-going Abolitionists. I shall not soon forget the hearty kindness of that good old Quaker couple, Jesse Kinzie and Naomi, his wife.
I see that Mrs. H. M. T. Cutler dates one of her letters in the Liberator from Elmwood, where we should have been glad to hear her lecture, but our orthodox minister, with whom she staid over Sunday, kept her so snugly hidden under his ecclesiastical bushel, that we knew nothing of her advent until several days after she left. I am glad she succeeds so well with the clergy, and I wish she, or some other favored one, would give us a recipe for preaching the whole gospel of anti-slavery, and yet retaining the helping hand and good-will of these reverend shepherds. For myself, I often find them the greatest stumbling-blocks in the strait and narrow way of truth. I hope Mrs. Cutler will make another tour through this region, and that she will not overlook Elmwood.
E. R. BROWN.

MEETINGS IN NASHUA, (N. H.)
NASHUA, June 23, 1862.
FRIEND GARRISON-I rode some twenty miles this (Sunday) morning, to listen to our ever-faithful friend, PARKER PILLSBURY, and was more than paid for my labor. The audience in the afternoon, though not large, was composed of the best spirits of this place, who listened to the burning words of inspiration and eloquence which fell from the lips of one long devoted to the cause of suffering humanity. It was evident the seed fell on good ground. May it bring forth abundantly in due season! This evening, the audience was much larger, and it was plain that the serious and solemn truth concerning the enormous crime of the Church and Nation against God and man was even more eagerly received; and it must have a deep and abiding influence upon the minds of the hearers. The "higher law" was portrayed to us as vividly as was the brazen serpent, of which we read, to those who had been bitten. Would to God our religious teachers had, in years past, held up this law of love for our guide! But have not a great majority of them scoffed at the plainest teachings of Jesus, whose disciples they profess to be; and, by following these blind guides, is not the nation now in a Red Sea of blood well earned? R. H. OBER.
EDUCATION IN MASSACHUSETTS. We have received the Twenty-Fifth Annual Report of the Board of Education, together with the Twenty-Fifth Annual Report of the Secretary of the Board. This is a large and handsomely printed volume, showing the state of education and the schools in the various cities and towns in Massachusetts, and therefore full of valuable statistics and useful information. It also contains the Reports of the Visitors of the various Normal Schools in the Commonwealth and an Abstract of School Committees' Reports and of School Returns.
<c03>
FROM KANSAS.
An article from the pen of Rev. Daniel Foster of Centralia, Kansas, has lately come to our notice, in which the state of affairs in this portion of Kansas is set forth in false colors, and, as the communication was originally published in the Liberator, we respectfully ask a hearing in the columns of the same.
The author of the communication referred to evidently designs to convey the impression that, in the affair which he attempts to relate, he was opposed by a pro-slavery faction, and that the opposition was on account of his anti-slavery sentiments, which is a base misrepresentation, and has no foundation whatever in truth, as the more thoroughly reliable anti-slavery portion of this community is opposed to the general course taken by him, since his return from the East in the spring of 1861. The movement, on our part, has nothing to do with slavery, but was inaugurated (so far as our action is concerned) for the establishment of law and order, and for the purpose of rescuing our community from the danger of falling into a debauched state of morals.
The Home Association, chartered in 1858,-the Charter and Constitution of which provide for the building of a fence around Home Town, and the location of a seminary at the Centre-proved, in the hands of certain persons, to be a swindling corporation. From nine to eleven thousand dollars of the seminary and fence fund had been collected, and appropriated to the support of a few individuals. The good people of Home Town, not willing to bear the burden any longer, at the last September election elected a new Executive Committee, without any show of opposition, scarcely, that the existing order of things might be changed. But the old Committee, knowing full well that they were no longer to feed on the spoils of office, and Kansas relief, on the eve of the election, attempted (without the authority of the people of Home Town) to place the seminary fund under the control of (bogus) corporators, (the petition to the Probate Judge being forged, and the inventory of property being, in part, State, school lands, &c.)
In this manner, this same Committee attempted to make themselves corporators of Centralia Seminary, and employed Mr. Foster to teach. The "bigots, hunkers and driftwood," anxious to educate their children, sent them to school, notwithstanding their opposition to the swindle. But, in time, the school began to dwindle, everything seemed to be in confusion, excitements were common, the house was closed against the Lyceum, church societies were discommoded, Mr. Foster threatened suit for slander, testimony was filed in a Justice's office, threatened suit not prosecuted, &c. &c. Up to this time we waited for things to develop themselves. In the meantime, relief contributions from the East were made to subserve the purposes of the Morse-Foster party. Sabbath-School clothing, instead of being distributed to the Sabbath-School children, was appropriated to the support of Mr. Foster. TWO HUNDRED dollars a month, as Relief Agent, is another item, also, which we consider rather burdensome. The assertion of Mr. Foster that we "had tried all legal means to oust him from the building, and signally failed," is utterly false. We are in possession of the house, and have taken no steps but in accordance with legal advice. We bide our time. We believe the official misconduct of Dr. McKay, Chairman of the Board of Corporators, was his disapprobation of the manner in which the school was carried on. The comparison of the female teachers was certainly uncalled for, and would bear reversing. We are not aware of any attempt to get the doors and windows by a search-warrant: but Mr. Foster did bring an action of replevin against Dr. Hidden for the doors and windows, and withdrew the suit at his own cost.
On the 8th day of March, 1862, (after the house had been vacant about one month,) the Executive Committee of Home Association employed a teacher to take charge of the school, and to occupy the house to protect it from any one who might be disposed to act the part of an incendiary. On the 10th of March, while the removal of the family was being made, Daniel Foster, armed, and accompanied by several attendants, burst open the door and entered the house. His friends, armed with guns, began to gather around the house. Mr. Foster drew a revolver, and threatened to empty its contents. Up to this time, no hostile demonstration had been made toward Mr. Foster, with hatchets, axes or canes, or any other weapon whatever, and no one had attempted to put him out of the house. We awaited the operation of the civil law, while our lives were in jeopardy by an armed mob in and around the house. A writ was placed in the hands of the Sheriff, and Daniel Foster and his accomplices were taken before Justice Beers; they had the case removed, and it was removed and tried before "Injustice" Lanham, (on whom Mr. Foster delights to heap such outrageous scandal.) Mr. Foster and his two friends who refused to give bail were not released, when the application for the Habeas was answered by Judge Horton; but the decision of Esquire Lanham was sustained.
JOHN W. DAVIS, Pres. of Home Association.
JNO. S. HIDDEN, Sec'y.
J. W. TULLER, Auditor.
H. A. GOODMAN, 
JOHN McBRATNEY
Business Committee of Home Association.
HIRAM H. LANHAM, Justice of the Peace.
JOSEPH W. FRANKS,
O. P. GALLAGHER,
H. GRIMES,
CHARLES BRAINARD,
WILLIAM ANDERSON,
T. A. CAMPFIELD,
D. WM. GRANGER, 
DELOS REED,
S. B. H.,
E. D. HYMER,
REUBEN MOSHER, and other citizens. 
CENTRALIA, Nemaha Co., (Kan.,) June 19, 1862.

THE NEW CONSTITUTION OF ILLINOIS.
EARLVILLE, La Salle Co., (III.) June 26, 1862.
DEAR MR. GARRISON-The proposed Constitution, by which rebel sympathizers expected to precipitate Illinois into the vortex of civil war, is without doubt defeated by some 12,000 majority, counting the votes polled within the limits of the State: The votes of the Illinois Volunteers, which the Convention provided,-in palpable violation of the Constitution and laws of the State,-might be taken by unsworn Secesh Commissioners, outside the limits of the State, are not yet counted, nor even polled. The Commissioners have until August to finish up the business. By that time, they will know just how many votes to return, to turn the scale in favor of the iniquity. The Chicago Times, the paper which undertook to get up a mob when Phillips spoke at Chicago last winter, and the Northwestern organ of Jeff. Davis, which Secretary Stanton ought to have "wiped out" long ago, says that “we (the Secesh Democracy) are prepared for just such an emergency”-a popular vote in the State against the swindle. I expect, therefore, that we may look out for Calhoun-Kansas-candle-box returns from our regiments in other States. But the Judges of our Supreme Court, who would be ousted by the new Constitution, can be relied on, in the last resort, to interpose a decision against the legality of fishing for votes outside of the State for a month after the election. When the interest of Supreme Judges lies exactly in the line of their duty, no one will doubt that they can be trusted. In our case, to save themselves, they must save the State; therefore we feel that we are safe in any possible event. But it is said that the soldiers have nearly all turned Abolitionists, and are voting against the "new Constitution," almost to a man. If this be true, it would seem difficult for these pupils of candle-box Calhoun to invent, at this late day, a new dodge. But we shall see.
The secret of John Wentworth's apostacy proves to be, if we can believe "the papers," that his father-in-law is the owner of about two millions of the McAllister and Stebbins' bonds, the payment of which the proposed Constitution expressly provided for.
<c04>
The McAllister and Stebbins' bonds, so called, are State bonds of Illinois, to the amount, at the present time, interest and principle, of about three and a half millions, which some time in 1888 or '40 were hypothecated with a broker in New York for the sum of two hundred and eighty thousand dollars, and afterwards by said broker disposed of as his own in the market The State was ready to pay the borrowed money when due, and has always held herself in readiness to do no, but these bonds could not be had,-the holders claiming to be innocent purchasers, and entitled to the full amount of the bonds. This was known to be a fraudulent pretence, and the State has steadily refused to pay the bonds, although every legislature has been beleagured by the holders thereof, and their agents, for twenty years. Well, it came to pass, in the course of time, that " Long John," the friend of John Brown, and since a radical abolitionist, married the daughter of a very wealthy man in Chicago, who, honestly or otherwise, was the holder of the snug sum of two millions, more or less, of these bonds. John became the advocate of a Constitutional Convention, to change the old Constitution; the legislature was invoked, and the Convention called; delegates were elected, and assembled at Springfield, and John appeared in their midst, and became the most active and influential member-made an extravagant eulogy upon Douglas, and became the friend and co-worker of secesh Democrats. The Constitution was finished, and the Convention adjourned. John immediately became the associate editor of the secesh Times-worked day and night, made speeches, wrote long editorials for the Times, went to Dutch balls, drank bad whiskey at Irish wakes-in short, did an incredible amount of dirty work, to secure the adoption of the New Constitution. But, on one fine day, it was discovered that the new Constitution was made to fit the case of the McAllister and Stebbins' bondholders, exactly. The people saw through the trick. John's balloon leaked gas, and collapsed. Professors Wise and LaMountain never tumbled as did Prof. John. John's altitude was immense, but his descent was immenser. His exact landing-place, or the extent of his injuries, is not known, but is certainly worse than a tree-top or a mill pond, and eight days' subsistence on roots and yabs. I commend the story of the rise and fall of "Long John" to all men who are tempted of the devil, in these latter days, to betray Liberty and the People. A. J. GROVER.

PETITION TO CONGRESS.
On the 20th ult. Hon. Mr. Sedgwick presented to the Congress of the United States the following petition, signed by more than five hundred of the adult male citizens of Syracuse-fair samples of the professional, mercantile, mechanical and laboring men of that city:-
SYRACUSE, May 15th, 1862. 
To the Honorable Members of the. Senate and House of Representatives of the United States in Congress assembled:
GENTLEMEN: We, the undersigned, citizens of Syracuse, in the State of New York, respectfully submit-
That as slavery is undeniably the cause of the present civil war, which has already, during the past twelve months, wasted hundreds of millions of property, maimed the persons, and broken down the health of tens of thousands of our countrymen, and destroyed the lives of many thousands more:
That as this "peculiar institution" has ever been, and must ever be, utterly incompatible with the administration of a truly democratic government, and with the accomplishment of the grand purposes of the Union and Constitution of these United States of America:
That as the holding of human beings as property, and treating them as domesticated brutes, is the most tremendous sin of which individuals or a nation can be guilty:
Therefore, the Rulers of this Republic ought to rid it of this curse,-extirpate from our country every fiber of "this root 
of bitterness,"-and we hereby earnestly implore you so to do.
Feeling sure, as we do, that if slavery be allowed to remain in the land, no peace that might be patched up could be true and lasting, and that our vast expenditures in this civil war of money, time, health, limbs, lives and virtues would be for naught, we therefore entreat-we pray you-to adopt such measures as you deem best to abolish slavery throughout the country now and forever.
THE NEGRO QUESTION IN GENERAL BUTLER'S DEPARTMENT. A test in regard to the treatment of refugee negroes has been reported to Washington by Gen. Butler for the decision of the Government. It appears that, on the 15th ult., about one hundred and fifty negroes, comprising men, women and children, had collected near the camp of Gen. Phelps, at Carrolton, where they were likely to experience much suffering from want of food and shelter, unless Government aid could be extended to them, which could not be done, owing to the order of General Butler excluding, them from the lines.
One party, seventy-five in number, reported that they were sent over the river by a planter named Le Blanche, who gave them their choice of leaving before sundown, or receiving fifty lashes each. Gen. Phelps sent a communication to Gen. Butler on the subject, with the request that it should be transmitted to Washington. With this request, Gen. B. has complied, accompanying the letter of General Phelps with a statement of his own. Gen. Butler concludes as follows:-
"The account of Gen. Phelps is the negro side of the story; that above given is the story of Mr. Le Blanche's neighbors, some of whom I know to be loyal men. Gen. Phelps, I believe, intends making this a test case for the policy of the Government. I wish it might be so, for the difference of our action upon this subject is a source of trouble.
I respect his honest sincerity of opinion; but I am a soldier, bound to carry out the wishes of my Government so long as I hold its commission, and I understand that policy to be the one I am pursuing. I do not feel at liberty to pursue any other. If the policy of the Government is nearly that which I sketched in my report upon this subject, as that which I have ordered in this Department, then the services of Gen. Phelps are worse than useless here.
If the views set forth in this report are to obtain, then he is invulnerable; for his whole soul is in it, and he is a good soldier of large experience, and no braver man lives. I beg to leave the whole question to the President, with, perhaps, the needless assurance that his wishes shall be loyally followed, even if not in accordance with my own, as I have now no right to have any on the subject. I write in haste, as the steamer Mississippi is waiting this despatch. Awaiting the earliest possible instruction,
I have the honor to be your most obedient servant, 
BENJ. F. BUTLER."
MR. MAYOR WIGHTMAN. A friend from a distance writes: “Are there no enterprising people in Boston or Roxbury who are willing to quench the flaming impudence of Mayor Wightman in a horse-pond? My fingers itch to make one of such a noble band!” It would be a mistake to give Wightman even this distinction. He is simply a ridiculous bore, whose conceit makes him a general laughing-stock, and who is about as worthy of notice by dignified men and women as is Daniel Pratt, Jr. In point of rhetoric, his letter to the President is hardly equal in merit to the immortal Gridiron of his distinguished co-laborer.-Norfolk County Gazette.
The Rev. Mr. Tenney, of Marlborough, sends us for publication a letter addressed to the President, in which the silly letter of the self-conceited Mayor of Boston is pretty seriously chastised. We are not sure that Mr. Wightman deserves so much attention. He is evidently half-brother to the editor of the Etanswill Gazette, and own cousin to the famous Mrs. Leo Hunter, of the Pickwick Papers. It was a ridiculous ambition that led him to publish that letter; but it has already done some good, by causing even dyspepsia itself to shake its sides with laughter. This Mr. Wightman of Boston, travelling away from the sphere of his duties to assume care of the State, assuming the manner of a great man, and talking to the President as if he were an oracle! Oh, nothing like this is possible every day! We cannot get angry with the man. It does not surprise us, however, that others, like Mr. Tenney, take his conceited utterances more seriously, and become very much in earnest against them.-Worcester Spy.
The new Constitution made for Illinois is said to be rejected; but the three odious sections directed against the colored race have been adopted. They are of a character that would disgrace Sahara for savageness, and Caffraria for cruelty. If we shall fail in the secession war, it will be as punishment for the base prejudices and mean bigotry of a portion of the Northern people. That Illinois vote will do us more damage abroad than could be made to proceed from the loss of ten pitched battles. Battles may have their issues determined by a score of things that shall not be discreditable to the losers, but deliberate oppression of the weak by the strong creates disgust even in the minds of despots. We shall be despised as well in Vienna as in Venice.-Traveller.
<c05>
THE OPERATIONS BEFORE RICHMOND. 
Three Days' Important Events-A Great Battle on Friday-Important Strategic Movement-White House Evacuated-The Enemy Severely Repulsed.
The interruption of telegraphic communication with Gen. McClellan forbids anything beyond the barest abstract of the recent great movements on the Peninsula. From the confused accounts by various hands, we gather the following:-
On Wednesday morning, at 8 o'clock, an advance was made by Hooker's Division, led by the Massachusetts 1st, which resulted in an engagement lasting all that day, and giving us possession of the ground held by the enemy. The position thus gained is said to be, Tavern Hill, an eminence commanding Richmond. The report of our loss varies from 300 to 700, or even 1000.
The recent raid of rebel cavalry as far as the White House, coupled, perhaps, with certain intelligence of the enemy’s intentions, led Gen. McClellan to order the abandonment of that base of operations for a new one on James River. The removal of the sick and wounded, stores, ammunition, &c., was begun on Wednesday, and accomplished by a large fleet of sailing vessels and steamers, with entire completeness. On Thursday, the rebels began an attack on our right wing, crossing the Chickahominy, and advancing from above Hanover Court House. The fighting lasted till night, when our troops were ordered to fall back.
Ten guns were taken from us by a sudden flank attack, covered by the thick smoke which hung around the pieces, and slowly drifted to leeward. A rebel Major was taken prisoner by Count de Paris. He states that the whole of Jackson's army was here and in the attack on our right. The rebels had from 60,000 to 80,000 troops.
On Friday the battle was renewed with the greatest intensity on both sides, and the losses cannot now be estimated. Porter's Division seems to have borne the brunt of this conflict with great heroism, though ordered to retire at the close. The enemy, which before this whole affair had been reinforced by Stonewall Jackson with his army, pushed for the White House on Friday afternoon. The railroad was held by us during the night, and on Saturday morning the work of emptying the White House was almost perfect.
On Saturday, the rebels took possession of the coveted position, but only to find the White House burned, and no property of any consequence remaining. Beyond this, we have no definite intelligence. The general impression is, that the drawing in of our right wing, which is the result of the three days' fighting, and which places our entire force between the Chickahominy and James Rivers, was designed by Gen. McClellan, and is a strategic movement executed in the most masterly manner, and promising the most important results. Meanwhile, Gen. Burnside is said to be in the rear of Fort Darling, ready to cooperate with our gunboats, and the position of Richmond is thought to be critical.
The enemy made his appearance in considerable force at the White House, about 7 o'clock Saturday evening, and although he neither found bread for man nor hay for beast, was welcomed with heavy showers of grape shot from the three gunboats which were ranged along in front of the landing. They were supposed to be 30,000 strong, and unless they brought their haversacks well supplied, they must have gone supperless to bed.
Gen. Casey reports that he lost not a man, nor did he leave a soul behind, not even a contraband.
At 10 o'clock on Saturday morning, Col. Ingalls and Capt. Sawtelle were before Yorktown with an immense convoy of vessels and steamers, on their way to the new base of operations on James river.
The New York Tribune has the following list of killed at Mechanicsville: Col. Samuel W. Black, 62d Pennsylvania, formerly Governor of Nebraska, by a ball through the head, while leading a charge through a piece of woods; Col. John W. McLane, 83d Pennsylvania; Col. Magilton, 4th Pennsylvania. Reported: Capt. Carr, 16th, Michigan; Capt. H. S. Brown, Co. I, 83d Pennsylvania; Capt. McCafferty, 9th Massachusetts; Capt. Madigan, 9th Massachusetts; 1st Lieut. R. Nugent, Co. I, do.; Lieut. Francis O. Dowd, Co. I, do.; Joseph Simpson, Co. E, 2d Pa.; Private Partridge, Co. E, 5th New York; Private Nesmith, 12th U. S. Infantry.
Reported wounded: Col. Duryea, 5th N. Y.; Col. Warren, Acting Brigadier General in Sykes' Division; Major Hall, 5th N. Y.
The First Massachusetts Regiment suffered most severely, losing at least 75 killed and wounded, of whom three were captains and three lieutenants. The seventh Massachusetts lost 15 killed and wounded by sharpshooters and skirmishers. Only one was killed. Lieut. J. C. Bullock of Fall River was unfortunately mortally wounded by one of our own shells.
Col. Hinks's Nineteenth Massachusetts lost some forty men, of whom twelve were killed. The Second Rhode Island had five killed and twenty-five wounded. Private Chas. Blake, Company E, Seventh Massachusetts, is complimented for his gallantry. He was severely wounded in the shoulder, but not disabled. After his wound was dressed, he returned to the battle-field, and fought until he was disabled by a wound in the leg.
Count de Paris testified to the remarkable good conduct of all the regiments that sustained the unequal attack on Porter; they gave way indeed, but not one of them ran. Their losses are enormous. The regular 11th cavalry are about annihilated. Nearly every officer is killed or wounded. The 14tj suffered severely.
Major Rosselle, of the regulars, a kinsman of McClellan, was killed. Col. Pratt of a New York regiment was killed, and Lieut. Cols. Black and Sweitzer.
Our loss in officers is very marked. Indeed, the disproportion in numbers was so extraordinary, and the obstinacy of our troops so unyielding, that our losses were inevitably large.
The artillery in both Porter's and Smith's divisions piled the rebels in heaps. The fire was horribly effective.
The New York Herald's report, dated the 27th, states that our killed and wounded on that day reached 1200.
At Savage's Station, the wounded already fill the great street of tents in the garden, and begin to pave the grass yard as after the Seven Pines. The same moaning and shrieking all the night as then, and again bear testimony against the style of warfare which submits regiments to the fire of brigades.
It is reported that Stonewall Jackson was killed, and that one of our Brigadier Generals was taken prisoner, together with an entire regiment.
Gen. McClellan, with much severe fighting, had penetrated and passed through White Oak Swamp, with 40,000 men and 100 pieces of artillery, to a secure and advantageous position, and subsequently cut through a line of communication with James river.
It is reported that during the two days fighting Gen. McClellan's loss was 10,000.
SANGUINARY BATTLE ON JAMES ISLAND. A daring and desperate effort was made by the Federal forces of the Second Division, under Brigadier-General Stevens, on the 16th ult., to carry the formidable rebel fortifications at the point of the bayonet, wholly unaided by cannon, at James Island, near Charleston, S. C. It was temporarily successful, but resulted very disastrously in the sequel, for lack of adequate support. Gen. Stevens, in his report, says:-
Parties from the leading regiments of two brigades, the Eighth Michigan and the Seventy-ninth Highlanders, mounted and were shot down on the parapet, officers and men. Those two regiments especially covered themselves with glory, and their fearful casualties show the hot work in which they were engaged. Two-fifths of the Eighth Michigan and nearly one-quarter of the Seventy-ninth Highlanders were struck down, either killed or wounded; and nearly all the remaining regiments-One Hundreth Pennsylvania, Seventh Connecticut, Forty-sixth New York and Twenty-eighth Massachusetts-had a large number of casualties.
The Richmond papers give glowing accounts of their late victory on James Island. The Charleston correspondent of the Richmond Despatch writes:-
Every day's exploration of the surrounding woods reveals additional dead of the enemy. It has been ascertained that a body of the Federals attempted to cross a swamp, where many of them stuck fast in the mud, and were killed and drowned by our shells. Finally, the tide came up and drowned both dead and wounded. Two hundred and fifty of the enemy have already been buried by our troops, and fifty additional dead bodies were discovered yesterday. The total loss of the enemy in the battle cannot be far from-
Killed and left on the field, 300
Taken prisoners, 130
Wounded and dead carried off the field, estimated, 700
Total loss of the enemy, 1,130 
The Confederate loss in this glorious victory is- 
Killed, 48
Wounded, 106
Total Confederate loss, 154
EVACUATION OF JAMES ISLAND. We have news by the arrival of the Matanzas from Port Royal, that Gen. Hunter has entirely evacuated James Island. This is, of course, a complete abandonment of the present attempt upon Charleston-a consequence of the failure to take the rebel battery at Secessionville. The position seems to have been so important, that while its possession would have given us an impregnable front, the failure to capture it makes Gen. Hunter's previous entrenched camp untenable, and involves his withdrawal from the island.
The death of the brave Col. Ellet, of the ram flotilla at Memphis, is announced. Also that of his wife, through 
grief at his loss.
<c06>
As ATTEMPTED NEGRO INSURRECTION. The Greensboro Motive, (Mississippi,) of June 14th gives, information of an attempt of the negroes at insurrection: 
'We learn from a reliable source that the negroes were arming themselves very rapidly with such weapons as they could get at Double Springs, Oktibbeha county, twenty-two miles from this place, to kill off all the men and boys. By some means they were detected in their plot by the citizens of Double Springs and were arrested.
Upon being questioned as to what their intention was, they replied that they were to murder all the white males on the 18th of June, and that they had already picked out their choice of white women for their wives. Our informant says that the citizens had arrested eight or ten negroes and two white men.
He further states that they are to be tried to-day, and three of the negroes will certainly hang, and the others will be severely lynched. We do not know what they will do with the white men, but we are confident if they can prove what the negroes say, they will be apt to pull hemp."

ILLNESS OF SENATOR WIESON. The Washington correspondent of the Boston Traveller says: 
"Senator Wilson has been quite ill for a few days. He is at the Washington House, corner of Third street and the Avenue, his old place, and is convalescent. He has been quite ill-much more so than most of his friends hereabouts supposed. He is so active a member of the Senate, that he is instantly missed from his place. He is one of the most useful members of Congress, doing more work for the government and nation than a dozen ordinary members. He hopes to be able to be back in his seat in the Senate early next week."

WOMAN AND THE PRESS.
On Friday afternoon, May 30, a meeting was held in Studio Building, Boston, for conference in regard to a new periodical to be devoted to the interests of Woman. While none questioned the value and the need of such an instrument in the Woman's Rights cause, the difficulties that would endanger or even defeat the enterprise were fully discussed, but with this issue-that the experiment should be made. For the furtherance, therefore, of so desirable an object, we insert and call attention to the following

PROSPECTUS OF THE WOMAN’S JOURNAL: 
When we consider that there is scarcely a party, sect, business organization or reform which is not represented in the press, it appears strange that women, constituting one half of humanity, should have no organ, in America, especially devoted to the promotion of their interests, particularly as these interests have excited more wide-spread attention in this country than in any other, while in no other country can the double power of free speech and a free press be made so effective in their behalf. This appears stranger from the fact that conservative England has successfully supported a journal of this sort for years with acknowledged utility.
America needs such a journal to centralize and give impetus to the efforts which are being made in various directions to advance the interests of woman. It needs it most of all at this time, when the civil war is calling forth the capabilities of woman in an unwonted degree, both as actors and sufferers-when so many on both sides are seen to exert a most potent influence over the destinies of the nation, while so many others are forced by the loss of husbands, sons and brothers, to seek employment for the support of themselves and families. Social problems, too, are gradually becoming solved by the progress of events, which will leave to that of woman the most prominent place henceforth.
To meet this want of the times, we propose to establish a WOMAN'S JOURNAL, based on the motto, "Equal Rights for all Mankind," and designed especially to treat of all questions pertaining to the interests of women, and to furnish an impartial platform for the free discussion of these interests in their various phases. It will aim to collect and compare the divers theories promulgated on the subject, to chronicle and centralize the efforts made in behalf of women, in this country and elsewhere, and to render all possible aid to such undertakings, while at the same time it will neglect no field of intellectual effort or human progress of general interest to men of culture. It will comprise reviews of current social and political events, articles on literature, education, hygiene, etc., a feuilleton, composed chiefly of translations from foreign literature-in short, whatever may contribute to make it a useful and entertaining family paper. Its columns will be open, and respectful attention insured, to all thinkers on the subjects of which it treats, under the usual editorial discretion, only requiring that they shall accept, a priori, the motto of the paper, and shall abstain front all personal discussion.
Among the contributors already secured to the Journal whom we are permitted to name, are Mrs. Lydia Maria Child, Mrs. Caroline M. Severance, Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Mrs. Frances D. Gage, Miss Elizabeth Palmer Peabody, William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, George Wm. Curtis, T. W. Higginson, Moncure D. Conway, Theodore Tilton, and William H. Channing; and other distinguished writers have promised us their aid. No pains will be spared to enlist the best talent in the country, and to make the paper one of literary merit as well as practical utility.
The Journal will be issued semi-monthly, in octavo form, sixteen pages, at Two Dollars per annum, the first number appearing on the 1st of October next, and will be published in Boston.
Subscriptions will be received from this data by agents of the Journal, or by the Editors, Roxbury, Mass, lockbox 2, to be paid on the receipt of the first number of the Journal. In this connection, we would earnestly solicit the co-operation of friends of woman throughout the country, in extending the subscription list of the Journal, and thus placing it on that permanent basis which will insure its continued utility and success. Those interested in the enterprise are respectfully requested to communicate with the editors at the above address.
A discount of twenty-five per cent, will be made to agents.
Agents will please return all prospectuses with names before the 15th of July.
MARY L. BOOTH,
MARIE E. ZAKRZEWSKA, M. D.
Boston, May 15, 1862.
ESSEX COUNTY ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION AND PIC-NIC.-By invitation of Rev. Elam Burnham, the friends and lovers of freedom will hold an Anti-Slavery gathering on his premises, in Hamilton, on Sunday, the sixth day of July, commencing at 10 o'clock in the forenoon. Should the day prove favorable, it is confidently expected that a large concourse will be present from the surrounding towns.
It is proposed that all attending should furnish their own refreshments, the place being at some distance from the village, in the south-easterly part of the town.
PARKER PILLSBURY, HURT C. WRIGHT, and other speakers are expected to address the Convention.
MEETINGS AT WORCESTER,-CHARLES C. BURLEIGH will speak at Washburn Hall, in Worcester, on Sunday next, July 6, at 3 o'clock in the afternoon, and at half-past 7 in the evening.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Milford, N. H., Sunday, July 13, at 1 and 5 o'clock, P. M.
WM WELLS BROWN will speak as follows:
Feltonville, Sunday, July 6, morning and afternoon.
Marlboro', Sunday, July 6, in the evening.
Subject: "What shall be done with the slaves when they are liberated?”
REMOVAL.-DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.-MARGARET B. BROWN, M. D., and WM. SYMINGTON BROWN, M. D., have removed to No. 23, Chauncy Street, Boston, where they may be consulted on the above diseases. Office hours, from 10, A. M., to 4 o'clock, P. M. 3m March 28.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren- Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D, Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
SUMMER RESORT-ROUND HILL HOTEL., NORTH-AMPTON, Mass.-Terms-$1.50 per day, or 7 to $10 per week.
"Its beautiful scenery, delightful landscape views, pure mountain spring water, fine carriage drives, and extensive forest parks, render it a charming retreat, both for the pleasure seeker and the invalid."-New Haven Journal.
MARRIED-In this city, June 24, by Rev. L. A. Grimes, Mr. EDWIN MAHAR to Miss AMELIA ST. PIERRE.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
From the N.Y. Independent.
THE DAY OF GOD.
BY GEO. S. BURLEIGH.
All blessings walk with onward feet;
No day dawns twice, no night comes back;
The car of doom, or slow or fleet,
Rolls down an unreturning track.

What we have been, we cannot be;
Forward, inexorable Fate
Points mutely to her own decree-
Beyond her hour is all too late.
God reaps his judgment-field to-day,
And sifts the darnel from the wheat;
A whirlwind sweeps the chaff away,
And fire the refuge of deceit.
Once in a century only blooms
The flower of fortune so sublime
As now hangs budded o'er the tombs
Of the great fathers of old time.
Eternal Justice sits on high,
And gathers in her awful scales
Our shame and glory-Slavery's lie,
And Freedom's starry countervails.
When falls her sword, as fall it must
In red Bellona's fiery van,

Let the old monarch bite the dust,
And rise the rescued rights of Man.
In vain a nation's bloody sweat,
The sob of myriad hearts in vain,
If the scotched snake may live to set
Its venom in our flesh again.
Priests, of an altar fired once more 
For Freedom in His awful name,
Who trod the wine-press, dripping gore, 
And gave the Law in lurid flame,-
Oh, not in human wrath, that wreaks 
Revenge for wrong, and blood for blood;
Not in the fiery will that seeks
Brute power in battle's stormy flood,-
Go forth, redeemers of a land, 
Sad, stern, and fearless for the Lord,
Solemn and calm, with firm right hand 
Laid to the sacrificial sword.
The lords of treason and the whip 
Have called you to the dread appeal,
From the loud cannon's fevered lip, 
And the wide flash of bristling steel.
If now the echo of that voice
Shake down their prison-house of wrong, 
They have their own perfidious choice;
For God is good, and Truth is strong.
Their steel draws lightning, and the bolt 
But fires their own volcanic mine;
God in their vineyard of Revolt 
Treads out his sacramental wine!
Be this our conquest,-as they gave 
Their all to Treason and the Chain,
We snap the fetter from the slave,
And make our sole revenge their gain!

From the N. Y. Tribune.
THE LOYAL DEMOCRAT
Mouth not to me your Union rant,
Nor gloze mine ears with loyal cant!
Who stands this day in Freedom's van,
He only is my UNION MAN!
Who tramples Slavery's Gesler hat
He is my LOYAL DEMOCRAT!
With whips engirt by chains, too long
We strove to make our fasces strong;
When Rebel hands those fasces rend,
Must we with whips and chains still mend?
If "Democrats" can stoop to that, 
God help me, I'm no Democrat!
Thank Heaven! the lines are drawn this hour,
'Twixt Manly Right and Despot Power;
Who scowls in Freedom's pathway now, 
Bears" TYRANT" stamped upon his brow; 
Who skulks aloof, or shirks his part, 
Hath "SLAVE" imprinted in his heart.
In vain of "Equal Rights" ye prate, 
Who fawn like dogs at Slavery's gate! 
Beyond the slave each slave-whip smites,
And codes for Blacks are laws for Whites;
The chains that negro limbs encoil,
Reach and enslave each child of Toil!
O Northern Men! when will ye learn
'Tis LABOR that these tyrants spurn?
'Tis not the blood or skin they brand,
But every Poor Man's toil-worn hand;
And ye who serve them-knowing this-
Deserve the slave-lash that ye kiss!
While Northern blood remembrance craves
From twice ten thousand Southern graves,
Shall free-born hearts-beneath the turf-
Lie always crushed by tramp of serf? 
And pilgrims, at those graves, some day,
By Slavery's hounds be driven away?
The green grass in the church-yard waves-
The good corn grows o'er battle-graves;
But, O! from crimson seeds now sown,
What crops-what harvest-shall be grown! 
On SHILOH'S plain-on ROANOKE'S sod-
What fruits shall spring from blood, O God!
Spring-time is here! The Past now sleeps-
The Present sows-the Future reaps!
Who plants good seed in Freedom's span,
He only is my UNION MAN!
Who treads the weeds of Slavery flat,
He is my LOYAL DEMOCRAT!
A.J.H. DUGANE.
New York, May 23, 1862.

"ANOTHER VICTORY"-WHO IS BEREAVED?
Who are widows,-who are orphans?
Victory again is won;
Who will bear the news of sadness
To the lonely, stricken one?
Who will tell how fell the father,
Husband, brother, in the fray?
Who will bear their "last sad whisper,"
As their life-tide flowed away?
Who can paint the depths of anguish
That must follow all this strife?
Mercy weeps, and wails in sadness,
O'er this waste of human life:
Who can sound the depths of sorrow?
Dread suspense "is but a part";
Thousands, waiting, soon will shudder,
And will grieve with broken heart.
Who will gather in the orphans?
See them cluster round the hearth? 
Who can still their merry prattle,
Check their childish joy and mirth? 
And their laughter-turn to sorrow-
Telling how their father died?
List, with pity, to their weeping!
Draw them closely to thy side!
There were brothers,-there were lovers,-
Bravely, too, "they fought and fell;"
 Who will bear the saddening tidings
To the loved, "they loved so well"?
Who will tell that trusting maiden
Where his manly form was lain?
Tell her, but, o, tall her, gently!
‘Twas her loved one "’mong the slain"!
Tell her, "yes-she was remembered!"
‘Twas her image on his breast!
There her miniature was resting!
By his stiffen'd hand ‘twas prear'd
Sure the loving are the bravest!

Ever bravest-true and tried-
‘Twas for her, and for her country,
That the youthful hero died!
<c02>
Bear the tidings-bear them gently!
Tell the widow where he fell; 
Where the husband fought so bravely 
For his country, long and well! 
Tell her how her name was spoken,
Ere his spirit wing'd its flight,
Whispering, "O my bleeding country!"
And "My Mary, God and Right!"

The Liberator.
PRESIDENT LINCOLN AND HIS MESSAGES.
From the first, the aim and purpose of the President have been to restore the Union as it was. To this end, he has done his best to assure the people of the South, slaveholders or otherwise, that, under his administration, the pro-slavery guaranties of the Constitution, and the laws for carrying them out, should be executed to the fullest extent
Were such a consummation practicable, it would by no means be desirable. To wish it, were to wish the recurrence of all the sufferings and calamities which have come upon the nation during the past year. To labor for it, were to sow the seeds of future revolutions. Judging from results alone, such a conclusion is inevitable. Evidently, it was a Union "not fit to be made." It was an attempt to harmonize principles which, in their very nature, are antagonistic and irreconcilable. And we are reaping their legitimate fruits in the turmoil and calamities of civil and domestic strife. Thus far, certainly, it has failed "to establish justice, to insure domestic tranquillity, or to secure the blessings of liberty," even for ourselves.
With such an experience, what consummate folly it would be, out of the same materials, with the same elements, now exasperated into tenfold virulence, upon the same basis, to attempt to form a more perfect Union than the old!
It must not be done. Who and what are the men whom the President is endeavoring, with so much earnestness, to recal, to their allegiance, and to a reunion with their unchiding and forgiving brethren of the free States? White men at the South, who conspire and hold four millions of God's children in abject slavery, bind them, and task them, and exact their sweat with stripes, that they themselves may revel in luxury and inglorious ease. Nor is this all: standing between them and their Creator, trampling upon their right to life and liberty, they withhold from them all the joy and blessedness which spring from the exercise and development of their intellectual, social and moral natures. No ties are sacred.
The wrongs and cruelties of the slave system are absolutely measureless; language cannot compass them; and yet, they owe their very existence to the strenuous, persistent, united exertions of a few intelligent but selfish and aristocratic white men at the South, who, in the enjoyment of dignified leisure, have contrived to give shape and consistency to all the political institutions of that region. Indeed, the Constitutions and laws of the slave States, so far as they relate to this subject, are but the compacts by which two hundred and fifty thousand slave-owners agree to sustain each other in the ceaseless perpetration of this outrage upon human rights.
By the adoption of the Federal Constitution, the nation was involved in it. The people of the Eastern States, however reluctantly, recognized the wrong, and, for the sake of the Union, lent it their aid. The result has been, that, for seventy years, the slave oligarchy have controlled and wielded the power and resources of the nation, for their own selfish purposes, viz., "the preservation, extension and perpetuation of that wicked institution."
Checked in their career by the growing power of the free States, our ancient allies have deliberately set at nought the corner-stone of our republican institutions- the right of the majority to rule. Outvoted, they have assumed the right of secession, and with it, exclusive jurisdiction of the soil within their respective States. Conspiring against the nation's life, they have revolted against the Government, and defied its power. Worsted in argument, they have appealed to force, and, invoking foreign intervention, they have attempted to destroy the republic, and establish a slaveholding empire of their own. Towards this nation and its subjects, then, they have shown themselves criminals of the deepest dye. Much, therefore, as we might wish to be rid of them, we had no right to let them go. We were bound, if possible, to hold in check these petty tyrants, to disallow their treachery and wholesale robberies of ourselves, lest, elated with success, and availing themselves of foreign intervention, they should seize and hold the coveted territories of neighboring republics, and thus extend their slaveholding domain.
The idea of separation, therefore, was not to be entertained for a moment. For our neighbors' and the slaves' sake, as well as our own, the rebellion must be crushed, its authors and abettors subdued; the vaunted Confederacy must be disbanded, and its people be brought into obedience to the authority and laws of the United States.
To this end, as the Chief Magistrate and representative head of a great nation, clothed with its authority, and moving in the majesty of its strength, the President should have addressed them only in the language of authority-calling upon them, in the name of the people, in the name of justice and equality, to lay down their arms. Cannon-balls, not flattering proclamations, have been and are the appropriate arguments. In such a cause, with a foe so desperate and defiant, and so strong, the language of entreaty, soft words and complimentary addresses are wholly out of place. At present, nothing of less potency than bayonets and cannon-balls will reach the case. Let us say to the President, ply them, then, till the rebels call to parley, and sue for peace. And, to hasten the result, cripple their power of resistance by proclaiming freedom to the slaves. So shall the authority of the government be maintained; the rebellion shall be crushed, the nation shall be saved; not, however, by renewing and restoring, but by eliminating and expelling the vicious and disturbing elements which threaten its life.
Oh that the President were wise, and great, and good enough to proclaim and maintain liberty and justice throughout all the land, among all the inhabitants thereof! Alas! he is not, but dares to leave it to the wisdom and discretion of those whose perverseness can find scope, whose malignity and hatred can be gratified, and whose social and political consideration can be maintained only by the conservation of the old order of things. Oh, that the people were wise and good enough to demand that measure at his hands! They are not People and President alike indulge the vain hope, and guilty purpose, of reconciliation and political reunion with the dominant classes in the rebel States; while they leave in their grasp the very institution which occasioned their secession, and which they are still fighting to maintain. What an egregious blunder!
From the first, it is manifest that the President has had very inadequate conceptions of the character and strength of the enemy, or of the magnitude of the work he was called upon to do. Hence his errors of judgment in regard to the necessary and appropriate means for its accomplishment. The attack on Fort Sumter indicated, clearly enough, the desperate and determined character of the foe. And I hold it was unmanly, utterly unworthy the head of a great nation, to ply them with threats, with flattery or money, to induce them to return to their allegiance. Like other criminals, they should be held to their allegiance.
The proposal of emancipation, with compensation, says the President, "makes common cause for a common object, casting no reproaches upon any. It acts not the hypocrite." Is our type of civilization, then, no higher or better than theirs? If they are as good men and as good patriots as we are, why should we be at war with them? It may be said that we contend with them not as slaveholders, but as rebels. I reply, they are rebels because they are slaveholders.
<c03>
They know there can be no cordial union with us while slavery endures. They perceive the onward march of freedom's host; the ground trembles at their approach. In Swedenborgian phrase, they feel her sphere spreading over and enveloping them, and, with the instinctive, strong antipathy of bad to good, they shun the approach; would quit the Union bodily, lest they be ground to powder and absorbed by it.
The distinctive purpose of the Republican party has been and is the exclusion of slavery from the Territories of the United States. And while that purpose stands, it is a perpetual protest against the folly and wickedness of slaveholding or of slave-trading. In their view, the principle is wrong, the practice is immoral. If, therefore, they have abolished slavery in the District of Columbia, or prohibited it in the Territories, it was because they believed there was something wrong in it. It was a reproach to the nation to retain it there; a reproach to increase or extend it. It was a reproach to the nation to have it anywhere within its borders; and the reproach must fall, with all its weight and point, upon those who perpetrate the wrong, wheresoever they may be found. It is an imputation of criminality, of moral obliquity and wrong-doing.
For President Lincoln, therefore, or his party, to disavow the reproach which their whole course and purpose imply, is to avow their indifference to the principle. It is to put themselves on the same moral level with slaveholders; and, in that case, it would be, indeed, the most natural and becoming thing in the world for them to open their arms to their slaveholding brethren at the South, and, with the most urgent appeals, entreat them to return to their allegiance; assuring them that they shall have all the protection to life and property which the fathers promised, though
"’Tis a sin to swear unto a sin
But greater sin to keep the sinful oath."
The credulity of the President is truly marvellous. After proposing compensation to slaveholders for inconveniences, public and private, which they may suffer from a change of system, he says to them-" So much good has not been done by one effort in all past time, as, in the Providence of God, it is your high privilege to do," by taking the initiatory step towards "the gradual abolishment of slavery." As if, just at this time, the slaveholders of this country were in a frame of mind to do good on a gigantic scale! In the first place, such magnanimity and generosity are hardly compatible with the position and character of a genuine slaveholder, at any time; and if they were, they would be vitiated, in the present case, by the fact of compensation. Why, I would as soon think of the arch-enemy of God and man doing the work of a saint.
Again: if emancipation would indeed be so great a good, (and I am not disposed to deny it,) what may we not say of the neglect of it? Does it not imply a corresponding strength and depth of wickedness, on the part of the persistent slaveholder? How, then, shall he escape our censure and reproach? What if the President's entreaties pass unheeded, and the tyrants still refuse to let their bondmen go? The vast future will lament it; the curses of posterity will fall, in no stinted measure, upon those, who, having the opportunity to pour along their path unnumbered blessings, withhold them, and, instead, deal ceaseless misery and woe. In the case of slaveholding, the crime of doing, and of not undoing, is the same. We cast reproaches now; and were it not for the impotency of his position, fettered as he is by the letter of the Constitution, the President would not fail to cast reproaches too. We cast reproaches upon the slaveholders of our day, not only because they are slaveholders, but because they are rebels-rebels for the purpose of slaveholding. They wish to be rid of us, that they may be free to exercise their tyranny without restraint.
The abolition of slavery would be the easiest thing in the world, if the people, North and South, would only consent to it. Then, indeed, "the change it contemplates might come gently as the dews of heaven." But the time for its abolishment has not yet come. The disposition and the will for it have yet to be created. The nation is not ready for it. Certainly, the President is not. He still believes that the rebellion can be crushed, the authority of the government maintained, and peace restored without it. He is aware that slavery is at the bottom of the rebellion; is its root and cause. He is alive to the momentous crisis through which we are passing, and would gladly save the ship of State, which reels and shudders amid the surging and troubled sea. But, instead of seizing the helm, putting on steam, and pushing for the best and nearest port, he lets her drive, calling upon the rebellious, cloud-compelling South to pause in her mad career, as if, at his earnest appeal the blasts of war would cease, the tempest would be hushed, and from a dozen points at once favoring breezes would spring up, and blowing us in the same direction, bear us smoothly on to the same wished for haven of peace! Who believes it?
The question has often been asked, what shall we do with the slaves, if they are set free? I do not propose to answer it Frederick Douglass says, "Do nothing with them." Cease to oppress them, take off their shackles, acknowledge their manhood, remove their civil disabilities, and leave them to work out their own welfare.
The President says, colonize them. And he is an honorable man, a representative man; represents fairly, perhaps, the spirit of the nation, or even that of the nominally free States. Certainly he is no abolitionist. So far from grappling with the spirit of caste, by this measure, he recognizes and encourages it,-encourages the prevailing dislike, the contempt and hatred of the colored race. Does he propose to enfranchise them, to acknowledge their citizenship, to enroll them as soldiers, and send them forth to fight the battles of their native land, as if they had an interest in its welfare? On the contrary, he is contending only for the salvation of the government As a measure of justice to the slaves, what is that to him? It is the white man's government, and, except incidentally, is to be administered according to his wishes, and for his special benefit.
But what shall be done with the slave-owners, if they are compelled to lay down their arms and let their bondmen go? "Do nothing with them"? Nay, they will constitute, and should be denominated, emphatically, "the dangerous classes." Shall we expatriate them? What is that but to let loose a desperate horde of Criminals and outlaws, with their ill-gotten wealth, to annoy and prey upon neighboring States and nations? Shall we seek out some Pitcairn's Island, some Botany Bay, and colonize them there, where, at a safe distance from the world of men, they can prey only upon each other?
The demands of justice would be satisfied with neither. They are subjects of the United States Government, and should be held to their allegiance; compelled to keep the peace, and earn an honest livelihood, if need be, even in the penitentiary. To admit them, at once, to the rights and privileges of citizenship-to offices of trust, where their voices would be heard, and their influence felt, in remoulding the political institutions, State and national, of the whole country, would be preposterous. They must undergo lustration-must be put upon probation, five, ten, or twenty years, till every vestige of disloyalty is obliterated from their minds and hearts. Shall we enter into fresh compacts, or new treaties with them? What guarantee have we, that they will manifest more fidelity in the future, than they have done in the past? Only this: the object for which they have been contending, shivery, will have passed away, and, instead of bracing themselves up to defend and maintain their pro-slavery position, the agitation of the matter, however violent, must subside also. Instead of engaging in angry debate, instead of being borne along by the whirlwind of discussion, to which the President invites them, new exigencies will demand new measures, and the labor of their thoughts will be, to adapt themselves to the new order of things-to the nobler and happier condition of freedom. H. W. C.
DORCHESTER, June 20, 1862.
<c04>
LETTER FROM MRS. CUTLER.
JACKSONVILLE, (Ill.,) June 10, 1862.
DEAR LIBERATOR:
Since my last jottings, I have been doing a large amount of hard work-hard enough to suit my most estimable friend Mrs. Pardicle. In the first place, I must premise that this pleasant town is delightful enough for a second paradise, with its shaded walks, its blossoming shrubs, its pretty homes, its rare suburban scenery.
It is also designated, by the especial favor of the State, as the location of all the public charities, save the penitentiaries, reserved for towns more in the commercial line. The asylums for the blind, the mutes and the insane, would honor the philanthropy of any State. I have seen none in older States apparently better conducted.
Then, there are important schools here, the Illinois College, the Methodist Female College, and the Presbyterian Academy. There are the usual number of churches, and more than the usual number of church quarrels. Indeed, in most Edens, the serpent coils his way in, and disturbs the quiet of the happy denizens, and this is no exception. I have often observed that the most pious people, in their own estimation, quarrel with the most zeal over their own dogmas, assured that they are right and all else are wrong.
Thus much in explanation of the efforts needed for success. The friend at whose house I met a cordial welcome was about leaving home, so I could not secure his aid, only a few judicious suggestions. The hard work of making arrangements, I found all falling on my own hands. Some other matters stood in the way of securing an early audience, such as prayer meetings, concerts, &c., so my time was fixed for Saturday night. There is but one hall at present that can be used, and the price for that is so exorbitant that I did not think it safe to engage it, but sought a church. A good old-fashioned anti-slavery man introduced me to one of the stewards of the M. E. Church, and in him I found a most disinterested coadjutor; but, unfortunately, he was attacked with hemorrhage of the lungs, and could do little more than give directions.
The prejudice against the negro is not the only prejudice to be encountered, as I have long since learned; for it is almost as great a crime to be a woman, and yet feel a desire to benefit the world by public efforts, as it is to have a black skin and a woolly head, and yet desire freedom. The great truth at the bottom of all this turmoil is, that poor humanity wants service; that slaves get bread for their masters by the sweat of their brow, and hence, cannot be spared the vicarious suffering; and that women assume the care of the preparation of all the needed luxuries of life, including pastry and buttons, and this double service renders man lordly indeed, his only care now being a needful vigilance lest these most essential accessories of his being should find some independent vocation.
Now, the example of a negro escaping from his master, or of a woman leaving the duties of the kitchen and the parlor to other hands, for any other purpose than a pleasure excursion, is an example as deleterious to the interests of respectable society, as the disobedience of Vashti; and the lords of this mundane sphere often treat such accordingly.
I remember once hearing a very devoted husband say to dear aunt Fanny (Mrs. F. D. Gage) that she ought to be at home, mending her husband's stockings. "My husband is a man, and can buy a new pair, if old ones are out at the toes," was her cool reply, but she of course felt that our sphere was clearly defined by this sage.
I found plenty of this feeling here, and had to satisfy the good people that my own family was amply provided for in my temporary absence. These important preliminaries once adjusted, and my character as a decent, religious woman fully vouched for by old friends, I at last got informal permission to use the church. My bills were posted, and when the evening came, I found myself at the church, with a fair audience, and nobody bold enough to introduce me. So I took the matter in my own hands, went forward, and talked with a zeal and energy that made the people whisper to each other, "Lovejoy."
An invitation was most cordially proffered for another lecture on last evening, which I of course accepted. Sabbath evening brought out one of their most conservative ministers on the subject of emancipation, in which he took sides with God against the sins of the nation. It was good-very good.
But my difficulties were not ended. A small minority of the church thought that to speak of the Christian policy of emancipation would be bringing politics into the church, and as that would be a crime, I was compelled to occupy another house, which was with some difficulty procured. But a good audience came out, and I was pleased to learn that some who had hitherto objected to permitting women to speak, went away declaring their prejudices entirely overcome. There was enough opposition stirred up to show that the truths uttered had in them some vital power.
H. M. T. C.

OUT OF JAIL.
THE BLACK MAN WHO WAS IMPRISONED FOR READING UNCLE TOM'S CABIN.
I am asked to make an appeal for a poor man-a criminal, just out of jail. He was convicted for three offences:-first, because a black skin covered his face; second, because the English alphabet came and sat upon his tongue; and third, because he had read the story of "Uncle Tom's Cabin."
For these crimes he was tried and convicted by a Maryland Court in 1857, and sentenced to the Baltimore Penitentiary for ten years. After wearing out five years of this long penalty, the gate of his cell was opened a few weeks ago by the new Governor of Maryland, who told him that he might quit the jail, if he would quit also the United States. He immediately promised to go to Canada, and is now in New York on his way thither.
The culprit's name is Samuel Green. He is 62 years of age, though, except for his gray hair, he seems younger; good-looking, intelligent, and amiable; showing in his face God's plain handwriting of a good character; a man whom a stranger would trust at first sight.
He was born a slave in Maryland, and wore the chain for 30 years, until his master died, bequeathing him freedom at the end of five years. The slave, kindled with this hope of becoming a man, worked extra hours, and earned in one year enough money to buy his service for the remaining four. While a slave, he had married a slave-woman, the property of a kind master, who, after her husband had so handsomely worked out his freedom, sold him his wife for 25 cents! Mr. Green says, "My wife was worth more, but I was willing to take her for that!"
They had two children-son and daughter-both slaves of one master. Eight or nine years ago, the son, after praying long for freedom, got it at last, after the manner of Frederick Douglass, who "prayed with his legs." The boy Green started on a moonlight night, and ran away to Canada. His master, fearing the sister would follow, sold her straightway to Missouri; breaking her heart by separating her from her husband and two little children.
About this time, when almost everybody was laughing and crying over the pages of Uncle Tom, one morning while Samuel Green was going to the mill, a blacksmith came out of his shop at the roadside-himself a black man, and since a Methodist clergyman-exclaiming:-
"Sam Green, would you like to see Uncle Tom's Cabin?"
"What is it?" asked Sam, who thought it was some new shanty put up in the neighborhood.
"It's a book," replied the blacksmith; "it's the story of a slave, and it goes for Abolition."
"Yes, I'd like to read it," said Sam; and he took home the story, in two volumes, and began to read. But before he finished, he received-a letter from the
<c05>
boy in Canada, saying, "Come and bring mother, and let us all live together here." It was a good idea, but the old man, before venturing to take all his little property to a foreign country, made a hurried trip to Canada, to see what was the prospect of earning a livelihood in the high latitudes. Meanwhile, the story of his absence made noise enough to reach the attentive ears of the civil officers. On his return, a constable knocked at his door, and said, "You are suspected of holding correspondence with the North, and I shall search your house."
"Come in, sir," said Mr. Green; "it is a small cottage; you can soon search it through; but you will find nothing, for there is nothing to find."
But Samuel Green-unsuspecting man!-found to his cost that he was a great rogue, and that the proof of it was in his own house. The constable found three guilty things: first, Uncle Tom's Cabin; second, a map of Canada; third, a picture of a hotel at Niagara Falls. These were all, but were they not enough? What constable in Maryland would have asked for more? What Court in the State would have given less than ten years in the State-prison after such proofs? Besides, even out of Maryland, does not Gov Stanly, and the editor of the Herald, and other good men, call it a crime for a black man to know how to read?
But without palliating Samuel Green's crime, if any kind-hearted person can be persuaded to show kindness to the criminal, by giving a little money to help the old man off to the penal colony of Canada, it will reach him if sent to.
THEODORE TILTON,
Office of The Independent, No. 5 Beekman street, N. Y.

BOOK NOTICE.
WOMAN'S RIGHTS UNDER THE LAW: by Mrs. C. H. DALL, Author of "Woman's Right to Labor," "Historical Pictures Retouched," etc.
Notwithstanding the terrible war sweeping with a besom of destruction over this nation, and the clouds still darkening the horizon of our future-harmonizing with the immutable law of progress, the civilization of the nineteenth century must be in advance of all which has preceded it. Therefore we have no cause for discouragement. The signs of the times clearly indicate that chattel slavery cannot much longer pollute our soil. When its removal shall have opened the way for a full and thorough discussion of the subject of human freedom in its broadest signification and in all its bearings, then the excellent book with the above-named title will be found a valuable auxiliary in enlightening the public mind with regard to Woman's legal and consequent social position; and be a sharp and effective weapon in the hands of others who with earnest zeal "wage the war of words," the bloodless battle of ideas.
This little volume was published a year ago, but having no relation to the all-absorbing theme of war, of course it attracted slight attention. It is, however, a work which can well afford to bide its time for appreciation. When a deadly contest is waging between the hosts of Despotism and Democracy, and the events of a hundred years are being concentrated into one, there is little leisure to speculate on underlying causes, or dwell long upon abstract questions of philosophy and ethics.
We wait beneath the furnace blast" for that more auspicious day which we have reason to believe is not far distant, when the angel of purification shall have prepared the way for the working out of a higher civilization than has ever dawned upon society,-a civilization in which woman shall be recognized as co-equal with her brother in all the relations of life-when, to despoil her of any right or privilege on account of sex, will be considered in its true light, as a tyrannical usurpation on the part of law or custom.
In the pages of Mrs. Dall's book, freighted with concentrated thought, she has brought succinctly before the view of the reader the relations and bearings of law upon woman in a manner evincing great research and power of generalizing-and while dissecting with a skillful hand the intricacies and complexities of law, she has succeeded not unfrequently in investing those dry details, the study of which to the lawyer is an onerous task, with the fascinations of romance.
Until woman becomes herself familiar with the relations of law to her rights of property, personal liberty, &c., she can never reasonably hope to be placed on a just legal status.
We therefore owe a debt of gratitude to Mrs. Dall, who has so bravely trodden this thorny field of investigation, where few women have preceded her, and so successfully illustrated and familiarized a subject the importance of which cannot be overestimated.
This valuable work is dedicated to the friends of forsaken women throughout the world, because, as the author says, the lives of such women are the legitimate result of the spirit of the Law. All who are included in this dedication would find themselves amply compensated should they procure and read the book. Whether considered in the light of a logical argument, or an eloquent protest, it would be throughout equally interesting. A. G.
Harwich Port, May 10, 1852.

DEATH OF MR. BUCKLE.
Intelligence has been received from Europe of the death of Henry Thomas Buckle, author of the "History of Civilization in England." Mr. Buckle was born at Lee, England, November 24, 1822. He received a good education, and entered his father's commercial establishment, but gained more reputation as a chess-player than a merchant. In 1840 his father died, leaving him an ample fortune, and Buckle, then abandoning commerce, devoted himself to literary pursuits, residing with his mother in London. His assiduous labors upon his great work had greatly reduced his strength, and he had for some months before his death been travelling in the East, with some benefit, as was understood, to his health. He was the guest of Mr. Thayer, the American consul-general at Alexandria, early in this year; and at last died in Damascus on the 31st of May.
The two volumes of Mr. Buckle's "History" which have been published form, as is well known, only a part of what he bad laid out as the introduction to the work itself. In completing the second volume, he found it necessary to retrench heavily from his original designs, and decided to hasten through with the introduction, that he might complete the history itself before passing the period of life when he could hope to be capable of intellectual labor. His next volume would have touched upon the United States, and it will cause profound regret that the comments of so liberal and bold a thinker upon our institutions should be lost. It is our impression that this part of the work was entirely unwritten, when he left England to seek for health in the East.
Probably no work has appeared for years which has occasioned so much controversy as the two volumes published of Mr. Buckle's introduction; but no opponent ever denies the surprising industry or the surpassing ability of the author. His philosophical conclusions may be unfounded, and may fall before the searching examination to which they are subjected; but the world will be the gainer in the end from the appearance of the work which has occasioned such fresh inquiry and activity, and it will generally regret the loss of the story of English civilization, told by a writer of such power and of such earnest convictions.
To this brief notice of a great author, we may subjoin a few remarks, made by a correspondent writing to us from Cairo, February 17th,-who had frequent opportunities of meeting Mr. Buckle while the latter was in Egypt:-
"Mr. Buckle, the distinguished author of the 'History of Civilization,' has lately returned from an expedition of several weeks up the Nile, in search of rest and health, and is now here making arrangements for a tour to Syria. He proposes to visit America, and would have gone thither this summer but for the war. His next volume will treat of the United States. Last week, Mr. Thayer, our excellent consul-general here, entertained Mr. Buckle at dinner. The company included two ladies well known in the literary and social circles of England, besides several English and American gentlemen who happened to be in Cairo. Mr. Buckle, as I hear, expressed a strong-feeling of gratification at the peaceful solution of the Trent complication, and said that a war between the two kindred nations of England and the United States would be a calamity to mankind; he had however anticipated from the beginning no other than a pacific settlement. In his conversation, as in his writings, he shows himself favor-
<c06>
ably disposed to our institutions, and well prepared to judge dispassionately of their practical workings. He says the subject is too vast to be discussed except after careful personal examination. Although appreciating the value of the great work of De Tocqueville, he complains of the general inadequacy of European criticism upon America."
A MODERN AMAZON. We copy from a private letter, from Clarksburg, Va., the following account of a recent capture there:-
"About a dozen deserters from the rebel army came in yesterday, very much frightened, wanting transportation to Ohio. We also captured a very desperate woman, by the name of Jenny Green, and sent her under guard to Wheeling. She is only about 18 or 20 years of age, and not bad looking; she lived about 30 miles from here, and told Gen. Kelley that she cut all his telegraph wires when he was up the Kanawha, and she'd be d-d if she wouldn't do it again.' She has been in the habit of visiting the rebel camps, rides a fine horse, carries a pistol revolver and a handsome revolving rifle presented to her by some rebel officers, and with which she boasts that she has killed a great many d-d Yankees. She is said to be an unerring shot, and can put a bullet through the ace of clubs at the distance of one hundred yards, nine times out of She has been pursued many times, but has made her escape by the fleetness of her horse, and when cornered, where escape seemed impossible, would cause her horse to leap the most horrible ravines and plunge over rocks where the soldiers dare not follow her. She was taken by strategy and sent to wheeling since before and imprisoned, but by the intercession of some secession ladies there, Gen Rosecrans released her on parole. When brought before the captain of the company who arrested her the captain said,' Well, Miss Jenny, you are come to us again;' to which she replied with a terrible oath, and snatched a rifle from one of the guards, discharging it at the captain in an instant, but he saw the movement, and struck up the muzzle of the gun, and the ball passed through his cap, just grazing his head."
A BLUNDER AND A JOKE. The New Orleans correspondent of the New York Herald 
says:-
"Speaking of Dr. Smith, I am reminded of one of the best jokes of the season. A gentleman called on Gen. Butler to-day, and stated that he had a negro who was hanging about the general hospital, and he wished to get him. The General's policy in such cases is to turn the negro out of our lines, unless he has been employed by some officer. He therefore turned to one of his aids-Lieut. Clark-and told him to write to Dr. Smith to turn the man out of his hospital. Lieut. Clark wrote to Dr. Smith- "You will at once turn this man out of your hospital"- accidentally omitting to say anything about a colored man. The owner of the slave took the note to the hospital innocently enough, and handed it to Dr. Smith. The Dr. read the order, and, though rather astonished, supposed the General had good reason for such instructions; so he jumped, and told his visitor to leave the house quicker than he ever came into it. The gentleman was perfectly astounded, and attempted to ask the reason of such treatment; but the Doctor said he would not hear a word, and, taking him by the shoulder, pashed him towards the door, and then ordered a corporal to put him out, which he did, the gentleman brandishing his cane and cursing bitterly against such usage. He went back to the General, and an explanation ensued, and resulted in all hands enjoying a regular old-fashioned horse-laugh. The negro was not in the hospital, and has not yet been found."
THE NEGRO IN DEMAND. The Danish Government has made a singular proposition to the Administration at Washington. It is no less than to take all the contrabands off our hands, transport them to the Danish West Indies, there to be placed under apprenticeship for three years, and after that time to receive wages and to become entirely free. The proposal shows on the part of Denmark a Yankee propensity for driving a sharp trade. It shows, besides, that the negro is in demand in other quarters, although he has been the innocent cause of great difficulties among us.
Our Government could do no more, were it disposed to cooperate with Denmark, than to extend facilities for such fugitives as might desire to migrate to St Croix on the terms proposed. It could not transfer the contrabands bodily to the representatives of Denmark, to be conveyed without their consent to a new though mitigated bondage. No one, we trust, would advocate that course. Nor will the plan of implicating our Government in the apprenticeship system find general favor. If individuals desire to seek new homes under Danish protection, the Government might withhold hindrance and interference. Beyond that, the efforts of the Danish diplomats will not be likely to be effectual.-Oneida Herald.
A WELL KEPT LOG. The Port Royal correspondent of the New York Tribune has procured a copy of the log of the steamer Planter, kept by Robert Small on that famous trip, when he so skillfully escaped from Charleston harbor to the blockading fleet. It is given as follows:-
"LIST-Robt. Small, Pilot; Alfred Gridiron, Engineer; Abram Jackson, Jebel Turner, W. C. Thompson, Sam Chisholm, Abram Allerton, Hannah Small, Susan Small, Clara Jones, Anna White, Levina Wilson, David McCloud, 3 small children.
LOG-We leave Charleston at 1/2 past 3 o'clock on Tuesday morning.
We pass fort Sumter 1/4 past 4 o'clock. We arrived at blockading squadron at Charleston Bar at 1/4 to 6. We give three cheers for the Union flag wonce more.
ARTICLES OF SUNDARY-4 large c, not mounted 2 mortars. We arrive at Port Royal, Hilton, on same night about 9 p. m."
A DEVOTED WOMAN. It is stated that Mrs. Henry Baylis, the wife of a New York merchant, has left a home of affluence and ease, and is now devoting her whole time and energies to the relief of the sick and wounded soldiers at Yorktown. She has not only volunteered to endure the privations and discharge the disagreeable duties of hospital life, but she has studied the profession of surgeon and nurse so that she can care for a wounded limb equal to any of the surgeons of the army.
Billy Wilson occupies the splendid residence, at Pensacola, of the rebel Stephen R. Mallory. Billy, it is said, lives like a lord, in his new quarters, and walks about with a gold-headed charter oak cane, with Mallory's name engraved upon it, and which he confiscated when he took possession.
Some monstrous jaw bones have been dug up in Oregon, supposed to be human, but measuring seven inches across from point to point. They must have belonged to some huge human gorilla, whose race we are glad to know is extinct. Such jaws would be just the ones to "devour widows' houses."
SIX RAINBOWS AT ONCE. The editor of the <illegible> News says that just as the force of a recent shower at that place was spent, the sun looked out from behind the clouds, when a brilliant rainbow spanned the heavens, then a second, then a third, a fourth, a fifth, and finally a sixth one; all of them in regular gradation from the inner, which was a mere line, to the outer, which was of great breadth and magnitude.
The Charleston Courier of the 22d ult makes the annexed statement:-
"We have been reliably informed, that men of high official position among us-men of good intention, but of mistaken and misguided patriotism, are sowing the seeds of discord broadcast in our midst, by preaching a crusade against President Davis and calling for a General Convention of the slaveholding status is depose him, an create a Military Dictator in his place."
The Secession Congressman. Vallandigham, has received a sharp rebuff from home. A petition has been forwarded to the House, from 633 loyal citizens of Cincinnati, asking for his expulsion from Congress as a traitor to his country and a disgrace to the State of Ohio.

Wm. F. Goshorn, of slave Lucy notoriety, has been arrested in Wheeling for his Secession sympathies, as developed in his jubilation at the defeat of Banks, and is to be taken to Camp Chase for safe keeping. He had better be sent up here, and take the place Lucy occupied.-Cleveland Herald.
Suppose Lucy was in Cleveland now, and Old Goshorn would come after her. Would she be delivered up as freely as she was?
At the battle of Fair Oaks, Capt. Smart, of the 10th Massachusetts regiment, was wounded in the leg, and asked the first rebel who approached to help him off the field. The rebel replied: "I'll take care of you!" and at once bayoneted him. This was seen by a wounded man who lay near by. Capt. Day, of the same regiment, was killed by the rebels, after being wounded, having been shot in the presence of two of his company who were taking him from the field.
A SECESH HEART. The Washington Star speaking of several rebel women who took occasion to express themselves on the arrival of prisoners in Washington the other day, says that Mrs. Maguire said that her heart was choking her, so great was her hatred of Yankee rule."
