THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
- AT -
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMIND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers,
VOL. XXXV. NO. 51. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DEECEMBER 22, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1820.
Selections.
JAMAICA.
<illegible> BY A JAMAICAN ON THE LATE DISTURBANCES AMONG THE BLACKS.
Notwithstanding the length of the following article, <illegible> is the importance of the subject, and such the value of the testimony given by the writer, that we insert it in full. All evidence, thus far obtained, goes <illegible> that the Governor and military authorities of <illegible> have been guilty of acts of high-handed and <illegible> violence and massacre. The British and investigation of the whole matter. 
Now that the first excitement is over, we may be permitted to look dispassionately into the Jamaica <illegible> to ascertain whether or not there has been a rebellion, properly so called, in Jamaica. We have been the trouble of going deliberately and careful though the Jamaica newspapers received here by the  fast mail, full files of which we were fortunate though to obtain, and after having collected and <illegible>all the facts of the case, we make bold to say, the sensational letters of the "correspondents" to the contrary notwithstanding, and also the <illegible> and alarming tone of the Jamaica press, <illegible>has been really no negro rebellion in that <illegible> The whole thing was only a riot-a very <illegible>and disastrous disturbance of the peace, it is <illegible>but still a riot, and nothing more.
Let us look at the facts of the case, as they are narrated in the Kingston journals. We find from those papers that the killing commenced on the part of the authorities. For some three or four days, considerable excitement, it appears, had prevailed in the <illegible> of St. Thomas-in-the-East, arising out of some certain proceedings in one of the local magistrates courts. On Wednesday, the 11th of October, the quarterly meeting of the parochial <illegible> took place in the down of Morant Bay, and in compliance with the orders of the chief magistrate, a body of volunteer troops, eighteen in number, was present under arms. About 4 P. M., when the vestry had just adjourned, a crowd of blacks gathered together in the square in front of the Court House. The Castos, a hot-headed, impetuous man, ordered them to disperse. This they refused to do, and a few stones were flung by persons in the crowd. Immediately the volunteers fired upon the people killing six blacks, and wounding several. This act of indiscretion," as one of the Kinston newspapers admits the firing was roused the duty of the blacks. Blood had been shed; the lives of their friends had been taken: and they saw the volunteers preparing to give them another volley. Maddened by what had just occurred, they attacked the court house, in which the volunteers and civil authorities had fortified themselves, and in the bloody conflict that ensued, twenty-four of the soldiers, and the same number of civilians were killed and several colors wounded. The news of this affair speedily spread through the parish; the planters, as if panic<illegible> immediately fled from their plantations; a few of the houses thus abandoned were pillaged by people who took advantage of the confusion to plunder; and one planter was so severely wounded in a in a <illegible> with a party of blacks that he died the next-morning. Behold here the whole of the <illegible>As to the mutilation of dead bodies, the stores published in the first instance as to the number and horrible character of them turned out to be the inventions of alarmists; and, in the "authentic accounts," prepared for "readers abroad," only two cases of such mutilation are reported; one the cutting out of a tongue, and the other the cutting off of the fingers. 

SUPPRESSION OF THE REVOLT.
Let us see now what steps were taken to suppress the terrible revolt. The whole country, comprising eight parishes, was at once put under martial law, excepting the city of Kingston, and troops were despatched to St. Thomas-in-the-East. On Thursday afternoon, the 13th October, about twenty-four hours after the outbreak, a detachment of regulars arrived at Morant Bay: but according to the report of the commanding officer, they found "all quiet" there. Another detachment was despatched to Port Morant, seven miles from Morant Bay, where "it had been ascertained a large body of rebels had posted themselves:" but instead of rebels, only a crowd, consisting principally of women and children, was seen near the place. Among these, three shells was thrown to disperse them, with the desired effect. After this gallant deed, the troops marched into the village, where they found "all quiet." Reassured by this peaceful state of affairs, a small party of only twenty-five soldiers was ordered to proceed to the town of Bath, five miles further on. They encountered no opposition whatever by the way. A few negroes were seen on the sides of the hills skirting the highway, and taking it for granted that these people were "rebels," the soldiers fired at them, in most instances, with fatal effect. 
When they reached Bath, they found "all quiet." Another party of military had been sent off from Port Morant in the direction of the village of Marchioneal, twelve miles distant from Port Morant, in search of rebels. At that place, too, it seems, quiet reigned, but the soldiers managed, on their way thither, to burn down three or four negro villages, and to shoot, in cold blood, one hundred and twenty blacks, "or thereabouts." of both sexes. Meanwhile, his Excellency, the Governor, had arrived on the scene of action, and having been in formed that "the rebels had marched across the mountains," with the intention of falling on the town of Port Antonio, in the parish of Portland, he forthwith proceeded in a gunboat, with a large body of troops, to meet them there.
On arriving at -that place, however, they found, as the military despatch has it, "all quiet;" but a few supposed rebels were hunted up in the outskirts of the town, and "for the sake of example" were hanged at one of the cross-roads near to the town. Meanwhile, on the other side of the parish of St. Thomas-in-the-East, a troops of mounted volunteers proceeded with all speed to the village of Eastington. But here, too, in rebels were found. "Everything," says the captain of the troop, "was perfectly quiet." To complete the circuit, Colonel Hobbs, with two hundred regulars, swept the hills to the north of Morant Bay, but did not meet with a single rebel. All that he did was to cause eleven prisoners, brought in by special constables, to be shot, and the dead bodies afterwards hanged upon the trees. And thus, from the day of the outbreak or riot, at Morant Bay, the 11th October, to the day when the mail steamer left Kingston for New York-only two days short of four weeks-"all quiet" contained to be the report from every quarter. The excitement of the riot did not, in fact, last more than twenty-four hours.
And what, during all these twenty-one days, were the authorities doing? According to the Jamaica 
<c02>
newspapers, vigorously engaged in the suppression of the rebellion-that is, seizing supposed rebels and rebel sympathizers on every hand, and trying them by court-martial: flogging the women, and occasionally hanging two or three of them; and shooting and hanging the men by scores at a time. One of the officers, in command of a troop of irregular cavalry, writes that the men found fine sport in shooting down the blacks, as, on the approach of the troops to the negro settlements, the poor people fled in terror from their cottages. "The men," he coolly observes," enjoy it; the people have reason to dread it." Flogging, or "editing," it is stated in one of the Kingston journals, "was going on from morning to night in the parish of St. Thomas-in-the-East;" and it was reckoned that before the termination of martial law, full two thousand negroes would have been put to death.

BLOODY WORK-THE CASE OF GORDON. 
In reading the accounts of this affair published by the Jamaica newspapers, one is forcibly struck with the savage, brutal, merciless way in which the authorities went to work in dealing with the blacks. It was not mere promptitude and energy that were displayed in suppressing an outbreak which was supposed to be the forerunner of a general insurrection. It was much more. There seems to have been a port of grim delight experienced in doing the bloody work of death. If the common soldiers "enjoyed it," there were others who seem to have enjoyed it too. It was, indeed, as if feelings of rage long pent up in the bosom-as of revenge long and moodily biding its time-had at length found the favorable opportunity for striking a terrible blow.
There is a remarkable significance in the way in which Mr. G. W. Gordon, the alleged promoter of the rebellion, was dealt with. That gentleman, who was one of the largest landed proprietors on the island, and a member, of the House of Assembly, had been for some two or three years past a stout and uncompromising opponent of the government, and an ardent advocate of the blacks, and consequently extremely obnoxious both to the Executive and the planters. He resided in the parish of St. Andrew but as he represented St. Thomas-in-the-East in the Assembly, he had reason to be frequently in that parish, and to keep up a correspondence on political matters with several of its leading black men. Besides, he owned a large plantation in the parish, which was under the management of an overseer. When the riot occurred, Mr. Gordon was in the city of Kingston, thirty-two miles distant from Morant Bay, and there was no suspicion that he had anything to do with it.
On the 17th of October, six days after the disturbance, the Governor of the island, who had "taken the field" in poison, returned to Kingston, bringing with him certain documents, which he said were sufficient to implicate Mr. Gordon in the business. Gordon was forthwith arrested and put on board a gunboat, which immediately started for Morant Bay; the Governor returning thither in the boat with Gordon, although there was no military reason requiring his presence there, while there was every reason that at a period of such excitement as then prevailed in Kingston, he should remain at or near to the seat of government. On the arrival of the steamer at Morant Bay, Gordon was handed over by the Governor to the military authorities, and not a moment was lost in putting him on his trial before a court-martial composed of three subalterns-one lieutenant in the navy, and two ensigns in the army.
The evidence brought against him consisted, first, of certain expressions in letters that he had written to parties in St. Thomas-in-the-East on public matters, and to his overseer on matters of business; and second, of the testimony of two or three "rebels," tinder sentence of death, to the effect that Mr. Gordon had been the instigator of the "rebellion." The particulars of this evidence have not been published by any of the Kingston journals, although all of them are fierce and bitter in their denunciations of Gordon and the negroes, and although there was every reason why they should give the documentary evidence to the world without loss of time. Gordon's trial lasted for an hour and a half, and resulted in his conviction. He was sentenced to be hanged, and died bravely protesting his innocence to the last. He was hanged like a dog: for according to the report of the execution in the Kingston papers, he struggled for fully fifteen minutes alter the "barrel" upon which he stood had been pulled away from under him, showing that death resulted from strangulation. Seventeen blacks were hanged along with him and it is a remarkable fact that every man of any position on the island, known as sympathizing with his political views, was arrested about the time of his execution, dragged from his hone, and handed over to the military authorities. Among these are two editors and proprietors of newspapers, both white, and four clergymen, of whom three are black and one white.

CONCLUSIONS.
To those unacquainted with the state of political affairs in Jamaica, all this will appear inexplicable. They will not be able to understand why such barbarity should have been shown to the blacks-why all considerations of mercy were given to the winds in dealing with them-why their friends and advocates among the elevated class should have been singled out for degradation and punishment; some of them besides Gordon, perhaps, for death. The writer of this article can supply a key to the meaning of the whole thing. From an intimate and extensive acquaintance with Jamaica matters-an acquaintance extending over a long series of years-he is in a position to speak with confidence on the subject; and he does not hesitate to say that the late disturbances are but a renewal of the strife between the old spirit of slavery and the spirit of freedom, which is every day growing stronger in the breasts of the negro population of Jamaica. 
Those labor under a mistake who suppose that the spirit of slavery-the arrogant, imperious, intolerant, cruel, persecuting spirit of slavery-is extinct in Jamaica, Far from it; that spirit lives there still; and in no part of the island has it been more wanton in its aggressions upon the rights of the emancipated blacks than in the very parish in which the outbreak took place. The disturbances arose of certain occurrences in a court of justice (?), in which a white man and a black man were respectively, concerned as plaintiff and defendant. This is significant to one who knows that in the parish in question the administration of justice, so as the blacks are concerned, is "a mockery, a de union and a snare." Why did the planters of the parish flee from their dwellings as soon as the intelligence reached them of the outbreak at Morant Bay? Why did they abandon their plantations in hot haste, to secrete themselves in the woods? Was in that conscience, alarmed them? Was it that in view of the policy they have pursued towards the blacks, they felt that they had reason to fear an outburst of avenging wrath? The government of Jamaica is now more completely than ever, since emancipation, in the hands of the planters; and the present Governor of the Island has completely

<c03>
identified himself with them, and their miserable, short-sighted, one-sided policy. Hence the opposition of men like the late. G.W. Gordon, and it is that opposition which has evoked the brutal spirit that has so ruthlessly sacrificed hundreds upon hundreds of the lives of black men and women in retaliation, for the killing of a dozen white, and brown men in a riotous light.
R A. J.

THE DISTEICT OF COLUMBIA.
The altered condition of things in the city of Washington and "the District," now, from the
palmy days of slavery and Democracy, must be most striking. Away bark in the past to 1800, when John Randolph of Virginia considered it one of the privileges of the chivalry of that day to " take the wall "of Yankee members, and indulge his fierce sarcasm in debate at their expense, and down to the last day and hour of Wig fall, slavery was dominant, intolerant and insolent. It gave its own characteristic tone to society, in ail its grades, from the White.House to the hovel. There was little pretence to fashion outside its charmed circle. It prevailed equally at the Capitol, in the Departments, in the churches, at the hotels, and at private mansions, The wisest, most learned and loveliest, from the great 
and powerful North, were sometimes patronized, more frequently barely tolerated. Being in power, and dispensing the patronage of the Government from one decade to another, it was all potent, and Northern affiliated politicians, with a baseness truly humiliating, aped it, deferred toil, and accepted the social status it conferred upon them, their families, and their constituents. Such was the omnipotence of Southern leaders and politicians that the army, navy, revenue service, and all the Departments and Bureaus at Washington, and the foreign missions and consulates, were literally monopolized by their sons, nephews and friends. If an appointment was bestowed upon a Northerner, it was in payment of his political obsequiousness, and usually through the condescension of one of these oligarchs.
The prison-pen for human cattle, and the auction-block with its fetters and whips, and gangs of slaves in transity, coupled together like a drove of mules, were to be seen any day. Such justice as was dispensed there, from the Supreme Court of the United States down to the police sessions, was in its interest, and equally with everything else, dominated by it. It seems but yesterday since Senators Summer, and Wilson, and Hale, and Wade, and Trumbull were coolly left off from any place upon the principal Senate committees, because, they did not "belong to any healthy political organization." When treason, so long in the bud, flowered, and brought forth its natural fruit, with what affectedly mournful pride did these eminent scions of a patriarchal institution pronounce their rhetorical valedictions, and go, like so many Judases, to their own place!
Behold, how changed! Slavery is abolished in the District; the auction-block is gone; there are no handcuffed pangs of chattels; a Chase sits in the place of Taney; free speech is heard at the Capitol and at the hotels; the free air of the North has thoroughly ventilated and purified the social and moral atmosphere; Northern Senators and Representatives give tone to thought and speech; their wives set the fashions; the "boys in blue" have tramp, tramped every yard of the ten miles square until not a traitor dared wag his tongue in the streets.
Strange as it may seem, there are people at the North who lament" those "good old times," and would be overjoyed to welcome the times, the men and fashions of those, days back again-nearly as much so as the men of those halcyon days themselves, if they could suddenly be restored to their old haunts, with all their former prestige, and power. But they cannot be gratified. The loyal people will take good care that the old regime does not return. Washington, now, with a great increase in population since 1860, is possessed by new men, with new ideas. It will become a metropolis worthy of a mighty nation, disenthralled and regenerated from center to circumference.-Boston Journal.

THE TRIAL OF JEFFERSON DAVIS.
Applicable to our remarks on the wonderful newspaper idea that it is necessary to try Jefferson Davis in order to decide by the verdict of twelve men who have formed no opinions, whether secession is a constitutional right, or treason a crime, we find in the third edition, by Little, Brown and Co., of Commentaries on the Criminal Law, by J. P. Bishop-a work of the highest authority in the Courts throughout the country-the following note in the chapter on Treason:
1. The expediency of handing over a rebel, especially a leading rebel, to be tried by the civil tribunals, after a great rebellion, which had ripened into perfect war, has been subdued, is quite another matter. If we assume it to be the law of nations, which it certainly is not, that such a rebel cannot be executed as a traitor, then it would not be wise to violate this law, though the violation should involve no breach of the Constitution. Probably, also, no officer of our Government would be even constitutionally justified in violating the law of nations; though the question in this case would not be for the judiciary, but fur the President.
2. If, then, a leading rebel is to be executed, and the law of nations approves, the highest expediency, even almost the law itself, demands that he shall not be sent to the judicial tribunals for his sentence, but that this shall be pronounced by a military tribunal. Let us remember that the law of nations does not prescribe the court in which the trial shall be bad. We are, in this matter, to look to our internal system of laws.
3. Let us illustrate the matter by a case now before us. Mr. Jefferson Davis, the leader of our secession rebellion, is, at the time of this writing, a prisoner in the hands of our military powers, having been captured by the army in a time of war. Once it was the rule, the writers on the law of nations tell us, to kill all prisoners of war. Afterward, the death-penalty was mitigated, if mitigation it can be called, to slavery. At length the law of nations was still furthers modified, and even slavery could not be imposed on the captive. Thus it stands now, as a general rule. But the rule has this exception, that it does not apply, to its full extent, to the case of rebels subdued and captured by their offended sovereign. Our Constitution clothes the National Government with full war powers, as known under the law of nations (see Vol. 1, § 49-68;) therefore our military powers) have the came right to execute any rebel, who is to be executed, after the proper military trial, as to take the life in battle of one who is encountered among the opposing forces; or, if the illustration pleases better, the same right which they have to execute a spy, supposing the spy is to be executed, instead of turning him over to the civil courts. In other words, assuming that the prisoner of war is to lose his life, there is nothing in the way of the life being taken by a military court.
4. On the other hand, there is, in the tray of the 
<c04>
trial of such a person by the civil tribunals, much, not perhaps of absolute law, but such inexpediency as amounts almost to law, possibly quite. Let me call attention to one or two things. In a case like that of Mr. Davis, there is no question of identity to be decided; and the Government has, during four whole years, in every variety of form, pronounced not that there was a violent suspicion against him, and that it was desirable that he should be arrested and put on trial to see whether he was guilty, but that, absolutely, he was guilty; and on this declaration, the Government has pledged its credit to lenders of money to an enormous extent, and cemented the declaration in the blood of thousands slain. Every good citizen, every truly loyal man, has given his voice with the Government. He who has not done so is not fit to be a juror in the trial of any cause. Yet a jury trial by a panel of jurors who have done so is a, farce. The case could not go into a civil court and be there submitted to a jury, without bringing the whole system of trial by jury into contempt. 
5. But is it to be thought of without a shudder, that after the expenditure of so much blood and treasure, the Government is to submit the question between itself and Jefferson Davis to a jury of twelve men-all of whom must be improper persons to sit on a jury, if the ordinary rules are to be applied to them, or they could not get into the jury box, to determine by verdict between the legitimate Government and the rebel Government, and decide which is in the wrong? If Mr. Davis is found by these incompetent and improper jurymen to be in the wrong, then sentence of death is to be pronounced upon him; if the Government is found to be in the wrong, then-. And see Vol. 1., § 101.
6. I know that, at such a time as this, it is very embarrassing for the Government, to do right. Should Mr. Davis be tried by a military court, all the demagogues in the country would raise the cry that the Constitution was violated, and our civil rights were in jeopardy; because thus they would suppose they could win the favor of the people. In like manner, all the haters of our country abroad would denounce the act, and they would claim that there is less liberty in our Republic than in the monarchies of Europe. Still, if those who are at the head of our Government first wash their own hands clean, they will find no real difficulty in so presenting the matter that it will be correctly seen by the pure-minded among us.

CALL OFF YOUR DOGS.
A telegram from New Orleans states that Gen. Gregory has arrested and released, under heavy bail, one Elmore, charged with using hounds, of the bloody variety, we presume, to hunt down negroes. Elmore pleads that he was in pursuit of a thief, and that the. thief turned put to be black. The excuse, is quite insufficient. Dogs are-not used in civilized countries to hunt even thieves, and, if we are not mistaken, are not employed, even in Louisiana, in the pursuit of white men. Blood-hounds are trained to-follow negroes, and negroes only; and these enjoy no monopoly of larceny.
Everybody knows the damnable devices of cruelty and passion to which, under the old slave code, the negroes were, subjected. Hunting, flogging, pickling, paddling, fettering, burning, starving, hanging-but why tax our memory to complete the catalogue of pitiless punishments? These were the amenities of the patriarchal system. These were the methods of jurisprudence, private and public, retained in Christian and cultivated America, long after they had been discarded in all countries to which our own is, by race or opinion, in the least germane. Such was the domestic discipline of the plantation, and such were the resources of petty and irresponsible tyrants isolated from regularly constituted tribunals, and claiming a complete authority as judges, jurors and executioners.
We do not know whether or not the breed of bloodhounds is kept up in all its mischievous purity in Louisiana, or whether, in the general decay of the system, of which they were the natural and efficient servants, they have grown less nice of nose, less swift of foot, and less sharp of fang But the remorseless human cruelty which stimulated their merciless sagacity, and trained them to the sure performance of these disgusting offices, still seems in pressing need of amelioration. The same pitiless hand lets them slip from their leashes. The same wild oaths garnish the view-halloo which incites their brutal instincts. The same cheap estimate of the value of human life deputes them to tear at the throat of hunted wretches, and to smear their smoking jaws with the blood of their palpitating victims. We make every allowance; we note with eagerness every indication of conscience, of pity and of justice; we grieve at every token of incorrigible habit; but the Ethiopian can no more change his skin than the inveterate Man-Owner, who has been educated to believe life unendurable and society worthless without the concession to his class of unlimited and irresponsible power can assume in a day a new nature, and exhibit under new relations the virtues which those relations demand. Names are nothing, and a State in which all the authority is left in the keeping of passion and prejudice and class hatred, and in which the majority are expected to obey without question, or the power of practical protest, though it may call itself a Republic, a Commonwealth, or a Democracy, will not fail to exhibit the worst vices of aristocratic rule, and will remain exposed to perpetual dangers, and all the shameful make-shifts of an oligarchy at once timorous and obstinate. A want of labor, such as exists at present in Louisiana, will be met by compulsory service which can have no chance whatever of fair requital. Knowledge will be monopolized; real property will remain in a few hands; the very necessities of civilization, not to insist upon its comforts, will be monopolized, and the whole business of selfish legislation will be to perpetuate its unlimited power. In such a State, Elmore and his like, with their kennels of baying constables, will be in ceaseless demand, dungeons will be multiplied, and the whipping-post become a cherished institution in every parish. The only remedy for this moral pestilence must be found in fidelity to the Democratic sentiment 'which is to inform our frame of government. Without this, we can have no assured peace -without this, nothing; better than; a nominal Unions. It is not always that the law of self-preservation is the law of humanity and justice, and all the bitterer will be our shame if we allow ourselves to be frightened into devious courses where the path of rectitude is also the path of policy. Providence has made the negro the ward of this rich and intelligent nation, and as we deal by him, so Providence will deal by as. We may bewail our fate, but we cannot escape it. We must call off our dogs, or they trill in the end devour their masters.-N. Y. Tribune.
John Mitchell has left his country for his country's good, and is to reside, in Paris as correspondent of Ben Wood's newspaper.
<c05>
AID FOR THE FREEDMEN.
LETTER FROM CHIEF JUSTICE CHASE.
A meeting was recently held in Brooklyn, New York, in aid of the freedmen. Chief Justice Chase was invited to be present, but could not attend, and sent the following letter:
WASHINGTON. D. C., Nov. 20. 1865. 
GENTLEMEN: Nothing but imperative public business would detain me from the meeting to be held to-morrow evening, under the auspices of the American Union Commission, the Freedmen's Aid Commission, and the American Missionary Association.
Its object, the relief of suffering at the South, without regard to color, must command the sympathy of all good and patriotic men. 
To suppress rebellion, the American people put forth vast energies, counting neither treasure nor life dear in comparison with an undivided country; and never in the history of the world was a" civil war waged with so little rancor or vindictiveness on this part of the nation against rebels.
The people never forget that success must be followed by the restoration, in due time, and on just conditions, of the old relations between such States and the Union, and that, to the permanent and beneficial restoration of those relations, the establishment of fraternal sentiments between the citizens of the States was indispensable. It is important now, that the people who have been in rebellion should be thoroughly satisfied that the first wish of the loyal people is the re-establishment of these sentiments.
The war has brought great changes. Among these, the enfranchisement of 4.000.000 of slaves is the greatest and most momentous. The conversion of this vast population from bondsmen to freemen and citizens imposes on the people of the States in which this wonderful revolution has taken place, on the people of the other States and on the Government of the whole country, new and peculiar duties. It is important that these new citizens should be assured that these duties will be neither evaded nor neglected.
How best to assure the white citizens of the States lately in rebellion of the real good will of their fellow-citizens of the loyal States, and of their readiness to afford active aid, where aid is wanted, in relieving the necessities and repairing the injuries occasioned by the war, and how to assure the colored citizens of those States of the country's just appreciation of their steady devotion to the national authority, and of its purpose to promote, in every proper way, their safety and welfare, will doubtless engage the most earnest consideration of the meeting.
It is a welcome and significant sign of good, that the associations which have devoted special efforts to different parts of the work of restoration and renovation, are now likely to unite their means and activities in carrying forward the whole noble labor. The practical methods of usefulness-whether in promoting true religion and sound education, or in relieving actual distress, or in encouraging industrial enterprise-will be best considered, selected and put in use, under such auspices.
I cannot disguise my conviction that the surest and shortest road to permanent peace, settled order, sound credit, contented industry, and, in general, prosperity in every State, is the frank recognition of the right of every citizen, white or colored, to protect his and his neighbor's freedom, and promote his and his neighbor's welfare, by his vote.
But I shall rejoice in seeing good done, and in promoting the doing of it, in whatever measure or kind, and by whatever agency or authority. We made war to save the Union. The providence of God made our war for the Union a war for universal freedom in America, and crowned it with success. Now comes the work of restoration and renovation. Let it be prosecuted with wise patriotism, sincere good will and impartial justice, and who will dare doubt that God will crown this work also with success? Yours, very truly,
S. P. CHASE.
LYMAN ABBOTT, Esq., J. M. MCKIM, Esq.

THE COLOR QUESTION.
The new black code of South Carolina, as it was reported to the Legislature, provided in sundry harmless ways for the conditional improvement of the colored people of the State. Every article of the code relating to the government and restraint of these people was adopted with alacrity. The greater part of the code was thus disposed of without difficulty and almost without debate. For what is a black man made for if not to be governed? When the articles relating to his education were reached, there was a different state of things. The provision for the limited education or the children of colored parents was stricken out by a large majority, and to teach these benighted people to read continues, under the laws of South Carolina, a crime. There was another clause, "requiring the master or mistress of a colored apprentice to teach him some useful trade or occupation." On that question occurred "the most exciting discussion of the session." Mr. De Pass, of Kershaw, wished to ask gentlemen of the House the plain simple question, were they willing to let their sons sit at the workbench alongside of a big black nigger? Mr. Mulvany, of Charleston, said white interests and State policy were against: the opening of new avenues of employment for the negro. Upon these two points Mr. De Pass and Mr. Mulvany rung a great variety of changes, to show that there was one place only where the black man should be allowed to live in peace, that is, the cotton field; and that everywhere else he is a branded outlaw, against whom every white man's hand should be turned. Mr. Mulvany represented the white mechanics of Charleston, who would feel insulted and outraged if colored mechanics should be educated to compete with them, and who would be driven out of the State rather than submit to this degradation. On the other hand, it was maintained that, unless some such provision as this was made, the State might as well stop legislating at all; that this was as harmless a concession to the civilization of the age as they could possibly make; that it never would amount to anything practically, since God Almighty had made the negro inferior to the white man, and inferior he would remain till the last trumpet sounds. Mr. Dawkins, chairman of the judiciary committee, said, "We have staked our reputation on the position that the negro is an inferior animal. If he has not the capacity to compete with the white man, and he has n't where to the danger? My friend from Kershaw," he continued," who comes from a most refined, well cultivated town of our State, seems to be shocked at the idea of a negro sitting on the same bench learning a trade with his son. It is that false pride which has injured us so much in the late war. What are the facts in regard to it? A gentleman
<c06>
says he is sorry his son cannot go on the same bench with the negro. I cannot see that repugnance myself. Has he not ploughed in the some field? Have not the son, and negro ploughed and hoed together? Some may not have been forced by necessity, but is it not of constant and daily occurrence upon the plantation, that a white man works with the negro? And docs any man feel degraded because he has held the handles of a plough in the same field with the negro of his lather? If the blacks had been taken into the war with the Southern army, the Mine as in the Northern, the condition of things might have been different. It was false pride that kept them out." So the argument continued at great length, and with increasing asperity. When the question was taken, the objectionable clause was retained by nearly two to one.- Worcester Spy.

TO THE WAR DEPARTMENT.
We call the special attention of the Government and the War Department (says the Philadelphia Christian Recorder) to the kind of treatment that our people are receiving at the hands of citizens, aided by soldiers of the United States, at Mobile city, Ga. Will the War Department tolerate such inhuman, cruel, ungodly conduct of their white soldiers, and let it go unpunished and unrebuked? Why not remove those miserable white incumbents, and place colored soldiers on duty, who will deal out even-handed justice to both colored and white men? Any one who will read the following letter of a reliable correspondent of the New Orleans Tribune can see how things were conducted in that devil's paradise.

TO THE COLORED PEOPLE OF MOBILE.
A sad thing it is, that the colored man cannot get justice before the law here, nor any where else in this Department; peaceful, law-abiding citizen as he is. Not only law-abiding and peaceful, but also the most loyal people in the bright, sunny South; and yet they are subjected to more disadvantages than any other class of people here.
We cannot pass through the public streets of this city without being molested: neither colored soldiers nor citizens are free from assaults, by white soldiers of the United States army, who are ever upon the alert, for the purpose of pilfering and robbing the honest laborer of his little mite. It is useless to deny these stern facts, for they stare you in the lace in the public streets every day.
Suppose the colored troops that were on duty in this city some time ago had committed such depredations upon the white population at this scurrilous rebel city, what would have been the consequences? Why, it would have been heralded from one end of the country to the other, that the colored troops were not tit for duty in the capacity of patrol guards. But the many acts of low manners that are committed by the while troops are winked at by those in authority, who are the very ones that ought to silt the matter through, and bring those scoundrels to a severe account for their villainy; but as it is only the poor negro that suffers, it is passed over without a handling. I said the poor negro: true, we are poor, but why is it? It is not because we have not earned riches; but it is because that which we have earned has been appropriated by those that are now calling us "trilling, good-for-nothing, lazy devils." O, yes, we are trilling and lazy, now that they can no longer get all the proceeds of our labor: it is a pleasure for us that we are good-for-nothing, by the way that the Johnny rebs fought, bled and died in trying to hold together the chains of slavery. See with what reluctance they accept the new era that has been brought about! They have taken the oath of loyally to the United States, but at heart they are as good friends to the so-called confederate cause as ever.
When we appeal to the authorities for aid, they do not give it; but they tell us we must not carry any weapon. Now, what are we to do? There is hardly a white citizen in Mobile that docs not carry weapons, for self-defence, it is said by them; and yet we, that are the objects of their hatred, are not allowed to do so under the same plea. Now, I would ask, what kind of law is that? What kind of men have we at the head of affairs? Are we to have justice, or not? Is the old slave law of 1850 to be revived and put in full force again? Are we to have those rights guaranteed to us by the proclamation of Father Abraham, and endorsed by his successor, Andy Johnson, who promised to be our Moses, to lead us through the Red Sea of slavery to the fair banks of freedom and peace? If a white man see fit, he can curse and abuse you in any way or manner; it is well and good. But if you should happen to say any thing that docs not exactly suit Massa George, or Massa Charles, or Miss Mary, you are arrested, and sent to the police station, to await your trial before His Honor the Mayor. Well, what is the charge against Bill, or Dick, or Martha, as the case may be? Impudence to Mr. A., or Mr. B., or to Miss C. or D. All right-I do not wish to hear any thing from you: workhouse for four months!
This is the way things are worked here, and yet nobody can see it. There are a great many more of such outrages perpetrated upon as that ought to be spoken of, but they are too numerous to mention at present, but I will keep you posted as much as possible. T.J.

PETITION OF INDIANA YEARLY MEETING
OF FRIENDS.
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:
The Memorial of Indiana Yearly Meeting of the Religious Society of Friends, composed of Friends residing in the Eastern part of Indiana, the Western part of Ohio, and in Kansas, by their Representative Meeting, held at Richmond, Indiana, on the 7th of 11th Month, 1865, respectfully represents:
That your memorialists feel that it is cause for reverent gratitude to God, that the terrible and devastating civil war which has prevailed in our beloved country has been brought to a close; that the authority of our excellent Government has been sustained, and its blessings continued to us; and that the iniquitous system of slavery has been abolished. Whilst rejoicing at these results, it is our earnest desire that, as a nation, we may not forget to glorify that God whose arm has so signally been made bare for our preservation, and that by a course of justice towards those who have been so long down-trodden and oppressed and held in cruel bondage, we may give evidence of the sincerity and truthfulness of our professions of gratitude to God. We would, therefore, respectfully but earnestly ask that the authority of the General Government may not be surrendered over any of the States which have recently been in rebellion, until it is made evident that the rights of the recently liberated slaves will be respected; that a course of justice and kindness will be panned towards them; and that full

PRES. LINCOLN ON NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
The following is an extract from an unpublished letter from the late President Lincoln, addressed to Gen. Wadsworth, taking strong ground in favor of universal suffrage:-
"You desire to know, in the event of our complete success in the field, the same being followed by a loyal and cheerful submission of the Sooth, if universal amnesty should not be accompanied by universal suffrage.
Now, since you know my private inclinations as to what terms should to granted to the South, in the contingency mentioned, I will hero add, that if our success should thus be realized, followed by such desired results, I can't see-if universal amnesty is granted-how. under the circumstances, I can avoid exacting in return universal suffrage, or, at least, suffrage on the basis of intelligence and military service.
How to better the condition of the colored race has long been a study which has attracted my serious and careful attention; hence I think I am clear and decided as to what course I shall pursue in the premises, regarding it as a religious duty, as the nation's guardian of these people who have so heroically vindicated their manhood on the battle-field, where, in assisting to save the life of the republic, they hare demonstrated in blood their right o the ballot, which is but the humane protection of the flag they have to fearlessly defended."
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
opportunity will be given, and every assistance afforded by the dissemination of education and intelligence amongst them, to enable them to rise from the state of ignorance and degradation to which slavery has reduced them.
We believe that ”God has made of one blood all nations of men;" that he is no respecter of persons; that Christ died for all, and that the way of salvation through Him is open to all; and we subscribe to the declaration that “all men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness;" hence we believe that all political distinctions on account of color are contrary to the great principles which lie at the foundation of our Government, and that while we are making such distinctions, we are not pursuing a course which is well-pleasing in the Divine sight. In accordance with what we believe to be our religious duty, we would respectfully ask that, in the reconstruction of the States recently in rebellion, the Constitution of the State be accepted, nor its Representatives be allowed to participate in the action of Congress, in which a large portion of its inhabitants are disfranchised on account of their color, and not allowed to participate in the Government which is to be established over them; that in no case color be made a test of civil or political rights, but that all men be treated as equals.
The events of the past few years have shown that our colored population is a thoroughly loyal one; that they appreciate the excellent Government under which we live, and are willing to make many sacrifices to sustain it; and that they are capable of a high degree of refinement and civilization. If degradation and ignorance unfit men to participate in all the privileges of our Government, let that disability be applicable alike to all that class, and not to the colored population only.
Signed by direction and on behalf of Meeting,
LEVI JESSUP. Clerk.

LETTER FROM PROF. GOLDWIN SMITH.
THE EVENTS IN JAMAICA.
To the Editors of the Boston Daily Advertiser:-
The second mail from Jamaica since the outbreak of the so-called insurrection has now fully delivered its contents, and the English public are in a position to form a tolerably accurate opinion as to the nature and significance of these horrible events.
Nothing has occurred to prejudice, in the estimation of any impartial observer, the character or the claims of the negro race; though many things have occurred to demonstrate the impolicy and injustice of allowing the ex-slaveowner to exercise any power over the ex-slave.
I speak as one fully sensible of the <illegible> perplexities of the negro question, and fully aware how difficult it must be to introduce political equality without social fusion, or to bring about real social fusion between races severed from each other by color, by a physical antipathyx, and by a fatal memory of the time when the men of one race were masters, and the men of the other race were their slaves.
As you know, we abolished at great cost slavery in our West India possessions. We found, after a patient, searching and judicial examination of the system, that if we did not abolish it, it would bring upon us the judgment of God.
At first, we substituted a term of apprenticeship. But we found that apprenticeship was slavery under another name, if it was not worse. In two years, under the hypocritical forms of law, 60,000 apprentices received, in the aggregate, one quarter of a million of lashes, and 50,000 other punishments by the tread-wheel, the chain-gang, and other means of legal torture.
We then abolished apprenticeship. But we could not change the ex-slaveowner's heart, and in our somewhat exaggerated and indiscriminate devotion to parliamentary institutions, we have allowed his propensities too much scope. He has, by various machinations, excluded the great bulk of the negro population from the exercise of the franchise, made the Assembly an organ of his own prejudices and interests, and by caste legislation created among the negroes a deep and natural dissatisfaction, which, without any organized conspiracy, is no doubt always ready to break forth in local manifestations of discontent.
The intentions of the home government, and its actions, so far as it has interposed, have been uniformly good and just. Its veto has probably prevented greater excesses of caste legislation, especially in the direction of vagrancy laws. But it has not kept power enough in its hands.
The spirit of the negroes had been embittered by distress, caused by a long drought. A dispute arose as to the ownership of an estate from which a legal claimant was seeking to eject the negro occupants who had settled upon it. In the course of the dispute, a collision took place between the negroes and the legal authorities. The negroes surrounded a court house in a tumultuous manner. The riot act was read to them. Perhaps they did not very clearly understand it or distinctly apprehend the consequences which the disregard of it involved. They refused to disperse. They were then fired upon by a party of volunteers, and some of them, it appears, were killed and wounded. They then rushed upon the party who had fired upon them, and tore some of them to pieces with circumstances of great atrocity. It was a most shocking and revolting scene; but not nearly so shocking as many that have occurred in French and Irish insurrections, where the mob had not been fired upon and had received no immediate provocation.
No doubt the feeling of the negroes against the dominant caste was unchanged by this encounter. Yet the massacre scarcely extended beyond the scene of the original collision. Very few atrocities were committed, so far as at present appears, otherwise than in hot blood. On the other hand, we learn, even from the adverse side, several remarkable instances of negro mercy.
As the case at present stands, there is nothing whatever to prove peculiar, much less indelible, ferocity in the negro race. Rather the reverse. But the whites of the island, the English officers who have been corrupted by the blandishments of that depraved society, (for it is depraved,) and, sad to say, the Governor himself, have committed such atrocities, that if the home government were to fail in its duty of vindicating the character of this country, it will be time for an Englishman who cares for the honor of his nation to look out for another home.
No evidence of a wide-spread conspiracy, or of a conspiracy of any kind, has yet been produced by those who were most interested in producing it, since the proof that such a peril existed would, as they well knew, be the only possible excuse (justification there could be none) for their violations of humanity and law. All the evidence before us tends to show that the disturbance was local and accidental; though the discontent of the negroes may have been as general as, it is to be feared, it was just.
The result, it is to be hoped, will be a searching inquiry into the state of the island, followed by the abolition or suspension of its mock popular institutions, and its reduction to the condition of a crown colony governed with full powers by a Representation of the imperial government, which, I repeat, sincerely desires, and always has sincerely desired, to do justice to the public.
No evidence has been brought to light by these transactions of the incorrigible indolence of the free negro, any more than of his incorrigible ferocity. Of course in his desires, and consequently in his industry, he is, as yet, below the level of races which have enjoyed a long training in civilization.
Naturally, he is a source to the planter of great dissatisfaction. This is all that has yet been proved against the negro freeholder of Jamaica; and the Governor himself complains that many of the disaffected are not poor and ignorant, but persons of property and education, which, without industry and a capacity for knowledge, they could not have obtained.
The London Times is of course justifying the Governor and the ex-slaveowners in their inhuman severities, and demanding that the negro, as an incorrigible barbarian, shall be put again under the lash. But I confess that if I were compelled to put anybody under the lash on the ground of barbarism, I should, on the evidence before me, choose to put, not the ex-slave, but the ex-slaveowner and the managers of the Times.
At all events, I trust that the negro race will not be allowed to suffer in the Judgment of nations and statesmen for the alleged faults of the negroes in Jamaica, until judicial investigation shall have placed the whole case of the negroes in Jamaica and of their enemies fairly before the world.
Yours, &c. GOLDWIN SMITH.
Oxford, Dec. 2, 1865.
<c02>
NEGRO CHARACTER.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE LONDON DAILY NEWS: SIR:-Will you allow me to say a word in defense of the most hated race in the world, the negroes and their defendants? Notwithstanding the attempt on the part of our enemies, I think it will be difficult to prove that the negroes are more savage than other races. Unprejudiced observers from time to lime have given facts which prove that the Negroes under similar circumstances, are as humane as the dominant races. Now, take for granted, if you please-I do not-that all the cruelties reported during the recent insurrection in Jamaica are true: take also for granted that the negroes are entirely the aggressors, and I appeal to every candid mind to answer this question, whether the aggressors would have been dealt with in so summary a manner if they had belonged to the dominant race, and their complexions had been white instead of black? It has been with feelings of intense gratitude that the colored race have turned with confidence to one fact, i.e., that since the decision of Lord Mansfield, in 1772, every human being, without any reference whatever to a difference of complexion, was an equal before the law. If they committed any crime, they expected to be legally tried and punished. But there is a change in the public opinion in Great Britain in reference to the colored race There are many causes, for this change, and for which the colored race are in no way to blame. Attacks as un generous as they are unjust are made upon the negro race and their descendants. The “West Indian interest always had this hatred towards a race they had oppressed. This conduct shocked the moral sense of the better portion of the English people, and slavery was forced to yield. Since the civil war in the United States, the Southern Confederates and their natural allies, these former West Indian planters, have united together to endeavor to neutralize the interest felt for the oppressed negroes, and to hold them up to the scorn and contempt of the civilized world. No matter what a colored man may do-whether it is a crime committed, or some slight impropriety, it is exaggerated, and noticed in the most insulting manner. I have read the pro-slavery newspapers in the United States with most careful attention for more than a quarter of a century, but I have never read more insulting attacks upon the negro race than I have read within the last four years in some of the London journals. Within the last month, I have read attacks upon the negro race which would disgrace any Southern Confederate or negro-hating <illegible>. We are expected to be not only equal to the dominant races, but to excel in all that goes toward forming a noble manhood or womanhood. We are expected to develop in the highest perfection a race which for eight generations in the United States has been laden with the curse of slavery. Even some of our friends seem to expect this, but our enemies demand it. Now, take the lour and a half millions of “freedmen” in the States, and consider the present attempts made by our enemies to prove that they are unfitted for freedom. I ask the English public to investigate the facts in reference to negro character, as developed there during the present century, and particularly during the civil war. Compare their character in reference to cruelty with their masters, “the chivalry of the South,” who for eight generations have mutilated their slaves, and not unfrequently during the present generation burnt their victims to death; who, in the words of one of your own countrymen, “notch the cars of men and women, cut pleasant poesies in their shrinking flesh, learn to write with pens of red-hot iron on the human face, rack their poetic fancies for liveries of mutilation which their slaves shall wear for life, and carry with them to the grave.” Our cup of bitterness is more than full. If negroes or colored men commit crime in Jamaica, or anywhere else, exact the full penalty, but do not make it the occasion of the most insulting and unjust attacks upon a whole race, on account of a difference of complexion.,
I am, &c., SARAH P. REMOND.

MONUMENT TO COLONEL SHAW.
BY HON. CHARLES SUMNER.
The two colored regiments prepared and sent forth by Massachusetts, have returned home and been mustered out. Officers and privates are now dispersed. The last music has died away in the air. Of these two famous regiments, which made such a mark on the times, nothing now remains but the memory. This cannot die; for it belongs to the history of a race. But all who went have not returned. The youthful hero, so gentle and true, who was selected by the Governor to command the 54th regiment, fell at the head of his men on the very parapets of the rebel enemy, and was buried in the sand with his humble companions in arms,—thus in death as in life sharing their fortunes. Family, parents, wife, were left to mourn. As was said of the “bonny George Campbell,” in the beautiful Scotch song, “Home came the saddle, but never came he.”
Few who were in Boston at the time can forget that pleasant day of May, when this colored regiment, with Col. Shaw on horseback at its head, passed by the State House, where it had been equipped and inspired. Cheers and the waving of handkerchiefs greeted it. There were tears also. It was a joyous and a sad sight to see this new legion, acquired to the national service, and marching to its distant and perilous duty under a commander who turned away from all the blandishments of life to consecrate himself to his country. There was also another consecration which was not forgotten. It was to the redemption of a race. Massachusetts had sent forth many brave regiments; but here was the first regiment of colored soldiers that was marshalled at the North. It was an experiment, destined to be an epoch. By the success of this regiment, a whole race was elevated.
Not long after came the tidings of the bloody assault on Fort Wagner, when, alter an advance without parallel over an open beach, exposed to a storm of shot and shell, these new-made soldiers of a despised color, sleepless, dinnerless, supperless, vindicated their title as bravest to the brave. They had done what no other troops had done during the war. This was their Bunker Hill, and Shaw was the Warren who fell. Though defeated, they were yet victorious. The regiment was driven back; but the cause was advanced. The country learned to know colored troops, and they learned to know themselves. From that day of conflict, nobody doubted their capacity or courage as soldiers. There was sorrow in Massachusetts as we were told how many had fallen, and that the beloved officer so recently seen in our streets was lying in an unknown grave; but even this sorrow did not blind an intelligent people to the magnitude of the event. Grief was chastened by an honest pride. Swelling hearts were soothed by the thought that much had been done for humanity.
There was a desire at once for a monument to commemorate alike the hero and the event. But the rebellion was then raging. It was no time for monuments. At last, with the overthrow of the rebel arms, the time seems to have arrived. The youthful commander still sleeps with his comrades in death. There let him sleep. Westminster Abbey has no resting-place more honorable. But his patriotic martyrdom and the great event deserve commemoration, as well for gratitude as for example. Some have proposed a monument on the spot where he fell. This may be made; but it can be only a mound or a pile of stones to be seen by ships as they enter the harbor of Charleston. This is not enough. It will not tell the whole story.
The monument should be in Massachusetts, where the martyr was born, and where the regiment was born also. Each belonged to Massachusetts; the martyr by double title, first, as he drew his breath here, and, secondly, as he commanded this regiment of Massachusetts. Let the monument be here. Of course, no common stone or shaft will be sufficient. It must be of bronze. It must be an equestrian statue. And there is a place for it. Let it stand on one of the stone terraces of the steps that ascend from Beacon street to the State House. It was in the State House that the regiment was equipped and inspired. It was out of the State House that the devoted commander rode to death. Let future generations, as long as bronze shall endure, look upon him there riding always, and be taught by his example to succor the oppressed and to surrender life to duty. Here is a theme for art, and its elements are youth, beauty, self-sacrifice, death, and a great cause, all marking an epoch of history.
On the continent of Europe, by existing usage, only members of a royal family are allowed the honor of an equestrian statue. In the unequalled monument by Rauch, at Berlin, the royal Fritz is mounted, but his generals are about him standing. Near by is Blucher, who was prince and marshal,
<c03>
standing also. In England, there are equestrian statues of kings, and of the Duke of Wellington. But this is no reason why a grateful republic should not decree an equestrian statue to a youthful hero, whose duty was on horseback, and who was last seen in our streets on horseback. As an American citizen, be belonged to our sovereignty, and we fitly celebrate him with the highest honors. Few belonging to any royal family have so good a title. In the republics of Italy, during the early ages, when royalty did not exist, there were equestrian statues. The first of these in merit, and one of the first in time, was the renowned statue in bronze of the condottierre, Bartolomeo Colleoni, who, alter a lapse of centuries, is still admired as he rides bravely in the public square of Venice, while the artist has secured the immortality of his own name by engraving it upon the girth of the saddle. It is sometimes said, on doubtful authority, that this early chieftain was the first to mount cannon on wheels, so that they could be used in the field. But our chieftain did more than mount cannon, and the triumphant experiment with which his name is linked surpasses far anything in the life of an Italian trooper.
Let the monument be made. Boston has a sculptor without a superior among living artists, whose soul and genius would be in the work. Already a colored person, well-known among us, with a heart full of gratitude, has subscribed five hundred dollars. Other colored persons are contributing in smaller sums, according to their means. They properly lead now in tribute to him who died in leading them. But others of ampler means must see that this generous effort does not fail. I should not suggest this, if I thought that I should take away from other things deserving, aid. The present charity is so peculiar, that it appeals equally to all who are moved by patriotism, by gratitude, by sympathy, or by art.
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 22,1865.

OFFICIAL PROCLAMATION,
DECLARING
“Liberty throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof.”
WILLIAM H. SEWARD, SECRETARY OF STATE OF THE UNITED STATES, TO ALL TO WHOM THESE PRESENTS MAY COME, GREETING:
Know ye, that whereas the Congress of the United States, on the 1st of February last, passed a Resolution, which is in the words following, viz:
“A Resolution submitting to the Legislatures of the several States a proposition to amend the Constitution of the United States:
Resolved, by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America, in Congress assembled, two-thirds of both Houses concurring, that the following article be proposed to the Legislatures of the several States as an amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which, when ratified by three-fourths of said Legislatures, shall be valid to all intents and purposes as part of said Constitution, viz:
ARTICLE XIII. SECTION 1. NEITHER SLAVERY NOR IN VOLUNTARY SERVITUDE, EXCEPT AS A PUNISHMENT FOR CRIME, WHEREOF THE PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN DULY CONVICTED, SHALL EXIST WITHIN THE UNITED STATES, OR ANY PLACE SUBJECT TO THEIR JURISDICTION.
SECTION 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.”
And whereas, it appears from official documents on file in this Department, that the amendment to the Constitution of the United States, proposed as aforesaid, HAS BEEN RATIFIED by the Legislatures of the States of Illinois, Rhode Island, Michigan, Maryland, New York, West Virginia, Ohio, Missouri, Nevada, Indiana, Louisiana, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Vermont, Tennessee, Arkansas, Connecticut, New Hampshire, Maine, Kansas, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Virginia, South Carolina, Alabama, North Carolina—in all, twenty-seven States;
And whereas, the whole number of States in the United States is thirty-six;
And whereas, the before specially named States, whose Legislatures have ratified the said proposed amendment, constitute three-fourths of the whole number of States in the United States:
Now, therefore, be it known that I, William H. Seward, Secretary of the United States, by virtue and in pursuance of the second section of the act of Congress, approved on the 20th of April, 1818, entitled “An act to provide for the publication of the laws of the United States, and for other purposes, do hereby certify that THE AMENDMENT AFORESAID HAS BECOME VALID, TO ALL INTENTS AND PURPOSES, AS PART OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the Department of State to be affixed.
Done at Washington, this 18th day of December, in the year of our Lord 1865, and of the Independence of the United States of America the ninetieth.
WILLIAM H. SEWARD,

Secretary of State.
With our own hands we have put in type this unspeakably cheering and important official announcement that, at last; the old “covenant with death” is annulled, and the” agreement with hell" no longer stands. Not a slave is left to clank his fetters, of the millions that were lately held in seemingly hopeless bondage. Not a slaveholder may dare to present his claim of property in man, or assume the prerogative of trafficking in human flesh and blood. Henceforth, personal freedom is secured for all who dwell on the American soil, irrespective of complexion or race. It is not merely the abolition of slavery, with the old recognized right of each State to establish the system ad libitum; but it is the prohibition, by “the supreme law of the land,” duly ratified, to enslave a human being in any part of our national domains, or to restore what has been overthrown. It is, consequently, the complete triumph as well as utter termination of the Anti-Slavery struggle, as such.
Rejoice, and give praise and glory to God, ye who have so long and so untiringly participated in all the trials and vicissitudes of that mighty conflict! Having sown in tears, now reap in joy. Hail, redeemed, regenerated America! Hail, North and South, East and West! Hail, the cause of Peace, of Liberty, of Righteousness, thus mightily strengthened and signally glorified! Hail, the Present, with its transcendent claims, its new duties, its imperative obligations, its sublime opportunities! Hail, the Future, with its pregnant hopes, its glorious promises, its illimitable powers of expansion and development! Hail, ye ransomed millions, no more to be chained, scourged, mutilated, bought and sold in the market, robbed of all rights, hunted as partridges upon the mountains in your flight to obtain deliverance from the house of bondage, branded and scorned as a connecting link between the human race and the brute creation Hail, all nations, tribes, kind reds and peoples, “made of one blood,” interested in a common redemption, heirs of the same immortal destiny! Hail, angels in glory, and spirits of the just made perfect, and tune your harps anew, singing, “Great and marvellous are thy works, Lord God Almighty; just and true are thy ways, thou King of saints! Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? for thou only art holy: for all nations shall come and worship before thee: for thy judgments are made manifest.”
—EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR.
<c04>
THE AMENDMENT ADOPTED.
On Tuesday morning last, the official, authoritative announcement was sent over the whole country, with lightning speed, that the ABOLITION OF SLAVERY and ITS PROHIBITION forever were engrafted upon the United States Constitution, and had; become part of the fundamental LAW OF THE LAND!
The Senate of the United States adopted this great measure in April, 1864, by a vote of 37 yeas to 6 nays. The House of Representatives passed it on the 31st of January of the present year,—119 yeas to 56 nays. And it has since been ratified by 29 States,— more than the requisite three-fourths, Oregon and California having added their names to the list within a day or two, but of which no official notice has yet reached Washington. Iowa and New Jersey will speedily add themselves to the glorious column; and thus the Constitutional abolition and prohibition of Slavery in the United States, and in all places subject to their jurisdiction, are secured by an overwhelming decision of Congress, of the States, and of the American people.
We believe our readers will find nothing in our columns this week of such interest as the Proclamation of this great event. It is the final crowning and completion of the labors of the American Abolitionists, as such. It is that great end for which they have toiled so earnestly, so perseveringly, so uncompromisingly, in dark days, in evil days, amidst obloquy, persecution, ridicule, violence, and amongst an unbelieving and unwilling people. It is the triumph which they saw in the far distant future, but never expected to see in the mortal body. Thousands of them lived not to see it, yet received its promise afar off, and embraced it. May we not say, again and again-
“How blessed are our eyes,
Which see this glorious light!
Prophets and kings desired it long,
But died without the sight.”
We cannot express the feelings of gratitude and joy with which we think upon this grand result of all anti-slavery effort,-this glorious consummation of the war which the slaveholders, in their madness, dared to inaugurate against the Government and People of the United States. Through a fearful Red Sea we have indeed gone, but the pillar of fire has led our doubtful though not wholly undiscerning steps, through the heavy night, has guided us safely through ten thousand perils, has saved us when we knew not how to save ourselves, and has set our feet, as a people, in a sure place. We repeat, the ANTI-SLAVERY WORK IS DONE! The Nation, by a vast majority, has confessed the principles of the Anti-Slavery movement to be just, has fully recognized the truth of their word and prophecy concerning Slavery, has put its mighty hand to the overt how of Slavery, and has overthrown it. He is blind indeed, or sadly prejudiced, or culpably unjust to man and Providence, who speaks lightly of this great event, or who represents it as of little worth. No greater deed,—what deed so great, so truly noble, so worthy of our best past, so full of promise for our future—has this Nation ever done? It is the voice of the whole People, condemning Slavery as the great Criminal of the land, and banishing it forever from the national soil. The work to which the Anti-Slavery apostles put their hands thirty-five years ago, and which they dared, not hope to see accomplished, is accomplished! “Let every thing that hath breath praise the Lord!”
“It is done!
In the circuit of the sun
Shall the sound thereof go forth.
It shall bid the sad rejoice,
It shall give the dumb a voice.
It shall belt with joy the earth!
Ring and swing
Bells of joy! On morning’s wing
Send the song of praise abroad;
With a sound of broken chains,
Tell the nation that He reigns
Who alone is Lord and God!”
No candid reader will understand us to say that the millennium has arrived, that the lion and the lamb now lie down together in peace and concord, or that nothing remains to us to do but to fold our hands, and await meekly our translation to bliss. Some indeed may need this explanation to reassure them; but our readers generally need no such disclaimers. For such as have eyes but see not, we know not how to shape our thought or word.
The overthrow of Slavery leaves us in no position of ease, gives us no warrant to relax our diligence or our determination; but mightily encourages us to put forth both. In the great work of the Abolition of Slavery, we have succeeded. Now we have the further, the equally needful, if not the equally difficult work, of shielding the emancipated from the inevitable suffering which must accompany the transition period from slavery to manhood, and of securing to them a measure of the rights and opportunities so long withheld. We are now to concentrate the whole power of American law, justice, conscience, sense of consistency and duty, and bring all to bear on the work of making the freedmen in every sense a freeman and a citizen. Will we, the people of the United States, pass by and forget our true and constant friends at the South, the faithful guides of our armies, the helpers of our escaping prisoners, refuse them the ballot, refuse them homes and land, and give all these to the rebel-rout who brought the war on us, murdered our imprisoned soldiers with slow torture, and whose mouths are still full of curses and insults for us? Perish the thought! When the Nation is ready to commit suicide, to blot out its whole honorable history, to trample under foot its Constitution and Declaration of Independence, prostrate itself again at the feet of European kings or emperors, and ask them to come and govern us, will it do this act of utter baseness and wilful self-destruction, and not, we believe, until then.
But to return. To-day there is no slavery in our land,—no slaves, held by force of any law, decree, or constitution. Slaveholding is henceforth a crime, of heinous character. Every man or woman subjected to slavery, from and after the eighteenth of December, 1865, will have cause of action in every United States Court, and State Court, against such criminal, may lay his damages at a thousand dollars a day, and must gain his cause. It will be one special duty of the Freedmen's Bureau, of the Freedmen's Commission, and every individual friend of justice in the land, to see that every victim of the old slaveholders has this opportunity. We see, with satisfaction, that Gen. Fisk, of the Bureau, has established special courts for the freedmen in Tennessee, which State has refused to allow negroes to testify or have rights in its courts. This is right and necessary. Let the same spirit be manifested everywhere. Congress has shown unmistakably its purpose. What if Mr. Seward, in his proclamation, does seem to recognize the rebel States as in the Union, as some are in trepidation telling us?. He has always recognised them there; but to what practical purpose? While Congress refuses their representatives admission to the halls of legislation, it is but an empty matter that either President or Secretary recognizes them. Never let them re-appear there, until they come with guarantees of justice to all men, and with an honest purpose to abide by the Constitution and laws of the land. We have both the power and right to prevent the endless mischief which must come from a disregard of such guarantees. Undoubtedly we shall. We can and must be firm in this position, until it is safe for ourselves, safe for the whole people of the South, to take another.
How fittingly does the Constitutional Amendment time itself to the closing days of the Liberator’s protracted labors! After thirty-five years of its existence, during which it has not failed to appear on any week, it had announced its purpose to cease its publication at the close of the present month; and, lo! just as the Liberator is speaking its farewell words, the Constitutional Abolition of Slavery becomes a fact, becomes the recorded will of the people, the established law of the land! We will not think of this as a mere accident. We reverently and gratefully own the Divine hand.—S. M., JR.
<c05>
CAUSE OF THE FREEDMEN.
To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, in Congress assembled:
The undersigned, on behalf of the various Freedmen’s Aid Associations, respectfully represent that they are engaged in supplying the pressing wants of the colored people at the South, and in furnishing them with instruction, not only in letters, but in the arts of life. Large sums have been expended, and hundreds of teachers have been employed in this great charity. Some of the noblest and most intelligent men and women of the country are no engaged.! Not a few have died in the discharge of this duty.
We have regarded it as a work not only of humanity, but of patriotism. We have felt that the honor of our nation demanded that we should care for those whom the chances of civil war have thrown upon our guardianship. We are sure that national prosperity, domestic peace, and lasting strength will be promoted by general education. Those who differ most widely as to the political questions of the day, agree in desiring the spread of knowledge among a class heretofore deprived of instruction.
Our agents have been highly successful. They have found the freedmen docile, obedient, and grateful, ready to work, eager to learn. Their industry and enterprise have been praiseworthy. The progress of the race in learning is among the wonders in the annals of education.
We have enjoyed, to a large extent, the encouragement and protection of Government; and we are unwilling to believe that its favor will be withdrawn from us with the return of peace. But we fear that, without Congressional action, the friends of the Freedmen may find their energies crippled, and their efforts thwarted. The mere withdrawal of military rule, and the return of civil law, desirable as these blessings are, deprive our teachers of the support which has been their safeguard during the war. We ask you in your wisdom to adopt such legislation as shall be a substitute for the protection of martial law.
The freedmen in some places having been sent to certain points, by no choice of their own, but by the United States authorities, are now removed under circumstances of great hardship, by the same authority. They lose their lands, and the fruit of their labor in improving them. In one instance, the farm to which they were assigned, after being increased in value by the erection of a mill, a school-house, and a church, was restored to those whose estate had been forfeited by rebellion. We ask for protection, or for compensation for such hardships.
Our agents and teachers, who are seeking to promote the welfare of the whole South, often find themselves objects of suspicion and contempt, of hatred and outrage. In one instance, at least, this feeling has led to the forcible destruction of a church erected for Christian worship. In many cases, smaller wrongs have been patiently borne. We cheerfully await the growth of that enlightened public sentiment which will correct the errors of ignorance; in the mean time, we hope to be secured from actual violence, wherever the United States have the rightful power to protect us. And we expect much moral strength from the official sanction of the Legislative and Executive Departments.
We have hoped that the Freedmen’s Bureau would be an efficient instrument for maintaining the rights and elevating the condition of the freed slaves. We have regretted to see its usefulness impaired by the want of sufficient appropriations for its support. And we hear its speedy abolition foretold by all who are hostile or indifferent to the claims of the freedmen. We ask that it may be continued, and sustained in such a way that it may exert a powerful and beneficent influence over the affairs of these wards of the nation, until such time as the desired end may be attained by State enactments.
And we ask, generally, that such action may be had by your honorable bodies as will encourage and aid the full exercise of the charities of humane and loyal men toward emancipated slaves, so that their ignorance may no longer be a curse to them and to society; that they may be fitted for their new position under the law; that some portion of our great debt to their race may be paid; that the honor of our country may be promoted; and that, by doing justice and mercy, we may as a people deserve the favor of Almighty God.
MATTHEW SIMPSON, President.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, First Vice President.
CHARLES G. HAMMOND, Second Vice President.
JACOB H. SHIHERD, Secretary.
GEORGE C. WARD, Treasurer.
HUGH L. BOND. President Eastern Department.
J. MILLER McKIM,, Secretary Eastern Department.
CHARLES P. McILVAlNE, President Western Department.
JOHN M. WALDEN, Secretary Western Department.

PEACE CONFERENCE.
A conference of the friends of Peace was held in; Boston on the 12th inst., at 10 o'clock, A. M. A good number was present; among whom were several distinguished reformers. The meeting was called to order by Edward D. Draper, Esq., of Hopedale, and after reading the call of the conference, Joshua P. Blanchard, Esq., of Boston, was chosen Chairman, and Lysander S. Richards, Secretary. After presiding over the meeting a short time, the Chairman, on account of illness, resigned in favor of Hon. Amasa Walker, who performed the duties of the office the remainder of the session.
A letter was read from Judge A. W. G. Carter, of Cincinnati, regretting his inability to be present. He favored the organization of a National Society and a Congress of Nations to establish permanent peace. Now is the time to educate and elevate mankind. “We are all striving for heaven: who thinks of force, violence and war in heaven? Why the necessity of force, violence and war upon earth? Shall we reach heaven, or the consociation of angels, by the adoption and practise of that which is not known there or among them? No! that is not the way to reach a superior plane of existence.”
B. J. Butts, of Hopedale, spoke against the practicability of sudden conversions to peace, and in favor of battling the violated conditions of war, and the prosecution of a moral, non-resistant war in behalf of Peace.
Hon. Amasa Walker spoke of the American Peace Society. He had been interested in the cause of Peace for thirty-three years. He believed it necessary that the country should be baptized in blood to learn the evils of war. The time has now arrived when further wars should cease, and the armaments of war be speedily reduced.
Henry C. Wright spoke of first principles, and struck at the root of the whole subject. He declared that human rights cannot be protected by force. Military power has been resorted to, but never yet had it given them protection. He believed in self-abnegation more than self-preservation. He hoped that a Society would be formed to seek the abolition of war, and did not believe in taking the life of any human being. He moved a committee be appointed to call a National Peace Convention.
L. K. Josslyn, of Providence, R. I., denounced in strong terms the inaction of the American Peace Society, and favored the organization of a new Society, called the American Peace Society, of Boston. He also believed in the wide dissemination of Peace tracts.
Mr. Stewart, of Hopedale, followed, urging the necessity of educating the people to the use of moral power only.
J. P. Blanchard addressed the meeting, and hoped that all past differences among the friends of peace would be forgotten, and that all would now unite in one grand effort to further the best interests of Peace. He was for battling the spirit of all wars, civil and foreign.
Rev. J. G. Fish, of New Jersey, did not believe in sacrificing a life to any individual interest. He had no confidence in a congress of nations, but believed more in a court.
<c06>
Rev. Adin Ballou called on the Chairman, Mr. Walker, to state the moral and financial condition of the American Peace Society. Mr. Walker replied stating that the Society had not been disposed to and the war. He, as an individual, was as much appeared to war as ever, but believed war a necessity because there is no preparation on the part of the peoples is prevent it. The people must obviate the necessity of war. He believed in a congress of nation and a court. He did not care whether one styled was Christian or unchristian, but he wanted friends of the <illegible> beliefs to unite in furthering the cause of Peace.
Ezra H. Hey wood argued the necessity of <illegible> war in our own land, here among our people or any where we find it. He believed in the dissemination of Peace tracts and papers. The time, he thought had arrived for action, for the people are destroys of a permanent peace.
H. C. Wright’s motion for the appointment of a committee to call a National Peace Convention for the purpose of organizing a Society, or inaugurating some movement to better advance the true interests of Peace, prevailed, and the following committee were chosen:-Rev. Adin Ballou, of Hopedate: Lysander S. Richards, of Quincy; Ezra H. Heywood, of Princeton; Rev. Dr. Beckwith and Joshua P. Blanchard, of Boston; Alfred H. Love, of Philadelphia; Edward Draper, of Hopedale; Rev., J. G. Fish, of New York sey; Wm. S. Heywood, of West Newton; Henry H. Brigham, of South Abington; Lucretia Mott. of Philadelphia; H. C. Wright and Dr. A. B. <Illegible> Boston; Thos. Hunt, of Salem, Judge A. W. G. Carter, of Cincinnati; Mrs. Mary Davis, of Hospedale,  Mrs. Elizabeth B. Chase, of Valley Fails, K. I. Wm. Lloyd Garrison, of Boston.
Mr. R. Wyman, of Roxbury, addressed the meetin briefly. He thought that man assumed too much in snatching the power from God to take the life of any of his children.
A. H. Love, of Philadelphia, argued the property of forming a World’s Society, and auxiliary societies. At the close of Mr. Love’s brief and excellent address, the Conference dissolved:
The Committee’s call for a National Convention will publicly appear in due course of time.

THE RADICAL. The contents of the December number are the following:-
I. On the Foundations of Religious Belief—Real and Imaginary Authority. SAMUEL JOHNSON. II Not in Word. W. H. FURNESS. III. The True Light (Poetry) IV. Do. Men Need Salvation <illegible> K. WHIPPLE. V. The Lord’s Supper. <illegible> BOWEN. VI. The Lost Thought, (Poetry) VII. Personal Experience—How I turned “Parkerne” FRED. MAY HOLLAND. VIII England at the Grave of Palmerston. M. D. CONWAY. IX. Letter from JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE.
Most of these articles are serious and earnest efforts towards reform in Religion; or, in other words, towards substituting true Christianity for the corrupts version of it generally taught by the clergy, and generally received by the people. They well express the claim made in the title page, that THE <illegible> monthly magazine, devoted to religion.” We believe that the time is fully come for the hearty reception and support of just such a magazine as the four numbers thus far issued prove themselves to be. And yet radical reform in religion, the full expression of the ideas included in Christian freedom, is not so far advanced but that its friends must bestir themselves to circulate the periodicals which represents it, and to see that this warfare is not carried on entirely at the cost of the editor.
The last of the articles above named is a criticism, by Rev. James Freeman Clarke, upon the admirable discourse of Samuel Johnson (entitled “Bond or Free”) in the October number of THE RADICAL . To the present writer it seems that this criticism gives an utterly erroneous idea of Mr. Johnson, and of “those whom he represents, “by declaring or insinuating that they consider themselves to have” outgrown Christianity,” or that they regard Christianity “as a stepping stone” to something better. A charge like this was often falsely made against Theodore Parker. It ought not to be alleged or even implied against Mr. Johnson without presentation of evidence.
I judge also that these other things, stated or implied in Dr. Clarke’s letter , are incorrect., namely—that Mr. Johnson asserts “that we must not read the words of Jesus or Paul with a predisposition in their favor, expecting to find in them truth rather than error”: and that Christian radicals of Mr. Johnson’s type go “to science, to the Vedas, to Emerson and Thoreau, to Theodore Parker, Herbert Spencer and Miss Cobbe,” in preference to Christ and the Bible instead of in addition to Christ and the Bible: and that “if we reject Jesus, [as an authoritative teacher,] we shall take Auguste Comte or Herbert Spencer-and that the proper attitude for the devout soul is to “believe in order to understand.” In all these mattersmaters it seems to me that Dr. Clarke either misrepresents Christian radicalism, or teaches something less worthy than it teaches.-C. K. W.
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. The correspondent of the Boston Journal, Perley, gives an interesting reminiscence of a speech he once heard from John Randolph, of Virginia, levelled against the negroes of the District, Quakers, and all other philanthropists, and which resulted in increased rigor of the District Police against the colored people. He then proceeds to speak of the change in things there as follows:
New England can well be proud of the part taken by her Representatives in Congress, in not only emancipating the slaves in this District, but in securing the blacks good treatment and equality before the law Hon. Henry Wilson has been especially consipicuous in this work, and his speeches have a different <illegible> from those of John Randolph and the Northern Copperheads of later days.
Yesterday, Senator Wilson presented the petition of Francis Cook, and two thousand five hundred others, colored citizens of this District of Columbia, asking for the right of suffrage. The petitioners set forth that a large proportion of the colored citizens of the District are property-holders and tax-payers. They claim that as they are sufficiently intelligent to build and sustain churches and institutions of learning, and to accumulate property, they are also sufficiently intelligent to vote; that for years they have been obliged not only to educate their own children, but to contribute to the support of the schools in which only white children were taught; that the record of the colored people as to crime and pauperism is as fair as any other class in the country: out of a population of less than 15, 000 they sent 3500 soldiers <illegible>the field, while the white population (over 60,000) furnished only 1500, and the colored soldiers volunteered Without the incentives of large-bounties, pay, or promotion.
The old fogy corporation of this city have waked up to the importance of this question of universal suffrage, and they are in terrible trouble about <illegible> seeing clearly that if all tax payers be allowed <illegible> vote, a municipal reform would ensure. The Mayer, in an official communication, endeavors to make it appear that there is no danger, and to stop the pros passage of resolutions on the subject. He does not believe that President Johnson will be unwilling to ensure to Washington city the option he has accounted to the white inhabitants of the States so lately in rebellion. We shall see.
Meanwhile, Congress has so reconstructed its Committees on the District of Columbia, that the <illegible> people here-whites and blacks—will be fairly heard and justly treated. Slavery has been destroyed, but there are great evils to be eradicated, and the oligarchs of other days, who used to insult all Northern men, are now to reap the fruit of their insolence. New England is represented on the committee on the District of Columbia by Senators Morrill and Sumner, and Representative Baldwin—good men and true. The result of their labors would have astonished John Randolph, could he have foreseen what would transpire in less than thirty years after he made the speech of which I send my recollections.-PERLEY.
“ACROSS THE CONTINENT.” The public will be greatly pleased to learn that Hon. Schuyler Colfax, Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, will lecture at Tremont Temple, December 29, on his recent trip across the continent, including his experiences and observations in utah. Hon. A. H. Bullock will preside, and a very interesting and valuable address may be anticipated.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
THE GENERAL AGENT TO HIS FRIENDS.
As the Liberator approaches its close, the under <illegible> would willingly use of a little space in its column, before they cease to e, as so long they have been, family and welcome visitors to our homes, to say some parting words to those with whom he has so long been associated in the Anti-Slavery work. For upwards of twenty-five years he has been a fellow members with many of them of the Massachusetts and American Anti-Slavery <illegible> and for the last eighteen years with comparatively brief interruption by reason of <illegible> has been the General Agent of the former society, and also for much of that time Acting General Agent of the latter. Thus, from 1847 to 1865, he has given nearly his undivided time, and whatever of strength and ability he possessed, to the active, to the active labors belonging to that office. The work was so vast that <illegible>-neither individual, committee, nor Society-could may in out, or grasp it. The roots and fibers Slavery were so strangely interwoven with nearly all the arrangements of society, business, politics, religion' and common life, that it was in vain to try to disen<illegible>them. It was a Gordian knot which, as we <illegible> size a time, never could be untied, but must be <illegible>, even though, in doing so, it should divide the <illegible> and marrow of the land, and sunder North from speech so we could nor work amiss. Go where we <illegible> scales, or hissed its hate and venom. whatever, in the might of truth, justice and humanity, we spoken bold and uncompromising word for liberty, <illegible> the enemy confronting us, and knew shots <illegible> in vain. Never were fewer random shots <illegible> than by the Abolitionists. Every few village-meeting was a <illegible> at least, with the guerrillas of slavery, every Convention was a pitched battle; and we discovered, our greatest victories were in just <illegible> places where we had seemed to be the most nearly <illegible> Yet at was to all human appearance a hopeless <illegible> that of assailing with any view to weaken <illegible> one to which only fanaticism, or credulity, <illegible>enthusiasm most unnatural and our of place on American <illegible> would commit itself. How many there were who, in the warmth of first convictions. gave their hearts to the cause, but who, in the cool re <illegible> of the following days, having counted the cost, <illegible> away, <illegible> passed by on the other side! “I say these have me excused," was the general cry.
But <illegible> to recall these things. Ratheer do I <illegible> congratulate those who have stood together to the <illegible> I congratulate them that they have stood <illegible>by the for midable front of Slavery, unde<illegible> by its bellow pretence, having a soul above its white, a <illegible> above its law, a courage above its <illegible> a sprit above its sordid motives and <illegible> And still more; I desire fervently to thank God, with them and for them, that we have been strength <illegible> and made able to stand fat, and to endure unto the end. I am sure they will all say, with me, that they would not <illegible> out the record of their own Anti-Slavery <illegible> no humble it may have appeared to others' eyes or to their own, of all the <illegible> and show which lite ever gives, nor for all the wealth which times serving could have accumulated. The treasure which cannot be taken from us <illegible> -provided that we proeve the sincerity and reality of former service by “continuing unto the end."
And how <illegible> Let every one be fully per<illegible> in his own mind. Shall we continue in old channels and in small societies, to wage apparent war upon an institution which is already annihilated? in my judgment, no. Slavery, by the joint action of Congress and of the States, is abolished in our land, is at an forever. No more slavery here, NEVER <illegible> held by force of any law, rule, or custom! All Slavedom bows, appalled, before the majestic verdict of the American People, and the <illegible> monster will never dare again to lift his head. To recognize <illegible> societies when no slavery sexists is <illegible> work, and is redeemed from being farcical only by the strong sincerity which impels any to do it. Why linger in the past? Why insist on the old forms, when the sprit has been forward to new work,-to rear a grand structure of justice on the <illegible> of slavery, and in the very place where it fell? Even the old forms of our association cannot be kept. Many who were earliest to enlist in the warfare against slavery have already gone forward, and are spending their strength, means, and life even, in self sacrificing labors for the emancipated people, and the children <illegible> slaves, but now free. We know many such-surrounded by peril, their very lives in daily danger, but remaining calmly and firmly at their post, declaring they “cannot leave it,"-such satisfaction and reward for they find in it.
Doubtless the spirit of slavery is still rife and ma<illegible> in the land. But it is not in the ascendant now, and never again will be! Its sun is rapidly going down in shame and in night. The contempt, hideous thing an be borne of men no longer; and <illegible> long it will be unable to endure the remembrance of itself. The glorious day-star of Freedom is far above the horizon, and the faces of millions of new worshippers turn with glad joy to its blessed and <illegible> light. Will the abolitionists segregate with generous, noble devotion, with endeavors to stone for past indifference or ignorance to do all that human sympathy and effort can for the ransomed, Yet suffering ones of our land? Not so! Let no narrow estimate of ourselves induce us to stand aloof, let no unworthy distrust of others prevent our gladly <illegible> in the new work of this new day. A new work and a vast one it is. Every town, every church, must organize, and do its part for the millions of our wronged brothers, our long defrauded fellow-men; for those who are, too, for a time,” the Nation's wards." Yet, if poor, not so through fault of theirs. The Labor of their lives, their toil and bloody sweat, and that of their children, has been stolen from them. Others have lived in ease and comfort on what has been wrong throw their years of honest industry. And among these others, who at the North can claim to be wholly exempt?
Organize then and be ready, ye life-time friends of the slave, to list him up as a freedmen, and to set his feet on sure ground! Thousands stand ready to work with you, to acknowledge the value of your experience, to combine their counsels and efforts with yours. Be not slow to give these, or to exhort and animate others to this new and great work. Do not desire the eleventh hour laborers. Take heed that ye do nor quench the spirit rising up to pity and help the aforetime outcast and stranger. The old Society was the best, the only vital agent to do its own work. A far different work is now ready to our hands, an equally great duty still is before us. Let the vigor of will and strength of conscience of the old Abolitionists be infused into, and thoroughly leaven the entire mass of public sentiment and purpose. So it shall accomplish, be different, a thousand-fold more than by isolation, and show itself true to the divine command, “Go forward." Not one talent now existing in the anti-slavery body will be lost, but each one will be multiplied in efficacy thirty-fold, sixty-fold, and more.
Surely there is danger before us. The Vigilance, and labor of every man are absolutely indispensable; and no one can be excused. It is no time to stand idle, no time to boast, no time to lay our armor aside. Whether with old organizations or new, under one name or another, we are to take care not to wander from the essential duty of standing firmly by the freedmen and their friends everywhere. And in justice to their cause, let us discountenance and disown the morbid spirit of fault-finding which has become chronic with some anti-slavery writers, which always finds cause to inveigh. to predict mischief, to anticipate evil, never sees a ray of light for itself, and never affords a ray of hope to others. The wonder-working providence of God has death with us too strangely, and come too night us, through all these five bitter years, to allow us, without great blame, so to write, think, or speak.
<c02>
Expecting soon to close his long term of association in anti-slavery labors with the readers of this journal, and with other members of anti-slavery societies, but hoping to renew that association with very many of them in steadfast and uncompromising work for the freed people, even until they are established in every right of manhood and citizenship enjoyed by any in the land, the, undersigned would speak, at the same time, words of farewell and of salutation,-of farewell to the past, to the work well chosen, well sustained, and well accomplished, and of cheerful welcome and hail to the new duties of the future.
"Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul,
As the swift seasons roll!
Leave thy low-vaulted past!
Let each new temple, nobler than the last,
Shut thee from Heaven with a dome inure vast,
Till thou at length art free,
Leaving thin out-grown shall by life's untrusting sea.
"And so, with beet wishes and hearty good cheer for a!! conscientious workers for freedom and truth, by whatsoever path they go, I offer my sincere respects to the many anti-slavery friends with whom I have been so lung and pleasantly associated, and bid them, as their General Agent, farewell.
SAMUEL MAY, JR.
LETTER FROM REV. JEHIEL CLAFLIN.
EAST WESTMORELAND, N. H., Dec. 12,1865. DEAR FRIEND GARRISON:-It is with sadness of heart that I contemplate the near approach of the demise of the dear old Liberator, that more than thrice welcome weekly visitor, and advocate and teacher of uncompromising truth and unswerving fidelity to the great interests of humanity, irrespective of color, caste or race; which has been to me, from week to week; a source of cheer and strength for twenty five years. I feel it n privilege to say that to the Liberator and its venerated editor, more than to all other human instrumentalities and agencies, do I owe the enlightenment of my mind and dearly bringing to my understanding the great truths of human relations and human rights.
From the Liberator I have learned to adhere to duty amid peril, for the truth's sake, and to be true to conscience and to my highest convictions, regardless of popular applause. To part with the Liberator is to part with an old and much-valued friend. The mighty truths which it has promulgated have culminated, at Last, in the upheaval of the whole nation, and the overthrow of that hoary and gigantic system of unwritten and inexpressible suffering and outrage, and all its unmitigated abominations. Its career has no parallel in the past.
For thirty years and more, no man has been so thoroughly and so persistently misrepresented as has been Mr. Garrison. Opportunities have been sought, and none omitted, to hold him up to scorn, and to make his name odious, a synonym for all that was vile and despicable. What were the doctrines so repulsive, which this modern disturber of the peace had been proclaiming, like a prophet of old, in the ears of this guilty nation? Why, it was the voice of the evenliving God, through this modern as through the ancient prophet, saying:” Break every yoke and let the oppressed go free."-" Proclaim liberty throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof." And the same great truth again, by the Great Teacher,-" All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them." And still later, by the framers of the Declaration of Independence-" We hold these truths to be sell-evident: that all men are created equal," &c. Simple justice to every human being, and the unrestricted, God-given rights to all; these are the great and mighty truths that have shaken this haughty and oppressive nation like an aspen leaf. And God will” overturn, find overturn, and overturn," until the right at last shall prevail, and justice be done.
The tribute of E. Q, recently, is well merited, and well expresses the sentiments of multitudes in the land. It gives me unfeigned pleasure to see so many now regard it as an honor to greet, with friendly recognition, the indefatigable champion of human liberty and human rights.
Millions now liberated, and a grateful posterity, will rise up to bless his memory. May thrice ten thousand blessings rest upon him through lite, and the hope of immortal joys be his portion in death!
Adieu, dear Liberator, adieu!
JEHIEL CLAFLIN.
P. S. I would like exceedingly a number of the first Liberator ever published. I wish there could be a reprint of a few hundreds of them, i. e., if the friends would pay for them. I should keep it sacred.
J. C.
THE ELECTIVE FRANCHISE.
MR. GARRISON:-I was glad to find Mr. Whipple, in a recent number of the Liberator, take the position that the right to vote is a natural right; and his arguments to prove it, though short, are, to me, clear and unanswerable. If man has an unalienable right to liberty, how can he be rightfully denied the privilege of a voice in making the laws by which those liberties are secured? If government derives its just powers from the consent of the governed, whence comes the power to govern men without or against this consent? I have seen, with surprise, the statement made and repeated by H. C. Wright, that voting is not a natural but a conventional right. Will Mr. Wright please to tell us if man has no natural right to govern himself, how he acquired the right, not only to govern himself, but also to govern his neighbor? Mr. May, too, regrets that there should not have been some discrimination, some education test of admittance to the ballot-box. To me, it is surprising that men who have made the rights of humanity their life-long study should now take the ground always claimed by tyrants the world over, namely, that the people, the masses, are incapable of self-government. It seems to accord strangely, with Mr. Wright's oft-repeated assertions,” Man above his incidents, "Humanity above all books, creeds and constitutions." I know the reasons given for this position are very plausible, yet to me they seem fallacies. The world has been filled with them, and duped by them. Not long since, we had a numerous and popular society, called Know-Nothings, or, us they preferred to call themselves,” Americans," who, planting themselves on the same ground, were for disfranchisement by the wholesale; and many of the true and tried abolitionists, who had battled manfully against disfranchisement on account of color, went in for disfranchisement on account of birth-place. It need not be asked what would have been our situation during the war, had they been able to carry out their plans. But suppose we should adopt an educational test, what then? I think Wendell Phillips said, not long since, that work did more to make the man, than book-learning. If that be true, and I am not sure but it is, then we must have a work test. How would the students at "old Harvard," and your city dandies, like the idea of learning to handle the spade and wield the hoe, before being admitted to the ballot box! And so there would be no end to the discrimination.
Once give man the right to govern his brother, and you have in principle admitted all that despots ever claim; for what better right have a million men to govern one, than one has to govern a million? If the Declaration of Independence is a sure and safe foundation, let us not be afraid to build on it. If not-if it is, as the Southerners say, made up of” glittering generalities," which it will never do to carry out-then let us discord it, and look for a better.
Yours, for the rights of man,
S. M. SEAVER.
WILLIAMSTOWN, Dec. 7,1865.
P. S. My date reminds me that the Liberator It near its end. This I most deeply regret; and yet it teems as fitting a time to close as there ever will be, though it might seem desirable that the Constitution should be amended in form, as it really is in fact, before its close. And, indeed, it may be yet. [It has been.]
<c03>
I was very sorry the two wings of the Society could not have” compromised” for once, and agreed to continue the Society till the amendment of the Constitution, and then have disbanded with a universal shout of “Glory! Hallelujah!" For thirty years, I have been an uncompromising abolitionist, and for about twenty, a subscriber and constant reader of the Liberator; and I shall receive the last number with sadness and joy-sadness that it is the last; joy. inexpressible, that its mission has been thus fully, thus gloriously accomplished.
In conclusion, allow me to congratulate you that while a Giddings, a Lovejoy, a King, a Parker, a Birney, and a host of other choice spirits, of whom the world was not worthy, have died in sight of the promised land, you have been permitted to enter it-to see the final, joyful consummation of all your labors-and to hear the welcome plaudit,” Well done, good and faithful servant!" To you and yours, to your numerous contributors and subscribers, I tender my affectionate farewell. S. M.S.

LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XLIX.
NEW YORK, Dec. 14, 1865. To the Editor of the Liberator:
Some years have elapsed since I read Sue's” Mysteries of Paris," but I remember well the scene in which the good-natured rufflan Chourineur, having been suddenly visited with an irresistible shower of blows from an unseen antagonist, recognized nevertheless this master of the pugilistic art, and surrendered at discretion, crying, “Thunder! its Monsieur Rodolphe!" I fancy that the Southern delegates who were present at the opening session of the Senate, the other day, an staggered under Mr. Sumner's remorseless trip-hammer, had no difficulty in recognizing a previous acquaintance.” Thunder! it's the author of The Five-headed Barbarism!”
In fact, the thirty-ninth Congress has made a good beginning, and the President has furnished it a very proper text. The fears of a rupture between him and the party-which elected him were dissipated by the fail elections. His message tells no new truths, assumes no new positions, abandons no old ones; if ho does not quit the field, neither does he throw down the gage. A conflict may be imminent; he will not precipitate it. He has chosen not to be explicit, in order that he might not be offensive. Those who do not relish his avowed policy, congratulate themselves on his omission to announce his future conduct. Grant that he has spoken ill-advisedly, he still has not spoken perversely, and there was so much that was worse to be said had he been inclined, For the present, therefore, every body appears satisfied; there is a general sigh of relief all round. Even the Southern press chants the praises of the message, and one would think there was never so popular an Executive.
Obscure as is the issue of the debates to which the Capitol at Washington will soon re-echo, it is clear that a new era has dawned upon our politics with the first word of Mr. Johnson to his first Congress. A key-note higher than that of-party, or trade, or caste, has been struck, and the day of” glittering generalities" has returned ablaze. It is at such an auspicious moment, and on the parting line between the shadow of compromise and the sun streak of principle, that the Liberator ceases to exist. Slavery, to be sure, is not absolutely out of sight: one may yet trace those” in sands subtractions” which it digged for its own grave when it thought to make a stronghold from which to overawe the continent. Nevertheless, the fabric cannot rise again. It is buried beneath the martyrs for human liberty whom the North sent out against it, and the seal of the Constitutional Amendment is on the lips of its sepulcher. Some pretend that the seal is not yet affixed. A Kentucky Judge has affirmed the contrary, and a United Status General has proclaimed the decision of the bench. Secretary Seward is more fastidious, and employs a different reckoning from that of Johnson and Palmer. But a corpse that is only held together by the red tape of a legal fiction, is too far gone to become the Lazarus of any political necromancy.
With the cessation of the Liberator occurs inevitably the winding-up of this correspondence, which also began in dark days for the Republic, and also ends in brighter. You know what other more private gloom surrounded its inception, and how its close is” in a golden air." Then, for one who strayed from the Cradle of Liberty, there was a yearning for home not easily appeased. Now, we have changed the proverb, “ubi libertas, ibi patria," so that it reads, “ubi patria, ibi liertas.” And as henceforth every citizen of the Union will meet only freemen, in the extent of its domain, no one part can be dearer than another to the lover of freedom. Move where he may, he will be always at home and in his fatherland, and on his native soil there is an end forever to MALADIA DU PAYS.

LETTER FROM AN OLD SUBSCRIBER.
NEPONSET, Dec. 18, 1865.
MR. GARRISON:
DEAR SIR-It will be thirty years the first of January next since I subscribed for the Liberator; I and have rend every number from that time to the present. I shall miss it very much, but I would not wish to have it continued after this year. It started for a great purpose; that purpose is accomplished; its mission is ended with reference to slavery as an institution sanctioned by law. I hope we shall have a Proclamation from the Secretary of State on or before the first of January, announcing the fact that negro slavery nowhere exists by authority of the Constitution of the United States. The columns of No. 52 of the Liberator will no doubt be very much crowded; many of the old correspondents will, I think, have a few parting thoughts to put in print. If the friends of the Liberator would pay the expense, I should like to have one more number printed, bearing the date of Jan. 1, l866, (Emancipation day.) It would be fitting that this flag of freedom (which has waved at masthead for thirty-five years, through sunshine and storm) should be struck the day of the anniversary of President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation. Let it be taken down while the cheers and thanksgivings of the people go up for Emancipation. If you should think best to publish another number as suggested, please put me down for a sum equal to six months' subscription.
Respectfully, H. W. BLANCHARD.

GEN. SAXTON AND THE SEA ISLANDS.
MALDEN, Dec. 18, 1865.
DEAR MR. MAY-You were entirely-misinformed as to Gen. Saxton's participation in the attempt to break faith with the negroes who settled on the Sea Islands, He refused to have any thing to do with it. He regards it as a shameless act of perfidy.
When I arrived in Charleston and heard the colored people speak of Gen. Howard with contempt as” the biggest hypocrite they ever saw," I learned also that Gen. Saxton had gone to the islands with him, and had used his influence to induce them to aid the President to “reconstruct" Mr. Whaley and other red handed traitors. I called on the General, and, without mentioning the fact that I had heard this statement, I volunteered the theory that any military officer who aided in ousting the blacks would justly lose the respect and confidence of the anti-slavery people of the North; and that were I in Gen. Howard's position, I would resign rather than be made a cat's-paw in the hands of the rebels; I found that Gen. Saxton would not purchase place at the expense of principle, and that his hands were clean of the whole affair; that his sense of duty as a soldier had not caused him to do an unjust act.
I suppose that it is because this praise is deserved that a more pliant solider,-a man wholly without anti-slavery antecedents an enemy of “the radicals," -was placed at the head of the Freedom's Bureau.
Yours, truly,
JAMES REDPATH.
<c04>
THIRTY-SECOND
National Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary.
The Managers of the National Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary beg leave to notify their friends -the friends of the negro and of impartial liberty-that the32d Anniversary will be held in Music Hall, on Wednesday, January 24, 1860. The aim of this effort it to give the American Anti-Slavery Society the means to continue its operations, and specially to sustain the publication of the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY STANDARD.
Cherishing as the Managers do an assured hope that the Constitutional Amendment abolishing slavery throughout the Union will soon be ratified, they still consider the great question of the condition and rights of the Negro race as in fearful peril. Whether that anti-slavery provision shall be practically a dead letter, or really work its intended effect, is to be decided this winter. Whether slavery shall continue to exist in every thing but the name, is to be decided this winter. Overborne by a powerful, educated and wealthy race, one inflamed by old prejudice and recent defeat, and armed with exclusive political privileges, the negro, even if technically free, is still a slave, while destitute of civil and political rights. Even now, the rebel States propose a labor code, where differences between master and servant are to be settled, not, as in all free countries, by courts and judges, but by the lash, in the hands of irresponsible masters; This stamps the system as substantial slavery. The plan of reconstruction urged by the Administration leaves the black still a slave. Though some count on such resistance to it by Congress as will ensure its modification, it is still unfortunately true that, with four or five illustrious exceptions, the leaders of the Republican party and its most influential journals avow their willingness to admit the rebels back without securing land or ballot to the negro. No matter what rights are seemingly secured to him, if these, the defence and guaranty of all, arc denied. With land and ballot in the negro's hands, no matter what or how liberal terms are conceded to the rebels. Without these elements of self-defence, all pretense of protection or security for the black is an absurd sham.
The Managers feel it to be still their duty to watch for the real emancipation of this victim race. While so many lips are sealed by party temptations, and so many journals silent or neutral from one cause or another, it become the Abolitionists, it is a solemn duty imposed upon them by all the pledges of their past lives, to rally public opinion, and secure the constant proclamation, as widely as possible, of the whole truth, without fear, compromise or favor. They therefore earnestly appeal to their friends, to all the old and tried members of the American Anti-Slavery Society, as well as to those whose eyes the war has opened, for the means to perform, as efficiently as possible, this momentous duty.
Those, not able to be personally present to aid on this occasion, and to listen to the appeals of the zealous and tried laborers in this cause, may semi their j contributions, as heretofore, to W. I. BOWDITCH, Esq., No. 8 R. R. Exchange, Court Square,
LUCRETIA MOTT, Pennsylvania.
LIDIAN EMERSON, Concord, Mass.
MARY M. BROOKS, “ “
SARAH SHAW RUSSELL, Boston, “
LYDIA D. PARKER, “ “
CHARLOTTE.L. FORTEN, “ “
ELIZA APTHORP, Cambridge, “
MARY E. STEARNS, Medford. “
SARAH BLAKE SHAW, Now York.
ELIZABETH GAY. “
MATTIE GRIFFITH. “
ANNA SHAW GREENE, Boston, Mass.
ANN.G. PHILLIPS. “ “
CAROLINE C. THAYER, “ “
MARY E. SARGENT, “ “
ABBY K. FOSTER, Worcester, “
MARTHA LEBARON GODDARD. “ “
ANNA D. HALLOWELL. Boston, “
ABBY H. STEPHENSON, “ “
CAROLINE M. SEVERANCE, “ “
SARAH COWING, Weymouth, “
HANNAH B. SPOONER, Plymouth, “
CAROLINE R. PUTNAM, Salem, “
SARAH BRADFORD, Roxbury, “
REBECCA BRADFORD, “ “
SARAH P. REMOND, England. “
SARAH J. NOWELL. Cambridgeport Mass.
SARAH H. SOUTHWICK, Grantville, “
RUTH BUFFUM, Lynn. “
EVELINA E. SLACK. Boston, “
ELIZABETH B. CHASE, Rhode Island.
ANNA T. FAIRBANKS,
SALLIE HOLLEY, New York.
THE SOUTHERN STYLE OF RECONSTRUCTION. A lawsuit in New Orleans has developed the peculiar ideas of the rebels on practical reconstruction in a manner not very indicative of returning loyalty. We find the following reference to it in a New Orleans letter to the Cincinnati Gazelle:
"When New Orleans fell, some of the coast and river pilots went off with the rebels, while others remained and did service, whenever engaged, on United States vessels. The last have of course been here ever since. The others have been gradually returning through the summer and resuming their occupation. At last, they found themselves in the majority; whereupon, in a certain Pilot's Association, they proceeded to resolve that the pilots who had remained in, New Orleans during the war, and had done service on the United States vessels when required, should not be recognized by the Association, and vessels which hereafter employ them should in a like manner be tabooed. Not satisfied with this, through their relations to the insurance companies, they effected an arrangement by which any vessel employing these tabooed pilots should be refused insurance."
THE SMALL POX is making fearful ravages in very many places among the freed people. We hear of it in Maryland, in North Carolina, in Georgia, and at many points in the West and Southwest, and lately, as being very virulent at Selma, Alabama. The sufferings of a vast number of the aged, the very young; and otherwise helpless among this people, must be terrible and unexampled this winter, unless the action of the Government, and the liberality of individuals throughout the North, combine to relieve and save them. Let this prime duty be faithfully and religiously done!
If any of our subscribers have a spare copy of the Liberator of Nov. 20, 1863. they will confer a great favor by sending it to this office, to enable us to complete our files.
LETTER FROM MR. SUMNER TO MRS. COBDEN. The following letter appears in the London papers:-
BOSTON, October 5, 1865.
Mr. DEAR MADAM: I have been charged by the Convention of the Republicans of Massachusetts, over I which I had the honor of presiding, to communicate to you resolutions unanimously adopted by them, expressing their grateful regard for the memory of your late husband, and their sympathy with you in your bereavement. Knowing Mr. Cobden personally as I did for many years, and corresponding with him on public questions, I confess a sense of personal loss beyond even that of my fellow-citizens. He was the good friend of my country, and he was my own private friend. Therefore, in making this communication, I desire to express own individual grief, His lamented death has caused a chasm, not only in his own home and country, but here in the United States. We all miss and mourn him. He was a wise and good man. Though an Englishman by birth, his heart and all his faculties: were given to mankind, knowing well that the welfare and true glory of his own great country were best assured, by such a dedication. Hoping that you; may be consoled in your great bereavement, and that your children may be blessed in life, I ask you to Accept the respect with which I have the honor to be, dear madam, your very faithful servant, CHARLES SUMNER
The Missouri House of Representatives has formally declared that Mr. Jefferson Davis deserves to be hanged, and that hanged he should be.
<c05>
THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
The following has been addressed by Secretary Seward to Mr. Parsons:-
DEPARTMENT OF STATE.
WASHINGTON, December, 18,1864. 
To His Excellency, Levi E. Parsons, Provisional Governor, Montgomery, Alabama:
SIR: The time has arrived when, in the judgment of the President of the United States, the care and conduct of the proper affairs of the State of Alabama may be remitted to the constitutional authorities chosen by the people thereof, without danger to the peace and safety of the United States.
By direction of the President of the United States, therefore, you arc relieved from the trust which was heretofore reposed in you, as Provisional Governor of the State of Alabama. Whenever the Governor elect shall have accepted and become qualified to discharge the executive office, you will transfer the papers and property of the State now in your custody to his Excellency, the Governor elect.
It gives me especial pleasure to convey to you the President's acknowledgment of the fidelity, the loyalty, and the discretion which have marked your administration.
You will please give me a reply, specifying the day on which this communication is received.
I have the honor to be your Excellency's most obedient servant, WILLIAM H. SEWARD.

MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT. WASHINGTON, Dec. 19. The following message as received in the Senate to-day, from the President, in reply to a resolution of that body adopted on the 12th inst:
"I have the honor to state that the rebellion waged by a large portion of the people against the properly constituted authorities of the Government of the United States, has been suppressed, that the United Stairs are in possession of every State in which insurrection existed, and that so far as could be done, the Courts of the United States have been restored, Post Offices reestablished, and steps taken to put into effective operation the revenue laws of the country.
As the result of measures instituted by the Executive with a view of inducing a resumption of the functions of a State, comprehended in the inquiry of the Senate, the people in North Carolina. South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Arkansas and Tennessee, have reorganized their respective State governments, and are yielding obedience to the laws and Government of the United States with more willingness and greater promptitude than, under the circumstances, could reasonably have been ancipated. The proposed amendment to the Constitution, providing for the abolition of slavery forever within the limits of the country, has been ratified by each one of these States, with the exception of Mississippi, from which no official information has yet been received, and in nearly all of them, measures lave been adopted or are nor pending, to counter upon freedmen the privileges which are essential to their comfort, protection and security.
In Florida and Texas the people are making commendable progress in restoring their State Governments, and no doubt is entertained that they will a: an early period be in a condition to resume all their practical relations with the Federal Government.
In that portion of the Union lately in rebellion, the aspect of affairs is still more promising than, in view of the circumstances, could well have been expected. The people throughout the entire South evince a laudable desire to renew their allegiance to the Government and to repair the devastations of the war by a prompt and cheerful return to peaceful pursuits. An abiding faith is entertained that their actions will conform to their profession, and that in acknowledging the supremacy of the Constitution and laws of the United States, their loyalty will be unreservedly given its Government, whose leniency they cannot fail to appreciate, and whose fostering care will soon restore them to a condition of prosperity. It is true that in some of the States the demoralizing effects of war are to be seen in occasional disorders, but these are local in character, not frequent in occurrence, and rapidly disappearing as the authority of the civil power is extended and sustained.
Perplexing questions are naturally to be expected from the great and sudden change in the relations between two races, but systems are gradually developing themselves under which the freedman will receive that protection to which he is justly entitled, and by means of his labor make himself a useful and independent member of the, community in which he has his home.
From all the information in my possession, and from that which I have recently derived from most reliable authority, I am induced to cherish the belief that sectional animosity is surely and rapidly merging itself into the spirit of nationality, and that representation connected with a properly' adjusted system of taxation will result in the harmonious restoration of the relations of the States to the National Union. The report of Carl Schurz is herewith transmitted as requested by the Senate. No report from Hon. John Covode has been received by the President.
The attention of the Senate is invited to the accompanying report of Lieut. Gen. Grant, who recently made a tour of inspection through several of the States whose inhabitants participated in the rebellion.
ANDREW JOHNSON. WASHINGTON. Dec. 18, 1865.
WASHINGTON, Dec. 20.
Mr. Sumner moved for the reading of the import of General Schurz, referred to in the message of the President, and characterized the message as similar to the whitewashing message of Franklin Pierce in relation to the Kansas atrocities.
Considerable debate following, Mr. Sherman moved that the reading be dispensed with, and the document printed.
Mr. Doolittle hoped that the Senator from Massachusetts at least would qualify, if not wholly retract, the strong expression used by him.
Mr. Sumner said he had nothing to qualify, nothing to modify, nothing to retract.
Mr. Dixon said, as a friend of the President, he could not sit quietly, and listen to such a charge. He sustained the policy of the President as he understood it, not because it was the President's policy, but because it was right. He believed the truth of the statements the President had made, and although he needs no defence, he (Mr. Dixon) could not suffer such charges to go before the country without a protest.
Mr. Doolittle said the Senator from Massachusetts had a perfect right to differ from the President, out he goes farther, and charges upon the President a falsehood, in substance, by paying his message is a whitewashing report. He (Sumner) charges him with a want of truth and a want of patriotism. If he has specially displayed any characteristic in this struggle, it is an uncompromising love of truth, love of country and love of Union, which have made him sacrifice and endanger all he had during the struggle in the South, and which always have characterized him as a man.
Mr. Sumner said he raised no question as to the policy of the President, and expressed no opinion in regard to it. He disclaimed the definition of the term” whitewash” given by Messrs. Dixon and Doolittle. He had no reflections to make on the patriotism or truthfulness of the President, and never made any, in public or in private.
After some further debate, Mr. Sherman's motion was adopted.
The London Daily News says that enough is known to require the supersedure of Gov. Eyre of Jamaica. The following is Mr. Bright's reference to this subject in his speech at Blackburn:-
"It is rare that a minister, immediately on stepping into office, finds himself confronted with an event such as that which has recently taken place, if, indeed, it be now over, in the unhappy island of Jamaica. I dare not trust myself to speak what I feel on that subject. I fear that the name and the fame of England have never received a deeper wound or a darker stain than they have by the recent transactions in that island. I judge only by the case made by those who are living and who are most concerned. The dead can confess nothing of their offence, and they can make no complaint of the wrongs they have endured. I take my opinion only from the documents furnished here by those. whose interest it is to put the most favorable interpretation upon their conduct, and I say this-that if murder, if foul murder (and there, is no private murder so foul as that which is done by men in authority and under pretence of law)-(loud cheers)-I say if murder have, not changed its name, if it be now a crime visited with punishment in this country, then I hold that the Governor of Jamaica and his accomplices will yet have to stand at the bar of justice. (Loud cheers.) I stall address, no words of appeal or remonstrance to Mr. Cardwell, who is the Secretary of State for the Colonies, and under whose department this matter more particularly comes. It to not a question for the Secretary of State or for a department. It is a question for the Crown; it is a question for the Prime Minister, for the whole Cabinet, for Parliament when it shall meet; and for the whole nation, whose character for justice and for mercy to at stake. (Loud cheers.)"
The editor of the Liberator has been very reluctantly but necessarily absent from the city, during the past week-first, for the purpose of Attending an important conference between the American Freedmen's Aid and the American Union Commissions, with reference to their future cooperation as one body -the arrangement having been satisfactorily made; and, next, to fulfil <illegible> imperative engagement at Philadelphia; rendering it impraticable to give any attention to the present number
<c06>
WASHINGTON, Dec. 19. The President's special message, and General Grant's report accompanying it, created an unexpected sensation in Congress to-day. Those opposed to the President's reconstruction policy look upon it with disfavor.
Reports of Freedmen's affairs in Florida and South Carolina are favorable, but in Alabama General Swayne telegraphs that there will be forty thousand destitute negroes to be supplied with rations.
Secretary Seward has addressed a communication to Provisional Governor Johnson, of Georgia, relieving him from the duties of that office, and also to Gov. Jenkins, authorizing him to enter upon the duties of his office. The dispatches are identical in language with those in the case of Alabama, already published.
The Secretary of State has received a telegram, dated yesterday, from the Governor of California, representing that the Legislature of that State has ratified the proposed amendment to the Constitution abolishing slavery.
The Boston Post's special says:” Rev. Henry Ward Beecher delivered an address Wednesday evening, in the U. S. House of Representatives, to an immense audience. Chief Justice Chase presided, and prayer was offered by a colored minisier. The speaker took ground in favor of immediate and universal suffrage, even including women, and dwelt on that postion at considerable length. Several members of the Cabinet were present, as well as nearly all the Senators and members of the House. The sentiments were rapturously applauded."
NOTICE.-All Pledges and Subscriptions at any time made to, or in behalf of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and not yet paid, are now fully due. All persons so indebted are earnestly requested to make payment, without delay, to the Treasurer, E, D. DRAPER, or to the General Agent, SAMUEL-MAY, JR., addressing either at Anti-Slavery Office. 221 Washington St., Boston.
PROSPECTUS
-OF-
THE RECONSTRUCTIONIST.
Believing that Liberty has been betrayed by her friends, and never more needed the devotion and labor of every loyal heart and hand; and the dark places of this Government never more required the light of Truth, spoken in the fear of God and of none but him, we will publish THE RECONSTRUCTIONIST; a weekly newspaper, devoted to Equality before the Law-to Honesty, as the beat policy; and Christianity, as the best Statesmanship.
We will give a synopsis or review of all important Congressional speeches and action; and of the sermons and lectures, of national interest, so as to present a bird's-eye view of the leading thoughts of leading minds, for the convenience of those who have limited time for reading, and wish to keep up with the forward movement of the age.
In the intervals of Congress, we will furnish Incidents of Hospital life, and Biographical Sketches of women who have aided in putting down the Rebellion, or otherwise earned honorable distinction in the World's History.
We will have such active aid from prominent men and women, and such a list of Correspondents and Agents as must make THE RECONSTRUCTIONIST thoroughly national in interest and circulation, and such a medium for general advertising as business men cannot afford to neglect. We feel its future secure; and can confidently ask the patronage of those who wish to read, or make their business known through a national, independent, family newspaper into which” nothing that defileth or maketh a lie” can procure entrance.
The first number will be issued December 11, 1863. Terms $2.per annum in advance.
All communications to be addressed to
JANE G. SWISSHELM, Washington, D. C.
ANEW RELIGIOUS MAGAZINE.
The Radical
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY S. H. MORSE, BOSTON', MASS.
THE publication of THE RADICAL was commenced in obedience to a recognized need for a popular Magazine which should be devoted to the discussion and presentation of the advanced religious convictions of the present time. The encouraging response which has already greeted the publisher, from a large number of people, in all parts of the country, is the assurance that the publication was well timed.
THE RADICAL is a Magazine presenting the thoughts of able and disinterested writers. It had no sectarian bias, but welcomes truth from whatever source it may come.” It is," as a city journal has stated,” a Magazine for all people who are not too closely wedded to their own idea to tolerate freedom of inquiry and earnest discussion."
The following writers, among others, are engaged as regular or occasional contributors:
Rev. JOHN WEISS. ROBERT MOORIE.
Rev. SAMUEL JOHNSON MYRON B. BENTON.
Rev. D. A. WASSON. Rev. D. H. MONTGOMERY.
Rev. ROBERT CULLYER. Rev. J. C. LEABENED.
Rev. J. K. HOSMER. Rev, J. B. MARVIN.
Rev. JOHN W. CHADWICK. Rev. M. D. CONWAY.
Rev. JOHN SAVARY. Rev. SAMUEL LONGFRLLOW.
Rev. EVERETT FINLEY. Rev. EDMUND C, TOWNE.
Rev. SILAS FARRINGTON. HENRY JAMES.
Rev. FRED. MAY HOLLAND T. W. HIGGINSON.
C. K. WHIPPLE. Rev. O. B.FROTHINGHAM.
Rev. F. E. ABBOT. Rev. W. U. FURNESS, D. D.
S. H.. MORSE, EDITOR.
TERMS: Single subscriptions, Two Dollars a year. Single copies 20 cents. United Stated bills preferred.
The world has much to say about the temporal and the eternal. By this it means a division of worlds. This side the grave means temporal. The side beyond the grave means eternal. Politics, Art, Literature, Philosophy, Science, are of this world-also morality, and are all temporal. Its Religion, as Coleridge said, is” other-worldness." Shall we not find a better distinction? Shall we not so interpret religion that we can let the other world rest until our fortune of life finds us there as dwellers-making this world as sacred as the next shall be; life as little to be despised here, as, it shall be in any hereafter? Phillipsohn, the able Jewish writer, makes it his chief argument against Christianity, that it readers this world Lean and contemptible by its dismal strain of immortality-dismal to his cultured soul, because it reveals in the great mass of mankind who are chanting it, a thought so entirely selfish. So far as Christianity can be made responsible for this” dismal strain of future life," it must go under condemnation. Jesus, however, was not a” Christian." He cut the One-world apart as regards this world. His” this world” meant surface, pretension, illusion, show, by. poerisy, sham. His “Eternal life'' was quality of life, and not duration or plain of existence.” Love God with mind and heart, and your neighbor as yourself." That was all he said. Tear down the partition wall, and you have One World and Eternity already with you. To live in this great Eternity, and, forgetting little or great private aims, (which are temporal, for they must be set aside for the common weal,) to work with a whole devotion to truth as to universal ends, is that marriage of Man with God, which in all places and forever must be, for man, his Religion! Herein are all callings of life ennobled. The True, the Beautiful, the Good: devotion to these as they everywhere appear, revealing the True, Beautiful, and Good Providence, is Religion. This Religion can be subtracted from no department. It is the one Reality. It is the Life of Art, of Philosophy, of all Literature, of Politics, even: so far as these have life, Religion supplies. It is the Life of all life that shall not perish!-ED.
Address, S. H. MORSE, at HAVERHILL, MASS. Send 20 cents for specimen numbers.
AYER'S AGUE CURE,
FOB THE SPEEDY CURE OF
Intermittent Fever, or Fever and Ague, Remittent Fever, Chill Fever, Dumb Ague, and Periodical Headache, or Bilious Headache, and Bilious Fevers; indeed for the whole class of diseases originating in biliary derangement, caused by the malaria of miasmatic countries.
FEVER and Ague is not the only consequence of the miasmatic poison. A great variety of disorderes arise from its, irritation, in malarious districts, among which are Neuralgia, Rheumatism, Gout, Headache, Blindness, Toothache, Earache, Catarrh, Asthma, Palpitation, Painful Affection of the Spleen, Hysteries, Pain in the Bowels, Colic, Paralysis, and Derangement of the Stomach, all of which, when originating in this cause, pat on the Intermittent type, or become periodical. This “cure" expels the poison from the blood, and thus cures them all alike. It is not only the most effectual remedy ever discovered for this class of complaints, but it is the cheapest, and moreover is perfectly safe. No harm can arise from its use, and the patient, when cared, is left as healthy as if he had never had the disease. Can this be said of any other cure for Chills and Fever? It is true of this, and its importance to those afflicted with the complain, cannot be over estimated. So sure is it to cure the Fever and Ague, that it may be truthfully said to be a certain remedy. One Dealer complains that it is not a good medicine sell, because one bottle cures a whole neighborhood. 
Prepared by J. C. AYER & Co., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all Druggists.
PRINTING MATERIAL FOR SALE.
TWO fonts of Long Primer, of about 300.pounds each one somewhat worn, the other quite good, and small fonts of Minion and Small Pies, are for sale at this office, very law, for cash. Also, imposing stones, sticks, galleys, &c.-the usual material of a newspaper office.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
TO WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Praise is the grateful hearts o'erflow, 
The hero's well-earned meed;
But O! of such poor praise as mine
Thou, great soul, hast no need 
Yet birds will praise the Summer's reign,
Its influence wide and sweet;
And I, unsought, unseen, would lay
My tribute at thy feet.
Heir of a pure and proud old name, 
Wealth's dower'd and cultured son;
Ancestral glories pale before
What thine own hands have won 
On shrine of pure Democracy 
Casting that olden crest, 
Thou seek'st to crown with equal rights
The least and lowliest.
Nor wise one's jeer, nor rabble's laugh,.
Nor ruffian's murderous threat
Could move thy heaven inspired soul
From its strong purpose yet!
That purpose!-ne'er archangel flew
Thro' star-world's roll and shine, 
Heaven-hastened on his mission high,
With holier aim than thine!
A crown among the beaded drops
On honest Labor's brow:-
The EALLOT for each hand that holds
The pickaxe or the plow;
For Carolina's dark-browed child,
For Erin's rosy son, 
Thou claim'st our Freedom's olden boast-
The rights of men are one.
Fair, marble fair thy Saxon brow,
Yet pitiest thou not less
less The dark, dark brows that turn to thee
To help their helplessness;
Thy matchless gifts, thy stainless name,
In Freedom's neediest day,
Thy life itself-rich sacrifice!-
On Freedom's altar lay!
All calm and pale, how hast thou stood
Near violence and death!
Till, hushed beneath thy voice's spell,
The furies held their breath!
O, voice more grand than roll of waves,
More sweet than song of birds, 
How Truth's keen arrows heartward sped,
Winged by thy golden words!
O knight who Freedom's favor wear'st,
The fearful battle through;
Than Arthur's Lancelot far more brave,
Than Arthur's self more true;
How of thou'rt wounded in the fight
By friends who know thee not-
Blind to thy banner and thy crest,
Oppose thee fierce and hot!
Thy hand, reached down to help the' oppressed,
Dewed with their grateful tears!- 
Ah! no proud ruler's touch hath stained
Its whiteness, through the years!
No poppies, strewn in Victory's track,
Might o'er thy senses steal;
Clear rose try voice o'er Party's din,-
Thy free lips none could seal!
Deem not I think to flatter thee
With my poor childish lays;
Thee-whom long since a poet crowned
Hath tuned his lyre to praise;
All breath should praise thee -thou, whose voice
Made Truth's hard lessons sweet;
And in this spirit I would lay
My tribute at thy feet. KATY CARLISLE.
James Russell Lowell.
A SERMON FOR THE TIME.
BY EDWARD BUTLER.
"Not this man, but Barabbas, Now Barabbas was a robber."
When John the Baptist stood and cried
In the desert, "The way of the Lord make straight!"
His words were rough as the girdle tied 
Around his loins, and the food he ate
W s locusts and honey.
He did not fear
To vex the nice; nor that his speech 
Should harshly grate on the dainty ear 
As he probed the secret sin of each.
Bitter the husk, but the kernel sweet 
As the wild bee's store. So the people knew
That he came from God; and he gave them meat
Which filled their souls, for his words were true.
And he who would preach to men to-day
Should use scant care, and spend small time
In shaping the message God bids him say.
II
Who hath cars to hoar, let him heed my rhyme!
Eighteen hundred years have told
Their tale of good and their tale of ill;
And time now writes, as once of old,
The very self-same story still.
Years have come, and years have gone, 
(And yet we see both fools and wise,)
Since Jewry saw the Holy One
Walking the earth in lowly guise.
Priests and rulers, skilled to bind
Burdens on those of low degree 
Asked, with a sneer, "Who hopes to find
A prophet come from Galiliee?"
Traitors never are far to seek-
Silver, not gold, enough for fee-
And "Hail!" he said, with an air so meek,
And kissed him in Gethsemane.
Pharisee, Sadducee, Rabbi, Priest,
Herod and Pilate, friends again,
And over the victim make a feast
As vultures gorge when a lamb is slain.
But in the Roman's heart a touch
Of pity lingered-or was it shame?
And he tried to win (so it cost not much)
The priceless gift of an honest name.
"And which will you have? I find no fault
In one; Barabbas a thief is he."
The people's shout clave the purple vault:
"Crucify christ! Let the thief go free!"
"And then Lord Pilate water took
To cleanse his hands from the bloody stain-
"And I am free from sin; so look
Ye to it."
"Let his blood remain 
On us and on ours! "But of both the guilt
Was the same. For those who did the wrong, 
And he who stood by when blood was spilt, 
Found vengeance sure, though tarrying long,
Christ hangs on the gallows-tree,
Jeered in his more than mortal pain;
But the robber Barabbas is free-
Free to plunder and murder again
Christ is laid in his rock-hewn grave,
The stone is sealed and the watch is set.
What if the world he died to save
Should see him coming in judgement yet?
III
Years have come and years have gone,
(And still we see both fools and wise)
Since Jewry saw the Holy One
Walking the earth in lowly guise,
And now, as then, he walks the land,
In sight of all who have eyes to see,
As truly Christ as when his hand
Raised the dead of Bethany.
But who would find him still must seek,
Not palace-halls, but the prison ward;
Not midst the proud, but where dwell the meek,.
Whom all contemn is Christ the Lord! 
Christ the Lord, though his face be black;
Christ the Lord, though fool with sin;
Christ the Lord, although he lack
Beauty without, and grace within;
<c02>
Christ the Lord, with his patient brow
Scarred by thorns, and his wounded side.
And pierced hands; whom we crucify now.,
In scorning those for whom he died.
IV.
O land ingrate! In your hour of need,
When your purest blood in vain was shed.
To your soldier's color you gave small heed.,
So you only knew that his blood was red.
O scorners now! Ye little cared
When Barabbas aimed his traitorous blow,
If black or white were the bosoms bared
To his dagger, if they but faced the foe. 
O hard of heart! Did ye break the chain
To mock his hopes who Freedom won, 
To forge the shattered links again,
And cheat him when the task was done?
0 fools and blind! Will ye make the choice
The people made in days gone by, 
And re echo now their guilty voice:
"Set the robber free! Let the just one die!"
Christ lives and waits. Though patient long,
The earth shall yet his judgment see, 
And hear his doom: " Who did a wrong
That harm'd my poor, has wounded ME." -N.Y. Independent.
The Liberator.

SOME POPULAR DELUSIONS,
THEIR CAUSE AND THEIR CURE.
[CONCLUDED,]
It may be well to state here, the reasons for not accepting the clerical hypothesis of an infallible inspiration of every part of the Old and New Testaments.
1. The assumption of such inspiration remains merely a hypothesis, never having been proved.
2. The numerous books, small and great, which pretend to afford such proof, nut not only fail to give it, but show plainly the attempt to deceive in regard to it. They often assume, and sometimes declare, things grossly false, and they abound in deceptive implication, unsound premises, unauthorized conclusions, and dishonest reference to passages of Scripture.
3. The very numerous discrepancies and contradictions existing between the works that have been brought together under the name of "The Bible," (quite natural and harmless in view of their diverse human origin,} absolutely forbid the theory that God dictated those writings, or that he prevented the intermixture of error with them.
4. The low and unworthy views of God, and of his relations with man, presented by many of these writers (quite natural, considering the limited intelligence and imperfect culture of the age in which they lived,) absolutely forbid the theory that God himself dictated, inspired, or miraculously superintended their record.
When the question is asked—" Do you believe the Bible?" (by which the clerical inquirer means-Do you believe our hypothesis of the infallible inspiration of all the books of the Old and New Testaments?)-it is sufficient to reply with the counter question-" What reason is there for believing it?" Let him who wishes to maintain this hypothesis produce his evidence; and let the hearer of it mark, on the spot, such points of it as he shall find unfounded, erroneous or inconclusive, and point out these defects to his exhorter.
He who declines to admit the claim of infallible inspiration for the Bible will probably be accused of "throwing away the Bible." He who specifies the errors or contradictory passages of that book as rebut ting evidence, showing that it cannot have sprung entirely from (God's dictation, will probably be accused of " denouncing the Bible." In such cases the accused should bear in mind, and should plainly declare to the accuser, that the thing;" thrown away," the thing " denounced," is not the Bible, but a certain unproved hypothesis concerning that book. Let the asserters of this doctrine prove it, instead of urging further their unreasonable demand that it be taken on trust by the community.
When the writings of men of different age of the world, different religions, different characters, ideas and purposes, and different grades of intelligence and civilization are bound together in one volume, it is a matter of course that errors and discrepancies will be found in that volume. These do not in the least impugn the character of the book. Of itself, it does not pretend to be anything but a collection of diverse writing’s, the several parts of which are to be judged each by its own evidence. If any body sets up a claim that the whole and every part are absolutely free from error, it is for him to prove that claim. Such proof has never been given in regard to the sixty-six books contained in the Old and New Testaments, though it has often been pretended. The great number of in correct assumptions and erroneous statements which are found in every book and every tract pretending to prove the inspiration of the Bible make it necessary to scrutinize carefully the accuracy of every portion of such pretended proof. Especially is each care necessary in dealing with the tracts or books prepared by the American Tract Society. The systematic dishonesty of the managers of that body has been so thoroughly proved by their dealings in regard to slavery, that no statement of theirs should be received without the corroborative evidence of persons known to be truthful. Every one may assure himself of their fraudulent dealing in regard, to the claim of infallible inspiration for the whole Bible, by turning, in any one of their publications upon that subject, to their Scriptural quotations in support of it, examining the connection and meaning of each in its place in the Bible, and noticing how many of them are so utterly destitute of pertinence or appropriateness as plainly to appear intentionally deceptive.
The basis of that superstructure of sophistry and fraud which is found in the books that pretend to prove infallible inspiration for the Bible is the claim that the Bible itself assumes its own inspiration. Their array of pretended argument and pretended evidence is offered in corroborntion of a claim assumed to be made by the book itself. How entirely this assumption falsifies the fact, how entirely "of whole cloth " this pretence is made up, may be seen in ten minutes by any one who will take the Bible, look at the opening of each book, and see whether or not they claim to be from God, or infallibly inspired, or to have any other origin or cause than other books have, namely, the choice of some man to write each one of them. He who makes such an examination will find these three things, namely:-
I. Neither the volume called the Bible, nor either of the two collections of books that compose it, claims for itself to be infallibly inspired. No such claim can be found made either by the Old Testament for itself, or by the new Testament for itself, or by either for both.
II. A separate examination of each of the sixty-six works which have been brought together to form this volume will show that they make not even any individual claim to be infallibly inspired; and that not one in ten of them uses any language bearing even a slight resemblance to such a claim.
III. In regard to the few exceptional cases, namely,
the books ascribed to "Hosea," "Joel,” Micah," "Zephaniah " and "Malachi," in the Hebrew Scriptures, and the book called " Revelation," in the Christian Scriptures, even if their opening expressions may mean that God dictated their contents, those expressions do not require that interpretation; since the may mean just as really (and much more probably) only what a minister means who says to his people "God commands you" to lead honest lives. And even should it be judged upon this evidence that these six books were infallibly inspired, this would not establish, nor tend to establish, a similar claim in behalf of the sixty others.
We are to wait, then, for evidence, before admitting the assumption, either that the Bible claims to be infallibley inspired. or that it is infallibly inspired 
<c03>
When the clergyman or the tract distributor makes this pretence to you, demand the evidence of it; ask that this evidence be shown you on the spot, in the Bible: and, (if you can bring him to the point of attempting to show it.) point out to him the insufficiency or the utter inappropriateness (as the case may be) of what he offers you for proof. There is no need to raise objection to the doctrine until something plausibly approaching proof of it is offered.
When the Independent was edited by Rev. Dr. Joseph P. Thompson and Rev. Dr. Leonard Bacon, a question upon this subject was addressed to that paper. The question and the editorial answer to it are contained in the following extract from the Independent of April 26th, 1860:—" The same writer begs as a special favor that we will name in the Independent some one book containing what we, after carefully reading it, regard as conclusive proof that the whole Bible was written by inspiration of God. Most cheerfully do we comply with his request. That one book is the Holy Bible, containing the Old and New Testaments; translated out of the original tongues. We name the English version, because we know nothing of the inquirer's acquaintance with the originals."
Three things are worthy of notice in this answer, -first, the avoidance, by the Editor, of giving an opinion of the sufficiency of any one of the numerous books of pretended proof upon this subject written by his clerical brethren; next, the impudence of offering an individual (whose character is the point under debate) to be the sole witness in his own behalf; and third, the combined impudence and falsehood of offering as sufficient proof, that which contains not even a claim of the matter in question. If, according to the above declaration, the Bible really proves itself inspired, let its Reverend self-elected guardians begin by showing us where it makes the claim.
The hardihood with which the clergy and the " religious " press (so called) make assumptions in regard to the Bible is well illustrated by a paragraph, credited to "Dr. James Hamilton," which is constantly going the rounds of the religious newspapers, without a word of warning of the group of falsehoods expressed and implied in it. It is entitled—"David's Bible and ours,"-and commences thus:—“In the days of King David, the Bible was a scanty book; yet he loved it well and found daily wonders in it." After rehearsing "Genesis," "Exodus," "Leviticus," "Numbers," "Deuteronomy," "Joshua and Judges," "Job," and "Ruth," the paragraph proceeds-"These were David's Bible; and, brethren, whatever wealth you have, remember that David desired his Bible beyond his riches. So thankful was he for such a priceless possession, that he praised God for its righteous judgments seven times a day."
The clerical editors of these papers are bound in fairness to let their readers know that there is not a particle of evidence that all these books were written, or that any of them were collected into one volume so early us the time of David; that there is not a particle of evidence that David ever saw even one of them; and that the author of the paragraph above referred to was obliged to alter the passage he pretended to quote from a Psalm of David, to make it even seem to establish his fraudulent assumption. Instead of making such explanations, these editors place such extracts in their columns of religious reading, and leave them to make their natural impression upon the minds of readers not only unlearned, but prepossessed with belief in the truth of the matters there collected, and the honesty of their writers. And it is matter like this, crammed with false assumption and false assertion under the guise of piety, which constitutes the staple of the American Tract Society's publications.
These men, pretending to be disciples and followers, yes, even divinely commissioned ambassadors of Jesus Christ, have the hardihood to teach a doctrine directly opposite to his, in regard to the infallibility of Scripture. Far from teaching that the Old Testament, the only portion of the Bible existing in his time, was an inspired and unerring rule of life, Jesus freely criticised its rules, sometimes enlarging, sometimes diminishing, and sometimes reversing their injunctions.
How did he treat the Hebrew decalogue? a portion of the Jewish code which modern clerical writers have had the impudence to set up as "the moral law," binding upon Christians as well as Jews. So far from referring its authorship to God, Jesus does not even refer it to Moses, but quotes three of its provisions as traditions handed down by " them of old time," and quotes them for the purpose of showing that they need to be amended. He shows the sixth commandment of this code not to be strict enough, and declares hating to be wrong as well as killing; he shows the seventh not to be strict enough, and declares unchaste thought wrong, as well as unchaste action; he interferes still more radically with the third commandment, forbidding what that allowed, and declaring it wrong to swear at all, instead of wrong merely to violate your oath. He makes constant practical opposition to the injunction of the fourth commandment, so as to be popularly known to the devout Jews as a Sabbath-breaker. This man, they said, " cannot be of God, because he keepeth not the Sabbath-day." He justified his disciples in travelling and laboring on that day. He commanded in one case, the bearing of a burden on that day, in direct opposition, not only to the fourth commandment, but to the express and emphatic injunctions of Nehemiah and Jeremiah. And when accused in regard to this last act, he not only defended himself, but denied the statement (which they seem to have quoted to him from Genesis as authoritative) about God having " rested" after the work of creation. Jesus said plainly-“ My Father worketh hitherto." He never needed rest and never did rest.
All this is direct denial of the Jewish assumptions respecting the inspired character and the binding force of the commands recorded in their Scripture, the Old Testament. But there is much more evidence of the same kind. The injunctions about taking an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth, which Jesus opposes and reverses, are no gloss of the Scribes and Pharisees, but emphatic and repeated precepts in Leviticus and Deuteronomy. These books contain numerous injunctions forbidding the eating of this, that and the other kind of food, because to eat it would defile them. Jesus says, " Not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man; but that which cometh out of the mouth, this defileth a man." These books further contain numerous injunctions concerning bathing and washing, not only of the hands and body, but of pots, cups and dishes, for the removal of ceremonial uncleanness. Jesus not only releases his disciples from these observances, saying," to eat with unwashen hands defileth not a man," but he condemns the Scribes and Pharisees for insisting on these very commands of Leviticus and Deuteronomy, about " the washing of pots and cups; " and these, as well as their other observances, he calls " the tradition of men." He also unhesitatingly sets aside the Old Testament rules respecting marriage and divorce, and intimates that God's law, from the beginning, was very different from the law given by Moses to the Jews on those subjects. He denies the statement made in Exodus that the manna which the Hebrews found in the wilderness was "from heaven." He refers the origin of the rite of circumcision not to Moses, nor to God, but to "the fathers." He sets himself against the penalty of stoning to death for adultery, which "Moses in the law commanded." And he utterly denied one of the fundamental ideas of the Jewish system, derived from the Old Testament, that worship in the temple at Jerusalem was more acceptable to God than elsewhere.
Just as Jesus was openly known to the Jews as a Sabbath-breaker, just so he was openly known to them as maintaining, and teaching, independence of the law of Moses, and the commands of the old Testament. Obeying such of those precepts as he saw to be right, he obeyed nothing merely because it was contained in that code. He held himself at liberty to criticise it, to speak of it as imperfect, to judge for
<c04>
himself how much of it was to be observed and how much not, and to teach others so to judge. The people recognized a diversity, often amounting to opposition, between his teaching and the teaching of Moses. To one who defended Jesus they said, "Thou art his disciple; but we are Moses' disciples. We know that God spake unto Mcses. As for this fellow, we know not from whence he is."
It was the Jews, not the Romans, who pursued Jesus with unrelenting hatred, and finally caused him to be crucified; and no one feature of the life and system of Jesus goes so far to account for this persistent hostility as his opposition to their cherished doctrine of the inspired character and infallible authority of their Scriptures, and his direction to his disciples to judge of themselves what is right. To teach new doctrines to God's chosen and peculiar people (as if they were in darkness or ignorance!) was bad enough; but to pull down their cherished tradition of an infallible revelation given by God to Moses and the prophets, that was the unpardonable sin; that they thought worthy of death, even the death of the cross. Barabbas was guilty only of murder. This man was an impious wretch, a blasphemer, an opposer of their religion, the only true religion. The existence of this feeling among the Chief Priests, Scribes and Pharisees, accounts for their furious enmity to Jesus. Perhaps it is not too much to say that his denial of the inspiration and authority of the Old Testament was the main cause of his crucifixion.
This view is corroborated by the fact that accusations of the same sort were made against the disciples of Jesus after his death, and that the words and acts of those disciples proved (substantially) the truth of these accusations. What was alleged against Stephen, the first Christian martyr after Jesus!? The witnesses declared that they had heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses, and against God, and against this holy place (the temple) and the law and that this Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy this place, and shall change the customs which Moses delivered us.
Now, supposing Stephen actually to have taught (as no doubt he did) the very things that Jesus taught, the terms of accusation above quoted are the very form in which such teaching would present itself to the Jewish mind. No doubt. both Stephen and his Master had spoken against many of the customs enjoined by Moses and the prophets, and recorded in the law, the Old Testament; no doubt they did intend and expect "to change " many of the customs which Moses had delivered them, and which were recorded as laws in their holy Scripture. Such words and acts, and such systematic intent, would of course appear to a devout Jew to be blasphemy against Moses and against God, (just as the same sort of teaching in our own time has brought upon Theodore Parker the accusation of blasphemy). Nay, this single expression in Stephen's defence-"Howbeit, the Most High dwelleth not in temples made with hands"-coming, as it did, immediately after a reference to Solomon's temple, and contradicting, as it did, scores of passages in the Hebrew Scriptures which declare that temple to be God's chosen and special abiding-place, must have seemed the height of impiety, and a full justification of the charges made against him. Stephen the martyr, therefore, is one of the witnesses against the inspiration and authority of the Old Testament.
The same view is corroborated by a large part of the teaching and action of the Apostle Paul. He was a most determined opposer of the theory which claimed absolute inspiration and infallible authority for the Old Testament. Often making honorable mention (as Jesus and Stephen also did) of the true and good things contained in it, Paul never hesitated to oppose the errors and imperfections which appear in the same volume, to call some of the most cherished provisions of the Mosaic law " weak and beggarly elements," and to call the Decalogue itself "a ministration of death." He claimed for the despised Gentileg a rank equal with those whom the Old Testament callen "the chosen people of God." He spoke of the Law as "a carnal commandment," described the "weakness and unprofitableness "of it, urged the absolute necessity of "a change" in it. Let it be noted that all these expressions of slight regard and disregard are used respecting parts or the whole of that Old Testament which our clergy maintain to have been infallibly inspired of God. Paul took a very different view of it.
One of the most significant and remarkable and valuable of the writings of Paul, is his Epistle to the Galatians. It is a severe rebuke to the Christians of Galatia for having fallen into the blunder of supposing that Christianity required them to receive the Hebrew Scriptures as their law, and obey the rules there laid down. Paul strongly, repeatedly and unequivocally asserts their entire freedom from " the law," the whole system of rules laid down by Moses, and recorded in the Old Testament. First vindicating that system as having answered a useful purpose in former times, he now declares its usefulness and obligation to have ceased. He first gives this decision respecting the Mosaic system as a whole, of course including the Jewish decalogue. He says-"The Law was our schoolmaster, to bring us unto Christ; but after that faith is come, we are no longer under a schoolmaster." Then he turns to certain specific acts of obedience to this law which the Christians of Galatia had already begun to practise, namely, observance of the Sabbath and other Jewish festivals, and of circumcision, and strongly urges the discontinuance of these observances, calling them " weak and beggarly elements." He says-"Ye observe days, and months, and times, and years. I am afraid of you, lest I have bestowed upon you labor in vain." Yet nothing in the Old Testament was more emphatically commanded, both by Moses and the prophets, than the observance of days, and months, and times, and years. Paul objects to the whole system of Sabbatical observance, calling it "the yoke of bondage." He then comes to circumcision. "Behold, I Paul say unto you that, if ye be circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing." And again, "In Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision." Yet nothing in the Old Testament was more solemnly, emphatically and repeatedly commanded than this bloody rite of circumcision. Paul then declared himself free from Old Testament law, and taught his hearers that exemption from is rule was part of the freedom with which Christ had made them free.
Prominent among the popular errors with which I am dealing is the idea that God is pleased with the observance commonly called "Public Worship," and that He requires it of men as a duty.
The advantage of public religious instruction is manifest, and is universally conceded. But a separate claim is made for periodical public worship, as a universal duty.
The idea is that God is pleased with public applause at stated times.
The assumption is that He commands it, and commands it in the Bible, though no proof of this assumption can be found there.
The pretence is that it is the duty of all to pay this observance; it is constantly so represented in sermons preached upon the subject, and in the publications of the American Tract Society. And the further pretence is that the Bible expressly requires this observance to be paid every Sunday.
Neither the idea, the assumption nor the pretence will bear the light of candid examination. 
The Bible (even if it is were admitted to be a unitary book, instead of two collections of books, and even if it were farther admitted to be infallibly inspired,) gives no command for attendance on such meetings as the Protestant and Catholic clergy hold on Sundays. Some portions of the Old Testament enjoin upon the Jews certain religious observances; some portions of the New Teatament recommend to Christians certain other religious observances; but no part of either book commands such meetings on Sunday, controlled and disested by clergymen, as are customary among us, and not a word is either best warrants the protence of the clergy that it is a duty to
<c05>
attend such meetings. in great numbers of books and tracts it is falsely pretended that our custom of public worship is commanded in the Bible and by the Bible, and various passages are deceitfully quoted as having this purport. The way to expose the deception is to turn to each passage, find to whom it was said and (if possible) who said it, and then judge by the connection what is its true meaning.
True religion is an obviously reasonable thing. But the Proselyters of whom I have been speaking are very shy of submitting their religion to the examination of reason. If, however, you can persuade one of them to look at the (assumed) duty of public Sunday worship from this point of view, you will find that he makes this distinction, namely:-though it is the duty of all to give their weekly attendance upon some worshipping assembly, the actual worship can be paid only by those who actually feel the devotion which they express. They are bound to offer weekly public praise to God because he likes it and commands it; the remainder of the assembly (probably an immense majority of it) are bound to give their reverent attendance on this service because it is "a means of grace"; because the influence is a beneficial one, tending to develop honor and reverence for the Creator in them also.
I deny both propositions.
As to the second, the claim that the periodical bodily presence, in an assembly called together for worship, of those who feel no spirit of devotion, is a beneficial or improving exercise, or one that even tends to benefit or improvement, is refuted by obvious facts. The exercises in our churches on Sundays tend to weary the audience far more than to edify them, and, when presented to an intelligent mind as religion, or an essential part of it, must tend to alieniate him from religion rather than attract him to it. He who hears regularly, Sunday after Sunday, such prayers as our clergy are accustomed to offer, can hardly avoid thinking of the "vain repetitions" which the heathen use. He is not likely to see any reasonableness or appropriateness in them. If he believes the assumption constantly made, that these periodical observances are a religious duty, and yet finds, week after week, that to him they are wearisome and profitless, he will naturally feel himself alienated and repelled from religion. He finds nothing in his mind or soul responsive to it. On the other hand, if he does give ear to the representations made from the pulpit, if he does make the effort to enter into the public Sunday observances as a duty, he is, so far, deceived in regard to the demands of Christianity, and withdrawn from the influence of him who said-“When thou prayest, enter into thy closet; and when thou hast shut the door, pray to thy Father in secret."
So much in regard to the department of Public Worship called " Prayer." But the clergy further claim that God desires and commands that we should offer to Him periodical public " Praise; " a conspicuous weekly verbal manifestation of our honor and reverence. There is no doubt about the duty of honoring God. The claim is that he wishes us every week publicly to say that we honor Him.
How do they know that He wishes this formality? The Christian Scriptures, to which they point as a complete revelation of His will, make no such claim. Jesus, whom they claim as divinely commissioned to direct in regard to our duties, neither established nor directed any such custom. We must judge of it by reason, fitness, use.
Of course, God, who reads the heart of every man at every moment, does not need this sort of expression to show Him the persons who really honor and reverence Him. He has set before men a certain work in this world as the duty of each. If He needed any evidence of their feeling in regard to Him, the faithful performance of that work, by each, would be the best of evidence. It is improbable in the highest degree that He should wish them to turn aside from this work at stated times, and go to a public place for the purpose of saying " out loud" that they honor and reverence Him. This would be an exaltation of form above substance. Such an observance would be serviceable neither to God himself, nor to the persons who were already proving that they honored Him by doing the things which He has commanded. It is intensely improbable that He requires or wishes it for either of these purposes.
But may it not be useful, and may He not require it, for another purpose, namely, as an admonition to the prodigal children, the unregenerate, the disobedient? May not the sight of this weekly observance, an open manifestation of honor to the God whom they ought to honor, be useful enough to them to justify its adoption? Is not the example of public Praise to God serviceable by fixing public attention upon those who truly honor Him, and inciting others to follow and emulate them?
To this question a most decided negative must be returned. Attendance on these services does not make known to us who are the good, the reverent, the pious: and still less, who are the most earnest workers in the cause of God and humanity. Fashion, custom, tradition, regard for popular opinion, are each at least as powerful in filling the house of public worship as a sense of duty or an impulse of devotion. The congregation on Sunday is as promiscuous, in point of religious character and devout feeling, as any other assembly in which men and women of equally diverse ages come together. In a community like ours, the manifestation of regard for religion is respectable, creditable, popular. Politicians, and candidates for popular favor of every kind, take advantage of it. The act of coming together then on Sundays, in our towns and cities, is not a separation between the religious and irreligious, between him that serveth God and him that serveth Him not, thus making a useful example set by the former to the latter. Nothing of the sort. In the church, and forming an habitual portion of the congregation, are plenty of merely fashionable, frivolous, and time-serving people, and plenty also of vicious people; while, on the other hand, among those who stay away from the Sunday assembly are many who stay away because they have vainly sought for spiritual food, or satisfaction to their religious nature, there; because they find no fitness in the idea of rational and immortal beings coming together twice a week to pay verbal compliments to their Creator-telling the Searcher of hearts (and often with utter reversal of the truth) what are their thoughts and feelings in regard to Him-nay, worse! employing an agent to tell the Searcher of hearts what they would wish to have Him think of their spiritual state. Thus, dissenters from the traditional custom of public worship find the practice no better than the theory. It is quite as much the utterly worldly as the sincerely pious that set this example of punctual church going. When the clergyman says (in the discharge of that function by which he gets his living) " We pray"—"We adore"—"We give thanks "—"We confess "—it is manifest, obvious, notorious, that the great majority of the assembly do not pray, or adore, or give thanks, or confess. It is a customary form, gone through with patient decorum by the people, (because the pastor has told them that God requires it,) but not bringing them more into conformity with God's will, nor tending to improve the current of their daily lives.
We now come to the question—Does God require this periodical Sunday observance of the true believer, the Christian, the disciple of Jesus of Nazareth? Is there any evidence that He desires, or values, a periodical public expression of applause, even on the part of those who truly reverence Him, and wish to please Him? Is there any evidence that the Searcher of hearts requires, or wishes, a public lifting up of hands and eyes every Sunday in the act of Praise to Him? 
The pretence that any such commands are found in the Bible is a gross and enormous imposture. This pretence is constantly made by the clergy, and by the books and tracts written in their interest. To refute it, as far as the Old and New Testaments are conserned, YOU need only turn to the passages quoted as having this purport, and examine what they enjoin,
<c06>
by whom they are uttered, and to whom they are addressed.
The injunctions in the Hebrew Scriptures about worship are addressed to Jews, and we are not Jews.
The injunctions in the Hebrew Scriptures about observance of the Sabbath refer to the Sabbath of their fourth commandment, Saturday, the seventh day of the week, and have nothing to do with us, or with Sunday.
The injunctions in the Hebrew Scriptures about attendance in the "sanctuary" refer to Jews, and to the Jewish temple at Jerusalem, and have nothing to do with us or our meeting-houses.
If however, any Christian fancies that the Jewish fourth commandment is obligatory on him, let him honestly obey it in the manner prescribed by <illegible> namely, by refraining from bodily labor on Saturday, the seventh day of the week. Since this, and nothing else, was its requisition to the Jews, this and nothing else must be its requisistion to him. To suppose the command obeyed by attendance in a Christian church on Sunday is utter self-delusion and absurdity.
Coming to the Christian Scriptures, we find no command in regard to Sunday, or to a Sabbath, no requisition of periodical assemblage for worship at all, and no appointment, or even recommendation, of attendance on weekly meetings conducted and controlled by clergymen. The pretence of our clergy that such attendance is a religious duty is a pretence "made up of whole cloth," and receives no countenance from any passage in the Christian Scriptures.
If we look at the matter in the light of reason, we shall find little ground for the continuance of periodical public worship.
What God wants of us is obedience; a performance of our daily duties; a doing the work of each day, in all our relations, with our fellow-creatures, with the right purpose and in the right manner; a constant mindfulness to bring ourselves, and those around us,(and the manners, customs and institutions of society, as far as we can influence them,) more into conformity with His will; and, so far as we, from time to time, violate or come short of any of these obligations, to recognize and acknowledge the fact, and try, and keep trying, and never cease trying, to do better. This is the whole duty of man. When our duties of trials are heavy, or when we feel oppressed with wearness or despondency, we have the privilege of prayer. At all times, in strength or weakness, in joy or sorrow, in temptation or other danger, we have the opportunity of entering into communication with the ever present, ever-sympathizing Father, of expressing our gratitude for the favors already received, and of asking further help from His power and love. And His perfection is our warrant for the conviction that true prayer, the sincere outpouring of the individual soul before Him, is always welcome, always timely, always helpful. This is the real "communion with God" The parson cannot help you to pray. The most careful following and echoing of his prayer cannot be your prayer. And the attempt to unite the "soul's sincere desire" of all the individuals of a congregation in the ideas put into the form of prayer by a clergyman must of course be a false pretence, and an utter failure, in nine hundred and ninety-nine cases out of a thousand. There is no prayer until the individual soul addresses its God with its own feelings and wishes. The pretence of public worship is an imposture as well as a failure, as far as petition and the expression of feeling in prayer are concerned.
There is another reason which has induced truly devout and good men to absent themselves from the weekly formalities in question. Custom has connected public worship with public preaching; and this preaching, conducted by the clerical leaders of the popular seats, has been as far from satisfying the moral nature as the accompanying "prayers and praises" from satisfying the devout soul.
The majority of this preaching is devoted to sectarian proselytism, a teaching of irrational dogmas, superstitious ideas, and unprofitable traditional observances. Acceptance of the theology of the sect, generally a theology narrow and false, and adapted to darken rather than enlighten the minds that accept it, is represented as the most essential part of religion, and a devout following of the observances of worship Inculcated by the clergy is represented as the best evidence of the attainment of a religious character. These things by themselves are enough to deter a rational Christian from uniting with the system of which they form the principal part; but the character of the morality preached as an additional part of the same system gives a still further impulse in the same direction.
Perhaps no one word will so truly describe the character of this pulpit morality as the word "tuneserving." The reaching in each sect echoes the popular idea, follows the practice of the eminent and respectable among its public, and discourages reforms which would interfere with their ideas or customs. Take, for example, the subject of slavery. Every one knows (or may know if he will take the trouble to look at the evidence) that the clergy and the church have been the most powerful supporters of the institution of slavery. I mean to say two things. First, the clergy of the country, if they had united an taking such a stand as William Lloyd Garrison took in regard to slavery, might have destroyed the power of that institution in one year from the time of taking such a position; might have withdrawn all decent and reputable members of the community from its support, and rendered its speedy extinction certain, without national convulsion or even popular violence. The notorious facts that they had no heart to do this, and that they chose in all parts of the country, North as well as South, to join the slaveholders, in discountenancing, calumniating and opposing the abolitionists, bring me to the second assertion, namely; the clergy of this country have been the most active and effective instruments in checking and retarding the success of the movement made by the abolitionists against slavery. Without their support, that wicked institution must long since have fallen. This is but one instance among many of the time-serving character of the pulpit.
For sound moral and religious instruction, then, we must look elsewhere than to that preaching which is carried on by the clergy in connection with public worship. But sound moral and religious teaching is indispensable to the welfare, alike of individuals and the community. It is not enough, then, to discontinue attendance at the places where false doctrine is taught. It is our business and duty to provide the best teachers in morals and religion for ourselves, as much as to provide the best teachers in literature and science for our children. The success of false preaching in engrafting a corrupt theology and superstitious observances on the community should stimulate those who desire better things to a diligent use of means adapted to accomplish their purpose. Most men need to be taught, every one needs to be reminded, in regard to the calls of duty and the obligation of progressive improvement. Let the wisest and ablest men be engaged to give this instruction, and let a portion of Sunday, the customary rest-day of civilized nations, be spent in hearing it.-C. K. W

CLARK'S SCHOOL VISITOR.
VOLUME X.
A DAY SCHOOL MONTHLY.
THE VISITOR will commence its tenth volume with the January number, 1866. This is the only Day School Periodical published at SEVENTY-FIVE CENTS A YEAR!
Magazine form, beautifully illustrated. New type, new features; Readings, Music, Speeches, Dialogues, Stories, Puzzles, Enigmas, Rebuses, &c., from the very best writers. The VISITOR has the largest circulation of any Educational Journal published. Now is the time to form clubs.
The Publisher, in order to reach all parts of the country, will send the VISITOR one year FREE, to one person (who will act as an agent) at any post-office in the United States.
Address, with five cents for particulars,
J. W. DAUGHADAY, Publisher,
1308 Chestnut Street. Philadelphia.
Exchanges copying the above, and sending a marked copy, will receive the "Visitor" for one year.
Nov. 10.
