<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FIRDAY MORNING,
- AT -
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS- Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, <illegible> are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers. 
VOL. XXXIII.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1863
WHOLE NO. 1680.

Refuge of Oppression. 
<c01>
PROFESSOR MORSE'S LETTER.
Prof. Morse, the President of the Society for the Diffusion of Political Knowledge, has recently <illegible> to a note from a personal friend and political opponent, in a letter from which the following are extracts:-

 * * * * *s:-
CHARACTER OF ABOLITIONISM.
By the manner in which you allude to the "extreme radicalism and infidelity of the Garrison stamp." I am glad to find we have a common stand-point from which to view a portion of the field. Look at that dark conclave of conspirators, freedom-shrickers, Bible-spurners, fierce, implacable, head-strong,. denunciatory. Constitution and Union haters, noisy factions, breathing, forth threatenings and slaughter against all who venture a difference of opinion from them, murderous, passionate advocates of imprisonments and hanging, bloodthirstys, and if there is any other epithet of atrocity found in the vocabulary of wickedness, do they not every one <illegible> designate some phase of radical abolitionism?
DISTINCTIONS BETWEEN ABOLITIONISTS AND REPUBLICANS IMPOSSIBLE.
But you would have us make a distinciton between these "radicals and infidels of the Garrison stamp," and the "immense party which," as you say, "came into being and into power only on the grand purpose of <illegible> Southern aggression."
I ask you now to look at the state of the country. Is it not true that the abolition element has acquired the control of that "immense party" of which you speak? Are you not advocating and supporting the abolition policy of the administration? Is it not true that these very "radicals and infidels of the Garrison stamp," whom you justly loathe, have framed and passed the most offensive abolition measures that tinge the whole policy of the administration? So notorious is this fact that to ask is to answer the question.
EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION AND THE CORNER-STONE.
I am sorry to find you defending the President's emancipation proclamation. It is a measure which I have considered from the moment of its promulgation unwise, unconstitutional, and calamitous, productive of evil and only evil, a measure that, more than any other, has tended to divide the counsels of the North, and unite the South, and render the restoration of the national Union next to hopeless. Your defence of it rests on a fallacy. You say, "If it is a legitimate function of our government to destroy the fabric of the Southern Confederacy, a <illegible> is it not justified in removing that which their own highest authorities pronounce to be its corner-stone!" To answer your question intelligently, it is necessary to know the nature of that corner-stone, before we can pronounce whether the government would be justified in removing or attempting to remove it. If the stone should happen to be a providential fixture, unalterable in its very nature by anything that man can do, a condition of a physical character, not to be affected by any act of man, you will agree with me, that the Government would not be justified in making any such necessarily abortive and quixotic attempt. I presume from your question you have adopted the prevalent misunderstanding of a passage in Mr. Steven's speech at Savannah, in which he speaks of the corner-stone of the Confederate Government. You assume that this corner-stone is slavery, and so our Government is justified in its measures to destroy slavery. Although a great multitude both in Europe, and America entertain this stereotyped error, and it has within a few days been twice reiterated in the late non-intervention report of the Senate Committee of Foreign Relations, yet it is none the less an egregious misapprehension of Mr. Steven's remark, and a false assumption that the Confederate Government have adopted any such corner-stone. In the first place, if Mr. Stevens had made such an announcement in his speech,. (which he has not,) that would not constitute law for the Government. We do not look for the authority of the fundamental law of a government in a casual speech of any members of its administration, not even from the President, but in the fundamental law itself, in its written, official, accepted Constitution. Now, there is not one word in the Constitution of the Confederacy that gives color to any such idea as slavery being the corner-stone of the Government; on the contrary, section 9, article 1,elearly clearly repudiates it. For if slavery is the adopted corner-stone of their Government, common sense suggests, that in their fundamental law they would and should use every effort to strengthen and support it, and yet they forbid in that section and article that very policy which would give strength and permanency to such a corner-stone. Mr. Stevens, however, has made no such declaration, yet he is quoted everywhere as the source whence this wide-spread erroneous apothegm has proceeded. It may be well to ventilate this matter more thoroughly.

THE CORNER-STONE IS THE INEQUALITY OF THE TWO RACES.
Let us learn what Mr. Stevens actually did say. His language is this: "The foundations of our new government, are laid, its corner-stone rests upon"- what? slavery? no, "upon the great truth that the negro is not equal to the white man, that slavery"- which he then defines to be "subordination to the superior race,"-"is his natural and normal condition. This our new government is the first in the history of the world based upon this great physical, philosophical, and moral truth." This language could not be applied to slavery. It would be a strange misapplication of terms to call slavery a physical, philosophical, and moral truth. He had just been stating to his hearers that the ideas prevalent at the time our Federal Constitution was formed "rested upon the assumption of the equality of the races." This proposition he declares to be unsound, and that the new government was founded upon exactly the opposite ideas. The error on one side, which he combats, is the assumed equality of the races. The opposite truth which he propounds is the physical, philosophical, and moral truth, that the two races are not equal, and the inference he draws from this truth is that this physical difference determines the status of the inferior race. I confess I cannot see how to escape that conclusion, except by denying the inequality of the races; by denying that there is this physical difference between them; for if there is this difference, then one race of necessity is superior, and the other inferior, and if the two physically unequal races are compelled to live together in the same community, the superior must govern the inferior. Can you avoid this conclusion?

PRESIDENT INCOLN AND MR. STEVENS PROCLAIM THE SAME CORNER-STONE.
Perhaps you may think I have adopted Southern views on this point, and that the inequality and physi-
<c02>
cal differences of the two races are altogether Southern dogmas. I need not cross the Potomac to find the same great truth proclaimed in a quarter entitled to respect, and by one who politically out-ranks the Vice-President of the Confederacy, to wit, the President of the United States.
You will recollect the interview, on August 14th, 1862, between a committee of colored men and President Lincoln, invited by him to hear what he had to say to them. His object in summoning them before him was to persuade them to emigrate, and he bases his argument to them on the very corner-stone declared by Mr. Stevens, to wit, the physical difference or inequality of the two races. President Lincoln's plan was to separate the races.
"You. and we," said he to them, "are different races. We have, between us a broader difference than exists between any other two races. Whether it is right or wrong I need not discuss, but this physical difference is a great disadvantage to us both, as I think. Your race are suffering, in my judgment, the greatest wrong inflicted on any people. But even when you cease to be slaves, you are far from being placed on an equality with the white race. On this broad continent, not a single man of your race is made the equal of a single man of ours. Go where you are treated the best, and the ban is still upon you. I do not propose, to discuss this, but to present it as a fact with which we have to deal. I cannot alter it if I would. It is a fact about which we all feel and think alike, I and you."

THEIR DIFFERENT MODES OF DEALING W1TH THE CORNER-STONE.
Thus you perceive that both President Lincoln and Mr. Stevens are in perfect accord in accepting and acting upon the same great truth. President Lincoln accepts the physical inequality of the two races as completely as Mr. Stevens, for where there is a broader difference than exists between almost any other two races, it would be absurd to say they are equal, especially when the President justly adds that this difference is physical; that is, grounded in the original constitution of each race. The only difference between the President of the United States and Mr. Stevens is in the use to which they put this physical, philosophical, and moral truth- this corner-stone. Mr. Stevens proposes it in his Savannah speech as the basis of the new government; Mr. Lincoln adopts it as the basis of his plan of separating the races, because of this physical difference. Mr. Stevens takes the stone, as a whole, upon which he would construct a government. Mr. Lincoln would split the stone and drag the parts asunder. Mr. Stevens accepts the fact, and adjusts his fabric to it. Mr. Lincoln also accepts the fact, and is perplexed with inextricable difficulties in his attempts to dispose of the two portions of the common corner-stone.

THE PRESIDENT'S PERPLEXITIES IN DEALING WITH THE CORNER-STONE.
It is well to notice these perplexities of the. President's mind as they are manifested in his singular interview with this colored delegation. The great truth of the physical difference of the two races is so palpable that he cannot controvert it, and he frankly declines to make the attempt; yet, while accepting the fact, he more, than doubts the wisdom of the fact itself by raising the singular question of right and wrong upon its existence, and thus (no doubt unconsciously) impugns the wisdom of the Creator; for who but God could ordain a physical difference in the two races? The raising of the question, therefore, whether a physical fact is "right or wrong," as if there were two sides to such a question, directly implicates the wisdom of the Creator. The President, too, while declining to discuss this question of right and wrong, actually decides it to be wrong, by declaring it to be a "disadvantage to both" races, in his opinion. The plain good sense of most, of the remarks of the President in his interview, and the collisions of thought in his own breast which he discloses, where truths and doubts come into constant conflict, point to some great radical disturbing error, not in the President's mind alone, but pervading the popular mind on the subject of African slavery everywhere.

THE GREAT ERROR OF THE WORLD ON SLAVERY.
The great fallacy, so rife everywhere throughout the world, that slavery is the cause of our national troubles, rests on the almost universal persistent closing of the eyes to this fact of the physical difference between the two races. Slavery is not the cause, of the sectional war, but a blind and mad resistance to a physical condition which God has ordained, and which man is in vain attempting to subvert.

THE CORNER-STONE, DULY ACKNOWLEDGED, WILL SOLVE THE VEXED QUESTION OF SLAVERY.
Take your stand on this great acknowledged fact that the African and white races are physically different, follow out this truth to its logical result, and the question of slavery, or subordination of the inferior to the superior race, is clearly solved in all its phases.
Do you ask how?
First-We must accept as a fixed fact that ordinance of God which he has decreed, that the two races are physically different, and not complicate the fact with any modifications drawn from the prevalent visionary, infidel notions of an equality which has no existence, nor make any vain attempt to fix upon the mere relation of superior and inferior, or of rulers and ruled, moral or religious qualities which God in his Word has not fixed to the relation.
Second-We must leave to each and every State in the Union where the two races exist together, whether in larger or smaller proportions, unmolested control over any adjustment of their relations to each other.
Third-In the kindly spirit of the fathers of 1787, which they brought to the construction of our priceless Constitution, we should refrain from embittering the relations of the two races by an irritating busy-bodyism, a meddlesome interference with the manner in which the duties belonging to their relation to each other are or are not fulfilled, and taking the Apostle's counsel "to be quiet and mind our own business."
These three directions, carried out in a Christian spirit faithfully, would restore the Union on the only basis on which it can ever be restored. Whether enlightened reason can make its voice heard in this din of warring passions and interests, so that its "Peace, be still," can calm the storm that is desolating us, is a question I will not pretend to answer. It is to the true, sober, Christian sentiment of the country, when disenthralled from its entanglement with the delusive socialistic and infidel theories of the day, that we look with any hope for our national salvation.
I have dwelt at some length on this one point, because of its paramount importance. It is a noticeable and gratifying circumstance that our President and the Vice President of the Southern government are in accord on a fundamental principle. Union of opinion on one point, especially if that point be fundamental, is hopeful, and prophetic of further conciliation, perhaps pacification, in the future.
<c03>
Selections.
THE PROCLAMATION OF FREEDOM.
Extract from an admirable Sermon on "THE PROCLAMATION OF FREEDOM," preached in Dorchester, (Mass.) January 4, 1863, by Rev. NATHANIEL HALL.
God forbid we should live at such a time, and not feel the privilege of it, and the responsibility and the solemnity and the glory; and not put ourselves within the play of the electric currents, and drink in of the inspirations of the mighty hour. For, doubt it as we may, it is a time which, beyond all others, since the peopling of these American shores, will be historically luminous; which the student of the past-not alone the philosophic, but the devout -will ponder, with glowing interest and deepest thoughtfulness; to which the religious mind will turn to feed its faith in an overruling and retributive Providence in the affairs of men. Do I overestimate its importance? Why, look and see what is transpiring, in literal fact, around us! Powers., ideas, principles, most antagonistic to each other in all the universe of God, in directs and grappling conflict. Truth and falsehood, righteousness and injustice, freedom and despotism, taking shape in mightiest armies; half a continent the arena of the struggle; distant nations reaching to behold it; treasure and life beyond human computation the lavish sacrifice; a people least warlike on earth throwing itself, as in a day, into teeming camps; sending a soldier from every household; and, fighting first, for its own rights" and liberties, finding itself fighting for the rights and liberties of others, of the helpless, the enslaved,-those to whose wrongs it has selfishly consented, but whose welfare it comes to see as linked indissolubly with its own; finding itself, while striking with one hand for its own deliverance, loosing with the other the shackles of the slave; issuing, at last, in self-defence, and yet not without a justice-loving satisfaction, the mandate at which millions pass from chattels into citizens, from merchandise into men. Such are some of the aspects of this mighty era in more immediate connection with the event we celebrate.
I recur to that. God, I said, was in it. Most impressively so. I know no fact in history that shows more clearly the working of a Divine hand and purpose,-shows how, though "man proposes, God disposes." Plainly, man has meant one thing by this war, and God another. And that which God has meant by it, he has caused to be borne along, as on a resistless tide alike by our successes and defeats.
God has meant by it, so far as we may read his meaning in the glowing language of events, to destroy slavery; that the blows of the contending hosts, directed against each other, should fall, as well, and both alike, upon that wicked system in whose interest the contest was inaugurated. We sought in it but the maintenance of our nationality. God has sought in and by it the redemption and elevation of his bound and down-trodden children. He has caused our selfishness to open a pathway for his own benevolence. Forever blessed be his name for the mercy in this all undeserved to ourselves! More and more slavery was weakening, debasing, poisoning us as a people. It was lowering the tone of our politics, of our religion, of our manhood. It was taking the life and soul out of us. We were tending by it, judicially and retributively, into materialism and atheism, into a hardness of heart as impious as inhuman. It was the millstone about the nation's neck, dragging it to perdition; the cancer within its system, threatening disease, if it had not already imparted it, to every fibre of its life. We did not see it so. God saw it. His prophets saw it, and told their vision. But they were scorned, and bid to silence. And when slavery, in the insanity of iniquity, made war upon freedom, freedom then-though it knew that slavery as an institution was the sole cause of the rebellion, that there could be no peace with its continuance-sought no destruction of it, no crippling of it; nay, deprecated every measure looking to such result, carefully avoided the blow that might weaken or disturb it, made it the one thing which it would by no means touch, though more and more its fiendish hideousness appeared. The compromises of the Constitution must, at all events, be respected. Had freedom been victorious in those earlier battles, she would probably have dictated such terms to slavery as would have left it its constitutional advantages, have given it a new lease of power, new chances for securing in Cabinet and Senate chamber what it had failed of in the field. It was the reverses of Freedom, the bloody disasters, the mortifying defeats, the fields strewn with her mangled and gasping sons,-these, which -short-sighted mortals!-we mourned over as the direst of calamities,-it was these by which God saved us. By those losses was the nation's gain, by those deaths its life. Success, in bringing with it peace by compromise, had been its own living death. Precious cost! But we had made it necessary. Our own guilty compliances and complicities with the demands and sin of slavery, for the sake of peace and prosperity,-a nominal peace, a hollow prosperity,-this had made it necessary. We had sowed to the wind, and the only reaping possible to us was the whirlwind. Yes, there was a mercy in those dark reverses, those long delays, those baffled counsels. For then only, when it was found that Freedom could not stand against her foes with their "institution" intact, and their victim-millions working against her, did she consent to disregard the provisions of the Constitution, and strike at that institution itself. Then only had it come to pass, that, as a war measure and a necessity of war, by the right accorded all governments of self-defence, by a law of nature overriding all human enactments, this could constitutionally be done.
Pause, now, and consider the workings of the Almighty! A score of months only ago, and the overthrow of slavery seemed, to the wisest and most far-seeing among us an event which the century, possibly, might see, but whose possibility was located far away in the dim distance; to be achieved by the slowly-working influences of an advancing Christianity, or by its own savage and revengeful hands. The way seemed hedged by insuperable difficulties. There it stood, intrenched within the Constitution, conscious of its mighty power, haughty, defiant; and well knowing that, with all its other securities, it hadbad friends and defenders among ourselves. The strife came on: it continued: it is yet. But now, above its smoke and dia, and groans and, death, comes the voice of the nation's chief magistrate,-standing in his place of power, clothed in the majesty at once of constitutional and of moral law,-proclaiming deliberately, calmly, that from this blessed first of January, 1863 three million of slavery's victims are " henceforth and forever free." Truly, " this is the Lord's doing,. and it is marvellous in our eyes." Yes, give God the glory. We can take none of it ourselves. It is an event forced upon us. Blindly and under signedly have we wrought for it. Step by step we have fought against it. Not, I repeat, by the will of man, but of God, has it come. Glory be to God!
<c04>
What has come?  "Only a proclamation," say some,-"a State paper, with the signature of the President, declaring the slaves of certain localities free;: but that does not make them so: it is still dependent on the fortunes of the war how soon, or whether at all, they obtain their freedom." I have no sympathy with that disposition which receives questioningly what is in itself a precious gift, because it is not the most precious conceivable or desired; nor with the distrust implied by such questioning, in the case before us, of the Great Giver's will and power to perfect it. When he has made a way for what is through such ranks of obstacles,- a way which human wisdom never by so much as a glimpse foresaw,-I will not doubt that the way will be opened by the same wonder-working Providence, for what we desire shall be. God will not leave his work unfinished,-nor delayed, but by our unfaithfulness. That most of those held in slavery, if not all, have long known that the day of their redemption was drawing nigh, was as good as come,- though doubtless, in may instances, with conceptions very vague and crude about it,-this none doubt who know anything of them. And it serves to explain the most remarkable quietness maintained by them through all this wide-spread and land rocking tumult of which they are the innocent cause; that patient willingness to wait in their old position until the door of their egress from it was fairly opened, and they could go out as recognized men, and not as skulking beasts. How greatly have we mistaken and done injustice to the negro character and disposition, in predicting, as from the beginning so many have, violence and bloodshed on the part of the slaves, in the intoxication of anticipated freedom, or the impulse of vindictive passion! There has been nothing of it,-nothing at all. A fact that speaks volumes for them. For while it may be ascribed in part to their assurance of coming freedom,-an assurance which there has been so shamefully much, in the bearing toward them of our government and army, to weaken,-it is yet more to be ascribed to a gentleness, and amiability, and unvindictiveness of disposition, which, as a race, they eminently possess. They have known, I said, that their freedom was at hand. They know that it is proclaimed. And knowing it, they will demand-as they ought-possession of it; and will have it. But were it so, that the fact of freedom should long tarry behind the date of its proclamation, the proclamation is the mighty fact. There it stands, irrevocable, sure,-the guaranty of their liberty, valid against the world; the character of citizenship, which a nation's power stands pledged to guard,-which whose fails to respect as such does so at his peril. Before it "bills of sale" turn to waste paper; and chain and handcuff melt, as in <illegible> of a thousand suns; and forms stand erect, the eyes <illegible> and the world put on a new significance, and bud and blossom with new blessings. And, more than this, and whatever else it does, or fails to do, it decrees the nation's emancipation. Not strictly,-for the guaranties of slavery, untouched by this edict, linger on its statute book,-but, practically, it decrees the nation's emancipation. It has broken from its ignoble and debasing thrall. It has broken, at last, that magic word, "Freedom," never to unlearn it. It has set its face towards the sun, never to turn backward. It has brought itself into harmony with the spirit of the age,-with its own immortal principles and sacred declarations. It has floated itself into the life-stream of Christian civilization. It has put itself right with God; so that it may ask his blessing on its cause without doubtfulness,-may feel that the eternal forces of his spiritual providence shall surely work for it.
Slavery can be no more the potent agency in the nation it has been,-potent for evil, and only evil. Thank God! the Power whose corrupting influence has permeated every tissue and pore of the body politic; which has suborned to its ends, so greatly, our public men; has controlled presses, has marshalled parties, has silenced pulpits, tampered with the very heralds of salvation and the very gospel of the Redeemer, and debauched the public conscience to believe a lie; which, more than anything else-here in the midst of us, and all over the land-has impeded the progress of God's kingdom,-this Satanic Power, this instituted Barbarism, is forever dethroned, and lingers but to die!

INTERCEPTED LETTER FROM JEFFERSON DAVIS TO FERNANDO WOOD.
RICHMOND, Feb. 1, 1863.
DEAR SIR,-I have read attentively your favor, asking upon what terms we of the South will consent to a reconstruction of the Union, and while greatly pleased with the fresh proofs you have given of your fidelity to the cause, I am pained to see that you but partly comprehend our motives.
What could we gain by a reconstruction of the Union? You offer us new constitutional guarantees for slavery. But how could we enforce them? Your Northern public sentiment could not be controlled forever. Sooner or later, it would again attack our institutions. The sons of the men who thirty years ago endeavored to hang Garrison, have made Lincoln President. Annihilate your whole brood of Abolition vipers, and another even more venomous would take its place. In bringing on this revolution we have only assumed a conflict, which would otherwise have devolved upon our children. Were the Union to be restored, with all its wounds healed to the light, the poison of abolitionism would still lurk in its veins, and if not in our day, in that of our sons, the amputating knife, secession, would again be necessary. By no reconstruction could slavery be extended through the North; the laws of soil and climate would forbid that. We must abide, therefore, in the path which we are treading.
But could we be fully assured that slavery would be unmolested in all States adapted to slave labor, we would never consent to a reconstruction of the Union. We are in arms, not merely in defence of our rights to hold slaves forever, and without stint; but to demonstrate to the -world the glory and stability of a Republic based upon slavery.
In receding from the Federal Union and forming the Confederate States, we acted upon the deliberate, mature conviction that slavery is the essential basis of every permanent Republic. Had the Union been based upon slavery, it might have overspread the continent, and endured forever. But the Northern States had not this firm foundation. They were based upon the lie of Jefferson, "that all men are created equal." Hence, universal suffrage; hence, free schools; hence, abolitionism as the inevitable culmination. We firmly believe that civilization has a higher development in South Carolina than in Massachusetts, in Mississippi than in New York, and solely because South Carolina and Mississippi have slavery, while Massachusetts and New York have not.
We feel assured that we shall win our independence. Our free population is essentially warlike; yours is peaceful and cowardly. We are careless of money; you of the North worship "the almighty dollar." Almost our sole laboring element is our slaves. Our entire white population, then, is avail-

<c05>
able for military service; the war takes nothing from our production. Your Northern armies must be recruited entirely from your laboring classes, and the war detracts immediately from your productive industry. Our female slaves work in our fields, while the wives of your Northern farmers are in doors ministering to the comfort of their families, and their children are at school-a total waste of their labor in a military, view. Thus, as producers, our three millions of slaves are an offset to six millions of your farming population. You cannot, therefore, maintain a larger army than we are able to oppose to you, without such a derangement of your industry as will seriously threaten a revolution at the North. To these considerations add the wonderful fitness of our soil and climate for defensive warfare, and it is a military impossibility that we can be subdued by a force of less than twice the size of ours. Such a force we feel certain your government can never raise.
Mark, then, another very remarkable advantage which slavery gives us as a military people-and which provides that if we are fighting for slavery, it is no less true that slavery fights for us.
The hardships which our slaves endure, in consequence of the war, are scarcely greater than those to which they have been accustomed. Our slaves get everything they use at the hands of their masters, and let prices be high or low, they do not feel the difference. Your Northern mudsills have their luxuries; they carpet their houses; they have their viands; they drink their tea and coffee; they dress according to the fashion; the war doubles the prices of most articles consumed by them, trebles the prices of others, and they pay for all these things, while receiving no corresponding increase in their incomes; thus general dissatisfaction with -the men exists at the North, which only requires to be skillfully nursed by our friends and agents, to compel your government, before the close of this year, to make peace with us on such terms as we shall dictate.
Surely, then, with all these circumstances in our favor, we should be false to ourselves, to our posterity, and to the world, should we accept less than independence.
With the highest esteem,
I am, most truly yours,
JEFFERSON DAVIS.

A NEW PROCLAMATION.
Not long since, Jeff. Davis issued a proclamation setting apart a day of fasting and prayer to Almighty God for the success of the Confederate armies. Abraham Lincoln tardily follows the poor example, and appoints the 30th of April for a like, <illegible>
The President asks it we "may not justy rear that the calamity of civil war may be a punishment for our presumptuous sins." These sins he proceeds to enumerate as follows:
First. "We have forgotten God."
Second. "We have forgotten the gracious hand that has preserved us in peace."
Third. "We have been too self-sufficient to feel the necessity of redeeming grace."
Fourth. "We have been too proud to pray."
Now the President proposes that we, the people of the disunited States, humble ourselves, confess our sins, and pray for forgiveness. He adds:-
"All this being done in sincerity and truth, let us then rest humbly in the hope, authorized by the Divine teachings, that the united- cry of the nation will be heard on high, and answered with blessings, no less than the pardon of our national sins, and restoration" of our now divided and suffering country to its former happy condition of unity and peace."
Who ever read a more absurd, mischievous, transparent, and contemptible piece of pious nonsense!
If the President really believes that this war is a result of our national sins, why not be honest and truthful, and confess:
First. That we have forgotten the slave.
Second. We have forgotten the hands that have enriched us.
Third. We have been too self-sufficient to feel the necessity of doing justly.
Fourth. We have been too proud to pay.
With this confession, and a straightforward effort to right the wrong, we would not need to "rest humbly," which, alas! we have done all too long, but would rather work valiantly, and restore our divided country by force of the sword of justice and the power of right!
In the daily from which we clip these extracts from the proclamation, and just opposite in the next, column, we read:-
"It is said that the President positively refuses for the present to grant authority to raise more negro regiments."
What more fitting commentary on the proclamation? What better proof can be asked of its utter heartlessness and insincerity?
A people too proud to accept the help of the negro, praying to God for his help! Refusing the outstretched hand of the African, we vainly implore the aid of the hand of Providence!
How bitter must be our suffering before we learn the lesson of true humility and dependence! What if the "help of God" can alone come to us through the despised and down-trodden! What if the real hand of Providence be the brawny, dark palm of the African!-Herald of Progress.
"THE ABOLITIONISTS WON'T FIGHT."
To enumerate the occasions upon which this phrase has been repeated by the Copperhead Democrats, would be to enter upon a summer's work. The abolitionists have been denounced as cowards, who were very ready to counsel others to go to war and to favor the conscription bill, but when it came to fighting themselves, they were to be counted out. Every sensible man knew that the charge was totally without foundation, but the copperheads kept it up until the responses began to come in from the army, in the shape of votes and replies to traitorous documents at home. These thunder roars from the soldiers in the field silenced that slander. But another evidence has come to hand which no one can gainsay. The Oberlin News has taken pains to ascertain how many students from that famous anti-slavery institution have entered the Union army. It finds that one hundred and eighty-eight persons who were at the time of enlisting engaged in their studies, have left the college halls to take the field. Of these, nine were from the theological department, one hundred from the college classes, and the remainder from the primary department. Thirty of them hold, or have held commissions, and more than that number have fallen victims to the battle-field, prison or hospital. What have the Democrats to say to this exhibition of "abolition" valor?
It speaks well far Oberlin's substantial prosperity, that with this direct and heavy draft upon her student force, besides the many more who are kept from study by the war, she has now in actual attendance nearly five hundred and, twenty-five students.-Cleveland <illegible>.
<c06>
THE ANTIPATHY TO COLOR IN THE VULGAR OF ALL NATIONS.
To the Editor of the Bradford Advertiser:-
SIR,-The subject named above may claim an early notice, because it is spreading its ramifications in a way that demands any practicable effort for counteraction of the evil.
There is no denying that the prejudice which a vulgar man of any color bears against all men of any other color is at the bottom, or at all events deeply entwined, with all the mischief that is going on in the world.
Women in America are bought and sold, to prostitution by the descendants of our negro drivers, because they are-what! The Spaniards burn cottages in Morocco, and Englishmen are found yelling in their train, because the Moors are-what? A faithful and honorable army in India are first insulted, and then blown from guns, because the Indians are-what? Three hundred millions of Chinese are to be treated in breach of every rule of private morality and public honor, because they are-what? It is all soluble on one principle; and from foot-padding upwards, it is always desirable to get at the principle. The principle is simply this: that all obligations of morality or honor become non-existent toward men of another shade of color. They "have no rights which the others are bound to respect;" such, I believe, is the literal transcript of the law in a country where the civilized portion of the community has not yet got the better of the barbarism. In short, that it is impossible to be a rascal towards men of another hue. The dogma might be expressed with a single word, and is so every, day, by those not afraid to grapple with one of the non nominanda of the vulgar tongue.
The principle is sometimes put forward with dilution. It is diluted in the case of the Chinese, by saying they are "Asiatics." There is no being a rascal to an Asiatic. It may be a question whether the Chinese differ more in hue than the inhabitants of Southern Europe from those of Northern; and there might be danger in advancing the maxim of law above defined, as part of the jus gentium in Europe. It must be kept for foreign service, or, at all events, for the Southward of Gibraltar. In short, it must be kept for anybody who cannot protect themselves; as is the creed of burglars and swell-mob in the private line.
It is clear that the concentration, the nucleus of all this, the point in the plague-swelling which wants touching with the lancet, is in America; where the first requisite for an honest man at present is a readiness to be hanged. Laugh at the notion, that this is no business of ours. It has pleased God, and it is <illegible> crime, in one part of the human race, shall be indifferent to the others.
Commercial men are apt to look at the gainful side of things, and forget the long-drawn compensations a just Providence exacts. It was so when a stand was made on the commercial interests involved in the slave trade; and it was so when the same kind of stand was made on the indispensableness of slavery to the West India interest. It is likely there are maniacs still, who see destruction and sudden death hanging over them, from both these operations on the dangerous sect, the Philanthropists. But maniacs do not finally rule the world, though they live long enough to do mischief. There is a steady process of making them over to strait waist-coats, with all the modern improvements in avoiding unnecessary harshness, before which the stoutest of them fall.
Yours very sincerely,
T. PERRONET THOMPSON.
Eliot Vale, Blackheath, Eng.
A SOLDIER'S OPINION OF COPPERHEADS.
An Irish soldier of the Fourteenth Massachusetts regiment, writing to a friend from the camp at Maryland Heights, on St. Patrick's day, expresses his opinion of the "peace " men, and their schemes, in a very free style, thus:-
* * * "I cannot imagine anything more mean and despicable than a cowardly, sneaking, saivelling, cringing, whining, soulless copperhead. A copperhead has as much patriotism as a lobster, and as much courage as a bull-frog. He would sell his grandmother into slavery, if he got a good price for her, and would give his children a cent each to go to bed without their supper, and then steal the cents from them when they got to sleep, so as to have them to operate with in the same way the night following.
Any person who keeps himself at all posted on the news of the day, cannot help seeing that the South don't want peace on any terms of compromise that the North could offer. Their papers, day after day, iterate and reiterate this. They want separation, and nothing more nor less. They have staked their all upon this, and are determined to fight it out- and I do hope that the war will be so conducted on our part that they will get fighting to their hearts' content. The rebel papers ridicule and abuse the copperhead peace party of the North, and assert that the South (when its independence is recognized) will not even trade with Yankees, unless hard pushed, and not even then without holding, their noses! And yet these cringing sycophants will get down on their marrow-bones to the aristocratic chivalry,' and implore them to accept of their peace-offerings!
* * *• • • Peace on their plan would be of short duration, indeed. The battle of freedom and slavery has to be fought out on this continent; and now that we have our leeves rolled up, and our loins girded for the combat, what is the use of trying to defer it to some other day? "
This soldier writes warmly, but he evidently feels what he says; and, like other brave men in the field, cannot see the propriety of enduring a fire in the rear from malignant reactionists, while a deadly foe is in front. He closes his letter with the remark, that he can " hardly stop writing when he gets on this subject.”
WILSON'S ZOUAVES AND THE COLORED SOLDIERS. The ill treatment of the colored soldiers in Louisiana is reported to arise mainly from Billy Wilson's Zouaves. The fine sensibilities of these <illegible> gentlemen-a set of <illegible> vagabonds, thieves, ruffians and shoulder-bitters, picked up in the stews of New York-are highly offended at the idea of a black man carrying a musket, and behaving himself decently! It would be a blessing to the world if these Zouaves could be pitted against some rebel regiment of similar composition until, like the Kilkenny cats, they had devoured each other. We venture to say that the colored soldiers of Louisiana are in every sense the superiors of these scoundrels who pique themselves so highly on the manner in which they exhibit their ennobling "prejudice against color."-New Bedford Republican Standard.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all 
the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; 
and that, under that state of things to, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, 
HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMAN-
CIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extendextent to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, and invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are not in, martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
EDWARD EVERETT ON THE REBELLION.
Hon. Edward Everett's Address before the Union Club in Boston, on Thursday evening of last week, is given by the Boston papers, in supplement. The hall was crowded, and Mr. Everett occupied an hour and a half in the delivery of this, one of the most eloquent and finished speeches he has ever made. We have room this week for only the following extract:—
So absurd, so flagrantly insincere, so openly repudiated by its authors are the pretexts of this unboly war. What remains but that we should strenuously and loyally support the government of the country in bringing it to a victorious result? Peace on any terms will be nothing but a hollow truce, lasting only till fresh causes of controversy arise, and the means of renewed aggression and outrage are accumulated. Toward the successful prosecution of the war, every good citizen is bound to contribute to the utmost by word and deed, by personal service, if of age to render it, by his counsel, with his purse, if need be, with his life. If he can do nothing else, let him at least speak words of patriotic cheer, seeking to inspire the community with confidence, to strengthen the arm of the government in the discharge of its arduous duties, and to animate our brave fellow-citizens in the ranks of the army. What we want now is, not so much strength in the field as union at home; or rather till we have cordial union at home, we never shall have overwhelming strength in the field. Do not, for Heaven's sake, let us reenact the fatal blunder that has been committed by free States since the dawn of history. The strength of Philip of Macedon was in the divided counsels of the Greeks. Do not let the strength of the rebellion be in the want of harmony in the loyal States. 
But it may be asked, how can men support the administration in the conduct of the war, if they do not approve its measures? How, I ask, in return, can any free government carry on a war, if every one is to stand aloof, who does not approve all its measures? That the war must be carried on, till the rebellion is subdued, is the all but unanimous sentiment of the loyal States. It is as much the interest of the South as of the North to hasten this consummation, for she suffers infinitely more than the North by the continuance of the war, and there can be no return to a state of general and permanent prosperity on any other condition. That errors will be committed, errors of judgment certainly, errors of purpose, perhaps, on the part of individuals, is sure to happen in all wars. Commanders of armies, members of Cabinets, members of Congress, Generals, Secretaries, are fallible men, subject to like passions as we are. I do not at all deny that it is our right and duty to watch and criticise their conduct, but we must not forget that critics, editors, and orators are also fallible. While we sit in quiet and safety by our firesides, and inveigh against those who bear the heat and burden of the day; who carry upon their shoulders the thank less burden of official duty, and the heavy responsibility of results, which often depend on the elements, and on casualties beyond human control, we must keep in mind that we also have our interests, our prejudices, and our passions, and that it is much easier to find fault, than to pursue any course of conduct which will escape censure in a fault-finding community. There are two ways of doing everything; and when duty constrains us to find fault with the shortcomings of our rulers and our generals, we should, if possible, do it in such a manner as not to give aid and comfort to the rulers and generals of the enemy.
Among the patriotic inculcations of Washington's Farewell Address, none are more emphatic than those which relate to the evils of party spirit, unavoidable as the existence of party seems to be in free States, and in prosperous times. Brief lulls there may be, as in President Monroe's administration; but such temporary calms, as in that case, occur only after violent agitations, and are likely to be followed by them. So inseparable from free government is the existence of party felt to be in England, that, while the Ministers are styled Her Majesty's Government, their opponents have been called Her Majesty's opposition. Every one, however, must feel that, even in time of peace, the indiscriminate and vehement opposition which the spirit and policy of party are sure to make, to almost every important measure of the government, is productive of embarrassment and delay, often of more serious evils in the conduct of the public business; that it makes public life distasteful to many virtuous citizens capable of rendering important service to the country; and thus tends to throw the management of affairs into the hands of unscrupulous and unprincipled men. All these evils are indefinitely multiplied and evil, far exceeding all the rest, that an indiscriminate opposition, in proportion to its vigor and warmth, paralyzes the arm of your own government, and strengthens that of the common enemy.
The existing administration came into office, in the result of a strenuous party contest, and it was, therefore, natural that it should be organized on a purely party basis. Could it have been foreseen that in less than six weeks the country would be plunged into a contest, which would task to the utmost all its strength, and require the employment of all its resources, material and moral, the attempt perhaps would have been made to place the administration on a broader basis. This, however, could not be foreseen, and the President has not yet found it practicable, or if practicable not expedient, as far as civil affairs are concerned, to assume a position in dependent of party. Efforts, in fact, have been made to induce him to organize the Executive on a still narrower party basis. Meantime, it must in justice be stated that the administration has been as liberally supported by those who did not, as by those who did contribute to place it in power, and as for midably assailed by its nominal adherents, as by its reputed opponents. I belonged, I need not say, to the latter class, not that I was much of a Bell and Everett man, for if, in parliamentary phrase, it had been possible to divide the question, I should have voted against the candidate, for the Vice-Presidency on that ticket. I did all in my power to prevent his nomination, and to get him excused when it was made. I admit, however, that without being much of a partisan,. I belong to the President's opposition. But what then? There is a loyalty of opposition as well as a loyalty of support. Shall I, because I am not a political supporter of the administration, sit quietly by, and see the government overturned and the country dismembered? Because we did not vote for Mr. Lincoln's administration, must we hold back from the vigorous prosecution of the war, which is to prevent Mr. Davis from installing himself at Washington? Because we may disapprove of the removal of General McClellan, shall we do what we can to paralyze the arm of his successor? Such has not been the course of General McClellan himself. When he was abruptly relieved from his command, after having, with an army disheartened by recent reverses, and which he, in the language, of the Confederate General Lee, reorganized as with the enchanter's wand," had in two nobly fought battles rescued Baltimore, and Washington from menaced capture, and preserved Maryland to the Union, instead of using the language of disaffection or even complaint, he exhorted the army, by which he was idolized, to be as faithful to General Burnside as it had been to him. Because we may doubt the policy of the Proclamations of the 22d September and 1st January, shall we, as far as in us lies, cooperate with the oligarchy of the seceding States in forcing their” peculiar institution" into the unoccupied territory of the Union; in reopening the African slave trade, for which their diplomacy is already making astute preparation; in overturning this most admirable Constitution of government, which in the intention of its venerable and patriotic founders. South as well as North, contemplated only the temporary toleration and gradual disappearance of involuntary servitude, and in establishing, and that at the cost of a desolating civil war, a new Confederacy on the corner-stone of slavery?
But it may be asked again, how can we support an administration which adopts measures that we deem unconstitutional? I should certainly be a very unfaithful pupil of the political school in which I was trained, it I could ever hear the sacred name of the Constitution justly invoked without respect, or yield to it anything less than implicit obedience. It is, however, as great an error to appeal to it where it does not apply, as to disregard it where it
does; and I must say that the study of our political history ought to teach us caution in this respect; for from the formation of the government in 1789 to the present day, there has not been an important controverted measure-no, not one-which its party opponents have not denounced as unconstitutional. It is one of the doctrines of the seceding school, that the Government of the United States could not constitutionally wage war against a sovereign State. But how it the sovereign State strikes the first blow, frees on you vessels, bombards and captures your
<c02>
forts, threatens your capital, and invades the loyal members of the Union who refuse to join in the war of aggression? Few, I suppose, will doubt that the
the United States may constitutionally wage a war of self-defence against any enemy, domestic or foreign. But in waging this war of self-defence we cannot, in the opinion of some persons with whom I have usually acted, and whose judgment I greatly respect, go beyond the powers specially granted by the Constitution to the General Government for the purpose of ordinary administration in time of peace.
This opinion seems to me to rest on a misconception of the authority under which war is waged. The Constitution authorizes Congress to declare war, to raise and support armies, and to provide and maintain a commander-in-chief. It goes further. It prescribes nothing as to the enemy against whom, the measures by which, nor the ends for which the war may be carried on. It gives no more power to wage war with a foreign State than with a domestic State; and it is as silent on the subject of blockading the ports as of seizing the cotton, or of emancipating the slaves of a district, in rebellion. The rights of war belong to the more comprehensive, in some respects the higher code of international law, to which not the government of the United States alone, but all civilized governments are amenable. By that august code, all unjust wars are forbidden, and all unjust modes of waging just wars, no matter who may be the enemy, or what the pretext; while by the same code, all just wars, and eminently all wars of self-defence, and all warlike measures sanctioned by our Christian civilization are permitted unless so far as they may be expressly prohibited by the municipal law of our country.
Now, to say that no just war can be waged against any but a foreign power is simply begging the question. I cannot conceive a proposition more extravagant
than that provocation the most offensive, and acts of aggression the most intolerable, which would in every sane man's judgment authorize instant hostilities against a foreign State, must be tamely borne if committed under the pretended authority of a State associated with others in a Federal Union. Certainly, if any State connected with the British Government, by whatever relation, whether that of constitutional union as Scotland and Ireland, or responsible colonial government like the Anglo-American provinces, or some more absolute form of political dependence, had, after years of preparation, public and private, the organization and training of troops, and the purchase of arms, and eventually by more definite military measures, such as the construction and armament of forts and the concentration of soldiers, and finally by overt acts-firing up on provision ships sent to supply the imperial garrisons, the bombardment of the national forts, and the capture of the troops by which they are held, the seizure of arsenals, mints, custom-houses, navy yards, and revenue-cutters-levied actual war against the central government, any person who should deny the authority of that Government by every means which the law of nations permits, to wage a war not only till the national property was recovered, but till the outrage, was chastised and effectual security obtained that it would never be repeated, would, in any country but this, be deemed a driveler.
McCLELLAN'S DISGRACEFUL RECORD.
The Congressional Joint Committee on the Conduct of the War have unanimously reported as follows, on the highest military testimony brought before them:
1. That with 195,000 men, General McClellan in December, 1861, refused to advance on the enemy at Manassas, 70,000 strong, though the roads and the weather both favored this movement, and he was urged to it by the President. 
2.That General McClellan allowed the Potomac to be blockaded, though entreated by the President to raise the blockade, and assured by the navy that 4000 troops would free the river.
3. That General McClellan refused to properly organize his army at the same time, though the Generals under him represented it to be of the utmost importance, and the President solicited it.
4. That no provision was made to properly man the fortifications at Washington.
5. That General McClellan neglected to obey two orders of the President in January and February, 1862, to move on Manassas, in consequence of which the enemy were enabled to evacuate that place without the loss of a man, or a pound of material.
6. That before General McClellan left Washing ton by way of the James River to advance on Richmond, he promised the President that 55,000 men should be left to protect the capital, yet left but 19,000 and, these poorly disciplined, and without knowledge.
7. That General McClellan rested with his entire force a month before Yorktown, though the President told him it “was indispensable that he should at once strike a blow," and there were but 12,000 troops to defend the place when he first reached it.
8. That after Yorktown was evacuated, General McClellan made no definite arrangements for the pursuit of the enemy, remaining himself behind, and that the Williamsburg battle was in consequence fought in confusion and at disadvantage.
9. That after the victory was won, General McClellan refused to allow pursuit, though the concurrent testimony of our Generals and the rebels themselves is, that Richmond might then have been taken without difficulty.
10. That General McClellan was two weeks in removing his army from Williamsburg to Chickahominy, 50 miles distant.
11.That General Casey's undisciplined troops were put in advance, unsupported, at Seven Pines, against the remonstrances of Generals Casey and Keyes, and were consequently overwhelmed by the enemy, with prodigious slaughter.
12. That the next day this error was retrieved by the victory of Sumner at Fair Oaks, after which our army could have gone at once into Richmond (the second opportunity of the campaign); but General McClellan refused to allow this.
13. That General McClellan continually tried to get new troops from Washington, when he knew that Jackson was threatening it, and when the number there was much less than he had himself stated was necessary for its defence.
14. That at Gaines's Mills, 27,000 of our troops were compelled to fight 65,000 of the enemy because General McClellan refused to concentrate his army.
15. That on the retreat to the James River, General McClellan printed an order to destroy all his baggage, tents, and equipage, and only failed to issue it at the remonstrance of his officers.
16. That the victories of the seven days' battles were all fought in the absence of General McClellan, he fixing the positions and then immediately leaving the field. 
17. That after the battle of Malvern Hill, all the officers testify that Richmond might have been entered (the third time); yet General McClellan again fell back.
18. That at Harrison's Landing, no effort was made, for the first twenty-four hours, to organize the army, or defend its position, and that only a form which prevented the enemy's approach saved it from surrender.
19. That on being ordered to withdraw his army from the Peninsula “as rapidly as possible," to cooperate with Pope, General McClellan refused to obey until the order had been twice repeated, involving a delay which endangered Pope's army and put Washington in peril.
20. That, after his arrival on the Potomac, General McClellan interposed delays, which, in the opinion of General Halleck, were the cause of Pope's defeat. 
21. That after General McClellan moved his army into Maryland in pursuit of Lee, he again asked for troops from Washington, suggesting that it had better be taken than that be should suffer defeat.
22. That the battle of Antietam was fought in separate attacks, instead of with his whole force, thus enabling the enemy to concentrate their troops at the point assaulted, so as to make up for their disparity in numbers, and that General Burnside was denied reinforcements when there were 15,000 or 20,000 fresh troops on the field.
23. That, according to the testimony of Generals Franklin and Burnside (both McClellan's warm friends), the enemy could have been overwhelmed the next day, had General McClellan permitted the action to be renewed.
24. That General McClellan continued his policy of delay in the face of repeated urgings from Washington, and that when he was removed, he had refused for lour weeks to comply with an order from the President to advance.
This is the whole, sad, sickening story. The New York Times (originally a McClellan paper) truly says, in concluding its survey of it,” There is not such" another record of dereliction and inefficiency in all military history; and it will stand alike a marvel and a derision to future generations."
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL17,1863.
TWENTY-NINTH ANNIVERSARY
OF THE
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Twenty-Ninth Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SALVERY SOCIETY- will be held in the Church of the Puritans, (Rev. Dr. Cheever's,) in the city of New York, on TUESDAY, Tuesday, May 12th, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M.
The Society will hold another public meeting in the evening, in the Cooper Institute, commencing at half past 7 o'clock. The names of the speakers will 
be announced hereafter.
The business meetings of the Society will be held in the Lecture Room of the Church of the Puritans, on Tuesday, at 31\2, P. M., and on Wednesday, at 10, A. M.
The loyalty of this Society to freedom, and to free institutions, and to the Government so far as it aims to uphold these, is unquestionable and uncompromising. It has emphatically pronounced against the Southern rebellion as in the highest degree perfidious and wicked; and, as it is now apparent to the civilized world that this rebellion is the legitimate product of slavery, and waged for no other reason, either avowed or hidden, than to give greater security and extension to that horrible system, which, by one blow, strikes down all human rights, and perpetrates every conceivable outrage upon human nature, the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY not only applauds the Proclamation of President Lincoln, whereby more than three millions of slaves were declared forever free on the first of January last, but maintains that a decree of
of immediate and universal emancipation is demanded by the imperilled state of the country; by fidelity of the Government to its constitutional obligations in such a fearful emergency; by the hopelessness of attempting to perpetuate the Union upon any other basis than that of homogeneous institutions and interests, and impartial liberty and exact justice for all the people; by the inevitable dissolution of the old Union because of its antagonistical elements; and, especially and above all, by the Divine command to” undo the heavy burdens, break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free." Then shall our light, as a nation, rise in obscurity, and our darkness be as the noon-day; then they that shall be of us shall build the old waste places; we shall raise up the foundations of many generations; and we shall be called, THE REPAIRERS OF THE
BREACH, THE RESTORERS OF PATHS TO DWELL IN.
In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Secretaries.
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries.
A COPPERHEAD ACCUSER.
If a man chooses to write himself down a vulgar blackguard, a base slanderer, and an impudent deceiver, he can follow his bent. If he chooses to place himself among despots and rowdies, in his contempt for the rights of a despised and oppressed race, and to make up mouths and fling dirt at those who” reject the wild and guilty phantasy, that man can hold property in man," he can do so. But let him not add to his folly and criminality by aspiring to be a gentleman, nor expect any other treatment than is due to a low and malignant assailant.
Such a man appears to be Professor Morse, the President of the Copperhead” Society for the Diffusion of Political Knowledge," (!) recently organized in New York to block the wheels of the government, and give “aid and comfort" to the Southern traitors, at this critical state of public affairs, by factious appeals and dangerous combinations, so as to render a successful prosecution of the war utterly impracticable. By turning to that department of the Liberator, which, for thirty years, has been recking with pro-slavery pollution and villany,-namely, the “REFUGE OF OPPRESSION," our readers will find some extracts from a letter writer <illegible> a personal friend and political opponent," on the state of the country, the first of which is as follows:-
"By the manner in which you allude to the extreme radicalism and infidelity of the Garrison stamp,' I am glad to find we have a common standpoint from which to view a portion of the field. Look at that dark conclave of conspirators, freedom shriekers, Bible-spurners, fierce, implacable, headstrong, denunciatory, Constitution and Union haters, noisy factions, breathing forth threatening and slaughter against all who venture a difference of opinion from them, murderous, passionate advocates of imprisonments and hangings, bloodthirsty, and if there is any other epithet of atrocity found in the vocabulary of wickedness, do they not every one fitly designate some phase of radical abolitionism?
It would remove all feelings of moral indignation, in reading this furious denunciation of as intelligent, pure-minded, upright, humane, peaceable, disinterested and philanthropic a body of men and women as ever engaged in a great and noble cause, if it could be supposed that its author is either an utter ignoramus, through want of correct information or for lack of natural ability, or else that he is really a lunatic. But he is not to be excused on either of these grounds. He belongs to that class which, in every age, has espoused the side of the strong against the weak, of tyrannical usurpation against downtrodden right, of corrupt established conservatism against radical reform; which stoned the prophets, nailed Jesus to the cross as one guilty of blasphemy and sedition, and counted his apostles as” the off scouring of all things"; and against which a woe is pronounced because it ”calls good evil, and evil good, and puts darkness for light, and light for darkness." 
His first charge against those of “the Garrison stamp" is, that they are” a dark conclave of conspirators." The charge is as ridiculous as it is false. Whatever the Abolitionists have said or done, they have said and done openly. Their journals have ever been as free to their opponents as to themselves, in the matter of discussion; their platform has been free to all comers; they have done nothing in secret, but have won the respect, and at times extorted the commendation, of even the slaveholders of the South for their manly, ingenuous, straight-forward, consistent course. That they are in a conspiracy is true; but it is a conspiracy against the powers of darkness for the establishment of the kingdom of righteousnes and peace, and to cause liberty to be proclaimed” throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants there of." For this they have been maligned, insulted mobbed, persecuted, by the Southern” brokers in the
the trade of blood," and by their Northern abettors; is full confirmation of the declaration of the Prince, emancipators,” If they have called the master of the house Beelzebub, much more shall they call them his household."
We are content to let the following testimony of the lamented WILLIAM ELLESRY CHANNING be put into the scale against the charges of this rabid Professor:
”The Abolitionists not only appear in the character of champions of the colored race. In their persons, the most sacred rights of the white man and the free man have been assailed.... When I regard the firm, fearless assertion of the rights of free discussion of speech and the press, I look on them with unmixed respect. I see nothing to blame, and much to admire. To them has been committed the most important but wark of liberty, and they have acquitted themselves of the trust like men and Christians. No violence his driven them from their post. Whilst, in obedience in conscience, they have refrained from opposing fore to force, they have still persevered amidst menace an insult, in bearing their testimony against wrong, in giving utterance to their deep convictions. Of such men, I do not hesitate to say, that they have render, to freedom a more essential service than any body of man among us. From my heart I thank them. I am my self their debtor. I speak not from vague <illegible> but from, better means of knowledge, when I say, that a body of men and women, more blameless than the Abolitionists in their various relations, or more disposed to adopt a rigid construction of the Christian precepts, cannot be found among us."
<c04>
A WAR MEETING OF COLORED CITIZENS.
A mass meeting was held at Franklin Hall, South 6th st, below Arch, Philadelphia, on Monday evening, 30th ult,, in favor of filling up the 54th Mass. Regiment. The meeting was organised by the appointment of the Rev. Stephen Smith, President, and as Vice Presidents Rev.E.. Weaver, Rev.. John A. Williams, Wm. E. Gipson, Esq., John Anderson, D. B. Colley, David B. Bowser; Secretaries, Dr. Wm. B. Ellis, St. George R.. Taylor, Dr. Jonathan Davis. Prof. A. M. Green took a very prominent part in the meeting, and among the speakers were J. Miller McKim and Robert Purvis, Esq.. The hall was crowded, and considerable enthusiasm was manifested. The persuasive powers of the several speakers were brought to bear upon the subject, and the bare mention of their names is sufficient to warrant that they were eloquent. 
Professor Green addressed the meeting, and said the colored people of Pennsylvania need no longer be in doubt as to whether the United States will accept black regiments. One State, at least, has power to do so, and that is the noble old Bay State. Gov. Andrew has power to organize at least one black regiment. The question now is, whether the colored men shall rally, or whether it shall be thrown in our teeth, what has already gone forth, that the colored people have neither genius nor bravery to display in the present war. The speaker then read extracts from several Boston papers, showing the progress of enlistments, and how those in camp were provided for. He concluded by reading a preamble and resolution endorsing the action of Massachusetts, the first State to recognize the services of the colored man.
J. Miller McKim, Esq., took the floor, and made a few remarks on the resolutions. He said he had it from a high source that colored enlistments from Pennsylvania had not yet been authorized, although plans for the same were now maturing, of which due notice would be given. This fact he contended, however, should not interfere with the colored people, and keep them from enlisting. They should endeavor to fill up the 54th Massachusetts Regiment, and when authority is granted for colored enlistments in Pennsylvania, then Philadelphia can raise her brigade. One half the regiment now at Readville, in Massachusetts, was recruited in this State, where they also procured their lieutenant-colonel and one captain.
A colored man in the audience arose, and made a few very sensible remarks, which were received with loud applause. He stated that the colored people were a forgiving race, and, although they had been deprived of their rights, yet he knew they were willing to forget all, and rally round their country's flag at that moment when their services were most needed.
David Bus till next addressed the meeting. He thought that the colored people had no rights whatever under the Constitution of Pennsylvania. They have no rights, and the government doesn't mean to give them rights. He denounced, in strong terms, the sentiments uttered by Mr. McKim.
Professor Green took an opposite view. He thought that an opportunity was now- offered for the black man to show himself, and if he stands back, it will
give his enemies a chance to laugh at and criticize his patriotism and bravery. Are we going to allow this sycophant Democratic element to triumph over
us?
Robert Purvis next made a stirring address, in which ho paid a high compliment to Secretary Seward, who, he said, had proclaimed before the whole world that some of the most valuable information obtained by our Generals was through the negro. He also entertained, at a public supper, the representative of the Haytien Government.
[Three cheers were here given for Secretary Seward.] 
The following preamble and resolutions were then read:-
Whereas, we recognize in Massachusetts (the old Bay State) the representative of those immutable principles introduced by the Pilgrim Puritans, never to be receded from till this slavery-cursed land shall be thoroughly regenerated, and established more firmly on the <illegible> of the <illegible> Declaration of 
Independence; and,
Whereas, Massachusetts, true to the instinctive principles of those Puritan Fathers, has ever been foremost in maintaining human freedom; was first in the Revolution; was first in freeing her slaves; was first in awarding to black men the acknowledgment of citizenship; was first in opening her courts of justice on equal terms to black men; was first in opening her public schools to colored youth; was first in preserving Kansas from the grasp of the slave oligarchs of the South; was the first to respond to the President's call for volunteers in defence of the National Capital when threatened by treason and rebellion; was first to send her much-loved children, those ministering angels, (the slave-teachers,) to Port Royal, Beaufort, Norfolk, Washington, and wherever else the slaves are congregated, thus practically carrying out the principles of true charity and Christian philanthropy; and last, though not least, is the first to unbar the door, that black men of the North may, on equal terms with white men, strike simultaneously at slavery and the rebellion; therefore, 
Resolved, That we, the colored people of the United States, owe a duty to Massachusetts that cannot better be paid than by giving her every influence in our power, in order to make the Fifty-fourth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteers a perfect success, a model regiment, by the way, speaking trumpet tongued to her prejudiced sister States, saying,” Go thou, and do likewise."
Resolved, That a full and hearty support of the Massachusetts arrangement (that being the only authoritative arrangement now in progress for organizing colored troops at the North) need not deter or in any way militate against any well devised efforts to secure a similar advantage in our own and other States. 
Resolved, That a suitable committee be appointed for the further consideration of this subject, and that they be empowered to call another meeting at an early period.
Mr. J. Miller McKim then made some remarks, in the course of which he disagreed with the wording of the resolutions, according to Massachusetts the first place in raising a negro brigade, and stated the first attempted organization of that kind emanated from Pennsylvania. He fully endorsed the idea of sending colored men to Massachusetts for the object specified, and would like to see the regiment now being formed in Philadelphia, completed and in the field.
Professor Green endorsed the remarks of Mr. McKim regarding the filling up of the Massachusetts Brigade, and read extracts from two or three Abolition papers eulogistic of the present movement in Massachusetts.
A number of persons then spoke in favor of adopting the resolutions, among them Mr. Bus tell and Mr. Robert Purvis. The latter gentleman stated that he expected, ere this, to be in the service of the Government, but circumstances prevented it; and although not sufficiently strong in bodily health to enter the ranks as a private, he believed he would be serving the National Government in some capacity in the field, and would not ask others to do what he would not do himself.
After some further remarks of a general character, the President took the sense of the meeting on the resolutions, when, on motion, they were adopted.
VALUABLE AID FROM THE CONTRABANDS. The Sunflower river expedition was greatly helped, and perhaps saved from destruction, by the intelligent services of the negro slaves in that region, who in every instance did every thing they could to promote its success. Admiral Porter's guide was a contraband. He also carried despatches through the rebel lines to Gen. Sherman, which enabled that officer to avert the capture of the fleet by the enemy-a disaster that was at
at one time imminent. Is it constitutional for negroes to render such services as these? 
<c05>
ON WHICH SIDE IS MEROY?
The dealings of the Abolitionists, in the whole course of their opposition to slavery, have never been with the slaves themselves. For thirty years, they have directed every argument of humanity and interest to the white oppressor, never to his sable victim. They have not, of course, denied the right of the slave to vindicate his manhood by the exercise of that self-defence which is derived and justified from human nature; much less, his right to escape, if possible, from his bondage. But they have never said to him, “Rise!" or “Flee!" God himself had already shown the outraged race these two doors to liberty, of which the one must open whenever the other was closed. The Abolitionists applied to the hearts and Consciences of the masters, North and South, having first disarmed their own hands of the weapons of carnal warfare, and placed peaceful moral agitation upon their banner. To this procedure and this instrumentality they have remained faithful for more than a quarter of a century. From those who were able to grant it without turbulence and without bloodshed, they have asked but justice for the slave as for a fellowman. They claimed no favoritism of one race above another, no compensation for past and present outrage, no exemption from law, on behalf of the blacks; their simple demand,-which was to be reiterated till the unjust judge allowed it from weariness, or the just one for righteousness' sake,-was deliverance from involuntary servitude, and restoration to equality before the law. They asked this first for the slave, as his right; they urged it upon the master as his duty; and they pointed out that as God has made duty and advantage inseparable, emancipation was equally the interest of both parties concerned. In laboring for the one, therefore, they could not help laboring for the other; and as they renounced at the outset all hope of success that did not come of conviction, what set of reformers, in any age or country, can be found to surpass them in purity of motive and harmlessness of method, or better deserving of fair treatment and a candid hearing?
The devil of slavery, however, that had possessed this nation, perceiving that his time had come to be exorcised, and being no less an ass than his kind are commonly reputed to be, set up in the beginning this cry against the Abolitionists: “Our slaves are well-treated, happy and contented!" and in the same breath:” Your agitation will breed insurrection and San Domingo!" And this absurd, contradictory utterance has been repeated ever since to this day. It is not our present purpose to examine the true condition of the slave at the South, since half a million Northern men are now enabled to determine that from personal encounter and observation, and will be likely hereafter to report upon it by their votes as they now do by their letters home. Neither need we inquire what eloquence of speech or subtlety of argument could lead four million contented human beings to discover misery in bliss, and to murder their benefactors; above all, could persuade, as the Abolitionists have done, half the nation to believe in the perniciousness of an institution divinely appointed, and to stick to their belief in the face of certain war. We desire only to avail ourselves of the confession involved in the charge against emancipation, that it would, result in the massacre of the masters by their slaves. Such an issue would not prove that liberty was an evil, but that slavery must indeed be the sum of all villanies to call for a retribution like that. And as some people are willing, and others desirous, that slavery should return in its integrity to the Union, we aim to show, in what follows, that the Abolitionists have ever been the best friends and counsellors of the slaveholder, though rejected and persecuted by him. 
Mrs. Child, in her “Right Way the Safe Way," has abundantly proved that emancipation proceeding from the master was never attended with danger to him. The island of Santa Cruz, moreover, is an instance of liberty gained by insurrection without the wanton destruction of a single life, when the blacks outnumbered the whites by eight to one. It may therefore be assumed that gratitude for deliverance obliterates all desire for revenge, at least in the African race: <illegible> of the Abolitionists been heeded, no violence or disorder would have attended giving freedom to the slave. Now, suppose the system to continue. Do peace and quiet reign? Let us see. Mr. Coffin, in his valuable tract on Slave Insurrections, enumerates nineteen risings throughout the United States between 1712 and 1831, inclusive. Of these, South Carolina claims nine, (and a tenth might be added,) of which one was dignified by the name of “war"-that of 1730-and three others occurred in one and the same year. New York counts two, of which the punishments were burning alive. Virginia reckons four; Massachusetts, Georgia, North Carolina and Pennsylvania, one each. Everybody is familiar with the outbreak in Tennessee during the Fremont campaign, when the slaves, as if foreseeing the 31st of August, 1861, welcomed their deliverer before he could extend his hand to save. Nor must it
it be overlooked, first, that our knowledge of undoubted insurrections is exceedingly scant, since such is the slaveholder's interest and indeed security; second, that we must suppose many to have been suppressed without public alarm and rumor; and, third, that the larger movements have spread or carried their terror to every slave State, however remote. Thus Nat Turner, operating with half a dozen men near the Dismal Swamp, threw New Orleans into a panic; and thus it must ever happen in a slave community, united by a common guilt and hanging upon a common fear.
Here, then, we see slavery breeding its own disquiet, its own San Domingo, its own destruction. Abolitionists, who least of all can be convicted of inciting slaves to revolt, have nothing to do with the inevitable product of the system itself. All of these nineteen insurrections antedate the abolition movement, and all but one were primarily the work of slaves. Yet, to the slaveholder, this is not the only ground of alarm. Denmark Vesey, who almost annihilated Charleston in 1822, was a freedman whose children were slaves; and his attempt was the occasion of the law imprisoning colored seamen who arrive at that port, just as Gabriel suggested to the Virginians the idea of colonizing freed and otherwise dangerous blacks. With Vesey were also implicated certain of the poorer whites, not, of course, from a regard for the rights of the slaves, but from a willingness to participate in the plunder of their haughty superiors. A still further source of peril to the South has always been war with a foreign power, as when, in 1768, one Capt. John Wilson, a British officer in Boston, sought to employ the slave population for the furtherance of his majesty's cause; and, in the same conflict, in 1775, when Lord Dunmore did, with more authority, summon Virginia's serfs to arms and liberty. That, however, which must have added a crowning terror to the guilty despots of the South was the assault by John Brown upon their hate full institution. Then it was seen that vice, however in trenched or buttressed, cannot escape the aggression, of virtue, which it courts by its very existence. I iniquity must withstand the shocks not only of it immediate victims, but of those seemingly the most remote and unconcerned, then indeed its time is short So the South reasoned before she went to war, an though she might return as she departed, she coul but do so with fear and trembling.
Who, now, desire that slavery should return? They who pretend to an anxious regard for the throats a Southern lords; yet with what humanity, in face of the foregoing facts? Will you reply, We must ameliorate the condition of the slaves? Of Gabriel's are a complices, it is said by a Virginian of the time: “I consists within my knowledge, that many of these wretches have been treated with the utmost tenderness by their masters, and were more like children than slaves;" and of Vesey's, by a South Carolinian: “they were, among the most humanely treated treate negroes in the city." At least, they shall have the Word of God, you contend. Gabriel turned his Bib into a recruiting book; Denmark Vesey did <illegible> same; Nat Turner knew his by heart. Vesey's child<illegible> supporters were members of the church. Will you
<c06>
then, forbid the slave all knowledge, and reduce <illegible> if possible, to the condition of the brute? It is so possible. “Can man," asked a Virginia delegress whose lips were unsealed by Nat Turner's attempt" " Can man be in the midst of freemen, and not know what freedom is? Can he feel that he has the power to assert his liberty, and will he not do it? You is with the certainty of Time's current, he will do it welcome he has the power. The data are before us and it; at every man can work out the process for himself. so a death-struggle must come between the two classes, is the one or the other will be extinguished for ever. Who on contemplate such a catastrophe as even possible, this be indifferent?" Those, let us answer, who would be indifferent? » Those, let as answer, who <illegible> this day renew or confirm in the South the voice whose ruinous explosion knows no law, nor sex, age. Between them and the Abolitionists, let the world be judge on which side is cruelty, and on which is mercy.-w. p. G. 
A DISTINCTION WITHOUT A DIFFERENCE. 
These days of revolution are constantly Presenting us with strange phenomena. Problems, and <illegible> come up for solution. Men find themselves <illegible> by the force of events into inexplicable positions. The American sphinx is propounding riddles which require more than an cedipus to an untangle.
Not the least amusing phenomenon is the <illegible> of ideas which the new order of things occasion. Few people dreamed that the national wheels <illegible> ever get out of the old Union ruts. To hold such a idea was worse than disbelief in the Catechism or the Rule of Three. So, as we go jolting over the prepped rough and untried road, what wonder that the faculties are shaken? Men find it difficult to locate or one identify themselves. Here are ministers who though that they were grounded on the immutable <illegible> of the Constitution, who, in the troublous, day of fugitive slave excitements, were eloquent in depicting the majesty of law, now find themselves preaching anti-slavery sermons. Here are editors who have always stigmatized and ridiculed Abolitionists, and in their confusion of ideas still <illegible> a who yet print, daily, sentiments more hostile to slavery than those for which the Liberator was mobbed is 1835. Merchants on ‘Change, of eminent gravity and conservative reputation, in their indignation at Southern perfidy, burst into severer denunciations of the slaveholders than lips of anti-slavery orators ever uttered. 
And just here comes in the paradox. Hardly one of these men, be he minister, editor or merchant, but not feels himself insulted to be called an Abolitionists. Not swifter does the suspected heretic hasten to clear himself of an unorthodox imputation. How they the plain, and modify, and discriminate! The tidal more of this great struggle has swept them all from their sandy footholds to the solid rock, and the first thing they do is to try and demonstrate that they have never changed their base. As a proof of the assertion, they abuse the Abolitionists as heartily as ever, though practically occupying their ground.
Abolitionist! What potency, what terror there is in that name! At the South, they use it as a spell with which to frighten the women and the children; at the North, it terrifies grown men. Lowell says-
" There is more force in names
Than most men dream of; and a lie may keep Its throne a whole age longer, if it skulk
Behind the shield of some fair-seeming names'.
So, also, is it sure that truth may be kept back, one concealed, if not” a whole age longer," yet for a long time, behind the barrier of a foul- seeming name. 
Americans are less sensitive to the thing than to its name. The crack of the slave-whip and the charting of human fetters their nerves could well withstand, but “the harsh and vituperative language of the Abolitionists," how it grated upon their sensitive organization! The wail of the suffering slave went up to deaf cars, but the faintest whisper of an Abolitionists almost produced convulsions.
It is a question whether this generation, which is devoting itself, its time and money, to the emancipation of the slave, will ever conquer its <illegible> prejudice to the name Abolitionist. It will be left for the children to discover that, instead of the raw-head- and-bloody-bones which the parents imagined to lurk behind this appellation, there stood, with meekness, patience and firmness, the angel that was to lead the nation into Christian liberty and light.
It is strange that men of ordinary sense do not perceive, the folly and waste of time in attempting to discriminate between those who do the work of the Abolitionist, and the Abolitionist himself. The South makes no such discrimination- why should we! While Everett and Cushing are careful to explain that they are untainted with Abolitionism, the Richmond Dispatch denounces them as incomparably worse than Wendell Phillips. His life is as safe in the
the Southern Confederacy as theirs.
The truth is, that Abolitionist and loyalist are convertible terms; and he who is afraid to accept the first, does not deserve the second. Beau regard sees Beauregard the fact clearly, and denounces the whole Union any as Abolitionists.
As long as we agree in the same purpose, to emancipate every bondman, to wipe out the traces of slavery so completely that a future rebellion shall be impossible, to regenerate the nation and reestablish the Union as it ought to be, why should we quarrel about names? We want unity among ourselves, not division; and that unity must be upon principles settled and eternal as the law of gravitation.-W.L.G.,JR. 
TO GE0RGE THOMPSON,
And the Friends in London, Liverpool, Edinburgh, Glasgow your, and others, who have recently expressed <illegible> sympathy with Emancipation in the United States.
Dear FRIENDS-Feeling your affectionate sympathy to pervade every pulsation of our being, we earnestly desire to set before you our feelings of gratitude to you, and to the great Inspirer and Author of every good, for your expressions of profound interest in the cause that is now shaking our nation from centre to circumference. We gratefully acknowledge your labor in behalf of universal liberty; we feel that although it will more immediately affect your one well-being, in lifting you nearer to the great truths of existence, it will also extend its influence, its revivifying aid, to the most remote corner of our globe. Therefore we feel to bless you in behalf of our nation, and in behalf of the world, for your untiring and earnest endeavor to raise the standard of equality and harmony, and thereby shed the glorious rays of “pure and undefiled religion” on the darkness that is brooding so gloomily over our country. We doubt not the result, knowing as we do that the good and the true of all nations are on the side of liberty; but we feel that every instrumentality in aid of the poor and suffering should be brought to bear at the present crisis, in order to hasten the day of jubilee, the glorious day when all the lowly and oppressed shall bask in the sunshine of God's love, and receive the intellectual, moral and spiritual culture designed for every being in the universe. It is peculiarly impressive to our <illegible>. Her nature at this time, amid the sorrows of broken hearts for lost husbands, sons and brothers, who have given their precious lives to save our country from the hands of the spoiler, thus to have a king word from you, assuring us of your heartfelt sympathy to the cause which is so dear to our inherent love of freedom, and strengthening the hearts not only of our people, but that of President Lincoln, who has moved with such care lest he should take a wrong step. We are all thankful to have him sustained and encouraged to go bravely on, until every slave shall stand up in his manhood, and thus nobly carry out the original design of our glorious republic. We ask your continued aid, feeling that with that we shall be stronger in the holy purpose that so strenuously calls for our remitted devotion and fidelity. May you, with us, receive strength from the Fount of all goodness, enabling us to stand firmly by, until the complete consummation of our object is achieved!
SARAH D. FISH, 
Rochester, N.Y. BENJAMIN FISH.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
ANOTHER SPEECH BY GEORGE THOMPSON.
A crowded audience met in the Assembly-Room of the Town Hall, at Blackburn, England, on Wednesday evening, 18th ult., to hear addresses delivered by George Thompson, Esq., of London, Peter Sinclair, Esq., of Manchester, the Rev. C. W. Denison, chaplain to the "George Griswold," and other gentlemen, on the American question. The meeting was presided over by the Mayor (J. B. S. Sturdy, Esq.)
GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., on rising, was received in a most enthusiastic manner. He said:-
The free States of America have always been opposed to slavery, and they are entirely in earnest in seeking the abolition of the accursed institution of slavery. Up to this time, they have not had an opportunity of accomplishing their desire. (Hear, hear.) I have some knowledge of the sentiments of the people of England, and some knowledge, acquired in my two visits, of the sentiments of the people in the free States of America, and I know perfectly well that both people are in favor of the complete overthrow of slavery, (cheers,) and the extermination, root and branch, of that accursed institution, (continued cheering,) -quit as much in earnest as were the people of England when a portion of the slave trade was abolished in 1806-quite as much as the people were in earnest when Catholic emancipation was passed in 1829: the American people are quite as much in earnest as the English people were in favor of the destraction of rotten boroughs and the establishment of popular representations in 1832; the Americans are quite as much in earnest as the English people were <illegible> favor of the abolition of colonial slavery in 1833; the Americans are quite as much in earnest as the people of England were to get rid of the curse and the scandal of the Corn Laws during the palmiest days of the Anti-Corn Law League. (Great cheering.) 
I have been given to understand that some gentleman of standing and position in Blackburn has said, that those who are on this platform, to advocate the passing of these resolutions, are either knaves or fools. I should like to know who that gentleman is. I should very much like to see him. I suppose that he is between the two. I pity his condition-(ironical cheering)-and I hope the gentleman is present. (Derisive cheering.) If he is, I trust I shall be able to show him, by information, by understanding, and by conviction, that slavery is the cause of the deplorable eruption of the States, the union of which was, but the other day, complete from the shores of the Atlantic to the shores of the far distant Pacific. These States had enrolled themselves under a Constitution which said-" Our Union is one and inseparable, now and forever." Those States are now at war, and one million of men are fiercely opposing one another. (Hear, hear.) I take all the shame, all the excesses, all the crimes, all the ignorance, all the blood, and all the guilt-for time and for eternity-and lay them down, with all their aggravated and accumulated horrors, at the foot of that villanous, tremendous and rebellious conspiracy that has supported and sought to establish slavery. (Loud cheering.) The man highest in rank, who, knowing the facts of the question, who gives his sympathy earnestly and heartily to the South, I will not call such a man a fool or a knave, but a traitor to the best interests of his own country, and an enemy to the human race. (Loud cheering.) There never has been, in the history of America, one cause of quarrel that deserved equal consideration, or was a cause of as much danger as slavery. (Hear, hear.) All that has ever threatened to estrange man from man, provoke rival interests between State and State, and perpetuate dissensions, has been slavery. It has been the dark cloud on the horizon, and I saw it when it was no bigger than a man's hand. All that has since followed is the natural and inevitable result-nay, the necessary result that might be expected to follow. Time was when the Mayflower carried the Pilgrim Fathers to the wilderness of the west, to worship God according to their own consciences, and the sons of the Pilgrim Fathers were worthy of their sires. Animated by the spirit of evil, and with the intention to establish slavery, there set out about the same time a vessel from Spain, laden with settlers for the James River. One vessel went North, and the other South-(hear, hear,)-so that freedom and slavery strove at that remote period to convert the new world into a place for their respective settlements. It is written in the Book of Books, that when the sons of God presented themselves, a certain sable personage also presented himself. (Cheers.) I said, when I was last in America, that there had been one great struggle for independence; but that the next would be for liberty. (Cheers.) Slavery has always been the evil genius of America. It was a difficulty even in the assembly that adopted the Declaration of Independence. The sons of the Pilgrim Fathers had nothing to do, on the one hand, but to decide whether they should preserve the Union, or whether, on the other hand, they should break it up, and become again subjected to England. They conceded the demands, and, with averted heads and trembling hands, signed the minute. It was a fatal compromise. It would have been a mercy to America had the Union then been dissolved, and it would have been better for the Constitution to have then perished, rather than that the deputies of liberty from the North should have been guilty of betraying their true interests. It would have been better to let the South rot and perish in her own infamy, rather than that slavery should have lived to be the execration of the world. (Cheers.) Against these compromises of the Constitution thus adopted and received by the people, no President protested from the time of George Washington until Abraham Lincoln, and no other President besides Lincoln ever proposed to emancipate a single slave. It was one of the grounds of the Constitution, that slavery should be permitted; States merged their rights as sovereign States into the Union, still retaining the power to regulate, control, diminish, abolish or prohibit slavery within their own States.
Slavery has been preserved in every law as a fundamental part of the Constitution; but it was never contemplated by those more particularly interested, that slavery would assume those gigantic dimensions it has since exhibited. Before the Declaration of Independence, the King of England was charged with having sanctioned the slave trade, an act unworthy of a Christian king, thereby bringing a scandal on the Christian religion. Slavery was not an institution that the North would have willingly kept company with; and to charge them with willingly incorporating slavery among their institutions is to utter something that is false. Slavery was the difficulty when the Constitution was prepared. All honor to the North that they did resist, and nothing but the prevalent and popular idea at that time that Union was safety would have led them to be associated with slaveholders. The Northern statesmen, for their number, were the most illustrious body of men that ever did assemble; but when Congress met, the slavery difficulty presented itself. In that assembly were the Hancocks, the Greens, Madisons, Jeffersons, and that noble man, first in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen, George Washington. (Loud cheers.) But the demon of slavery was there. (Hear, hear.) What said slavery? You shall grant to us the slave trade for twenty years, and a representation based upon three fifths of the slave population. At the end of that period, the slave traffic was to cease. The consequence of the arrangement entered into giving the slave States that constituent power, they were able to send men to Congress in sufficient number to carry what measures they required. It had been provided by an organic law, that slavery should not pass the boundary of the Ohio river. Knowing this, the slave States then began to divide their own States for the purpose of creating more representatives to Congress, since it had been agreed that each State, large or small, should send two members. Louisiana, a great tract of territory, was purchased from France, and a new slave State created out of it and brought into the Union. All new States could send two new Senators to Congress, and old ones no more.
Having obtained all these concessions, it was sup- 
<c02>
posed that the pro-slavery men would have been satisfied. Not so. They had cast a covetous glance on Missouri, took their slaves, built up a community there, and then asked for admission into the Union. There were in the North, even in those days, men who feared the results of these aggressions on free territory, and the speeches delivered in America on the question, in 1819 and '20, will satisfy any man that the Northerners feared the encroachments that were being made: We have heard a great deal of what the Abolitionists in England said and did; of Buxton, Sharpe, and Wilberforce, who are worthy of being help up at every step in modern history; but, even in their time, for every Abolitionist in England, there were ten in America. I speak not thus to disparage the names of my illustrious countrymen, who did so much for the freedom of the slave. I am a patriot, but my country is the world, and all mankind my brothers equally with my fellow-subjects. (Cheers.)
Under Henry Clay, another compromise was effected. He said to the men of the North-"You take Maine," and to the men of the South-"You shake hands with the North," and thus was effected the Missouri treaty. After that came the establishment of the line known as Mason and Dixon's line, whereby slavery was not to be permitted beyond 36 degrees 30 minutes north latitude. The North thought then that the question was settled. When I first visited America, in 1834, and pointed out to them the punishment that must follow a nation permitting slavery within its borders, they said-"What do you come here for, disturbing our institutions?" I replied-"You have two and a half millions of slaves." They answered-"We have nothing to do with it; we are not responsible." At that time, a man known as an Abolitionist could not pass into the Southern States without danger of being lynched, or tarred and feathered. In 1834, '35 and '36, that champion of the cause, whose name I mention with very great respect, William Lloyd Garrison, first blew the trumpet of Universal Emancipation. I am sure you will agree with me that I have mentioned the name of the first anti-slavery leader in America.
Another difficulty occurred when it was sought to bring Texas into the Union as a slaveholding State. This vast country, 1,3000,000 square miles in extent, was sought to be made into a slave State, and the battle that took place, in American opinion, was to prevent the appropriation of this land for slave purposes. It was a grand and interesting struggle to wring 1,300,000 square miles of the new world for the cause of freedom, where the white man might settle, and the oppressed of all nations take shelter. The country that slavery had was not broad enough, and the slaveholders, like the horse leech, were continually crying-Give! give! (Loud cheers.) Those, however, who have visited America, North or South, will know that the American is a dual sort of man-a party man, who cannot be separated from his party. Aminadab Jenkins, otherwise a good man, was bound by the platform of his party, and would as soon part with his skin as his political association. (Laughter.) When they were shown the tendency of slavery, it was common for them to reply, " What can we do? We are bound to our party." If that gentleman who has termed us knaves and fools will expend sixpence a year in the purchase of American literature on this subject, he will find himself an egregious ass, and not us. (Cheers.) Slavery, with its covetous nature, crossed the Sabine river and entered the Mexican territory, bringing on the Mexican war. No free State has seceded. I find, by the most incontestible evidence, that there is but one opinion about this war from Maine to Mexico. Ask Jefferson Davis's coachman, ask the Congress of the States, what is the reason for the war, and they will all say that slavery is the cause.  Some people imagine that the tariffs were the cause; but I have had a gentleman staying in my house who has been nine months in Montgomery, and he informs me that during that time he has never heard the tariffs mentioned as the cause of the war.
Passing from the Texan and Mexican questions, we come to the peopling of California. The slave-owners cast longing eyes towards that region, and the famous omnibus measure was passed through the house, but in the meantime the gold diggings had been discovered; and the gold-diggers made a constitution for themselves, and declared for free institutions and against slavery. (Cheers.) The North did not wake up to the struggle until the South had acquired power and dominion. The Americans are divided into factions, and thereby rendered weak. There are the Republicans, the Democrats, the Copperheads, the Locofocos, and the Know Nothings. I will tell you a story about the Copperheads. There are boldfaced villains and wretches in the North, who would willingly sell it into the hands of the South. They obtained their name of Copperheads from the fact that when the copperhead snake sloughs its skin, it loses its sight, and the copperhead conveys it towards its prey. So would these wretches convey the North to the South. (Loud cheers.)
Working men, to-night I tell you that this is more than the question of slavery for the black. It is the enslavement of all who desire to see labor free. (Loud cheers.) From a gentleman in Kentucky, who has been suffering in consequence of this war, and who is holding out in a bold and courageous manner, under extremely difficult circumstances, robbed of all he possessed, I have a letter in which he says it is the intention of the Southern planters to enslave all who live by their labor, by robbing them of the franchise, by making the qualification to vote the possession of a certain number of slaves; and if this monstrous attempt, this vile and wicked conspiracy succeeds, it will be a blow at the liberty of all free people. (Loud cheers.) You may point to the empires of the past, if you wish to adduce historical evidence of the state of those communities that have tolerated and practised slavery. What of Egypt, that enslaved the chosen people, until Moses arose, the lawgiver of God, who for thirty years preached the abolition of slavery in the hearing of Pharaoh, as the command of God, saying-"Let my people go"? And they were led out with a mighty hand and a strong arm, and the curse fell upon the Egyptians. What of Carthage and the Carthagenian power, that had incorporated slavery in her institutions?  She has perished. What of Rome, that for centuries held sway over the world, and legalized the traffic in human bodies? Her glory has passed away. The decrees of Divine Providence will not permit departures from the laws of justice and mercy without punishment. If all history teems with evidence that slave powers rot and die, shall it be permitted that an incarnate demon like Jefferson Davis shall be permitted to reverse, in this nineteenth century, the decrees of Divine Providence? (Cries of "No, no," and loud cheering.) Though God has permitted it for a time, the thunders of his vengeance are now waking, and that vile and abominable confederacy, leagued for the destruction of human liberty, having drawn the sword, shall perish by the sword. Up to this time, the Northern resources have not been developed. Henceforth, the cry shall be for the Union and the abolition of slavery, and the millions of slaves shall taste that liberty to which we believe all men are entitled. Wait a little longer; hope and suffer a little more, and then shall dawn the day of liberty for the world. (Long continued applause.)
Councillor SHACKLETON proposed a vote of thanks to Mr. G. Thompson and Mr. Sinclair. He did not think there would be a dissentient to the resolution, land he was also of opinion that many of them had been greatly enlightened by the remarks which had been uttered by the various speakers. (Applause.)
Rev. D. HERBERT seconded the resolution, and observed that in thanking such an orator as George Thompson, they were merely thanking themselves. They did not thank him for the toil and pains which he takes, for that has its own reward. They thanked him because he expresses their feelings for them. Their thanks were also due to Mr. Sinclair, for the amount of light he had conveyed to them. The one opened their eyes, and the other directed them to see things as he saw them. 
The motion was unanimously carried.
<c03>
SHIP BUILDING FOR THE "SO STYLED"
CONFEDERATE STATES. 
The following petition has been transmitted to Mr. Bright for presentation to the House of Commons, and to the Duke of Argyle for presentation to the House of Lords:-
To the Honorable Commons of Great Britain and Ireland in Parliament assembled:
The Petition of the Union and Emancipation Society for the North of England, respectfully sheweth:- 
That the Union and Emancipation Society originated on the 31st of December last, at a Meeting held in the Free-trade Hall, Manchester, at which at least 6,000 persons were present, and since then it has received the support of large public meetings held in various towns in the North of England.
That the objects of this Society are to spread sound information respecting the origin and causes of the unfortunate struggle now raging in America, to support the efforts being made by the United States to secure the entire abolition of Negro Slavery, and to ensure a practical neutrality on the part of England as between the two belligerents.
That having these objects in view, the attention of your petitioners has been directed to the building and fitting out of war-ships for one of the belligerents, in violation of the Foreign Enlistment Act and of the Queen's proclamation.
That your petitioners have read the intercepted despatches from the "so styled" Confederate Government to their agents in Europe, which, in the opinion of your petitioners, establish beyond doubt an intention on the part of the said government to contract for the building of war-ships in this country, and to connect certain of her Majesty's subjects with these' illegal transactions. 
That your petitioners are informed on reliable authority, that in pursuance of instructions in the said despatches some forty war-ships are now being built in the United Kingdom, which are really intended for the Confederate Government, although ostensibly they are being built for the Emperor of China, or some other equally unlikely potentate. 
That your petitioners have heard with profound regret and deep sorrow, that a ship called the Alabama, built by an English firm under similar circumstances, has, according to the most recent accounts, destroyed or captured, under circumstances of unusual atrocity, about forty ships engaged in the peaceful pursuit of commerce. 
That the proceedings of the Alabama have given rise to a feeling of great irritation in the United States, and your petitioners fear that if more ships of the same character, and for the same object, are allowed to leave this country, this feeling will increase to such an extent as to jeopardize the peaceful relations of the two nations.
That waiving, in the meantime, all question as to the morality of supplying armed assistance to people now in arms against the government of their country for the avowed purpose of extending and perpetuating slavery; and who have also avowed that " slavery is the corner-stone of their Constitution," your Petitioners are of opinion that a war with the United States, arising out of the building and fitting out of these ships, would be a conflict in defence of our own dishonor, and in support of a breach of our own laws, and as such would be viewed with horror and disgust by the vast population of the North of England.
That your Petitioners are fully aware of the difficulties which surround this question; and although they are in possession of voluminous evidence, tending to establish the facts complained of, they admit that they are not in a position to produce such evidence upon oath, as will criminate the guilty parties. That whilst your Petitioners recognise the principle, that no man ought to be held guilty of a violation of the law, excepting on the most clear and incontestable evidence, they nevertheless submit that in all other supposed breaches of the criminal law of this country, it is sufficient to establish a prima facie case, in order to put the law in motion. That your Petitioners believe that if Her Majesty's Government were to apply the same principle to the present case, they would have no insuperable difficulty in obtaining such evidence as would enable them to vindicate the law, and the honor of the nation.
Your Petitioners therefore having regard to the momentous interests at stake, would respectfully urge your Honorable House to take such steps as shall induce Her Majesty's Government to make immediate inquiry into the alleged facts; and by prompt action to stop the sailing of any more war ships intended for the " so styled " Confederate Government. 
And your Petitioners will ever pray. 
On behalf of the Union and Emancipation Society of Manchester,
THOMAS BAYLEY POTTER, President. 
Offices, 51, Piccadilly, Manchester, March 23, 1863. 
LIVERPOOL, March 30. The following petition to the House of Commons has been forwarded to Mr. Foster for presentation:-
To the Honorables of the House of Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in Parliament Assembled:
The Emancipation Society respectfully showeth that the steamship Alabama was built and equipped in this port for the purpose, as since developed, of preying upon the commercial navy of a country with which we are and were then at peace; that the Alabama was, if not entirely, at least in a very great proportion, manned with British seamen; that Her Majesty's Government was duly informed of the character of the ship before she sailed, as is shown by the orders afterwards given to detain her at Queenstown or at Nassau; that the illegality of the conduct of those that built and equipped the ship and those who enlisted men to sail and work her was practically acknowledged in the order of the detention; that since the Alabama escaped to sea, the commander has burned or put to ransom many vessels belonging to the commercial marine of the United States. He has burned ships by night with the effect, if not the object, of bringing other ships to a similar fate; thus violating those generous laws, which prevail among seamen, and outraging the noblest feelings of human nature; that many subjects of Her Majesty have also suffered heavy losses by the indiscriminate destruction of their property on board these American vessels, and the only satisfaction the owners have been able to obtain is the official information that they may apply for redress to the Confederate Courts, Courts which do not now, and never may exist.
That the Alabama has frequently entered British colonial ports, but, either for want of proper instruction from the home authorities, or through the guilty connivance of the officials, whose duty it is to carry out the orders of the government, she has not been detained; that whether the United States have or have not just legal grounds for demanding indemnity for the damage inflicted upon their citizens by vessels equipped in our ports and manned by our sailors, must be left to the decision of the legal advisers of the Crown; but it is of the greatest importance that the irritation which such lawless conduct naturally excites should be allayed, and that a friendly nation should not, by the hostility of any portion of Her Majesty's subjects, be treated as a public enemy.
The other ships are now being built and fitted out as war vessels, and, it is currently believed, they are to be employed in the service of the so-styled Confederate States, with the object of still further preying upon the commerce of our neighbors.
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray your honorable body to take such steps as shall induce Her Majesty's government to make immediate inquiry into the alleged facts, and, by prompt action, to stop the sailing of any more war ships for the so-styled Confederate States of North America. And your petitioners will ever pray. 
On behalf of the Liverpool Emancipation Society. 
CHARLES WILSON, Chairman. Liverpool, March 25, 1863.
THE UNION AND EMANCIPATION SOCIETY. 
The following resolution has been adopted by the Union and Emancipation Society, and forwarded officially to the Premier, the Secretaries for the Foreign and Home Departments, the Attorney General, and the Speaker of the House of Commons:-
"That the Executive of the Union and Emancipation Society of Manchester has heard with feelings of humiliation that certain Englishmen, including some members of the British House of Commons, are concerned in the illegal enterprise of building and fitting out piratical ships, in aid of the American Slaveholders' Confederacy, contrary to public policy, national honor, and the Queen's proclamation of neutrality. The Executive hereby records its protest against all such disreputable practices, and calls upon Parliament and her Majesty's government to institute the needful steps forthwith to bring these delinquents before a tribunal of public justice, and to put an effectual stop to all such proceedings." 
Offices 51, Piccadilly, Manchester, March 3d, 1863.
The following letter from the Foreign Office has been received by Mr. THOMAS B. POTTER, President of the Union and Emancipation Society, respecting the building of war vessels for the Confederates, similar to the Alabama:-
"FOREIGN OFFICE, March 11th, 1863. 
SIR,-I am directed by Earl Russell to acknowledge the receipt of the copy, signed by you, of a resolution of the executive of the Union and Emancipation Society of Manchester, dated the 3d instant, in which that Society records its protest against the building and fitting out in this country of armed vessels for the government of the so-styled Confederate States, and calls upon Parliament and her Majesty's government to put an effectual stop to such proceedings.
<c04>
I am, in reply, to request that you will call the attention of the executive of the Society to the provisions of the act 59 George III., cap. 69. It will be observed in that act. that evidence on oath is required to enable proceedings to be taken against persons charged with contravening it.
I am, sir, your most obedient humble servant, 
(Signed) E. HAMMOND.
Thomas B. Potter, Esq., President of the Union and Emancipation Society of Manchester,51, Piccadilly, Manchester." 
MISS COBBE'S REPLY TO MRS. STOWE.
At a meeting of the Committee of the Manchester Ladies' Anti Slavery Society, held in Manchester on February 28,1863, the following resolutions were adopted:-
Resolved, That this Committee, having read Miss Cobbe's spirited and intelligent rejoinder to Mrs. Stowe's reply to the "Address of the Women of England," desire to testify their approval and adoption of the sentiments it contains.
Resolved, That while lamenting the sympathy so generally expressed in England with the Confederate States, they consider it is in great part attributable to the difficulty of discerning that the Federal Government has been actuated by true anti-slavery principle; but they joyfully hail the recent revival of anti-slavery feeling in this country, since the American Government has adopted measures unmistakably tending towards total emancipation. 
Signed on behalf of the Committee, 
R. WHITELEGGE, Secretary.
REPORT OF REV. G. H. HEPWORTH.
NEW ORLEANS, March 24, 1863.
MAJOR-GENERAL N. P. BANKS: SIR-In obedience to your request, I have attempted to carry into effect your plan respecting the relations between the planters and the negroes. I have visited every Provost Marshal between New Orleans and Baton Rouge, and ascertained with some degree of accuracy the facts concerning the fugitive negroes in this Department. As I feared would be the case, I found their condition to be most deplorable. Indeed, so had was it that I am sure it would have been the cause of some dreadful epidemic had no remedy been provided. The negroes have been crowding within our lines every day, in every possible state of destitution. Some have brought bundles on their heads containing their little all, but most have come with nothing but what they wore. It has been quite impossible to furnish them all with proper places to live in, so they have been allowed to build huts for themselves, or to occupy certain deserted houses, while rations have been served upon which they have subsisted. 
Still, the necessary change in their mode of living, and the habits arising partly from their idleness and partly from their proximity to our camps, which have been contracted, have already begun to exhibit fatal results. It is not merely an act of humanity, but also a positive necessity, for Government to provide some remedy for this alarmingly increasing evil. 
At your suggestion, I carried into effect the proposition which you made to the planters, by which you promised to use all legitimate measures to induce the negro to return to his plantation, and secure his services to the planter during the coming season, on condition that the planter would bind himself to pay his negro a stipulated sum per month, to treat him properly, and to feed and clothe him; the planter punishing his negro only through the military authorities, and the negro having redress for any actual wrong through the same tribunal. I confess that I at first entertained serious misgivings as to the practical value of the plan. I feared to give any inducements to the negro to return to his plantation, for very obvious reasons. 
I did not at first see how he could be properly protected, nor did I understand how the proposition could be carried out in good faith by either party. I feared, moreover, that the negro would get the impression that the Government is unfriendly to him, and unwilling to help him in his efforts to be free. It seemed to me that, in carrying out the plan, I might seem to be thrusting back into slavery a man who had proved his desire for freedom by running away from his master and his home. 
Determined, however, to put the matter to its practical test, and trusting more to your sagacity and reputical test, and trusting more to your sagacity and reputation as a humane man than to my own inexperience, I went to Thibodaux to commence the work. I found there some five hundred negroes, most of whom were in a state of great excitement. They were in a state of great excitement. They were huddled together in a few rude huts of their own construction, with no floors, and a roof open to every shower. A few of the men had found work on the roads or the levee. Some of the women were earning a few picayunes by washing for the soldiers, but most were living in necessary idleness, and getting into bad ways. 
I had them called together, and told them that the Government was friendly to them, but that it expected them to work for a living. I assured them that they would be protected against any of the outrages of which they complain, and then asked if they were willing to return to their plantations. They told me that they did not wish to live in idleness-that they would be glad to go to work. None of them showed any reluctance to go upon some Government plantation, though all showed a great unwillingness to return to their old masters. I again assured them that they should be treated in every respect as hired hands, and then found that nearly all cheerfully assented to my proposition. 
To my great regret, I found an alarming mortality among the children, caused by the unfavorable location which had been chosen for their huts, and by their mode of living. 
I then visited Napoleonville, where I found that forty-seven planters had already entered into the arrangement, and that the plan promised good results both for the planter and the negro. In no case has any compulsion been used. The negro was simply told that he must work either upon the plantation, for a given sum, as wages, or upon the levee and roads for his rations only. 
From Napoleonville I went to Donaldsonville, and thence to Baton Rouge. At the latter place I found about twelve hundred negroes, who, though every thing was done for their comfort that was practicable, were in a deplorable condition. They seemed to live in a sort of community, regardless of the laws of virtue and cleanliness. I was informed by the superintendent that he has had under his charge an average of about a thousand, and that since December last, one hundred and seventy-two have died. This terrible per centage of mortality proves conclusively that some measures must be taken at once to change their condition. If left to themselves, they will inevitably breed pestilence. I telegraphed to Lieut. Hanks, Superintendent of Contrabands in New Orleans, who will see that most of them are placed on Government plantations. 
Having accomplished this much, I determined to visit the plantations to which the negroes had returned, to hold a conference with the planters and negroes, and thus ascertain the real merits of the plan. I have visited from sixty to seventy-five plantations, remaining upon each one a sufficient time; and I have to say that all my doubts have fled. I am confident that the plan is not only satisfactory to the planter and the negro, but also it really affords to the black man an experience which will do much to fit him for the freedom to which he is destined if the war continues. It insures a crop for the coming season; it saves the Government the expense of feeding the negro; and by remunerating him for his labor, it teaches him the use of money, and the value of his services. It, moreover, takes the peculiar sting from slavery by its tendency to elevate the black man to the position of the white laborer. As you have yourself very happily expressed it, "it gives the slave his future." He is vastly more comfortable in his plantation hut with his family about him, and protected by the Government, than he can possibly be in any position which we can afford him while the war continues. 
I think the negro understands this himself. I have talked with several thousands, and I find them far more intelligent, and better aware of the position of affairs, than I had been led to expect. I have no doubt that the negroes in this Department, reposing confidence in the Government, will remain cheerfully upon the plantations during the present season, trusting in Providence for that future of freedom to which I know they are all looking. 
I hope you will allow me to conclude by saying that our country should be grateful to you for this humane movement. I am sure that if the plan is carried out in the spirit and in the largeness of view with which it was conceived, the black man, nominally a slave to-day as much as ever in the parishes of this Department, will have as great facilities offered to him for fitting himself for freedom as are offered in any other part of our country. 
Thanking you for the confidence you have reposed in me by allowing me the honor of putting the plan to its practical test, I remain your obedient servant, 
GEORGE H. HEPWORTH.
THE AMERICAN EMANCIPATION COMMISSIONERS.
The Commissioners appointed by Mr. Secretary Stanton to investigate the condition of the colored population of the country, emancipated by acts of Congress and the President's proclamation, have recently held their first meeting at Washington. The names of the Commissioners have heretofore been announced, viz: Robert Dale Owen, of Indiana, James McKaye, of New York, and S. G. Howe, of Boston. Their commission from the Secretary of War gives them ample powers, and they will have every facility for the prosecution of their labors upon such a scale as to promise the most valuable results in answering the question: What shall be done with the negro? The Committee is an excellent one. 
<c05>
UNSUCCESSFUL ATTACK ON CHARLESTON.
The attack on the Rebel defences of Charleston harbor, which the nation so impatiently and hopefully expected, has been made, and has failed. It began on the 8th of this month, Admiral Dupont with nine ironclad vessels opening gire on Sumter and Moultrie, about 3 in the afternoon. A little before 5 the fleet withdrew, and the action ceased. It had been hotly contested on both sides not more than three-quarters of an hour, but, during that time, five out of the nine iron-clads were disabled by the enemy's fire, and one of them so badly injured that she sank next morning. The whole expedition has returned to Port Royal, and Charleston remains for the present in rebel hands. 
The causes of this repulse are not far to seek. They may be summed up in the general statement that the iron-clads were of insufficient strength for the work expected of them. The New Ironsides, Admiral Dupont's flagship, early became unmanageable, and for the most part was a spectator of the contest, though exposed to its perils. She appears to be unquestionably the strongest of the nine-having been hit sixty or seventy times without material injury, and, if she would steer, would be the most effective. The turret of the Passaic was disabled by a single shot. The Nantucket, the Nahant and the Patapsco, were so disabled as to be unable to renew the contest. The Keokuk was riddled by ninety shot, and finally sunk. On the whole iron-clad fleet were mounted just thirty two guns. In the rebel batteries were about three hundred. Against this enormous disproportion there could be no hope of success except in the invulnerability of the armored vessels, and when that failed, defeat became inevitable. 
It is to be remembered that this is the first time that iron-clad ships have been exposed to a heavy fire at short range-the only decisive test of their strength. Enough is now known to show that they need considerable alterations, but by no means enough to prove them failures. The experience of this contest will, of course, be used to improve them in all possible ways before it is renewed. 
The strength of the rebel defences is enormous. In addition to the concentrated fire which the fleet was compelled to sustain in approaching and attempting to pass Fort Sumter, they were met by obstacles in the channel of the most difficult kind. With vessels so unmanageable as the iron-clads, it was impossible to steer through the narrow passage left between piles and torpedoes and the other infernal contrivances that blocked the way, and it was perhaps equally impossible, under such a fire, to attempt to remove them. It is obvious enough that some means must be devised to render the monitors more easily handled before they can penetrate the labyrinth of such an approach. -N. Y. Tribune.
TROUBLE AMONG THE LONGSHOREMEN. A disturbance occurred, to-day, among the longshoremen, on the line of the East River, above the battery. The cause of the difficulty was the fact that negroes were employed on the docks, and white laborers, who were principally Irishmen, objected. To-day they undertook to beat the negroes. 
The plan was arranged in an underground bar-room in South street, and simultaneously this forenoon the Irishmen, among whom the mode of operations appeared to have been previously agreed on, set out upon a negro hunt. The largest proportion of the Irishmen proceeded to the docks, where about two hundred of the negroes were employed, and they pommelled them without mercy. The negroes defended themselves as well as they could, and one of their number presented a pistol at the rioters, which he fired three or four times, but it does not appear that any shots took effect. The police interfered and drove off the assailants, arresting the negro who fired the pistol, and one of the rioters. The others fled. 
Meanwhile, the Irishmen who had gone into the ward attacked all the negro porters, cartmen and laborers whom they could find, and subsequently the police went after the rioters, who were routed without a conflict. They were desirous of assaulting negroes, but declined to face the policemen, on sight of whom they made their escape. 
The negroes are all at work. They are represented by the police as sober, peaceable men, industrious, but declining to work for less than usual rates, and as being of a better class relatively than their persecutors.-New York Evening Post, 13th inst. 
MILITARY ORGANIZATION OF THE NEGROES.
HELENA, Ark., Monday, April 6, 1863. 
Adj.-Gen. Thomas arrived here to-day from Washington with full authority and for the purpose of organizing the negroes into regiments and arming them for service against the Rebels from Cairo to Vicksburg. Those who are unfit for military duty are to be set to work on the abandoned plantations, and the black troops will be used largely to protect the navigation and commerce of the river, to fight under white officers against guerrillas, and to protect themselves and their own fields and crops from the depredations of the enemy.
At Memphis, Gen. Thomas authorized the organization of light batteries of artillerists of black men, and will have the fortifications at this post manned by them. This afternoon the whole army at this place was called out to hear Gen. Thomas set forth this new policy of the Government. Seven thousand soldiers were present at the meeting at Fort Curtis, and received the announcement with great satisfaction and applause. Gen. Thomas also inculcated kindness and humanity to the blacks, and said they were capable of making good soldiers.
He said he was brought up in the South, among slaves, but he was now in favor of treating them as free men, and entitled to the rights of men. He informed the officers of the army that no one would be permitted to oppose or in any way interfere with this policy. Any disobedience of orders in regard to it would meet with prompt dismissal from the service. His speech was received with rapturous applause.
Gens. Prentiss, <illegible> and A. P. Hovey, the Hon. Mr. Mitchell, of Indiana, Cols. Cameron, Gill, Bussey, and Capt. Cameron followed in able speeches, fully indorsing this policy, and the immense audience of soldiers uncovered their heads, and gave cheer after cheer in rapturous approval of all that had been said. There is no news of importance from below. Gen. Thomas goes on to Vicksburg to inaugurate the new policy there.-Special Dispatch to the N. Y. Tribune.
NEGRO REGIMENTS AT BATON ROUGE. We make the following extract (says the Boston Journal) from a letter recently received in this city from an officer in one of the Massachusetts batteries, a very intelligent and judicious man. The letter is dated Baton Rouge, March 23d:-
"We have here three negro regiments. I am acquainted with many of the officers of one of them, and I see the regiment every day at their duties. The officers are all white. Formerly they were black, but as they had little command over their men, they were mustered out, and white officers put in. Encamped close to us here is a New York regiment, who are infinitely inferior as well drilled soldiers, or workers, to the negro regiment of which I speak. This negro regiment have with their spades and picks built extensive fortifications here under the direction of their officers, without any assistance from white labor. Besides, they drill as soldiers and keep their clothes and arms in better condition than many white regiments. Of course, this is mainly due to their officers; but when I see such valuable assistance rendered to our cause by the blacks, I regret that the bill to arm negroes did not pass Congress." 
EMPLOYMENT OF NEGROES. Adjutant General Thomas recently reviewed the regiments under General Buford, at Cairo, and subsequently made a speech to the soldiers, in which he took occasion to disclose one of his objects in visiting the Southwest. It was the policy of the government to deprive the rebels of laboring men. As fast as received, let them be organized into companies. He was authorized to form into regiments all suitable men, and place white officers over them, and put them to proper use in quieting the rebellion. General Thomas will visit all the posts in General Grant's command.
MORE COLORED SOLDIERS. The Elmira (N. Y.) Daily Advertiser says that the colored recruits who have gathered there left for Massachusetts on Tuesday evening, a little less than forty in number. They went off amid the congratulations of a multitude of friends and relations, who had followed them to the depot to pay their parting salutations.
GREAT UNION DEMONSTRATION IN NEW YORK.
The anniversary of the attack on Fort Sumter was celebrated in New York on Saturday afternoon last, by an immense mass meeting in Union Square. It is stated that 20,000 persons were present, including many of the fair sex. The principal speakers were Major General Fremont, Postmaster General Blair, Governor Morton and Schuyler Colfax, of Indiana, Judge Kelly and Benjamin H. Brewster, of Philadelphia, Gen. Sigel, Gen. Duryea, and Daniel S. Dickinson, of New York, Henry Wilson, of Massachusetts, General Nye, of Nevada Territory, Col. Woodford, and others.
The meeting was an unconditional loyal and anti-compromising and anti-copperhead demonstration. The meeting was held under the auspices of the Loyal National League.
A Beaufort correspondent of the New York Evening Post makes serious charges of cruelty to the Union exiles from Jacksonville by Colonel Higginson. This will not be credited by those who know Colonel Higginson. Higginson is as humane as he is brave, and he never feared the face of day or anything else. -Newburyport Herald.
<c06>
APPEAL
OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE RELIFE OF COLORED WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
Believing that the time has come when some permanent means should be adopted for aiding that unfortunate class of our fellow-beings called Contrabands or Refugees, we have associated ourselves together for the purpose of organizing a Home for aged colored Women and Children.
In the Freedmen's camp of this city, also is Alexandria, are numbers, constantly increasing, of orphaned and destitute children, and of infirm and aged persons. Slavery, by its life and in its end, has made both the nation's charge. Will, the benevolent continue to clothe and the Government to feed these now helpless ones, in the present inefficient and expensive manner, rearing the children amidst the idleness and depravities of camp life, or will they use the means that humanity impels them to give, systematically for the support and elevation of the children, and the decent maintenance of those whose unpaid toil leaves their last days no resource but charity? 
"We propose to found an Asylum in or near this city to shelter both extremes of life. The fact that here all charitable institutions are closed against this portion of our fellow-beings makes our effort doubly imperative. 
In the hope that national justice and charity would respond to the call and afford requisite funds to carry out our proposed object, when apparent that the funds would be judiciously applied, we appealed to Congress for a charter, and for such aid as it could consistently give. The charter has been promptly given us, but the present state of the national finances renders it doubtful whether aid, at present available, will be granted. We must, therefore, rely upon individual charity for the means necessary to inaugurate and carry out this important undertaking.
Hundreds in each of these classes, needing relief, are already congregated in our midst. The little children suffer especially from the crowded prison life of the camps. The mortality among them is very great.
Our work should begin at once. We ask all to give it their earnest thought, and such response as their hearts dictate. GULIELMA BREED, Secretary.
Washington, D. C., Feb. 27, 1863.
OFFICERS OF THE ASSOCIATION.
Mrs. S. C. POMEROY, (Kansas,) President.
Mrs. E. S. GRIMES, (Iowa.) Vice President. 
Mrs. M. E. WEBSTER, (Washington, D. C.,} Treasurer.
Mrs. G. BREED, (Washington, D. C.,) Secretary.
Managers-Mrs. H. M. Wilson, Massachusetts; Mrs. F. C. L. Potter, Wisconsin; Miss M. A. Donaldson, Washington, D. C.; Mrs. L. Howells, Washington, D. C.; Mrs. H. Underhill, Washington, D. C.; Mrs. W. B. Johnson, Washington, D. C.; Miss A. M. Hooper, Boston, Mass.; Emily Howland, Washington, D. C.; Mrs. Leighton, Washington.
Money and packages may be sent directly to the Treasurer, Mrs. M..E. WEBSTER, Washington, D. C.
The following also are authorized to receive donations for the Association:-
Mrs. J. M. S. Williams, Cambridge, Mass.; Miss A. M. Hooper, Boston, Mass.; Mrs. Wm. Endicott, Jr., 10 Mount Vernon Street, Boston, Mass.; Mrs. Wm. Claflin, Newton, Mass.; Mrs. T. D. Eliot, New Bedford, Mass.; Misa Lydia B. Mann, Providence, Rhode Island; Rebecca C. Tatham, Anna II. Shotwell, Lucy Gibbons, New York, N. Y.; Mrs. Wm. Barnes, Albany, N. Y.; Mrs. Charles B. Sedgwick, Syracuse, N. Y.; Mrs. Anna Barnes, Rochester, N. Y.: Mary Murray Ferris, Poughkeepsie, N. Y.; Margaret Robinson, Anna Wharton, Philadelphia, Penn.; Mrs. Prof. J. D. Dana, New Haven, Conn.; Miss Mary Wells, Hartford, Conn.; Jacob R. Shotwell, Rahway, New Jersey; Levi Coffin, Cincinnati, Ohio; Prof. Jehu Brainerd, Cleveland, Ohio; Laura B. Haviland, Ann Arbor, Michigan; Mrs. John Hastings, San Francisco, California.
CALL FOR A MEETING OF THE LOYAL WOMEN OF THE NATION.
In this crisis of our Country's destiny, it is the duty of every citizen to consider the peculiar blessings of a republican form of government, and decide what sacrifices of wealth and life are demanded for its defence and preservation.
The policy of the war, our whole future life, depends on a universal, clearly defined idea of the end proposed, and the immense advantages to be secured to ourselves and all mankind, by its accomplishment. 
No mere party or sectional cry, no technicalities of Constitution or military law, no mottoes of craft or policy are big enough to touch the great heart, of a nation in the midst of revolution. A grand idea, such as freedom or justice, is needful to kindle and sustain the fires of a high enthusiasm.
At this hour, the best word and work of every man and woman are imperatively demanded. To man, by common consent, is assigned the forum, camp and field. What is woman's legitimate work, and how she may best accomplish it, is worthy our earnest counsel one with another.
We have heard many complaints of the lack of enthusiasm among Northern Women; but, when a mother lays her son on the altar of her country, she asks an object equal to the sacrifice. In nursing the sick and wounded, knitting socks, scraping lint, and making jellies, the bravest and best may weary if the thoughts mount not in faith to something beyond and above it all. Work is worship only when a noble purpose fills the soul.
Woman is equally interested and responsible with man in the final settlement of this problem of self-government; therefore let none stand idle spectators now. When every hour is big with destiny, and each delay but complicates our difficulties, it is high time for the daughters of the revolution, in solemn council, to unseal the past will and testament of the Fathers, lay hold of their birthright of freedom, and keep it a sacred trust for all coming generations.
To this end, we ask the loyal Women of the Nation to meet in New York, on THURSDAY, the 14th of May next.
Let the Women, of every State be largely represented, both by person and by letter.
There will be two sessions-The first at 10 o'clock, A. M., at the Church of the Puritans, (Dr. Cheever's,) admittance free-The second at the Cooper Institute-at half past 7 o'clock, P. M., admittance 25 cents.
On behalf of the Woman's Central Committee,
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON. 
N. B.-Communications relative to and for the meeting should be addressed to SUSAN B. ANTHONY, 48 Beekman Street, New York.
MISS ANNA E. DICKINSON will address the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, at the MELODEON, on Sunday forenoon next, April 19th. SUBJECT-"The Day-the Cause." 
CATHOLIC CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH, Mercantile Building, 16 Summer Street, Hall No. 4. Rev. L. A. SAWYER, Translator of the Scriptures, will preach next Sabbath, at half past 10 o'clock, A. M., on Daniel 10-12; being the last of the Hebrew series, and predicting the kingdom of Michael, resurrection of the dead, and establishment of a new arrangement, immediately after the death of Antiochus IV., 164 B. C.
DEATH OF REV. CHARLES SPEAR. . REV. CHARLES SPEAR died in Washington on Monday, 13th inst, at the age of fifty-eight years. He was born in Boston, was a printer by trade, but studied for the ministry, and for a number of years preached as a clergyman of the Universalist denomination. He was active in the work of prison reform, edited a publication entitled the "Prisoner's Friend," and labored for the abolition of the death penalty. For some time past he has occupied the post of Hospital Chaplain at Washington. With a constitution always much enfeebled, he was singularly persevering in the prosecution of his favorite mission, and ever exhibited the spirit of peace and good will to all mankind as one brotherhood.
Residence for Sale in Concord, Mass.
A GENTLEMAN going to Europe desires to sell a very desirable residence pleasantly situated in Concord, Mass. The house has nine good rooms besides attics, storerooms, closets, large bath-room, <illegible>. It is surrounded by a fine and well cultivated garden, full of healthy fruits, apples, pears, cherries, plums, grapes, &c. Furniture (new) sold, if desired. Terms easy-part secured by mortgage on the estate. Apply to HENRY G. DENNY, <illegible> Court Street, 
Boston. april 10-3w 
MAGIC CURE FOR CORNS,
in five minutes, without pain, by Dr. N. KENNISON'S improved medicines applied only at his rooms, No.21 TEMPLE PLACE, rear of 307 Washington Street, Boston. All troubles of the feet treated on scientific principles. <illegible>
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
THE ORACLES OF THE OAK.
Tis glorious to live in an age like this, 
And dwell in a land like ours,
Where ripen the seeds
Of the loveliest deeds, 
And the fairest of human flowers.
Tis glorious to feel in our inmost cells 
The wine of a higher life,
Though it bubble up
To the heart's deep cup.
Through agony, toil and strife.
The flowers that bloom, in the month of June,
Are beautiful things to see;
But the noble forms 
That endure the storms
Are dearer than those to me. 
The lily may smite, and the rose may blush,
And the violet cheer our way,
But the oracles spoke
By the stately oak
Have a loftier lore than they.
They tell of years that have glided by, 
Since it lay in the acorn's shell,
A tiny thing 
That the elves of Spring 
Guarded and tended well. 
They tell of seasons of light and love, 
When birds in its branches sung,
Of Summer brief, 
When every leaf 
Was a musical, lisping tongue.
They sing of surly November blasts,
When the Angel of Death swept by;
Of its vernal pride
That in beauty died,
Beneath a wintry sky.
In crimson and gold each leaf went down
To its grave on the forest floor, 
But the stately oak 
Stood firm, and spoke 
To the winds with an answering roar.
Saying to them in a kingly voice,
"Ye may rob me of beauty's crown,
But in the path
Of your awful wrath,
I fling my gauntlet down.
And I bid you come in your power and might,
As a warrior his haughty foe,
For strong and bold,
Like a knight of old,
I.parry each fearful blow.
My arms are strong, and my heart is full
Of the dews of hope and health, 
And I know that Spring 
Will return, and bring
To my brow its crown of wealth.
And though the Winter be stern and cold, 
And I stand in the whirlwind's track, 
Yet I calmly wait, 
In my leafless state. 
For the light that is coming back.
So I welcome the winds and the wintry storms,
And I gather a strength from each,
And the lay I sing,
As I wait for Spring,
A lesson to men may teach."
The lily may smile, and the rose may blush,
And the violet cheer our way; 
But the oracles spoke 
By the stately oak 
Have a loftier lore than they.
Oh! would it might reach to the hearts of men,
And bid them be strong and true
To the BROTHERHOOD 
Of the brave and good,
Till RIGHT shall the WRONG subdue!
And would they might feel, in this fearful hour,
The trust that sustains and warms, 
And gives to the soul 
A calm control,
When nations are rocked with storms.
Would all might read with the eye of faith,
The prophecy born of war,
And above its jar
See FREEDOM'S car 
In triumph roll on afar.
Ah! then they would stand like the stately oak,
Defying the storm-king's wrath; 
And through the night, 
To the beautiful light,
Hew for themselves a path.
And then they would sing, "Tis a glorious thing 
To live in a land like ours, 
Where fearful needs 
Make valiant deeds, 
And quicken the Spirit's powers."
With the bards they would sing, “’Tis a blessed thing 
To dream of the ages past;
More blessed still
To feel the thrill
Of the Age that is ebbing fast."
And the manly forms, and the brave, true hearts,
That strive with the tempest's wrath, 
Shall find their way 
Tends day by day
The nearer to Glory's path.
For pleasure may smile, and peace may bring
Her blessings to cheer our way; 
But the oracles spoke, 
"Mid fire and smoke,
Have a mightier power than they.
It stirreth the heart, it quickens the brain,
And makes the pulses thrill;
Though born of strife,
"Tis the higher life,
That worketh the Father's will.
BELLE BUSH. 
Adelphian Institute, Norristown, Pa.

WINTER-A REMONSTRANCE, 
Ah! why, unfeeling winter! why
Still flags thy torpid wing? 
Fly, melancholy season, fly,
And yield the year to Spring!
Spring-the young cherubim of love,
An exile in disgrace,
Flits o'er the scene, like Noah's dove,
Nor finds a resting place.
When on the mountain's azure peak
Alights her fairy form,
Gold blows the wind-and dark and bleak
Around her rolls the storm.
If to the valley she repair 
For shelter and defence,
Thy wrath pursues the mourner there,
And drives her weeping thence.
She seeks the brook-the faithless brook,
Of her unmindful grown,
Feels the chill magic of thy look,
And lingers into stone.
She woos her embryo flowers in vain
To rear their infant heads;
Deaf to the voice, her flowers remain 
Enchanted in their beds.
In vain she bids the trees expand
Their green, luxuriant charms; 
in the wilderness they stand, 
And stretch their withering arms.
Her favorite birds, in feeble notes,
Lament thy long delay; 
And strain their little stammering throats
To charm thy blast away.
Ah! Winter, calm thy cruel rage, 
Release the struggling year; 
Thy power is past, <illegible> 
A rise and disappear!
<c02>
The stars that graced thy splendid night
Are lost in warmer rays; 
The sun, rejoicing in his might,
Unrolls celestial days.
Then why, usurping Winter, why
Still flags thy frozen wing?
Fly, unrelenting tyrant, fly, 
And yield the year to Spring? 
J. MONTGOMERY.

The Liberator.
THE CONNECTICUT AND SHENANDOAH.
TALE OF TO-DAY. 
CHAPTER IX.
NORTHWARD.
Aunt Juno was one of that privileged class of retired slaves, not uncommon on plantations under the control of kind masters. Having suffered greatly in the loss and abuse of her offspring, at the hands of a previous owner, she had met corresponding consideration and kindness in her present relation, and even the offer of freedom. But,
"As a child, whom searing sounds molest, 
Clings close and closer to its mother's breast, 
So the rude tempest and the whirlwind's roar"
of tyranny and oppression but bound her to her native region more. She had nothing to take with her into the new circumstances of freedom but a broken heart and worn-out frame, although she was not greatly advanced in years. On this soil were all her associations; it was wet with the blood of her children, fertilized by their sweat, and their dust mingled with it. Its warm, brooding sun kept alive the memories of the past, and suggested the genial hopes of that great future which was to give her and her children freedom, together. The bondage they had borne was dearer to her doting heart than the liberty they never knew could be; and she had now no other earthly desire than to treasure their memory, dispense comfort to the needy so far as was in her power, and await the reunion. Her good sense, unaffected piety and practical kindheartedness made her a favorite with all classes and complexions. Her hut, apart from all others, on the outskirts of the plantation, was held in reverence by the negroes and profound respect by the whites. Through the generosity of her truly kind master, it lacked nothing which could increase its neatness and comfort, while she was left free to follow her inclinations in all her activities; these were mainly confined to visits of help and consolation wherever there was sickness or sorrow. Her illustrious namesake was hardly more an object of veneration, or invested with more unlimited sway, among the mythic occupants of a heathen heaven, than our Juno among the breathing realities of a heathen earth. She was happier than would have been possible on any other spot of that earth, and the medium of happiness to others in ways wholly unknown to and unsuspected by those who thought they knew her best. With this woman, who, had she borne Caucassian lineaments, and been clothed in Caucassian skin, and born North of Mason and Dixon's line, would have been considered possessed of rare endowments of intellect, heart, and practical executive skill, the white slave-mistress of the New England planter had planned the salvation of her beleagured child, and now left with her, undoubtingly, the completion of what was begun in the last chapter.
The morning sun was shining cheerfully over the untrodden expanse of snow, and streaming through the white curtain of the window on to her bed, when Adela awoke from her long, tranquil, saving sleep. The first object that met her view through the open door way, for this favored hut boasted two apartments, was the tall, simply attired figure of Aunt Juno-the grey dress, checked kerchief crossed over her bosom in careful folds, the ample white apron, and yet more ample white muslin turban above her strongly-marked, almost majestic, ebony features and crisp curling hair; there was no mixture of the Anglo in the rich Afric that gave hue to her exterior; and the chastened tone of her spirit showed itself in the absence from her attire of those varied, picturesque colors in which the gloomy fancy of the African revels so generally. A bright fire was blazing on the clean-swept hearth; the small, neat table stood ready for the morning repast; and Aunt Juno, kneeling before a chair on which lay a Bible, opened, although to her a sealed book, still, was fervently engaged in her morning's devotion. No, that priceless privilege, that solace for solitude, must not be allowed her. Physical ease and comfort, physical freedom of action she might possess and enjoy; but the key which should unlock the door of the mind's prison, the key to the coveted contents of that one book, was carefully concealed and forbidden. Tears dropped on its already blistered pages from the uplifted eyes.
A few moments Adela gazed on the impressive scene with mingled awe and gratitude; but when the prayer was ended, and she saw the dark hands vainly and despairingly turning those dumb leaves for the yet darker mind, pity and indignation took the place of her other emotions. Lightly she sprang from her place of rest, and in an instant was kneeling at Aunt Juno's side, reading aloud to her the first chapter that met her eye-the hopeful, and for both, appropriate, thirty-seventh Psalm. Nothing could have been more strikingly beautiful than the aspect of the two-Aunt Juno as we have described her, except that now her hands were clasped upon her bosom, and her looks directed, in absorbed admiration, to the beautiful girl, whose only covering was her simple night-dress, over which fell, wholly unconfined, her abundant auburn hair. She knelt in such a position that the fire-light fell across her entire person and illumined her shining hair into burnished gold, giving a glow like transfiguration to her pale face, uplifted towards her absorbed companion. When the clear, rich voice, so thrilling in the melodious cadence of alternate sadness and hope, had ceased, Aunt Juno threw her arms around the person of the reader, pillowed the fair head on her pious, affectionate bosom, and gave free vent to the tears which welled up from her varied, conflicting emotions. Together the two sobbed awhile in silence, for over the soul of Adela came the image of her beloved mother, toiling through that stormy midnight for her salvation.
"Bress de Lord, darlin! he am strength in time of trouble; he will deliber, 'case day put der trust in Him."
"Yes, dear Aunt Juno, I believe it-I know it. But tell me, Auntie, when did she go? How did she seem? What was the state of the weather? O, how could I sleep, then?"
The good negress explained all-the cause and reason for the cause of her sleep; the refreshed and eager manner of her mother's departure; the more comfortable and still beneficent state of the weather. Harry would return late in the evening to the hut, when he had met his mother at a place of assignation among the rocks, near the spot supposed to have been the place of Adela's self-destruction; then she would know all. Meanwhile, the young girl must remain all day in the inner department of the hut, as soon as Aunt Juno should have made it comfortable; for an hour longer it would be safe to continue by the fire, but after that time their danger of interruptions to their seclusion was imminent.
Under cover of the coming night, Harry would conduct his sister across the bridge at the junction of the Occoquan with the Potomac. On the Maryland side, another sheltering roof awaited the fugitive; the dwellers beneath which were not now for the first time cooperating with Aunt Juno in the cause of humanity. Thence, in the character of a governess returning from her Southern duties to her Northern home, Adela would travel by her accustomed rout to Philadelphia, where preparations had been made for reception and temporary stay, until that Providence which notes the fall of the sparrow should direct the further flight of this innocent girl.
Bravely and faithfully, without a single failure, Harry accomplished his part in this important enter 
<c03>
prise. Adela had been mercifully spared a parting scene with her mother; that with Aunt Juno was tender yet elevated, for the trusting heart of the pious African imparted its own strength to the timid, desolate girl. It was no mere words, but the utterance of her fervent belief, in tones that gave fixedness to the belief of her listener, as she repeated in her own way those words of the morning-" Bress de Lord, darlin'! he am strength in time ob trouble; he will deliber, 'case dey put der trust in Him." And then came, a little later, the farewell moments with Harry. All he had dared and done for her, all the peril that still threatened his young life, should the proceedings of the past few days ever become known to their father, swelled and overflowed her grateful, affectionate heart. She twined her arms about him, unable to loose their hold, and covered his swarthy cheek and brow with her caresses. Then clasping both his hands in hers, and gazing steadily into his dark eyes-
"Harry, my precious, precious brother! What do I not owe you? Hear me, Harry! I go North to find freedom, but not for myself alone. These hands shall never rest in idleness until they have earned the means for purchasing your freedom and Huldah's. I shall forward the money to these good people with whom you leave me. They will transact the business, and forward my precious purchase to me wheresoever I am. Then our blessed mother shall be liberated as I have been, and we will have a pure and peaceful home together in some quiet New England valley, far, far away from cruel masters and wicked fathers. Tell our dear, dear mother so, and tell her I shall never rest until it is accomplished. Go, go now, darling; you have no time to spare. Be faithful to all that is required of you until your liberation comes. Huldah must not know but I am dead. Poor, dear girl, she will suffer a great deal, but you must keep the secret, for the sake of all I mean to do for you both. God will bless you for your truth to the unhappy Adela."
They separated. When and where should they meet again? Harry's late return from his nominal journey across the Blue Ridge was not noticed in the confusion produced by the State of his father. Opportunity occurred, even then, to lighten his mother's anxious heart.
By the decease of Edward Herman, Mr. Belmaine came into possession. The white slave-mistress survived her once loved master but a few weeks. The intelligence of her release reached Adela before she left Philadelphia, and in the solemn shadow of that new, but not unmixed sorrow, she pledged herself again to the one duty of enfranchising her brother and sister.
"With your permission, madam," said one of a group of three gentlemen, who entered, together, a well-filled car just starting from Baltimore; the other two were seated directly behind the lady thus addressed and the unoccupied seat at her side, to which her courteous, "Certainly, Sir," welcomed the third. The face of the lady was concealed behind a thick green veil, which formed a part of a genteel travelling suit of a fine gray material, with a straw hat and green ribbons; but the voice and manner of the assent drew from the gentleman a second and more earnest glance at the impervious baraige.
The party evidently resumed the interrupted course of a conversation as the train darted forward, and that conversation a political one. Opinions seemed to differ, yet were expressed freely and frankly, and, as is so rarely the case in such discussions, without passion. The veiled lady's attention was soon wholly absorbed by the tone of her companion's remarks; his words thrilled her with new hope and courage, while his whole aspect inspired her with respect and confidence in an uncommon degree. Nor did the gentleman seem regardless of his listener, invisible as was her face to him; the magnetism of sympathy was intelligible, and his discourse warmed and glowed under its influence. At length, in response to a most brilliant and fearless refutation of a pro-slavery argument, the veil was impulsively thrown back, and the eyes of speaker and listener met; those of the latter radiant with admiration through tears of gratitude. The ready and ardent tribute to beauty and sensibility expressed in those of the former brought back consciousness, and again the veil was dropped over the now glowing face But the quick perceptions of the young gentleman had detected something besides youth, beauty and sensibility in that countenance, and from that moment the lady was the object of his delicate and considerate attentions.
"What order shall I give the coachman? " he asked, when he had placed her in a carriage, on the arrival of the train at Philadelphia.
"Kensington"-and the street and number were added. Thanks, also, were about to follow, but were interrupted by
"You are alone, madam; it is late; allow me the favor of seeing you safely to your destination." There was thankful acceptance of the offer in the now unveiled eyes, and the young gentleman placed himself by her side in the carriage.
"Pardon me-you seem a stranger and alone-can I serve you? "
The young girl burst into tears. " I am a stranger and alone, but believe I am going where I shall find friendly protection and counsel." 
"You do not know the people? " 
"I know no one in this city, or this Northern region, so well as I seem to know you, Sir, whose kindness has won my confidence and gratitude in these few hours of travel."
"Command my services, I pray you, to any extent. Whatever confidence you honor me with shall be sacred as life itself."
"I am certain of it, Sir." And the young lady remained silent.
"Will you allow me to call on you to-morrow? You must be weary from travel, and need rest this evening. Are you in haste to continue your journey?"
"I have supposed it probable that I should remain some weeks under the roof of these excellent people to whom I am going."
"Name the hour, for to-morrow, that will be convenient for a call from me, I pray you."
The hour was named. The call was made. In the presence of that excellent Quaker family at Kensington, Edgar Horton learned the history of Adela Herman, who had received the name of Clara Hamilton from the household that received her from her brother on the north bank of the Potomac.
The following day, Mr. Horton called again, accompanied by Miss Mary Williams. The sisters were on a visit to their relatives in Philadelphia, and would return to their cottage home, in the Connecticut Valley, in a few weeks. They had arranged to take with them, on terms which have been stated, an orphan niece-our charming Effie Lester. It was not difficult to add another, from another branch of the kindred, whose orphanage had just become known to them! This obscure, remote and indigent relationship had come to the knowledge of Mr. Horton by a mere accident of travel-thus matters were explained to all but the sacred few. Not even the Misses Kent knew that over the crushed blossoms of their hope this fair young creature had found her way into time-life; but Adela knew it, or Clara, as we must still call her, and hence her strong reluctance to receiving pecuniary aid from those, whom, in the delicate sensitiveness of her nature, she felt herself, in a vague sense, guilty towards. But the lonely wanderer had found a temporary resting-place for her tossed being; and had found a comparatively lucrative field of labor for the accomplishment of her holy purpose. Providence had again asserted its especial care "of the least of these."
Labor and gratitude were not, however, the only occupants of the young girl's thought and heart. She was in the same State whence she last heard from her teacher and playmate-Hugh Berkeley. How long ago that seemed! Ah, the slave-girl was, indeed, forgotten: why should it be otherwise? What if she should chance to meet him? How her heart fainted and fell-how her brow throbbed, and flushed, and <illegible> at the thought! No, no? The <illegibel> 
<c04>
would never remind him of her existence, If he heard from Virginia again, ever, it would be that the two Adelas he had so delicately befriended, and often kindly remembered were dead. How sincere the sigh of relief that would swell his generous heart when he learned that sorrow and danger were over for them, forever! Yes, dead she must ever be to Hugh Berkeley. -Welcome the noise of spindle and loom; welcome the toil that demanded the live-long day; welcome the fable of her death to others, since she must be dead to him!

THE WILL OF THE GOVERNMENT.
DORCHESTER, April 9, 1863. 
In our country, the people have assumed the right and power of self-government. They constitute the State. In theory, their will is supreme, To organize and give efficiency to it, they ordained and established the Constitution of the United States. That instrument may be regarded as the practical embodiment of the political wisdom and statesmanship of the times and country which gave it birth.
But to this hour, as a people, we have never proposed to secure the welfare, or protect the rights of either the red man or the black. Regardless of their interests, we have used them for our own selfish purposes. Our very Government is a combination of white men, and, except incidentally, has always been administered for their special benefit. Indeed, our organic law, even the Constitution itself, was framed, and has been used, not unwittingly, as an engine of oppression. Under it, black men take no part in making or in executing the laws. Their rights are wholly disallowed. They are subjects merely, with such privileges as the white man chooses to accord to them. Subjected to the will and caprices of their masters, and compelled to do their bidding, they are slaves.
Oppression breeds resistance. A conflict has ensued. The nation is convulsed, the Union shattered, and we find ourselves involved in all the tumult and afflictions of a devastating civil war. In the midst of this momentous struggle, the destiny of the country, it would seem, is committed, almost without restriction or reserve, to the guidance of the Executive. And the all-absorbing question is, shall the thirty millions of people, spreading to its utmost limits, and covering its whole domain, constitute one nation?
If the administration, conscious of its mighty trust, would bend itself to its task, and boldly put forth all its strength; if it would doff the sycophant, and assume the functions and do the work of a government, showing at once the wisdom to devise, the courage to propose, and the will and purpose to carry out, such measures, and such only, as are compatible with the rights and interests of all, we might hope for a favorable issue.
Clothed, in these war times, with almost dictatorial powers, with the men and money of the nation at its disposal, what does the administration propose? To what end would it devote its ample powers? What are to be the scope and aim of all its work? Let the President's messages, or, more explicit still, his famous letter to Mr. Greeley, answer. His proclamations, his army orders, his colonization schemes, his conferences with negroes, and with Border-State Congressmen, are but indices of means. Let Mr. Seward's despatches to United States Ministers in foreign courts, or, more explicit still, his letter to the Union League in New York, answer. His speeches are indices of means.
The President and his Secretary of State are manifestly devotees to the Union. The restoration of it is, in their view, paramount to everything else. There is nothing which they would not sacrifice for the sake of the Union. They seek it as if there were wrapped up in it all conceivable blessings-as if, with them, it were identical with the kingdom of heaven. They strive for it, not as a means, but an end. To that end all their efforts are directed. But we can have God on our side simply and only by assuming our places upon the side of God. Is the Union they worship worthy of such idolatry? Is it a Union made sacred by the essential soundness of the purpose for which it was formed; by the principles out of which it grew; by the spirit which presided over its birth and growth; which pervades and animates every fibre of its frame; which actuates every member, joint and limb, giving life and energy and harmony to the movements of all the elements which enter into and constitute that Union? Is it a Union of all, for the protection of the rights of all, in which, with a mutual interest in each other's welfare, they devote themselves, hand and heart, to the welfare of their common country, and the happiness of all who dwell therein?
Far otherwise. It is notoriously a slaveholding Union over which they preside, and which they are called to defend. We do not forget that in the Border States they are still bound to suppress slave insurrections, and return to their masters those who escape; the President still clings to "the wild and guilty phantasy than man can hold property in man"; and declares that we "grant the slaves much," that we bestow a great favor and privilege if, after thirty years, we allow their posterity to go fre.
But what does he mean by granting freedom to the slaves? Let the consideration assigned to the freedmen in the Department of the Gulf, where masters, as well as servants, are under his unlimited control, answer. Not one of them is allowed to work for whom he pleases, at a compensation stipulated by himself; they are literally bound to the service of their former masters; and, if not attracted to it by the promise of two or three dollars a month, and perhaps one-twentieth of the value of the crop they produce, urged to it by the threatening lead and steel of United States soldiers; with the alternative of laboring in the Quartermaster's department for the usual compensation of slaves-food, clothing, medicine. The remaining nineteen-twentieths go to the owners of the soil, who have grown rich by robbing them heretofore of the whole. For educational purposes no provision is made.
Such is the measure of justice meted out to the negro by our honest President, or, more directly, by his complacent and obsequious agent, N. P. Banks. Such, too, is the deference they show to the treacherous and lordly aristocracy of the South, languidly besieging, while earnestly beseeching them to return to their allegiance, to resume their places in the halls of legislation, and to share once more in the counsels of the nation.
In reply to a late dispatch from the French Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Secretary of State, in behalf of the President, thus describes the political condition of the country:-
"We have here, in a political sense, no North, no South-no Northern, no Southern States. We have an insurrectionary party which is located upon, and chiefly adjacent to, the shores of the Gulf of Mexico; and we have, on the other hand, a loyal people, who constitute not only the Northern States, but Eastern, Western and Southern States."
Such is the theory upon which the policy of the administration is based. If it be correct, we have no disloyal States. The loyal citizens, within the limits of each State, constitute that State. The Union, therefore, embracing as many States as ever, is composed wholly of loyalists. The loyal citizens within the limits of the United States, and they alone, constitute the Union. But let us not deceive ourselves.
If, here and there in the South, a gleam of loyalty appears, with no less frequency, all over the North and West, in baleful specks and blotches, the virus of disloyalty breaks forth. If there be a union of loyalists throughout the land, there is no less wide-spread, with purpose well defined, and tenfold more intense, union of disloyalists as well. They “know what they worship.". Their manifesto is before the world. Their purpose is the perpetuation and extension of slavery. They unite to establish an empire in which they may henceforth hold supreme and unlimited control, with slavery as its chief "corner-stone:" 
On the other hand, the devotees of the Union, who,
<c05>
"sink or swim,” cling to the Constitution as the sheet-anchor of their hopes, cannot stand boldly forth as the champions of universal freedom. Even the President and Secretary of State, pledged as they are to the defence of liberty upon the Gulf, go to their work with stagnant heart and feeble hand. Complicity with guilt makes cowards of them all. They are paralyzed by the sullen, reluctant, tardy movements of the Border States, whose waywardness is, doubtless, many fold enhanced by the vague rallying-cry. and timid, hesitating movements of the administration.
Still, the administration, so far from despairing of the republic, believe that she has an important function to perform, and a long and successful career to run among the nations of the earth; that in her success or failure are involved the dearest interests of mankind. In the present distracted state of affairs, therefore, they wish to be let alone. In this respect, Congress and the Executive agree; they deprecate, they protest against foreign intervention. In their view, any interference, on the part of foreign powers, with our domestic and civil broils, would be regarded as sheer impertinence; and, so far from allaying domestic strife and restoring our relations at home, would tend greatly to disturb our relations abroad. Feeling themselves competent to the task, they claim the right to deal with and dispose of the rebellion in their own way.
But, in the administration of government, as in any great enterprise, the essential requisites of success are an adequate conception of the character and magnitude of the work to be done, and the application of the appropriate means for its accomplishment. The machinery of our government was obstructed, its rightful operation resisted. The work to be done was, to remove the obstruction, and restore its legitimate operation, wherever its jurisdiction extends.
To this momentous task, the present administration has been called. The work has proved too vast for them; they cannot attain unto it. By no wisdom or ability of theirs will it be accomplished. Failing in the first requisite of success, viz., a just appreciation of the character and magnitude of their work, they have necessarily failed also in the second. Their means and appliances have been fitful, hesitating and empyrical; often inappropriate, and singularly inadequate to the end proposed. We lament their shortcomings, but I suppose must forgive them, for they know not what to do. They are slow to learn the strength and character of the foe; in other words, the nature and extent of the forces which resist and clog the machinery and functions of the government. The wickedness which avarice and the love of ease, self-indulgence and the love of power, have engendered in the minds and hearts of slaveholders, indurated and confirmed by habit, and stimulated by conflict, have become perfectly satanic, and would seem absolutely incorrigible but by Omnipotence itself.
This depth and strength of wickedness they either do not realize, or are themselves so far involved in it, that they shrink from its encounter; and, instead of overcoming or destroying the perpetrators of it, are ready, by any amount of compromise, to restore them to the Union. "I would reserve nothing whatever (says Mr. Seward) from the sacrifice which may be required by the country"; by which he means, I suppose, the men and women who dwell upon its soil. But these men and women are clustered in masses under State organizations; and under many of them the negro is, if possible, as much a tool as the spade with which he delves, and is so regarded and used, in accordance with their laws. They go for unconditional Union with the whole people, let individuals and masses arrange themselves as they may. They go for a Union under the Constitution, which, as I have said, was a Union of white men, who, though they did not exclude negroes from their jurisdiction, protected each other in clutching and using them as slaves; and the moment they relax their grasp, are ready to appropriate large sums of money for their expatriation; while, at the same time, they encourage the immigration of white laborers from the old world. 
With such views and purposes touching the negro and his rights, with such proclivities to concession and compromise, such reverence for the Constitution and devotion to the Union, such deference to the people's will, which, in the Southern States, means the demands of slaveholders; what are we to expect from the present administration? That in the conduct of affairs they will create a substantial Union, or conquer a permanent peace? That they will "establish justice and insure domestic tranquillity"? It is not possible. They have no wish or purpose to establish justice; and without justice, though the bloody conflict may cease for a time, there can be no permanent peace.
They go for Union; but it is a Union which excludes the black man from its blessings, tolerates and aids in his enslavement, or, if he be free, in compliance with an unhallowed and wicked prejudice, banishes him from his native land. They go for Union; but the only Basis of permanent Union is justice and liberty for all: and if the people of this country are to constitute one nation, it must be by the practical acknowledgment of the self-evident truths of the Declaration of Independence-" All men are created free and equal, and endowed with inalienable rights." 
"For the protection of these rights governments are instituted." This is the great American idea, and on the strength of it our independence was achieved. This must be the purpose and basis of our Union. To approve, to adopt and heartily maintain it is loyalty to the Union and the best interests of mankind; and, as such, we can accept of nothing less.
The leaders of the rebellion occupy no equivocal ground. They go, point blane, for the enslavement of their fellow-men. They muster their forces for that purpose, and go into the conflict with all their might. Oh, that the people, the Government, Executive and all, were ripe for freedom, and would go as squarely for their enfranchisement! When will they "quit their clogs," dismiss their "uncleanly scruples," "conquer their prejudices," boldly "proclaim liberty throughout all the land," and with their whole" mind and soul and strength," bend themselves to the sublime duty of maintaining their'decree? 
"Better, though each man's life-blood were a river, 
That it should flow and overflow, than creep
Through thousand lazy channels in our veins,
Dammed, like the dull canal, with looks and chains, 
And moving, as a sick man in his sleep, 
Three paces, and then faltering." H. W. C.

TRUST IN GOD, AND DO THE RIGHT. 
Extract from a letter recently received from England: 
"Slavery has no doubt had a most demoralizing influence on American society generally, as it has in any country where it is found. Now you are happily getting rid of it-the source of all your troubles. Free the slaves, and the Union is preserved and peace restored. I should like to hear of more slaves escaping, and of these being immediately brought under a system of instruction. Treat the poor slave as your fellow-man, and the blessing from God, the great Father of ALL, will assuredly descend upon you as a nation. O that all felt as your good Mr. Hall feels on this subject! He is far in advance of many on this question. Thanks for his admirable sermon on the Proclamation. May God reward him a thousand fold for his noble Christian spirit! I now beg to confer on him the diploma of D.D., and you will please in future address him as Dr. Hall. Only two things are wanted in the Northern States-compassion for the slave and faith in God. Many despise both these states of feeling, and would have recourse only to brute force.But this does not bring about the desired end. TRUST IN GOD, AND DO THE RIGHT, will do it." 
A Planter, disguised as a negro, (having his face and hands, blacked,) was lately discovered attending church at Hilton Head, by one of his former slaves, who informed the guard, and he was arrested. It is thought there are many such spies about the camp. The device is equally <illegible> and humiliating.
<c06>
TREATRE-GOING.
Extract from a Discourse on “THE THEATRE," preached at the Bromfield Street M. E. Church, March 15,1863, by Rev. F. H. NEWHALI, Pastor, and published by J. P. Magee, 5 cornhill, Boston:-
The indictment which I bring against the moral character of average popular plays will be better understood from a specific illustration. Take, then, the play, which has for some time been drawing vast audiences in all the principal theatres of our land, everywhere applauded and admired. "Camille " is, in plain language, an elegant and fascinating prostitute. With this woman the auditor is made to sympathize, through all her sin; yes, thousands through all this land have been led to pity, love and adore her. She appears as the victim of circumstances, and of an absurdly virtuous public opinion, compelled to live a life of shame. The crime is thus palliated and extenuated, and eventually, by an absurd and diabolical sophistry, this very crime is used to display the depth and fervor of a lawful love! She is made to plunge to the very depths of infamy, by reason of the purity and sincerity of her devotion to one who is a worthy object of her affection! A woman, demonstrating the purity and heroic self devotion of her love, by trailing her soul through the foulest corruption that a woman can know, consuming away the fires of slow disease, fires which are fed by ceaseless profligacy and licentiousness, yet uttering the noblest sentiments and cherishing the purest purposes; the queenly flower growing more and more beautiful as it fades away, till, like an immortal aroma, the happy spirit exhales to heaven! Selfish, foul, adulterous; pure, heroic, heavenly! Did God ever make such a monster as this? Yet this is the idol which thousands on thousands of our youth are adoring to-day.
Sin is not dangerous when we see its rottenness, when its noisome stench rises to the nostrils: but here we see it wrapt in voluptuous draperies, wreathed in fascinating smiles, charming to the ear bewitching to the eye, and, most diabolical of all enjoying the smile of heaven. Give us the groggeries and dance halls, where the filth of our civilization settles in cess-pools, and where the putrid careass is in full sight, rather than this elegantly attired, seraph-voiced Parisian licentiousness.
At the opera, the music is the grand attraction. To produce a musical effect, play, costume, gesture, &c., are all combined; and it is only to the lovers of music, therefore, that it has a special charm. Many insist that the opera stands on a totally different foundation from the theatre, that its pleasures are purer, and that it is free from the objections which have been urged against theatrical amusements in general. The pleasures of music are in themselves innocent, but they add warmth and intensity to any sentiments with which they are blended in song, good or evil, ennobling or debasing. Songs religious and patriotic, or profligate and sensual, have fresh power infused into their lines by appropriate music. Music is thus like a steam power, which we may harness to our car to help us heavenward, or to whirl us to perdition. Now the predominant passion set forth in the music of the opera is love, and generally unchaste and lawless love. As the performance here is generally in a strange language, this may appear to be of little moment, but the libretto is generally before the hearer, where all is translated into English; and besides, the music, costume, positions, action, &c., are all intended to set forth the predominant passion of the piece, so that although particulars may not be understood, the general impression is unmistakable. As to the plot, poetry, and development of character, there is generally nothing to awaken interest in a thinking mind. Scott said of the opera in his day, that its charms were " effeminate and meretricious," and that "the mean and paltry dialogue, which is used as a vehicle for the music, is become proverbial to express nonsense and inanity." No one, however, would pretend that there is any intellectual advantage whatever to be gained from this amusement, except the cultivation of a musical taste. But will this compensate for the moral peril? I will briefly characterize several of the popular operas of to-day, and leave you to judge. The hero of "Norma" is a shameless adulterer, whose unlawful passion is represented as sublimely heroic. cheerfully braving death. The heroine of "La Favorita" is a wretched courtezan. "Don Giovanni" is simply "Don Juan," with the poetry jingled into an opera. It is the violation of the seventh commandment, set to music with infinite variations. Morally speaking, it is fit only for some sewer that drains off the dregs of perdition. If Swedenborg's dreamy imagination pictured a hell of swine, such a creature as Don Giovanni wallowed in the place of honor there. And what shall I say of "Lucrezia Borgia" and "Robert the Devil"? Enough; our English language is too honest, clean, and wholesome to furnish words which could fitly characterize this spawn of French and Italian licentiousness. The audience, it is true, cannot follow these foul and wicked sentiments through all their lights and shades, for the language is foreign to them; but the actors and actresses can, and all their attitudes, gestures, intonations and lascivious dances have these diabolical thoughts as their inspiration. All operas are not equally sensuous; all poisons are not equally deadly. There are degrees even in rottenness. If a man were covered with putrefying sores, within and without, from the crown of his head to the sole of his feet, you might, perhaps, be able to touch with the point of your finger, here and there, upon spots comparatively sound and clean. But the man, nevertheless, would be a mass of putrefaction.
Now a man who attends the opera must patronize men and women whose whole business it is, night after night, to sham these foul and filthy crimes, and to avow their wild and maddening love of them, not, as it were fitting, in notes of hellish discord, but in ravishing melodies, which rival the warblings of the nightingale. Suppose, as it is alleged, that there be music there that can be heard nowhere else, which is of the most value to you, an ear delicate and sensitive, or a heart pure and chaste? If these melodies are the garb of seductive sin, can you safely open to them your soul? And if you feel safe, strong in your virtue, is it so with others who will follow your example? Will you patronize an institution which perfumes sin with roses, and crowns it with garlands? There are often choice bits of song, delicate morceaux of melody, scattered through the whole, in themselves innocent, pure and beautiful; and so there is fine poetry in "Don Juan," and stanzas which might be quoted from the pulpit, but that does not make " Don Juan," as a whole, chaste or decent.

SCHOOL IN NEWBURGH, N.Y.
MISS H. M. PARKHURST
Will commence the Summer Term of her Boarding and Day School for Young Ladies, 
On Monday, April 20th, 1863.
MISS H. M. PARKHURST, Teacher of Mental and Moral  Science, Rhetorie, &e.
MISS H. L. BOWEN, Teacher of Mathematics and Natural Sciences.
MISS E. F. SHEPARD, Teacher of Languages, 
MISS F. E. NEWLAND, Teacher of Drawing, Painting and Penmanship.
MISS A. J. STERLING, Teacher of Vocal and Instrumental Music.
MISS PARKHURST has had seven years of successful experience in the care of a Boarding School in this State, besides several years of teaching in the best schools in Massachusetts.
She designs and promises, that all branches of study undertaken in her School shall be thoroughly and efficiently pursued.
Especial attention will be given to the health of the pupils.
Daily religious exercises will be held in the family and in the School.
The School Year is divided into three terms: two of thirteen 
weeks each, and one of twelve weeks.
Board and Tuition in English Branches, per term, $60 year, $175.
REFERENCES, -Rev. T. J. Sawyer, D. D., Clinton, N.Y.; 
Rev. S.W. Fisher, D.D., President of Hamilton college, Clinton, N.Y.; De Witt C. Grove, Mayor of Utica, N.Y.; Rev. A.D. Mayo, Albany, N.Y.; Henry Bigelow, M.D., Newton, Mass.; Dio Lewis, M.D., Boston, Mass.; Prof H.B. Pierce, Principal of Model School, Trenton, N.J.; Rev. E.H. Chapin, D.D., New York; Rev. Austin Craig, D.D. Blooming-Grove, N. Y. 
For particulars, please address,
MISS H.M. PARKHURST.
april3-2m Newburgh N.Y.
JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW, 
No. 6 <illegible> STREET, BOSTON.
