THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISION, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor. 
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 1. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 1, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1717.

Refuge of oppression.
<c01>
VALLANDIGHAM GIVING "AID AND COMFORT TO THE TRAITORS.
Extracts from an inflammatory and seditious speech delivered in the U. S. House of Representatives, Jan. 14, by the notorious VALLANDIGHAM of ohio:
What, I ask, is the immediate, direct cause of disunion and this civil war? Slavery, it is answered. Why? Because the South obstinately and wickedly refused to restrict or abolish it at the command of the philosophers of fanatics and demagogues of the North and West. Then. Sir, it was abolition, the purpose to abolish or interfere with and hem in slavery, which caused disunion and war. Slavery is only to subject, but abolition the cause, of this civil war. It was the persistent and determined agitation in the free States of the question of abolishing slavery in the South, because of the alleged irrepressible conflict "between the forms of labor in the two sections, or in the false and mischievous cant of the day, between freedom and slavery, that forced a collision of arms at last. Sir, that conflict was not confined to the territories. It was expressly proclaimed by its apostles as between the states also, against the institution of domestic slavery everywhere. But, assuming the platforms of the Republican party as the standard, and stating the case most strongly in favor of that party, it was the refusal of the South to consent that slavery should be excluded from the territories that led to the continued agitation, North and South, of that question, and finally to disunion and civil war. Sir, I will not be answered now by the old clamor about "the aggressions of the Slave Power." That miserable specter, that unreal mockery, has been exorcised and expelled by debt and taxation and blood. If that power did govern this country for the sixty years preceding this terrible revolution, then the sooner this administration and government return to the principles and policy of Southern statesmanship, the better for the country; and that, sir, is already, or soon will be, the judgment of the people. But I deny that it was the "Slave Power" that governed for so many years, and so wisely and well. It was the Democratic party and its principles and policy, molded and controlled, indeed, largely, by Southern statesmen. Neither will I be stopped by that other cry of mingled fanaticism and hypocrisy about the sin and barbarism of African slavery. Sir, I see more of barbarism and sin, a thousand times, in the continuance of this war, the dissolution of this Union, the breaking up of this government, and the enslavement of the white race by debt and taxes and arbitrary power. The day of fanatics, and sophists, and enthusiasts, thank God, is gone at last; and though the age of chivalry may not the age of practical statesmanship is about to return. Sir, I accept the language and intent of the Indiana resolution to full-" that in considering terms of settlement, we will look only to the welfare, peace and safety of the white race, without reference to the effect that settlement may have upon the condition of the African." And when we have done this, my word for it, the safety, peace and welfare of the African will have been best secured. Sir, there is fifty-fold less of anti-slavery in the West than there was two years ago; and if this war be continued, there will be still less a year hence. The people there begin, at last, to comprehend that domestic slavery in the South is a question, not of morals, of religion, or humanity, but a form of labor perfectly compatible with the dignity of free white labor in the same community, and with national vigor, power and prosperity, and especially with military strength. They have learned, or begin to learn, that the evils of the system affect the master alone or the community and State in which it exists; and that we of the free States partake of all the material benefits of the institution. Unmixed with any part of its miss-chiefs. They believe, also, in the subordination of the negro race to the white where they both exist together, and that the condition of subordination, as established in the South, is far better every way for the negro, than the hard servitude of poverty, degradation and crime to which he is subjected in the free States. All this, sir, may be "Pro-slavery-ism, "if there be such a word. Perhaps it is; but the people of the West begin now to think it wisdom and good sense. We will not establish slavery in our own midst; neither will be abolish or interfere with it outside of our own limits.
You cannot abolish slavery by the sword; still less by proclamations, though the President were to "Proclaim" every month. Of what possible avail was his proclamation of September? Did the South subunit? Was she even alarmed? And yet he has now fulminated another "bull against the comet"-brute flume-and, threatening servile insurrection with all its horrors, has yet coolly appealed to the judgment of mankind, and invoked the blessing of the God of peace and love! But declaring it a military necessity, an essential measure of war to subdue the rebels, yet, with admirable wisdom, he expressly exempts from its operation the only States and part of States in the South where he has the Military power to execute it.
Neither, sir, can you abolish slavery by argument. As well attempt to abolish marriage or the relation of paternity. The South is resolved to maintain it at every hazard and by every sacrifice; and if "this Union cannot endure part slave and part free," then it is already and finally dissolved. Talk not to me of "West Virginia." Tell me not of Missouri, trampled under the feet of your soldiery. As well talk to me of Ireland. Sir, the destiny of those States must abide the issue of the war. But Kentucky you may find tougher. And Maryland-
"Even in her ashes live their wonted fires."
Nor will Delaware be found wanting in the day of trial.
But I deny the doctrine. It is full of disunion and civil war. It is disunion itself. Whoever first taught it ought to be dealt with as not only hostile to the Union, but an enemy of the human race. Sir, the fundamental idea of the Constitution is the perfect and eternal compatibility of a Union of States "part slave and part free," else the Constitution never would have been framed nor the Union founded; and seventy years of successful experiment have proved the wisdom of the plan.
Then, sir, there is not an " irrepressible conflict" between slave labor and free labor. There is no conflict at all. Both exist together in perfect harmony in the South. The master and the slave, the white laborer and the black, work together in the same field or the same shop, and without the slightest sense of degradation. They are not equals, either socially or politically. And why not, then, cannot Ohio, having only free labor live in the harmony with Kentucky, which has both slave and free? Above all, why cannot Massachusetts allow the same right of choice to South Carolina, separated as they are a thousand miles by other States who would keep the peace and live in good will? 
Sir, after all, this whole war is not so much one 
<c02>
of sections—least of all between the slaveholding, and non-slave holding sections—as of races, representing not difference in blood, but mind and its development, and different types of civilization. It is the old conflict of the Cavalier and the Roundhead, the Liberalist and the Puritan; or, rather, it is a conflict upon new issues of the ideas and elements represented by those names. In many parts of the Northwest—I might add of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and New York city—it has always been almost as bitter as in the South. Suppressed for a little while by the anti-slavery sentiment and the war, it threatens DOW to break forth in one of those great but unfortunate popular uprisings, in the midst of which reason and justice are for the time utterly silenced. I speak advisedly; and let New England heed lest she and the whole East, too, in their struggle for power, may learn yet from the West the same lesson which civil war taught to Rome, that <illegible> imperii arcano, posse prinicipem alibi, quam, <illegible> fieri. The people of the West demand peace, and they begin to more than suspect that New England is in the way. The storm rages: and they believe that she, not slavery, is the cause. The ship is sore tried; the passengers and crew are now almost ready to propitiate the waves by throwing the ill-omened prophet overboard. In plain English— not very classic, but most expressive—they threaten to "set New England out in the cold."
What did the Confederate States demand at first? Security against Abolitionism within the Union. Protection from "the irrepressible conflict," and the domination of the absolute numerical majority. A change of public opinion, and. consequently, of political parties in the North and West, so that their local institutions and domestic peace should no longer be endangered. And now, sir, after two years of persistent and most gigantic effort on the part of this Administration to compel them to submit, but with utter and signal failure, the people of the free States are now, or arc fast becoming satisfied that the price of the Union is the utter suppression of Abolition or Anti-Slavery as a political element, and the complete subordination of the spirit of fanaticism and intermeddling which gave it birth. In any event, they are now ready, if I have not greatly misread the signs of the times, to return to the old constitutional and actual basis of fifty years ago—three-fifths rule of representation—speedy return of fugitives from labor—equal rights in the territories—no more slavery agitation anywhere— and transit and temporary sojourn with slaves, without molestation, in the free States. Without all these, there could be neither peace nor permanence to a restored Union of States "part slave and part free.'' With it, the South, in addition to all the other great and multiplied benefits of union, would be far more secure in her slave property, her domestic institutions, than under a separate government. Sir, let no man, North or West, tell me that this would perpetuate African slavery. I know it. But so does the Constitution. I repeat it, sir, it is the price of the Union. Whoever hates negro slavery more than be loves the Union, must demand separation at last. I think that you can never abolish slavery by fighting. Certainly, you never can till you have destroyed the South, and then, in the language, first of Mr. Douglas and afterwards of Mr. Seward, converted this government into an imperial despotism. And. sir. whenever I am forced to a choice between the loss to my own country and race of personal and political liberty with all its blessings, and the involuntary domestic servitude of the negro, I shall not hesitate one moment to choose the latter alternative. The sole question to-day is between the Union with slavery or final disunion, and, I think, anarchy and despotism. I am for the Union. It was good enough for my fathers. It is good enough for us, and our children after us.
And now the way to reunion: what so easy? Behold to-day two separate governments in one country, and without a natural dividing line; with two Presidents and Cabinets, and a double Congress; and yet each under a Constitution so exactly similar, the one to the other, that a stranger could scarcely discern j the difference. Was ever folly and madness like I this? Sir, it is not in the nature of things that it should so continue long.
But why speak of ways or terms of reunion now? The will is yet wanting in both sections. Union is consent and good will and fraternal affection. War is force, hate, revenge. Is the country tired at last of war? Has the experiment been tried long enough? Has sufficient blood been shed, treasure expended, and misery inflicted in both the North and the South? What then? Stop fighting. Make an armistice—no formal treaty. Withdraw your army from the seceded States. Reduce both armies to a fair and sufficient peace establishment. Declare absolute free trade between the North and South. Buy and sell. Agree upon a wolverine. Recall your fleets. Break up your blockade. Reduce your navy. Restore travel. Open up railroads. Re-establish the telegraph. Reunite your express companies. No more Monitors and ironclads, but set your friendly steamers and steamships again in motion. Visit the North and West. Visit the South. Exchange newspapers. Migrate. Intermarry. Let slavery alone. Hold elections at the appointed times. Choose a new President in 1864. And when the gospel of peace shall have descended again from heaven into their hearts, and the gospel of abolition and of hate been expelled, let your clergy and churches meet again in Christian intercourse. North and South. Let the secret orders and voluntary associations everywhere meet as brethren once more. In short, give to all the natural and all the artificial causes which impel us together, their fullest sway. Let time do his office—drying tears, dispelling sorrows, mellowing passion, and making herb and grass and tree to grow again upon the hundred battle-fields of this terrible war.
Friendly Mediation—the kindly offer of an impartial power an a days man between the contending parties of this most bloody and exhausting strife—ought to be met in a spirit as cordial and ready as that in which it is proffered. It would be churlish to refuse. Certainly, it is not consistent with the former dignity of this government to ask for a mediation; neither, sir, would it befit its ancient magnanimity to reject H. As proposed by the Emperor of France, I would accept it at once. Now is the auspicious moment. It is the speediest, easiest, most graceful mode of suspending hostilities. Let as hear no more of the mediation of can. non and the sword. The day for all this has gone by.
Where will John Brown's soul take up its fine of march next? It seems to have beat up a retreat in Pennsylvania, Ohio and Indiana. The Republicans still sing the song in New Jersey, but it will be soon hushed in profound silence. John Brown's soul will find Jersey a bard road to travel. Jersey men don't believe in conspiracies to murder. They believe in putting down all such rebels as the friends of John Brown, Jeff. Davis 6fc Co. The souls of Washington, Jefferson and Jackson are keeping watch in New Jersey, and are marching the friends of Constitutional liberty to victory.—Trenton True American.
<c03>
Selections.
WORK OF THE DEMAGOGUES.
The systematic efforts which are now in progress to create alienations and hostilities among the several loyal sections of the country, are beginning to assume an alarming importance. They have their origin, as is well known, with a few selfish partisans, who expect thus to regain the places of power and emolument which they have lost. These men are doing nothing for their country, but are basely calculating how much they can make for themselves out of its ruins. They have been, from the beginning, in a greater or less degree, sympathizers with the rebellion. They have stood aloof from all the trials and sacrifices of the. war. They have given Nothing, either of their blood or their treasure, for the defence of the national life; but in every hour of disaster and gloom they have come forth from their hiding-places, to sow the seeds of jealousy and disunion among those who should be united in one great and glorious endeavor for the salvation of the perilled Republic.
These attempts all aim at one result, and that is, to divide the loyal people of the country upon the question of slavery. And inasmuch as slavery is regarded with more unmitigated hatred in some portions of the country than in others, the design is to effect a separation between the two. In some quarters, the enterprise appears in one guise, in others it wears another and a totally different one. In the Went, it aims to make the people believe that they have but few sympathies or interests in common with the Atlantic States, and that their national affinities are with the States of the Gulf; while in most of the Border States, on either side of the dividing line, these architects of ruin are attempting to create a bitter hostility against New England. The great agency which they are employing for this purpose is becoming familiar to every observer. It consists in vulgar disparagement of Yankees and Puritans, in coarse caricatures of character, and manners, and modes of thought, and coupling them with the name of New England,—in falsely representing the people of that portion of the country as wanting in patriotism and national feeling, as given over to affected philanthropy and restless agitation, and as being altogether unfit to mingle with others in the National Union.
Doctrines like these, arrayed in such exciting rhetoric as demagogues know how to use, have lately been put forth in the editorials of several leading newspapers, in the speeches of a considerable number of politicians and members of Congress, and, we are sorry to add, in the inaugural message of more than one State Governor. They are intended, by whomsoever propagated, to create sectional alienations, and to gain for the authors the favor of the South, and to open to them a possible opportunity of reconstructing the Union, by the sacrifice of any section that may be demanded as a victim, or the overthrow of any principles that may be proscribed as obnoxious. The machinery which has thus been put at work is precisely the same as that which was used, with such disastrous success, by the demagogues of the South in getting up the rebellion. They could never have done it, had they not for a whole generation trained the people of the slaveholding States to hate and despise their brethren of the free States. And now these new sectionalism of the North are trying the same means, for the accomplishment of a result not one whit less monstrous or iniquitous.
If there be a set of politicians who, above all others, should be visited with, the public odium— whose names should be coupled with anathemas by all good and true men, to the end of time, it is precisely this band of partisan conspirators, who in this crisis of our destiny, in the very height of the great life-battle of the nation, are thus sowing dissensions and creating hostilities among loyal and faithful people. Their grand aim is to conciliate the South by the preservation of slavery, and they openly announce their readiness to sacrifice any section of the country that may oppose them. They expect thus to make themselves leaders of the party that shall terminate the rebellion and re-establish the Union—to gain back the rebellious and slaveholding South by sacrificing whatever the South shall require Views of this kind, it is very evident, are at this moment rapidly working themselves into a great party organization, whose leaders, it is said, are already in communication with the chiefs of a corresponding party among the rebels. After the results which have been accomplished by such machinery, let no one be too confident that these men will not be successful in their desperate designs. It is easy to poison the minds of a people with sectional jealousy and hate, and when once poisoned by such passions, they will do any thing which their leaders may bid.
Nothing is plainer, from the course of events, than that the extinction of slavery must hereafter be an incidental object of the war. This would still be true, even if the President's Proclamation was recalled to-morrow. It is a necessity which the conflict itself has created, and it is no longer a matter of choice with the Government or with its military commanders. The party that shall oppose this object will find themselves compelled to terminate the war, and abandon the country to successful secession. On this point nothing could be more conclusive than the testimony of General Butler, in his remarks at a recent meeting in this city. He went to New Orleans, as he says, an apologist of slavery. He was accompanied by a military staff, all of whom were of the same character. His early acts after his arrival were in harmony with those views. After a year, he leaves New Orleans with his opinions totally changed. He has long ago assured himself that slavery was the cause of the war, that it is now the life of the war, that only when slavery comes to an end can the war come to an end; and this he avers is now the belief of each one of those military associates who, like him, went thither with opposite views.
The machinations of these Northern disunionists. who are thus ready to divide the loyal States, that they may win back the States in rebellion, we regard as among the most ominous signs of the times. They are fraught with far greater perils to the National cause than any losses of ships, or any defeats of armies we have thus far sustained. If they prove successful, they will render useless all the terrible sacrifices of the war—all the uncounted treasure
which has been so lavishly given—all the priceless blood which has been so nobly poured out in defence of national unity and freedom; for these men are ready to enforce dismemberment to perpetuate slavery. Every day, as we believe, is calling upon Christian men in this land to break away from all party bonds, and stand up in unbroken phalanx against the horde of selfish politicians who are striving for power, that they may again compromise with slavery?, and extend forgiveness to treason. It is lamentable to think how seldom the voice of tree Christian patriotism is heard in the din of our politics, and how little its power is really felt in the mighty movements of the time.—N. Y. Examiner.
<c04>
THE PEACH QUESTION.
The "peace-at-any-price Democrats" in the free States get little comfort from their friends the rebels. The following is the reply which comes up from Richmond, in the Dispatch of January 10th, to the peace propositions recently made by Mr. James Brook9, of New York:—
"Mr. Brooks appears to be in earnest in these extravagant propositions, strangle as it may appear to any man who has possession of his senses; for, upon the occasion of presenting them, he made a long speech, and expressed himself confident of their success. Are the Northern people all natural born fools, or are they only stricken with that judicial madness which we are told the gods always inflict upon the victims of their wrath preparatory to their ruin? Can they suppose that the South are as gales and as lily-livered as themselves, and that they are willing, for mere considerations of interest, to forget the unheard of outrages under which they have suffered during the war? Can they believe them capable of so soon burying in oblivion all that they have done, and all that they have suffered?
If the whole Yankee race should fall down in the dust to-morrow, and pray us to be their masters, we should spurn them even as slaves. Our only wish is to be separated from them finally and forever—never to see the face of one of them again—never to hear the voice of another Yankee on the south side of the Potomac or the north —to have no traffic and no intercourse of any description whatever with them. We are fighting for separation, and we will have it, if it cost the life of every man in the Confederate States.
We are aware that many persons believe that the party of which Brooks and Van Buren are representatives, desire and design to restore peace, and that at present they dare not speak out their real sentiments, which are in favor of separation. We do not believe they are in favor of any such thing. They would like peace on condition of our return to the Union, and they are fools enough to believe that a majority of the people in the Confederacy are in favor of reunion. They would like peace on these terms, because it would restore the commercial supremacy of the North, and especially of that city of New York, which is gone forever if the Union be not restored. But they are as bitterly opposed to separation as Lincoln himself, or any of the thieves aid murderers who lead his armies. In the event of a refusal to return to the Union, they would, to a man, unite in hounding on the assassins who arc desolating our country and murdering our people, as fiercely at they have ever been hounded on by Beecher and Hale. They look only to their pockets when they preach of reconciliation and restoration. If the same object could be effected by entirely destroying the people of the Southern States, and they thought it as easy to do, they would recommend it as the best of all possible policy. Let them be satisfied, however. President Davis expressed the sentiment of the entire Confederacy in his speech the other night, when he said the people would sooner unite with a nation of hyenas than with the detestable and detected Yankee nation. Anything but that English colonization, French vassalage, Russian serfdom, all, all are preferable to any association with the Yankees."
To any one who still retains a decent self-respect, such a rebuff as this would be sufficient. But, says the New York Evening Post, such spaniels as John Van Buren and Brooks can take a dozen such cuffs, and be dragged through the spittle afterwards, and then turn round to lick the hand that smote them. Does any one believe that this contemptuous retort of a Richmond rebel will be resented by the poor creatures at whom it is levelled? Not at all; they will go on fawning, begging, getting down on their knees, and whining, just as before; it is the nature of some persons to like kicking; they even plume themselves on the contempt of a gentleman. Like those unfortunates in the Southern States who are known as "clay-eaters," they have contracted a filthy but unconquerable habit of eating dirt; their constitutions are habituated to the vicious practice, and there u no hope of their restoration to the health and rectitude of manhood.

TREASON IN INDIANA.
THREATS OF THE COPPERHEADS — GOV. MORTON TO BE ASSASSINATED.
INDIANAPOLIS, Jan. 9, 1863.
When I say that Indiana is ripe for a revolution within her own borders, I expect the statement to be received with a good deal of incredulity by those who are not familiar with certain facts which are patent to all observing men in the State. The loyal people of Ohio will be slow to believe that there was a plot laid by the Democratic leaders of Indiana, and intended to be carried into execution less than ten days ago, for the seizure of the State Arsenal and the distribution of its contents among men who are pledged to the disruption of the Government. Nothing but the vigilance of Gov. Morton, Col. Carrington, and a few others, prevented the accomplishment of the villainous scheme.
Since my arrival here 1 have heard men say, alluding to the subject, that if they had once got the arsenal, it would have taken all the Abolitionists in the country to have taken it from them; that they had 93,000 men in Indiana to fight against the Yankees, and they intended to bring them out before long. I have»it on the best authority that the design of the conspirators was, after having made the seizure, to get the Republican members into the Senate and House of Representatives, crowd the lobbies so as to prevent a bolt, elect Bright and Hendricks as United States Senators, and pass a bill, or a series of resolutions, denouncing the Federal Government, and favoring the establishment of a North-Western Confederacy. Gov. Morton was apprised of their intentions in time, and if they had attempted any act of violence, they would have paid for it with their lives.
The North-Western scheme is boldly advocated by the Democratic leaders of this State. Hendricks, Bright, Three and others have been preaching for months that it is impossible to restore the Union of the South with the North, and that in the event of a dissolution of the Union, it will be the utter ruin of the North-West to remain under one government with the New England States. The policy of the present Legislature of Indiana—which is nothing but a tool in the hands of such men as Bright and Hendricks, will be to paralyze the General Government as far as possible, by refusing to appropriate money for the maintenance and equipment of Indiana troops in the field, and thus to render as much assistance as possible to the Confederate arms, knowing that upon the success of Jeff. Davis's revolution depend the chances for the establishment of their Utopia. They assert that the South, once an independent nation, will intervene in their behalf in the event of a collision between the East and West.
The political rascals are watching the course pursued by Kentucky with great interest. Secessionists and traitors at heart, they are opposed to the actual secession of Kentucky, believing they can make more capital and sympathy by her remaining in the Union, and calling upon the minions of slavery in the North to assert and defend her rights for her. They do not want Kentucky to enter the Southern Confederacy, but expect her to form one of the glorious constellation of States under the
<c05>
guidance of such demagogues as Bright and Hendricks.
It is well known that among the Knights of the Golden Circle, the assassination of Gov. Morton— who is at present the only obstacle in the way of the revolutionists—has been frequently talked of. A private conversation was overheard a few days ago, in which one of the K. G. C. said: "We can easily dispose of him (Morton) when the time comes, lit will be an irrepressible assassination—that's all. With him once out of the way, we have everything in our own hands, and then let the Abolitionists come on if they want to."—Correspondence of the Cincinnati Commercial.

GEN. BUTLER ON EMANCIPATION.
On Gen. Butler's arrival home at Lowell, he was received with the roost enthusiastic demonstrations of respect. He made an excellent speech, in which hi; fully maintained the views in regard to slavery he has so freely and nobly uttered since he left New Orleans. Is it not a little singular that the Democratic newspapers in this State should maintain such a dogged silence in reference to the movements and sayings of this man? So far as we have noticed, they have not even alluded to his arrival home, for fear that some interest might be excited among their duped readers in reference to what he might have to say about his sojourn in rebeldom. While their papers teem with the most infamous and wicked secession, gathered up from the sayings of the Vallandighams, the New York World, Herald, Argus, and other sources black with treason—the noblest utterances of this New England Democrat are studiously suppressed. Upon slavery, its direct agency in originating all our existing troubles, the barrier it presents to the establishment of a permanent and honorable peace, he speaks from experience; and from the fact that his mind has been made up in the face of strong and deep rooted prejudices in the other direction, his "words that burn" in defence of universal liberty should make a living and lasting impression upon the great heart of New England. We trust therefore that some pains will be taken to circulate the speeches he has recently made among the people. Their out-spoken, evident honesty is attractive, and their warm patriotism will have an electric influence upon every truly loyal heart.—Claremont (N. H.) Advocate.

MR. BRIGHT ON THE AMERICAN QUESTION.
From the London Daily News.
The members for Birmingham, Messrs. Bright and Scholefield, met their constituents, in compliance with an invitation, on Wednesday, and addressed them on the topics of the day, but especially the American war.
Mr. BRIGHT was received with loud and prolonged cheering. Having referred to the distress in Lancashire and its cause, he then proceeded to state his views on the American question, and, tracing the course of public opinion in this country, observed— So far as I could see. nobody thought the South had any just cause for breaking up the integrity of a great nation. Now, I appeal to you whether this was not the case, and whether persons of different political views in this country were not ready to admit that the South was ruled by a Government mild, and in no degree oppressive. It was a Government, it is true, which some among us loved and some disliked. It was not a costly monarchy; it was not an aristocracy creating and living on patronage; it did not support a very burdensome foreign policy; it had no great army, no great navy, no suffering millions to be discontented and overthrown—charges all of which have been brought against Governments in this country and throughout Europe a hundred times over. Therefore it was said very generally here, when the intelligence of the secession of the South reached us, Why should these men revolt? At the moment at which that revolt took place, the Government at Washington appeared to be paralyzed; it had no army, it had no navy, and it was by many thought that the North would, under the circumstances, acquiesce in the rending of the republic asunder; it was told, indeed, by certain public writers in this country that the contest was entirely hopeless, and a similar view of it was taken by no less a personage than the Chancellor of the Exchequer. I am, however, happy to say that, although the Chancellors of the Exchequer can often decide to a penny what shall be the rate of taxation in England, they cannot determine what is to be the fate of a whole Continent.
My honorable friend referred to the case of the Trent, and I read in the papers that you had a meeting in this hall last year, in which the conduct of our Government in making a great manifestation of force against America in that case was duly applauded, and that at least one minister of religion upon that occasion took that view. Now, I am not in the least complaining that it should be so; but if you thought the act of an American captain who, not under instructions from his Government, took two men from an English merchant vessel, justified you in going to war with the United States, then I say you ought not to scan too narrowly the course which the North pursued under circumstances much more difficult than those in which you were then placed.
Take, again, the case of the Rock of Gibraltar. Well, suppose Spain were to equip an expedition for the purpose of retaking that fortress, which is not of the slightest advantage to any Englishman living, except those who hold appointments on it, would not oar Government, I would ask, do everything in its power to resist such an attempt? I cannot help thinking that if our Government would resist, as you know they would, an expedition fitted out by Spain against Gibraltar, the course taken by the Northern States can scarcely be viewed by you with surprise.
I will not discuss the question whether this war is prosecuted in defence of the Constitution or for the abolition of slavery; if, however, we came to the point of sympathy with the South, or recognition of her, or mediation or intervention, we should consider what is her aim. The United States Government is on terms of amity with our own, and that befog no, are you, because you may cavil at certain things at home being done in the United States, to throw the influence of your opinion into the scale in favor of a movement, the object of Which is to dismember that great Republic beyond the Atlantic? Is there a man here who doubts for a moment that the aim of the South in this contest is to maintain and perpetuate the bondage of 4,000,000 of human beings? Yes, her object is to secure that a handful of white men on that Continent shall lord it over millions of men made black by the very band that made was white. Her object to retain the power to breed negroes, to lash negroes, to claim them, to buy and self negroes, to deny them the enjoyment of the commonest family ties, to break their hearts by rending them at their pleasure, to close their mental eye against a glimpse of that knowledge which separates
<c06>
us from the brute creation; for, in accordance with their laws, it is a penal act to learn a negro to read.
I
WISH TO KNOW, THEN WHETHER THIIS IS TO BE MADE foundation, as is promised, of a new slave empire, whether it w intended that on this audacious and infernal basis a new alliance for England is to be built up. It has been said that Greece was recognised by this country, but not until she had fought Turkey for six years, nor did France recognise the United States of America until five or six years after the War of Independent; and I want to know who they are who speak in favor of England becoming so eagerly the ally of this great conspiracy against human nature. I should have no objection to recognise a country simply because it was one that held slaves. It would be absurd to refuse to bold political relations with a State because within it such an institution as slavery happens to exist; but, in the ease of the South, we have a new Stale which purposes to set itself upon the sole basis of slavery, and of which slavery is said to be the chief corner stone. I hear it said the Republic is too powerful, and that it is better for us, or rather for the governing clam and the governing policy of England, that it should be broken up. But suppose we were in New York or Washington, discussing the case of England instead of that of America, and some one were to say that our empire is growing too big,—surely an American might say that he has not covered she ocean with his fleets, or left the bones of his citizens to bleach upon abundant European battle-fields, He could say a thousand times more truly than we can say of his country, that England is Urge and powerful, and it is thought perilous for the nations that she should be so great. But all this language, whether front an Englishman on the one side, or from an American on the other, is to be condemned as neither patriotic, rational, nor moral. The man who wishes the Republic to be severed on that ground is only doing what tends to keep alive jealousies which, as far as he is concerned, will never die.
But it is said the Northerners do not like us at all. It is not at all necessary that they should like us. Does anybody believe that the South likes us? We all know that when the South was in power, as it had been for many years, in the United States, hostility to this country was cherished and stimulated to the utmost degree by some of the very leaden in the present insurrection.
Having condemned the proceedings of the Alabama, which, he said, had been fitted out in illation of the Foreign Enlistment Act, and that such was the opinion of the law officers of the Crown, Mr. Bright continued:—Well, if we were citizens of New York, it would require a little more calmness than is shown in this country on foreign questions to look upon that as a matter with which we have no concern. But there are Ministers in our Cabinet as resolved against any treason to freedom on this question as I am and there are numbers of the English aristocracy of the very highest rank who hold the same opinion as I do; but we have had every effort made that money and malice could devise to stimulate in Lancashire, among the suffering population, an opinion in favor of the Slave States. They have not been able to get it, and I honor that population for their fidelity to their principles and to freedom; and I say the conduct they have pursued ought to atone in the minds of the people of the United States for miles of leading articles written by the London press, by men who would barter every human right to serve the party with which they are associated. How, I ask, comes it that, on the Continent of Europe, there is not a liberal newspaper nor a liberal politician that durst say, or ever thought of saying, one word in favor of that portentous and momentous shape which now asks to be received into the family of nations? The late Count Cavort had no difficulty in deciding on this point. Ask Garibaldi, ask Kossuth, whether slavery has nothing to do with this strife. Ask Victor Hugo, the poet of freedom and exponent of the yearnings of all mankind for the better time—ask any man in Europe who opens his lips or invites a sentence for freedom, on which side your sympathies should lie. Why, in all parts of the world except this island, lamed for its freedom, you do not find one man speaking in favor of the South; and why is that done here? HI tell you the reason. Our London press is mainly in the hands of certain ruling West-end classes. It acts in favor of those classes. Bat I maintain, after all, the people do not err. Free States are the home of the working man. In fifteen years, 2,500,000 of our countrymen and country women have left us for the United States, every one of whom, speaking generally, is in a much better position in point of comfort than if they had remained here. As one of America's one poets has said,—"
For her free latchstring never was dawn in
Against the poorest child of Adam's kin."
In America, there are no six millions of grown men excluded by the Constitution from political rights; there is a free church, a free school, a free band, a free vote, a free career for the child at the humblest. No! countrymen, who work for your living, remember that there will be one wild shriek of freedom, to startle all mankind, if that Republic is overthrown. Slavery has been the huge foul blot upon its fame; it is a hideous outrage against human right and divine law; the pride and passion of man will not permit its peaceable extraction; the slave owners of our colonies, if they had been strong enough, would have revolted too. I believe there was no mode short of a miracle more stupendous than any recorded in Holy Writ, which would in our time or in a century have brought the abolition of slavery in America, but the suicide which the South has committed, and the war they are now waging. It is a measureless calamity. I said the Russian war was a measureless calamity. Did not many of your leaden tell von that that was a just war to maintain the integrity of Turkey, some thousands of miles away? Why, sorely the integrity of your own country at your own doors mast be worth as mochas the integrity of Turkey. Is not this war the penalty whisk an inexorable justice exacts from America, North and Sooth, for the enormous guilt of cherishing this frightful iniquity for the last eighty years? I do not blame any man who takes the RESTORATION of the Union to be hopeless., I don't hold that opinion. The leaders of this revolt propose by their Constitution this simple thing_ that over a territory some forty time, as large as England, the blight and bondage of slavery shell be forever perpetuated. I cannot myself believe in believe in such a fate befalling that fair land, stricken though it now be by the ravages of war; I cannot believe that civilization in its journey with the son will sink into endless night to gratify the ambition of the leaders of this revolt, who seek" to wade through slaughter to a throne, and shot the gases of mercy on mankind" I have another and far brighter vision before my gaze. It may be but a vision, but I will still cherish it. I see one vast confederation stretching from the frozen North in one unbroken line to the glowing South, and from the wild billows of the Atlantic to the calmer waters of the pacific main, and I see one people and one law, and one language and one faith, and over all that wide continent the home of freedom and a refuge for the oppressed of every race.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT or THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES....From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaver taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power....It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."—J.Q.ADAMS.<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
REBUKE OF TORY-DEMOCRACY.
WASHINGTON. D. C, Jan. 20, 1863.
The Tory-Democracy are singing a new song lately. They shift with every political wind, and to accomplish their party ends, "they play upon a harp of a thousand strings." Their last scheme is to alienate the West from the East-reconstruct the Union on the basis of slavery-and "leave New England out in the cold." We have had intimation of this for sometimes, but now it is openly avowed on the floor of Congress and in public speeches. They have discovered that all the rivers of the West run South ward to the sea, and therefore the destinies of that great sections are linked with the South! Jeff. Davis says, "he looks to the Northwest for the first gleams of peace," and forthwith Vallandigham echoes back, "the Northwest will go with the South, if New England persists in the war," and will not give up her peculiar notions of Freedom and Christianity. Little Cox leaves his seat in Congress, and runs to New York, and traduces the Pilgrim fathers; And Vallandigham remains, and denounces New England, and apologises for treason in and elaborate speech. There is a plan of action in this too barefaced to be mistaken. The Democratic party, which denounces the Republicans as being sectional, is exertion its utmost influence to incite a sectional feeling between the East and the West. This is the last scheme to encourage rebellion.
Now let a Western man — Judge Bingham of Ohio — speak for the West:—
MR. BINGHAM.—My colleague volunteers to speak (or the great and free Northwest, the offspring of that New England which he has denounced here to-day. Where did the founders of those free Commonwealths of the Northwest learn how so wisely and so justly to mould the institutions of States? In that denounced New England, among the hills of which they were cradled! They carried the great lesson of wisdom with them. those children of the Pilgrim fathers, who followed the setting son as he walked in his Maker's steps of fire. The first act of those pioneers of Western civilization was to reenact in the light of New England example, as the primal law of the free Commonwealths, that all men should be free, and that no man within their limits should be wrongfully robbed either of his liberty or of the products of his own toil. And now, in the presence of the Representatives of these free Commonwealths of the West, my colleague volunteers to speak for them all, and tells us and tells this country and the world that in the event of the triumph of these rebels and the dismemberment of the Union, all of which he predicts and attempts to secure by refusing to vote supplies of either men or money in the cause of the Union, and by declaring and advising that your army be disbanded, the free Northwest will bind herself to that body of sin and death—the rebel South. The gentleman argues and declares I that in the event of disunion, the free States of the Northwest, forgetful of all that is brilliant in their past history, will voluntarily, for the sake only of filthy lucre, bind themselves to those Southern traitors against civil and religious liberty in this and all lands.
I want to know, again, by what authority he says that? I stand here to tell him that he slanders the free West. He says interest will do it. Pray why? He says that all the grain of that mighty region must find its outlet through the Mississippi into the Gulf of Mexico, and that interest will therefore bind the Northwest to the Southern rebel States. Is the free Northwest to east her destiny, in the event of disunion, with assassins and murderers for the sake of gain? God forbid '. Her people to-day give the lie to the prophecy, and prove that it is false. How; many bushels of her grain have found their market through the channels of the lower Mississippi, pray, since this rebellion began? Not one. How many pounds of her beef and pork have found their way to market through the channels of the lower Mississippi river since this rebellion began? Not one. Yet, according to the logic of the gentleman, the great Northwest is so craven, so deeply imbued with the mercenary spirit of Judas, that she would sell herself out to the rebels of Louisiana and Mississippi for the sake of a market for her products. Let the; conduct of the Northwest answer the slander. If she had sought her gain simply, if she had looked only to profitable returns for the products of her fields, to the prosperity of her great industrial interests alone, according to the logic of the gentleman, she would long ago have struck hinds with the rebels, instead of sending out, as she has sent out, half a million of the bravest and noblest of her sons, who have, in this war, upheld your banner with a strong arm upon every field of conflict west of the Alleghanies, and in the East as well. If site had: looked only to her pecuniary interest, would she thus profanely have cast the jewels of her life, the coinage of her heart, into your treasury?
Mr. Lovejoy also freed his mind on these traitors, who, not content with the Secession of the South, are encouraging a dismemberment of the North by inciting a sectional feeling between the East and the West. It is Vallandigham and Cox—sometimes called weather-Cox, from his changing with every political breeze—that be gives such a withering rebuke:—
MR. LOVEJOY.—The people will take care of the poor partisans who run around in New York, and upon this floor, and responsive to the treasonable appeals of Jeff. Davis. that the first gleams of peace may come from the Northwest, echo back in squeaking obsequiousness, "the first gleams of peace will be from the Northwest.' The Northwest, sir, will never go with the South, and will never let the South go. It will never leave New England. It will never leave New York. It will never leave Pennsylvania. The people of that region are to-day about two thousand miles nearer London by New York than by New Orleans. The products of the vast territory of the Mississippi valley, many of them, are such as to be liable to damage from the climate, if they have to be taken a long voyage to Europe by New Orleans, and around the peninsula of Florida, aside from the disadvantage of distance. No, sir; we are going to the Gulf by the Mississippi, and to the ocean by New York. We propose to feed the world, and we will never surrender the privilege of going to market either way.
I thank God that be has allowed success to the Democratic party, so as to bring out the disguised traitors. They begin to chatter out the treason they hare secretly cherished. We will annihilate them at the next election. They stand openly for disunion now. They shall meet their doom. I know, sir, that I speak the voice of the Northwest. I have talked to them and with them. I know that they are loyal. Sir. being a New England man, and proud of my birth-place, and being a Western man by adoption, I think I can speak for them both. We cannot spare New Eng and. and she cannot spare us. Of all the mean things God ever allowed to crawl upon the earth, the meanest are they who traduce this old Pilgrim fathers. The idea of Jeff- Davis's spaniels parceling out this country which Jehovah has given as a heritage to the American people! Decency has not blushed at such crime and impudence since Satan undertook to sell the kingdoms of this world to Christ.
MR DAWES—I wish to say to the gentleman that we have come to know that New England is of vastly more importance to those men than they are to New England.
Mr. Lovejoy.—Well, sir. we are all of importance to each other. All loyal hearts are of importance All parts of the nation are of importance; but we can much better spare the rebels than the rebels can spare us. They will find their placer in time, as Judas did; and when we shall execute them, as we ought to have done at first, God will take care of the future transportation! (Laughter and applause.)
The Democratic side of the House presented a pitiable spectacle while this debate was going on. The small, squealing voice in which Love joy imitates their cry of " the first gleans of peace will come from the Northwest," and then the thunder tones is which he spoke the words, the Northwest will never go with the South, and will never let the South go," had a most withering effect. Little Cox looked as if he would like la shrink into his boots, and traitor Vallandigham snarled and showed his teeth like a barking cat. Not one of the score of compromisers sought the floor to reply. It was God's truth they were hearing, and though it did make then wriggle, they had not the face to deny it. From present indications, this attempt to inaugurate an anti-Puritan party will be a miserable failure. Mr. Wright, of Pennsylvania, a leading war Democrat, has cleared himself in an able speech of any connection with it, and other Democrats will follow his example. There are- not above a score in the House who will follow the lead of Vallandigham, Ben. Wood and Cox in every new dogma which they pot forth to give aid and comfort to the rebels.—Corr. Utica Herald.
<c02>
MRS. STOWE ON SLAVERY.
From the London Dial Jan. 10th.
A voice comes to us from America, which we are sure will not speak in vain. The pen which, in the glowing pages of "Uncle Tom's Cabin," awoke the sympathies of the British nation in the fate of the humble American slave, has again found expression in "thoughts that breathe and words that barn." This tune it is not the conscience of her countrymen and countrywomen which Mrs. Stowe seeks to arouse to a healthy activity. No; for, at she truly says, the great anti-slavery work which they were called upon to perform "is almost done." Ore by one the; strongholds of slavery are being demolished, and the; hour of liberal ion to the captive millions is drawing nigh. Shameful to say, it is to Great Britain that her words of counsel and exhortation—of mild but still burning reproach—are addressed. Who would have thought it possible that so great a change would come over the spirit of our dream? Who could have imagined that many, among those whose hearts were melted into tenderness by Mrs. Stowe's immortal story, would now express sympathy with the slave-driver, and turn with cold disdain from the victims of so much misery and oppression? Yet so it is; and his well that the troth should be told us by one who, more than any other woman of her time, has earned the right to deal faithfully with us when we avow sympathy with the lordly tyrant, and despise the slave who crouches at bin feet.
More than eight years ago. Mrs. Stowe was made the medium of presenting to the women of America an address from their English sisters, which alluded in solemn and earnest language to the iniquities of slavery, and urged upon them, as wives, as mothers, and as sisters, to aid in "the removal of this affliction and disgrace of the Christian world." The address itself emanated from the pen of Lord Shaftsbury. It was headed by such names as the Duchess of Bedford, Lady Palmerston, the Duchess of Sutherland, and Lady Shaftsbury. Many thousands of English women, belonging to all ranks of society down to the humblest it the land, attached their signatures to this noble document. No formal answer has been returned till now. A reply has, however, been given in eight years of constant, self-denying, and successful labor on the part of tens of thousands of women in the Free States, who have sought to purge their country of its hideous stain. They have embodied their answer in works—works for which the slave owes them his deepest gratitude, and the world will yet pay them the reverence which in due to exalted worth and heroic fidelity to principle. But Mrs. Stowe, chief among these true "sisters of mercy," thinks that the time has arrived when she should specially address those who entrusted to her their eloquent and timely message to the women of America. Truly, the time has arrived! We would fain hope that none of the ladies who signed the address have changed their sentiments—we know, indeed, that some of the highest among them still rank with those who have not bowed the knee to Baal. Still, there are many whose minds are confused by the sophistries and falsehoods that have been manufactured on every hand, and who have been induced to wish success to a cause which, if they had understood its real character, they would have regarded with feelings of horror and detestation. But Mrs. Stowe's "reply" is not a merely sentimental address. She pleads with a woman's feeling, but she argues with a logician's mastery of her theme. In sentences brief but pungent, she states the whole case between the North and the South. She recalls attention to the drama of events which preceded the election of President Lincoln. She points out that the great aim of the slaveholders, in the first instance, was to wrest the territories of the Union from freedom, and to make them slave sail—that it was not until they were defeated in their stupendous conspiracy to convert the free North itself into a province of the Slave Power that they hoisted the banner of rebellion. She quotes the famous speech delivered by Vice President Stephens at Savannah—a speech which cannot be too often reproduced—to prove that the desire to establish a Government in which, to repeat his impious words, slavery shall become "the chief stone of the corner." was the sole origin, and is the sole foundation, of the new edifice. She then defends the policy of the Federal Government, without committing herself blindly to all its acts. She shows what it could do and what it could not do—that, step by step, it has proved itself equal to the great trust which the Almighty has deposited in its keeping. The District of Columbia has been made free, territory; slavery is excluded forever from the territories of I he Union; the right of search has been conceded; the President has offered compensation to loyal slaveholders who shall manumit their slaves; has virtually abolished the Fugitive Slave Law, made every Federal camp a refuge, for the oppressed, and declared the freedom of the slave property of every obdurate rebel. She points out that, wherever the Union armies now penetrate, they strike off the manacles of thy slave; and that, instead of Federal commanders being at liberty to act upon their own feelings, whether good or evil, they are now compelled, by orders which they dare not disobey, to give a welcome to the bondsman, and bid the oppressed be free. After telling the story of the Darlington, which steamed up the river Sapelo and liberated the rejoicing slaves of one large plantation, she describes the march of freedom in the Border States. Missouri and Delaware have elected anti-slavery members to Congress, and the slaveholders of these States arc preparing to consummate the good work of emancipation. She alludes to the benevolent provision which the United States Government has made for the comfort of the escaped negroes; and she describes a touching scene she witnessed at Washington on Thanksgiving Day, when the fugitive slaves located in that capital—bondsmen no longer—offered up to Heaven their hymns and prayers of thanksgiving.
Well may Mrs. Stowe, after such a retrospect, turn with sadness to England, which has been so wanting in sympathy to America in her hour of suffering and trial. "The party," she says, " which makes slavery the chief corner-stone of its edifice finds in England its strongest defenders;" and she points to the fitting out of that notorious pirate, the Alabama, in the port of Liverpool, as one proof of the justice of her statement. With somewhat of a mournful tone she quotes the words of Lord Shaftsbury, uttered at the beginning of the great struggle: "If we were only sure you were fighting for the abolition of slavery, we should not dare to say whither our sympathies for your cause might not carry us." The Federals are now avowedly fighting for the abolition of slavery. No more will Longfellow hare to ring:—
Paul and Silas, in their prison,
Sang of Christ the Lord arisen.
And an earthquake's arm of might
Broke their dungeon-gates at night.
But, alas! what holy angel
Brings the slave this glad evangel?
And what earthquake's arm of might
Breaks his dungeon-gates at night?
Every cannon-ball fired from a Federal cannon is helping to batter down those dungeon gates, and to give life and liberty to the prisoners immured in the house of bondage. But where are the sympathies of many of those who ought to rejoice in the prospect of I be slave's deliverance? Certainly not openly expressed, either on the side of the slave or of his liberator. But we can assure Mrs. Stowe that her ideas of the decline of British anti-slavery feeling are far too gloomy. She has mistaken the infamous diatribes of public journals and of public men who, with here and there an exception, have been ever hostile to the cause of freedom at borne as well as abroad, for expressions of English opinion. A greater mistake could not be committed the diabolic malignity of the Times, for example, is not a thing of recent growth. Mrs. Stowe will remember that s Uncle Tom's Cabin" itself did not escape the heartless sneers of this truth-hating journal—that it has always declared emancipation in the West Indies a failure, and shamelessly caricatured and libeled our enfranchised negro fellow-subjects. What it now is, it was thru—the champion of oppression, the patron of men-stealers, the sworn foe of the colored rare. Only on Tuesday last, it made, the notable discovery that the Bible—the New Testament as well as the Old—not only failed to condemn, but gave a tacit sanction to the institution of slavery, and that "a slave who refuses the offer of freedom has a high Scriptural argument for his choice." This is the gloss put by scoffers and unbelievers on Holy Writ; and a scoffer and unbeliever the Times will continue to be until its race is run. But Mrs. Stowe does not need to be told that these flagitious sentiments are scouted by the entire nation; that no one would dare to utter them in any assembly in the land; and that the writer, were he known, would have meted out to him a full measure of ignominy and contempt. No; let Mrs. Stowe be assured that the heart of England
<c03>
still beats true to the cause of freedom; that her address will find an echo in hundreds of thousands of English homes; and that the nation to which she appeals will yet discard ins false teachers, and give to America the sympathy which she has proved her right to claim.

THE LIBERATOR.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 1863.

NOTICE TO DELINQUENT SUBSCRIBERS.
The GENERAL AGENT of the Liberator begs leave to remind delinquent subscribers—i.e., such are owing from January 1, 1862, to January 1, 1868— that, unless payment be made by the first of April, (which is granting a longer indulgence than usual.) their paper will be discontinued, in accordance with the STANDING RULK. It is hoped there will be no longer delay on their part in meeting their indebtedness, and no occasion furnished for curtailing the subscription list.

WHY A PROLONGED WAR.
When the electric wires conveyed with lightning speed the startling intelligence of the surrender of Fort Sumter, and therefore the actual commencement of deadly war upon the government by the confederate traitors of the South, all party distinctions at the North seemed to be merged, for the time being, in a common determination to uphold the national flag, and suppress the rebellion, at whatever cost of blood or treasure. Nor was the task considered a difficult one. At the worst, if a sharp, certainly a short conflict would settle the whole matter—summarily send to the gallows the leading conspirators—enforce the loyal recognition of the supremacy of the U. S. Constitution in every disaffected section—and bring back the old state, of things, leaving scarcely a scar upon the face of the country. Nearly two years have passed away, and during that time colossal armies have been raised, a formidable navy created, desperate and bloody battles fought, fabulous sums of money expended, to ensure the triumph of the Federal government; yet the Union still remains divided, the piratical Confederate States still maintain their independence, die war still goes on with varying fortune, and what is to be the end of these things even the most sagacious and far-sighted hesitate to conjecture. It is undeniable that at no period since the outbreak have there been such anxiety of mind and heaviness of heart as to the final issue, as are now felt throughout the North.
It may be profitable to inquire into some of the causes of these sanguine expectations on the one hand, and these severe disappointments on the other.
1. None but those who had thoroughly mastered the spirit, tendency and necessities of chattel slavery saw that from it proceeded the flames of this rebellious war as naturally as volcanic eruption? burst forth from Vesuvius or Etna. In vain they pointed to the line of division between the loyal and the disaffected, running precisely where the free institutions of the North found their geographical boundary, and the slave institutions of the South began—at least, so far as the dominating public sentiment was concerned on either side. In vain they arrayed impregnable evidence, demonstrating that just where the slave oligarchy were the most powerful, and slaves the must numerous, there the treasonable spirit was the most rampant— culminating as well as originating in thrice accursed South Carolina,—a large majority of whose entire population was owned as property, subjected to stripes and tortures, and herded with the beasts of the field. In vain they warned the government that no effective blow could be struck at the rebellion, which did not directly strike at the existence of slavery; that, whether it prosecuted the war expressly to free the fettered negro or not, the war was commenced and carried on for no other purpose, by the traitors, than to prevent the negro from getting his freedom. Month I alter month was allowed to pass away in abortive strategy or sanguinary conflict, under the delusion that the rebellion could be quelled not only without; shaking the slave system to its foundation, but nil the j more quickly by letting slavery entirely alone. Never was delusion more complete or more disastrous! Every where prevailing, how was success possible under such circumstances? Therefore the war "dragged its slow length along." If the advice of the abolitionists had been followed, long ere this both slavery and the rebellion had been effectually suppressed, and peace restored from sea to sea. There is no such uncompromising loyalty to freedom and free institutions as theirs. They will be found true, inflexible, unconquerable, when all others, disclaiming the appellation, are found ready for compromise or capitulation.
2. Another reason why the war has lingered has been the unwillingness to employ the free colored and slave population in the military service of the government. The proposition to do this has stirred up an incredible amount of democratic (!) bile, and elicited from the lips of a hollow, tumid patriotism the indignant exclamation—" What! shall it be said that twenty millions of Northern freemen cannot overcome eight millions of Southern rebels, without the aid of the niggers! Shame on him who says to the contrary! "This was cowardly swaggering and not true bravery, and it has since received merited retribution. Moreover, if it proved any thing, it proved too much; for if it would be cowardly for twenty millions to call in negro help to subjugate eight millions, is it not also cowardly for twenty millions to bring ail their forces to bear against eight millions? and should they not, to place their courage beyond suspicion, tie one hand behind them, and fight only with the other, disdaining to meet the enemy beyond man for man? Yet, with all the advantage of numbers, resources, intelligence, and bravery on the part of the North, the South,—whatever her sufferings and sacrifices,—continues unsubtle, defiant, confident of ultimate triumph and permanent independence. Remember that, for more than eighteen months after the humbling of the "stars and stripes" at Sumter, the policy adopted by President Lincoln, in conducting the war, gate such satisfaction to the democratic press as to elicit from it the strongest laudations; nor did it cense to extol his honesty, independence and patriotic purpose until, in September last, he announced to the rebellious States that their slaves should be declared free, in case they did not return to their allegiance by the first of January, 1863. During all that time, why were not the rebels conquered—eight millions against twenty millions—if the aid of the negroes was not needed? Remember, moreover, that from first to last, the army of the Potomac and the army of the West have been led and controlled by democratic officers, who have managed every thing in their own way, caring little or nothing for the wishes, requests or commands of the President,—as signally illustrated in the case of Gen. McClellan, around whom are gathering, by an unerring instinct, all the elements of sedition and ruffians at the North for the most desperate purposes. Why, with the lion's share of office! emolument and power magnanimously conceded to them, did not these democratic leaders long since carry their armies through victoriously to the Gulf? Will the democratic press answer?
Of course—other things being equal—eight millions of people cannot successfully cope with twenty millions, of the same Mood and nation as themselves. The disparity is so overwhelming that, in the sequel, they must be either subdued or exterminated. Other things being equal, we said—and here lies the nib; for in this struggle things are not equal, and so the comparison is as illogical as it is vain-glorious. In the first place, it is cool deception to talk of eight millions as constituting the stun total of the Confederate strength; whereas, to this number mutt be added four millions of slaves, who, under the iron dominion of their rebel masters, are as day in the hands of the potter, and who, used in every conceivable way to
<c04>
carry on the rebellion, constitute a most formidable power to be hurled like a thunderbolt against an invading force. The Southern aggregate, then, is twelve millions.
There are other considerations, explanatory of the lingering nature of the war, which we must defer till another week.

THE OLD SLAVE-DRIVING SPIRIT.
The following disgraceful personal exhibition—a specimen of Border State slaveholding loyalty—took place in the U.S. Senate on Tuesday but Mr. Saulsbury made a long and factious speech, and was called to order several times in the coarse thereof Finally, when censuring the course of the President of the United States, calling him an imbecile, and calling him by name, the Vice President called him to order, and requested him to take his seat. Mr. Saulsbury continuing his remarks, the Vice President said if the Senator did not take his seat, he should order the Sergeant-at-Arms to take him in charge:—
"Mr. Saulsbury— Then the voice of freedom is not allowed in the American Senate.
The Vice President —The Sergeant at-Arms will take the Senator in custody.
Mr. Saulsbury was thereupon taken out of the Senate, displaying a revolver which he took from his coat pocket.
After a short time, Mr. Saulsbury came into the Senate again, and began to speak.
Mr. Doolittle called him to order on the ground that he had been called to order for contempt of the Senate, and could not be allowed to go on without leave of the Senate.
Mr. Saulsbury—Does the Senator from Wisconsin say that I am in contempt of any honorable man?
The Chair (Mr. Clark)—The Senator from Delaware will take his seat, as he is oat of order.
Mr. Saulsbury—Just as I please or otherwise.
Cries of order.
The Chair—The Senator will take his seat, and the Sergeant-at-Arms will take him in custody.
After further discussion, Mr. Saulsbury attempted to speak.
The-Chair—The Senator will take his seat.
Mr. Saulsbury—No, sir.
Mr. Sumner rose to the question of order, that the Senator from Delaware had been committed to the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms, and he saw him on the floor.
The Chair said the Senator was in the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms, and if he made further disturbance, he would be removed from the Senate.
Mr. Saulsbury took his seat, shaking his fists, and swearing at the Sergeant-at-Arms and Mr. Sumner."
This is not the first time this Saulsbury has played the part of the blackguard and bully in the Senate. That body owes it to its own dignity, and to the whole country, to expel him at once.
GEN. BUTLER. Universal satisfaction is expressed at the announcement that Gen. Butler is to be recalled to his post at New Orleans. No other man is so feared by the rebels in that quarter, and his return is needed to hold them in check, as the following extract from a New Orleans letter, dated Dec. 30th, fully proves:—
"The people of New Orleans feel quite free since Gen. Butler left; secessionists feel well. Three shooting affairs in the city within three days, and loud talk of President Davis, and intuiting remarks to officers and Union men, such as have not been known for many months."
As soon as Gen. Butler arrives at New Orleans, Gen. Batiks will proceed with the great feature of his original expedition—the invasion and possession of Texas, and the restoration of that State to the Union as a free commonwealth.
In the U. S. House of Representatives, on the 8th, a resolution of thanks to Gen. Butler, for his administration at New Orleans, was adopted, yeas 83, nays 28.
THE ARMY OF THE POTOMAC. Gen. Burnside has been relieved at his own request, and Gen. Hooker now commands the Army of the Potomac. "The change," says the Tribune, " will hardly excite surprise. Burnside assumed the chief command reluctantly; and it is understood that he tendered his resignation three times before it was accepted. Ever since the battle of Antietam, Hooker has been looked upon as the Inevitable General. Gen Burnside will receive the grateful appreciation of the country for his earnestness, purity, and unselfish patriotism. Gen. Hooker has risen, step by step, to the chief command. In all former positions, he has acquitted himself not only with credit, but with distinction. His new position is one requiring the highest ability, but his antecedents justify the nation in regarding his accession to it with satisfaction and confidence."
Gen. Sumner and Gen. Franklin have been removed. The former is succeeded by Gen. Couch, and Gen. W. G. Smith succeeds Gen. Franklin. It is stated that some eighty other officers are to be removed.
MRS. STOWE'S ADDRESS IN ENGLAND. Mrs. Stowe's reply to the Englishwomen's address has been reprinted in London by Sampson Low, Son & Co., in a handsome volume, and is published entire in the London Star and Daily News, both of which journals give it high praise. We have copied from the London Dial, in another column, a well written and warmly appreciative notice of it. [As exhibiting the true state of British sentiment respecting the rebellion, see letter of F. W. CHESSON, Esq. of London.]
AN EXCELLENT WOMAN IN A RESPONSIBLE SITUATION. Mrs. Frances D. Gage has been appointed by Gen. Sax ton superintendent of the plantations, six in number, on Paris Island, S. C. This island at its upper end is six miles from Beaufort, and at its lower extremity six miles from Hilton Head. Mrs. Gage's son is the only white person with her. There are on the island three hundred and fifty men, women and children. In a private letter she says:" They are the lowest and saddest-conditioned people I have found." On account of their isolated condition, they have not received so much attention as others who are more favorably situated, and their wants are very pressing. Mrs. Gage appeals for help, wishing particularly thread, (linen, black and white,) cotton spools of the coarsest numbers, cast-aside children's clothes, (if not too much worn,) old dresses, men's coats, and other garments.
GEN. FREMONT. The President is strongly urged to appoint Gen. Fremont Military Governor of North Carolina, in place of Gov. Stanley, whom it is desired to supersede for various causes. It is thought by those who press this change upon the Government that the name of Fremont would summon in a week almost an army of colored Unionists, as large as the white army Foster commands.
THE OHIO CATILINE. Bead the quotations we have made, in the "Refuge of Oppression," from a speech recently made in the U. S. House of Representatives by that brazen representative of Northern truckling and compromise, Vallandigham of Ohio. The worst of the Southern rebels in arms is to be preferred to such a stirrer up of sedition.
GERRIT SMITH TO GOV. SEYMOUR. The New
York Tribune publishes a long, faithful and cogent letter from Gerrit Smith to Gov. Seymour of New York, reviewing his recent seditious message to the Legislature of that State, in the right tone and spirit. The larger portion of it may be found on our last page: the remainder we shall try to make room for in our next issue.
Rev. M. D. CONWAY, a native-born Virginian, and an uncompromising opponent or slavery, preached in the Senate Chamber at Washington on Sunday last, on "The Negro as the Savior of the Nation," and was repeatedly applauded. How he puts to shame many a Massachusetts recreant!
The net result of the "Jubilee Concert," at Music Hall on New Year's day, amounts to about $550, which sum will be handed over to the Treasurer of the Educational Commission for the benefit of freed slaves. A beneficent result.
<c05>
A METROPOLITAN POLICE. 
"Another effort is to be made, it seems, to take from the City Government of Boston the control the Police of the city. Petitions are coming in to the Legislature from the country, praying for a Metropolitan Police law. The pincer of the brood was one from Gideon Cole and fifty-six other ‘legal voters' of Wrentham. Twenty-two of these legal voters are females, showing a remarkable extension of the suffrage law in the town of Wrentham.
"This movement for a Metropolitan Police in Boston is simply a piece of officious and impertinent intermeddling. The Legislature will probably enact such a law when it takes from the towns the appointment and control of their constables, fence-viewers, pound-keepers, &c., who execute the State laws within their limits."
Such is the curt dismissal by the Boston Journal of a grave and important question. In place of argument, we get only the stale rebuff which is the certain portion of every reform. "Simply a piece of officious and impertinent intermeddling! It would be much more to the purpose to prove that a remedy is offered for a grievance which does not exist; or, that the grievance is purely local. As to which, let us consider a little.
It would be difficult to assert that any city in the North, on the line of growth or immigration, has not become corrupt in the ratio of its increase. But, waiving the proposition in its breadth, it is enough to cite Boston itself as an example; which, if New York saw its lowest stage of rottenness in the mayoralty of Fernando Wood, may point with a kindred feeling of pride or unutterable shame to the rule of the late Joseph M. Wightman. If men, like Mayor Opdyke or Mayor Lincoln, succeed such disreputable predecessors, it is only because rogues fall out, or lose themselves in a false sense of security. The general statement remains unaffected, that, in the larger cities, vice makes and unmakes magistrates at pleasure.
The one fact most unquestionable in the politics of Boston is, that rum controls more votes than any other element. Install that power in the City Hall, remember that it is the breeder and reservoir of poverty, degradation and crime, and then estimate the virtue and fidelity of a police dependent on such a head. Can the stream rise higher than its source? Will Beelzebub cast out Beelzebub? It cannot be. Nor in this would we seem to put a slur on the good name of our daily custodians. There are better men, doubtless, among them than above them, but they must needs be exemplars of that subordination which they demand of others; and the misfortune of their case is, that they are oftener the abettors of wrong doing by restraint and prohibition than by absolutely immoral commands.
The instances in which the police system of Boston is palpably deficient are too numerous to escape observation, or to call for repetition. The business of our courts, the distention of our jails and alms-houses, the occupation of our gallowses, the objects of our charities, are almost entirely furnished from the dram-shops that crowd our streets and poison our atmosphere. One might almost rest the case here, while such pests are tolerated and connived at in face of positive law, and the eminent requirement of social order and morality. These are the sinks to which we look for bribery and demagoguism, for violence at the polls, for dishonest suffrage; and in general for those chronic manifestations of disorder which are familiar to us in the shape of mobs.
Albany and Harrisburg are to-day but imitating a policy imitated in this city two winters ago by State street and North street in conjunction; when the Legislature sat cowed by an inflamed and bestial crowd in the streets below. The Mayor, by his police, and through these the bar-room of the Tremont House, were the virtual Government of Massachusetts, those January days. Who that looked into the faces of that infuriate mob before the Tremont Temple, when Wightman closed the hall for fear of the demon which he had himself begotten, could say,-were he hunker or fanatic,-that any thing was safe, if this was possible in Boston? A mob's brains is its belly; fill that, and you may lead it at your heels. But beware! What follows you to-day, another-perhaps your adversary-may command to-morrow. To-day it is the radical who suffers, to-morrow the Protestant; to-day poverty, to-morrow respectability and property.-Tremble, State street, when your hirelings mob an Abolitionist! Quake, Courier, when you applaud the deed!
There is, then, a grievance. Our police system is not perfect. These keepers of the peace must keep a peace with their employer, no matter with what detriment to public order and safety. Crime nominates, and crime elects. There might be a balance, but that the contracted territory of Boston has driven to the suburbs a large portion of her de facto citizens, representing the intellect, the heart and the morality of the Athens of America. There remains within the city proper a preponderating foreign population, allied by circumstances of government at home and of property here with ignorance, depravity and crime. The city, comparatively at least, has limits; the encroachments of the dangerous classes have few; shall we thank those who point us to this alarming situation by calling them "impertinent," "officious," and "meddlesome"? At least, we may stretch out our hands to the virtue of Berkshire and Worcester, and cry-"Come over, and help us!" Cold comfort, that we have a good Mayor to-day; we must be provident as well as remedial in our action.
The Journal cannot see what the country towns,-that is, the State at large,-have to do with the internal government of the State capital. We suppose it would allow something for pride in the fair repute of a city thus distinguished; something for solicitude in regard to property there invested; something even for a desire for purity in that society which swallows, like the Minotaur, so many of their children every year. A countryman need not be deemed a boor, because he would like to be sure of a decent reception in case of visiting our model city. Or eccentric, in preferring the anti-slavery meeting he may chance attend without an accompaniment of rioters, though the Mayor be their chief. He might even complain that we endured such a press as the Courier, conspicuous as it was, in the mob times above alluded to, by its unscrupulous abuse of country members of the Legislature. Not more let us think him insane for having the heart to wish us converted to a sobriety that would keep an Hon. John C. Tucker outside the State House forever. There would be some method in such a madness. The rustic, waxing bold, might insist, as a condition of possessing the Capitol, that the city should render impossible a renewal of the scenes of January, 1861, when honest men were deterred from honest votes through fear lest dome above them should fall in flames upon their heads. Herein is food for the Journal's digestion.
The country has a very obvious interest in the integrity of the town, because of the effect on the lesser communities of a signal defance or contempt of law in the greater. The mortality of the rural districts is bound to that of Boston by no fanciful or impotent connection; the reputation of the State by one scarcely less intimate. When Boston police, on compulsion of the Mayor, circulate petitions for the Crittenden Compromise, who will deny that the pine-tree banner is spotted, and our motto,-never significant, if not in this hour,-tarnished and obscured?
A metropolitan Police system is not a denial of the democratic principle, any more than the submission to State laws in general. In the Legislature which should appoint the Police Commissioner, the city would have its voice-no small one. The transfer of the right of election would be from a smaller to a larger and inclusive republic. The transfer of authority, as far as regards the immediate appointment of the police, would be from Philip drunk to Phillip sober,-from one whose election depended upon this specific branch of his authority, to another or others not accountable to vice for their opposition. The change, in short, would be in the interest of no one man, but for the general good, besides being, in our case, probably, a change of head only, and not of subordinates.
We hope, therefore, that the Legislature will refresh
<c06>
its memory of Wightman times, and pass a law which shall enable us to forget them. If Boston has not the self-respect, nor property the sagacity, to be the leaders in a work of self-reform, let us be grateful to our country brothers for their benevolence in our behalf. If the petitions outlive a Committee, and actually produce a bill, it must be defeated, if at all, by the votes of Republican members. Will the party ever learn to be bold, and clear-sighted beyond the hour? What is it suckles the conspiracy against justice which men call the Democratic party? Is it free schools or is it ignorance? Is it churches or is it dram-shops? Is it the division of political power, or is it the concentration of position and opportunity is the hands of a single office-holder? As you answer these questions, gentlemen legislators, as you wish to eradicate party corruption, and as you hope for good fame and honor and posthumous blessings, give your votes for a measure which will help ensure the triumph of your principles and the steady progress of American civilization.—W.P.G.

COMMON SENSE.
When the war broke out, the Abolitionists said to the general government, in their petitions and speeches, "There is but one honorable and safe way out of this Impending struggle; that is, universal emancipation under the war power. Justice is always safe, injustice ever perilous. Choose ye wisely at first." Then the government answered through its President, Mr. Lincoln, and its premier, Mr. Seward, saying, "This rebellion has nothing to do with slavery; it must be put down constitutionally'; and the premier, who is fond of prophesying, added, "In sixty or ninety days, peace will be restored."
"You make a fearful mistake," returned the Abolitionists; "this is the veritable ‘irrepressible conflict' which you predicted,—the death-grapple between the systems of darkness and light,—not a petty revolt of States. To ignore the primal cause is insanity. Comprehend the true issue, and strike while there is yet time."
 Of course, these warnings were unheeded. When were powers and principalities ever yet ready to listen to the unpopular and the despised? Judea scouted the humble carpenters and fishermen who spoke saving words; the North said to the Abolitionists, "Birds of ill-omen, cease your croakings; cannot twenty millions of people whip ten, without touching the confounded nigger?"
We are almost at the close of our second year of civil war. One noble army has vanished—where? Another is melting away rapidly as the snow is Springtime. Two hundred thousand loyal men, who, twenty months ago, were animate with life, vigorous, enthusiastic, now sleep the sleep of death. By the rivers of Kentucky and the green plains of Missouri, their bones lie bleaching in the sun. New England blood makes Virginia soil truly sacred. The graveyards of the Carolinas and Louisiana are peopled with these victims of slavery. How many Northern homes are mourning for the young, the beautiful, the brave, who will never return!
It has been a costly twenty months; costly in human life, in treasure, and in suffering. "Not painlessly does God recast and mould anew a nation." But the fires of civil war have cleared away much dross, and we stand nearer the divine mark. Step by step, the government has mounted to a truer position. Though it struggled never so hard to avoid advancing, an irresistible force impelled it onward. The wisdom of the Abolitionists is justified by events. Judge between them and the government which was the eagle, and which the mole—whose was the far seeing and comprehensive view, and whose the narrow and circumscribed vision.
On the opening of this new year,—day ever memorable in the annals of humanity for the new birth of a race,—the government of the United States cut itself loose forever from the policy of slavery. The edict of emancipation marks a new era in our history. Henceforth, Freedom is to dictate a new policy. The deed is done—the step cannot be retraced—the government is fully committed. It has burned its ships behind it, and its only course is onward.
A month has passed since the proclamation, and the people who looked eagerly for immediate results see nothing. Unreasoning ones, losing patience, exclaim, "Surely, it is nothing but a harmless thunderbolt, after all—a Pope's bull against the comer." Wait! There is a reason. Suppose a sick man, who has submitted for a long time to the treatment of a certain school of medicine, becomes convened that he is getting worse, and resolves to try a different system. Does he retain his old physician, whose prejudices are all in favor of the treatment he has been using, and ask him to administer the new medicines? Never. He dismisses him, and calls in a doctor of the new school. Common sense—that is all.
When Butler conquered New Orleans, and the editors of the city papers professed loyalty, did he trust them? No. He knew their treason was masked, not quenched, and that they never would manufacture Union sentiment. So he sent them packing, and put in editors who meant Union. Common sense again.
This is the analogy. The President is surrounded by counselors, chosen before he had an anti-slavery purpose. His armies are led by pro-slavery generates, appointed when he meant to restore the Union with slavery. They accept the proclamation, but do not believe in it. Is it possible the new order can be made effective with executives who are indifferent, and even hostile? It is fatuity to think so. They will only clog the wheels. Mr. Lincoln accepts the anti-slavery policy. Common sense indicates that he also accept as counselors and generals anti-slavery men. The Abolitionists have made slavery a life study. None so fit to advise as they. There are anti-slavery generals whose hearts thank God for the proclamation. They were shelved for anti-slavery earnestness when pro-slavery tenderness to rebels was the rule. Common sense points them out as the true leaders now. Let the owls and bats of the Cabinet and army retire with the darkness, and usher in the eagles with the new-born light. With SUMNER at the President's right hand, with FREMONT as commander-in-chief, and with absolute justice for our emblem, we may yet be salved.—W.L.G.JR.
THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY, for February, is received from A. Williams & Co. Contents:—Out National Finances, Robert J. Walker. A Trip to Antietam, Charles W. Loring. American Destiny, John Stahl Patterson. The Birth of the Lily. Was He Successful? Richard B. Kimball. Nullification and Secession, Hon. Robert J. Walker. The Sioux War, John G. Nicolay, Private Secretary to President Lincoln. "Dead!" A Merchant's Story, Edmund Kirke. The Consequences of the Rebellion, Hon. Frederic P. Stanton. Sunshine in Thought. How they Jested in the Good Old Time, Charles G. Leland. Literary Notices. Editor's Table.
Mr. Walker's article on our National Finances will be found worthy of especial attention at this time. The next number will contain a Valuable article on Gold.
HARPER'S NEW MONTHLY. We have received the February number of this magazine, which presents the following attractive table of contents:— A Californian in Iceland—Second Paper; Doctor Hawley—Part I; Romola; Philip Raynor's Sacrifice; A tilt at the Wommn's Question; Thomas Elliott's Speculations; Gentlemen of the Press; Jumping Jack's Daughter; The Rarey Method; Up to the Hills; The small House at Allington; The Gun-Boat Essex; The Policeman's Christmas Tramp; Monthly Record of Current Events; Editor's Table; Editor's Easy Chair; Editor's Drawer; The Dead Drummer-Boy. The amount of interesting and valuable reading, and handsomely executed illustrations, furnished by this Magazine for the small sum of twenty-five cents, is truly surprising. For sale by A. Williams & Co., 100
Washington Street.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LECTURE ON HOSPITALS.
A lecture on this subject was delivered on Tuesday, of last week, by Dr. Marie E. Zakrzewska, Physician of the Hospital for Women and Children, at No.60 Pleasant street, in this city. The net proceeds of the lecture will be used for the benefit of this hospital; but the community will receive a still greater benefit from the good thoughts and wise suggestions of the accomplisher lecturer.
Dr. Zakrzewska sketched the origin, history and original purpose of hospitals, which were at first in tended, she said, for the gratuitous treatment of those sick persons who were utterly destitute. She then spoke of the relation of hospitals to beneficence, next of the advantage that would result to them from having women associated with man in the establishment, management, and medical direction of them, as well as in the office of nurse, (the only one to which women are ordinarily admitted;) and lastly, she sketched the history, and the successful operation, of the small establishment over which she presides.
It is a mistake, Dr. Zakrzewska said, to suppose that a hospital will accomplish most good by giving its services gratuitously, and confining them to persons entirely destitute. In this way, the benefit conferred is mingled with evil, producing a sense of degradation, and stamping the recipients of it as in some sense, an inferior caste. A hospital should be open to all classes, and may be advantageously used by all; and each inmate should pay, according to his or her ability, in support of the institution. Moreover, sickness is often produced or prolonged by troubles of the mind or the heart, to which all classes are equally expired, and which may often be relieved or removed by the wise physician. In fact, many persons apply for help at a hospital whose chief need is of comfort, encouragement, human sympathy. In this class, and among those who most need, and should most surely receive, the aid which a hospital can give, is the class of unmarried mothers, and those who are about to become such. Help and sympathy extended to such persons, so far from being an encouragement to vice, as some suppose, is indispensable as a safeguard from vice. It is one of the clearest of the duties, both of justice and humanity.
Some of the prejudices against hospitals in the popular mind, and some of the evils actually belonging to them, result from their undue enlargement. When many hundreds of patients are collected in one establishment, the arrangements become too largely mechanical, and those relations of sympathy, social intercourse and friendly aid, which should exist between the patient and the various functionaries of the hospital, are rendered well-night impossible. Fifty patients are enough for one establishment. At most, it should never contain more than one hundred.
Speaking of the importance of the education and training of nurses and physicians for hospital service, Dr. Zakrzewska thought that women should fit themselves for both these posts, not in separate institutions, but in those where young men receive instruction. She had ceased to believe in the advantages of Female Medical Colleges. And she adduced evidence, from her own experience and that of other female physicians, that the prejudice against the association of the two sexes in the study and practice of medicine is gradually wearing away, and that the most respected members of the medical profession were ready, even now, to favor and assist such association.
The audience which heard the excellent lecture very briefly sketched above was satisfactory in numbers, nearly filling Chickering's Hall, and was eminently satisfactory in point of refinement and culture. It is evident that Dr. Zakrzewska enjoys the respect and confidence of the best part of the community, both in and out of the medical profession. –C.K.W.

LUNATIO ASYLUMS.
We understand that a copy of the following Petition, respectably if not numerously signed, will be presented to the legislature in a few days; and we publish it with the hope that it may be circulated extensively for signatures, so as to challenge the most serious attention of that body. Unquestionably, the laws pertaining to those who are alleged to be insane are not what they ought to be to ensure absolute justice to the accused, but give scope for the exercise of tyrannical power whereby the weak and defenceless are crushed, and all chance of redress rendered hopeless. Especially is this the case in regard to married women, who are liable to be incarcerated on the charge of insanity, in order to gratify the spite or lust of unprincipled husbands. Let a full investigation be made. None can object to it who are upright in purpose.
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, in General Court assembled:
The petition of the undersigned, citizens of respectfully represents;-
The laws regarding persons charged with being in sane are very defective.
As the law now stands, any person is liable to be imprisoned in a public hospital, as a lunatic, by a magistrate who dose not see him, or hear his defence.
Any person is liable to be imprisoned in any such public hospital, in the McLean Asylum, or in any private establishment for lunatics, without the adjudication of any regular tribunal that he is insane, or if in sane, that his insanity is of such a character as to require his imprisonment.
Where the laws so violate the principles of justice, it would be a miracle if they did not sometimes become the instruments of oppression.
Your petitioners cannot say how often and to what extent these results have followed; but the following statements cannot be disputed.
1. Persons carried to the Public Hospitals by the orders of magistrates, often complain most bitterly that they had no opportunity of seeing the magistrates, and of being heard before them.
2. Persons who have escaped or been released from these mad-houses report that some are imprisoned in them who are not insane; and others, to whom, though not of entirely sound mind, the incarceration is unjust, cruel, and constantly injurious.
3. Persons whose mental maladies have been aggravated by long confinement in these mad-houses are not un frequently restored to perfect sanity, by being taken from them, and restored to their homes.
4. Those confined in these mad-houses are often prohibited not only from personal intercourse with their friends, but from sending letters to them. They are thus deprived of all opportunity of making their complaints heard, if they are unjustly imprisoned, or are ill-treated.
5. Persons who have escaped or been discharged from these mad-houses often compare them to the Bastile, the dungeons of the Inquisition, and to Hell itself.
Your petitioners have studiously endeavored not to exaggerate any facts, or to present as established facts the many rumors which are widely circulated and generally credited, that many persons are imprisoned for life in these mad-houses from time to time, who are not insane; that the trustees pay no attention to their complaints, but always take the part of the superintendents; that the anguish and despair produced by being debarred from writing to their friends is very injurious to patients, and sometimes fatal; that women either not insane, or suffering from such forms of disease as are only increased by imprisonment, languish out their existence in these places, which to them are living tombs, without being once permitted, even in their last moments, to see their children or nearest friends. But the existence of such rumors, which have made a very deep impression on the community, calls loudly for legislative examination, and a reform of the certain injustice of a system which has rendered such rumors possible and credible.

Your petitioners, therefore, pray that your honor able bodies will make such inquiries and such changes in the law as the occasion requires
And your petitioners will every pray.
<c02>
EXTRACT FROM WENDELL PHILLIPS'S LECTURE AT OOOPER INSTITUTE.
Why is Gen. Butler here? Who can tell? Abraham Lincoln cannot; he says he knows nothing about it. (Laughter.) Gen. Halleck cannot; he says be knows nothing about it. William H. Seward cannot; he says he knows nothing about it And the beat General in the service, the man who held the third city in the empire in hit right hand like a lamb, that man comes home to the capital, and cannot find a man in the Cabinet who will take the responsibility of saying, "I advised recall," or will tell him the reason why he was recalled. [Three more cheers for Butter.]
I said that it is necessary to take the system of the Gulf State to pieces. In other words, it is necessary to move that great mass of loyalty into our scale. How is it to be done? Did you ever have any thing to do with an adult who could not read? Do you know what defence God has given him against imposition? It is distrust. It is suspicion. He takes three or four methods of seeing whether the man who can read is cheating him. For instance, when I was a lawyer—Heaven forgive me! (great laughter)—I had an Irish client who could not read. He would bring we a vote—I was thought a Whig-to read to him; and then he would take it to my next door neighbor, who was a Democrat, and get him to read it; and when we had both read it alike, he would trust it. Now, the slave cannot read He necessarily exercises this wholesome distrust. He does not want papers—he wants acts. When Mitchel—God bless him!—was in the South, at Florence, he had 400 Mack men who worked for him, and told him every secret of the country; and he told them, "By the Stan and Stripes, you shall be as tree as I am!" When Buell succeeded him, be sent every one of them back. Shame! (Hisses.) That account was from Gen. Mitchel's own lips. Every one of those men carried distrust of the banner we love into the counties where he carried his chains. How shall it be countervailed? The slave wants a fact; he wants a symbol. If you ever had any thing to do in studying his character, you know the value of symbols to him. When England freed her slaves in the West India Islands, the slave instantly took wife and child out of the sugar field. "Why is that," he was asked, "are they not able to work?" "Yes, but the free man's wife and child don't work." He wanted that mark of freedom. When our Boston Committee sent down to Port Royal a thousand pairs of gray shoes, the blacks would not buy them. They said that slaves wore white shoes; that free men wore black shoes, and they would Dot wear white ones; and it was not until a Connecticut subtler dipped them in lampblack that they bought them. (Laughter.) I saw a dozen contrabands who came north in the Kingfisher from the Gulf. I said to one of them, "You would like to work here, wouldn't you?" "No." "What would you like? To go home, back to slavery?" "No." "Do you want to hire out to your old master?" "No." "Then what do you want" "A piece of land." A piece of land was the pedestal upon which, in his sight, freedom had always stood, and he wanted that pedestal. He wanted the symbol that he was free. Men say that negroes will not work, that they are lazy when they are free. Why should they not be? They never saw a free man who was not lazy. (Laughter and applause.) The negro wants a symbol of freedom. How can we give it to him? The quickest way we can give it to him is to put his own color into the United States uniform, with a Minnie rifle in their right hand. Send a flesh and blood proclamation in the person of John Charles Fremont to Charleston. (Great applause.) Now, I love a Hunter; I respect a Butler; I believe in Saxton; I believe Hooker is a brave soldier, and a noble one, and if he leads the army, it will encamp fit Richmond, 1 have not a doubt. But we are pressed for time. We cannot manufacture reputation. The name of Fremont has been a household word in the slave's hut ever since he believed, in 1856, that his election was to be the jubilee of his freedom. He has cherished it like the name of his Savior. He knows it; and if he heard he was there, he would not need the evidence of a written proclamation to believe that he bore freedom with his eagles. (Applause.) After Fremont's defeat in the election, there was an insurrection in the iron quarter of Tennessee, and they killed some score of slaves. One stalwart fellow was whipped to death by hundreds of lashes, and in the last scene, ere his spirit look flight, he murmured out, "Fremont hears every Wow, and he will come." That intense gratitude to the name is stereotyped in the pulses of three million of bondmen; and if be should set foot in Charleston, he might walk through the country to New Orleans unopposed. There is to be an attack upon Charleston, they say, within twenty days. Good! and no doubt it may succeed, if well done. But we are in the era of symbols. Get a better man than Fremont, if you can. We are beyond personal antipathies or attractions. We want a man whom four million slaves know, and have known ever since they thanked God for him in 1856. Send down into those Gulf States men that will break up the whole system into lumps, and hurl it against the Confederacy, and you will make that army of the Rappahannock scatter like dew. What is our Massachusetts regiment doing at Newbern? They are standing guard at the door of a white North Carolina woman, whose sons and husband are up at Richmond fighting Burnside; and our Yankee Quartermaster supplies that woman every day from the funds of the Union. While we support the wife and children, why should not the husband and father cross swords with Burnside?
Another point: the proclamation is not a thing that annihilates the system. You do not annihilate a thing by abolishing it. You have got to supply the vacancy. In the Gospel, when the chambers were swept and garnished, the devils came back, because there were no angels there; and if Burnside should sweep Richmond clean, Jeff. Davis would come back with seven other devils worse than himself, if he could find them, and occupy it, unless you put free institutions there. There is in the neighborhood of Fortress Monroe one of the richest counties in the world, where ten thousand contraband negroes could labor. Yet Gen. Dix proposed to send them to Massachusetts—one of the idlest things in the world. A man might as well colonize his hands; or when the robber enters his house, be might as well colonize his revolver. What we want is action. Confiscate those lands. Colonize them. Sell them with the guaranty of the Government to the loyal Massachusetts man or New Yorker. Say to him, "There is a deed as good as the Union. Carry there your ploughshares, seeds, schools, sewing machines." Carry tree labor to that soil, and you carry New York to Virginia, and slavery cannot go back. I want to supply the vacancy. The Slave States, to my mind, are men and territory, and nothing else. The Rebellion has crushed out all civil forms. New government is to go there. But we cannot expect in hours to cover the space of centuries. It is a great problem before us. We must organize the South anew. The nation is able to do it, if we can only have leaders.
It was as dark and stormy a night last night, (says the N. Y. Evening Post of 22d inst.) as the winter has turned out; the wind howled lugubriously round the corners; the rain fell in torrents, and the darkness was next door to impenetrable. Excepting the thunder and lightning, it was a night like Lear's on the heath,
"-wherein the cub-drawn bear would couch,
The lion and the belly-pinched wolf
Keep their fur dry;"
—but it was not a night which could restrain four or fire thousand of the most intellectual people of New York, men and women, from going to Cooper Institute to hear Wendell Phillips, speak. The spacious hall of that building was as crowded and brilliant as it had ever been before. Seats, aisles and platform could afford no more room for the eager multitudes. When Mr. Phillips came forward, presented by the forward, presented by the chairman, Edgar Ketchum, the applause was vehement and furious enough to have carried the roof off. His object was never was the word uttered with more heartfelt fervor, or responded to with a more unanimous enthusiasm. 
<c03>
THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN COLONIZATION SOCIETY Washington, Jan. 20,1863.
Dear MR. GARRISON:
This organization of Rip Van Winkles (I say Winkles, for is it not impossible to have an organization without at least a President and Secretary, which would constitute a plural number? And I beg pardon of the old Dutchman's friends for applying his name to these fossiliferous gentleman, for he (Winkle) only slept twenty years, while they have already slept at least forty, and are not even suspected of any symptoms of waking) is now holding its forty-sixth annual meeting in Dr. Sunderland's church in this city.
These aged individuals, who, to all human appearance, should have died years ago, and their cause with them, by the help of occasional appropriations by Congress, bestowed, doubtless, more in sympathy for their helplessness than out of respect for their cause, have contrived to maintain for the Colonization Society " a local habitation and a name," and to go through the form of holding a meeting once a year.
Dr. Sunderland's church is one of the largest and most fashionable churches in the city, and the Doctor, now Chaplain of the Senate, is said to be an able man; but if he was present at the meeting, he was wise enough to keep still and out of sight. It was late when I arrived, but the audience was small, and the meeting had not been organized. About 8 o'clock, the seats were pretty well filled, and the meeting was called to order by the President, J. H. Latrobe, of Baltimore, and Dr. Gurley of Washington offered prayer. He prayed that we (the Society, of course,) might be forgiven as we forgive those who trespass against us, (which ought to be understood to mean, that if we forgive the negro by sending him to Africa, God will forgive us (the Society) by sending us to a still warmer climate.) The Doctor then thanked God that the Colonization Society was founded in the prayers and tears of godly men, that it had been enabled to accomplish so much good, and earnestly prayed that its friends might be multiplied.
I felt that the President and Secretary could say amen! to the last request, at least.
The venerable Secretary of the Society, R. R. Gurley, then read the Annual Report, or a portion of it.
A list of the members of the Society, who had deceased during the last year, was read, with the remark that "it comprised a very large proportion of its members." Hence will be seen the propriety of the Rev. Dr's prayer that "its friends might be multiplied." The Society's labors had been seriously interfered with during the past year by the civil war, which prevented the emigration of the colored folks. But how the war produced this effect, we were not informed. Only two vessels had been sent to Liberia during the year, one of which took out eighteen colored persons, and all from the State of Maryland. I have wondered if I might not have been mistaken in the number, but eighteen is what I understood the number as given. If correct, what a consolation it must be to know that such a fearful number of incendiaries here, Christians in Liberia, have been removed from the combustible society of Maryland! I wonder if Gov. Hicks pardoned that poor old black man, who was sent to the Penitentiary for ten years, for having in his possession a copy of "Uncle Tom's Cabin," that he might go out as a missionary to Liberia as one of the eighteen? The Secretary did not inform us. Thirty thousand dollars' worth of supplies had been sent to Liberia during the year, which, not being wanted, had been returned, which furnished conclusive evidence of the prosperity of the colony. Commissioners had been sent, or rather brought from Liberia to this country, to induce the colored people to emigrate. These Commissioners had visited moat of the Northern cities, and spoken in many of the colored churches, and mingled freely with the colored population, presenting the advantages of emigration. Also, two agents had been employed a portion of the time—Rev. Mr. Butler, of Vermont, for New England, and Rev. Mr.-of Ohio, for the Northwest; and they had travelled, and circulated documents, addressed many colored audiences, and as the grand aggregate result of the combined labors of all these agencies, the incredible number of eighteen persons had been induced to go to that heaven for colored folks—Liberia.
But public opinion reported that the Rev. Mr. Butler is rapidly (?) undergoing a change favorable to Colonization. So, continued the report, the Society ought to persevere in the good work which was ultimately to Christianize Africa. "Since our last annual report," we were assured by the venerable Secretary, "Liberia has made great progress." The statistics he would not read, but they might be published. Great drawbacks, however, had been experienced on account of "a want of emigrants." A new settlement had been undertaken in the interior, and several houses built, but little progress had been made in the new settlement for lack of settlers. The most cheering success, however, was to be seen in the wonderful spread of the gospel among the poor benighted Africans. Missionaries had been sent far into the interior, and beacon fires of civilization and Christianity; were being lighted up there.
A quotation or two, to show that the founders of the Society expected its operations would facilitate the abolition of slavery, closed the report.
Admiral Foote was then introduced, who proceeded to read a speech, which bore convincing internal evidence that the gallant Admiral is not so much at home upon a Colonization rostrum as he is known to be on the deck of a gunboat. Yet at the close of his effort, as he stepped from the platform, his lame foot secured for him a hearty round of applause, which his lame speech certainly failed to elicit.
The points which the Admiral endeavored to make were, that negroes cannot live here in peace, on account of the natural antagonism of races—everything unfavorable here—climate cold; everything favorable there—climate mild—negroes heathen here, enlightened there—had heard a black preacher there explain the Greek of his text—(which of course could not be done here)—Sundays very quiet there—(they must be the reverse here)—schools, churches, debating societies there—(no such thing here.) There was a black Hannibal once—he didn't remember any black poets or philosophers, and he doubted if there would ever be another Hannibal, much less a poet or philosopher, unless Liberia shall produce them. The greatest difficulty with the missionaries in Africa had been in convincing the natives that there could be such a thing as an honest white man. It is very strange indeed that this should be the case, when white men have always been so kind and just in their dealings with the negro! But the colony of Liberia, said the Admiral, is really a light shining in a dark place, and would yet |be the means of spreading civilization and Civilization and christianity over the continent of Africa.
Strange, indeed, that black Americans refuse to become the agents of so great a work, when they are so earnestly invited and freely provided with a cabin passage to that sunny and fruitful country, where, too, they themselves are to be transferred, in the twinkling of an eye, from heathens to Christians! Out upon such ill-concealed selfishness as this! Let Admiral Foote be assured that Colonization is very poor strategy. Then- colored men see through the poor subterfuge of philanthropy, and readily detect the selfish motive at the bottom at the whole concern. Slavery in the slave Stales and a wicked and vulgar prejudice against color in the free Stales, are the dishonorable parents of the Colonization scheme, which has already survived too long, and its pitiable success has been much greater than its deserts.
The next and last speaker was the Hon. Mr. Cason of Iowa, late assistant Post-Master General. He also read his speech, which was as heartless as it was eloquent. Mr. Casson is a young man, and has talents worthy of a better cause; and a close observer could detect the tact that his conscience was not in his work. He doubtless had some political axe to grind by his effort; but, poor man, he might as well have gone into a graveyard for such a purpose before the colonization Society. African Colonization is "an
<c04>
exploded idea." It was an absurdity, an impossibility, a cheat and a swindle, if indeed anybody could be found green enough to be swindled by it. Eighteen annually, out of four millions, it quite a moderate percentage of dupes, to be sure, but more than could be found if it were not often a choice between slavery and Africa.
Mr. Casson said that the negro question to this country it what the Roman question is to Europe—that we most dispose of it, or it will dispose of us. One party says, let the negro be a slave perpetually, or an outlaw forever. Another party says, let him remain on the soil of hit birth, and give him his freedom, and all the privileges and rights incident thereto. But neither party solves the question, and the propositions of both involve serious danger, if not utter ruin to the country. The proposition of the latter involves inevitable and eternal antagonism between the two races, which would eventuate in exterminating conflicts. Before the Anti-Slavery party arose, and while the Administrations were in the hands of the pro-slavery party, every thing went on as smoothly and harmoniously as
—"the gates of heaven
On golden hinges turning."
Colonization is the only safe solution of this negro question. The fathers so regarded it. The speaker quoted from Gen. Harper, Jefferson, and Bushrod Washington and others to show that they looked upon Colonization as opening the way for emancipation, and that to the removal of an impending danger, and a shame to the country.
The Anti-Slavery element was as dangerous without Colonization as slavery itself. The speaker that placed liberty and justice upon the same footing of equality with slavery and injustice, and among the danger to be shunned. Anti-Slavery and Pro-Slavery, said Mr. Casson, have always been contending for the mastery. The negro is the bone of contention, and must be removed, or the quarrel will never stop. The abolition of slavery will not mend the matter. The negro must be sent out of the country. Africa it the black man's heritage, America the white man's. But the speaker thought that colonization ought to be gradual, (probably just eighteen a year, at first, would suit the speaker,) and suggested to the Society the propriety of tending the vicious oat of the country first in this, for one, I certainly agree with Mr. Casson, as the change it to certain to transform them into Christians. "The sick need a physician, and not those that are well." In any event, the American Colonization Society would remain, said the speaker, a splendid monument of the foresight and humanity of its founders.
After Mr. Casson, the meeting adjourned with a benediction by Dr. Gurley. Thus closed the first Colonization meeting I ever attended; and if as many of the old gentlemen who now constitute the American Colonization Society shall pass away, during the next twelve months, as have passed away, during the last, the Society will be extinct, never more to be re organized. And I think no poor colored man or woman will ever be known to search for its ashes, or shed a tear by its tomb. It was born of evil, and its end will be shame. It cannot long survive its parent, Slavery, which is now toppling to its fall. A. J. GROVER.

THE TRUE BRITISH FEELING.
LONDON, January 9, 1863.
MY DEAR SIR,—I send you a copy of the Saturday Review, which contains an article on the Emancipation Society's address to the clergy. Do not, however, mistake this, or any similar, ebullition for an expression of the real opinion of the English people on the slavery question, or on the issues between the North and the South. The great meetings which have been held in London and various parts of the country, during the hut six weeks, to express sympathy with the anti-slavery policy of the American Government, indicate what is the true state of public feeling on this side of the Atlantic. We have endured the misrepresentations of certain organs of oar press too long; and we have now determined to endure them no longer. But always remember, that from the beginning, the best of our journals have remained true to the anti-slavery cause; that the Star, Daily News, Westminster Review, Spectator, Nonconformist, British Standard, Dial, Birmingham Post, Manchester Examiner, Newcastle Chronicle, Caledonian Mercury, Belfast Whig, and a host of other representatives of the fourth estate, have never departed from the pure faith. The working classes also have proved to be sound to the core, whenever their opinion has been tested. Witness the noble demonstration of Manchester operative the other day, when three thousand of these noble sons of labor (many of whom were actual sufferers from the cotton famine) adopted by acclamation an address to President Lincoln, sympathizing with his Proclamation. A friend of mine who was present on the occasion tells me that the heartiness and enthusiasm of the working men were something glorious; that he heard them say to one another that they would rather remain unemployed for twenty years than get cotton from the South at the expense of the slave. Mr. Thompson has been in other parts of Lancashire lately, and the meetings he has addressed have been attended with the same results. Our experience in London has been equally satisfactory. It would have done you good, if you had beard Baptist Noel's speech, or attended the great meeting of the working classes which we held on the 31st of December—the eve of freedom. Newman Hall's speech on this occasion was one of the best I ever listened to. He stated, in the fairest manner, every conceivable argument which had been urged in favor of the Slave Confederacy, or against the policy of the Federal Government; and then replied to them seriatim, demolishing every sophistry and gibbeting every falsehood, until the slavery had really not a rag left wherewith to conceal the revolting defects of their odious cause.
The Emancipation Society includes, as you will have seen, some of the best men in the country, without distinction of sect or party. The name of John Stuart Mill—one of the greatest in England—stands at the head of the list. We are now arranging for a demonstration in Exeter Hall, to take place on the 29th inst Our friends in Manchester and Birmingham are organizing branch societies in those important towns; and applications for meetings and deputations are pouring in from all quarters.
Oar friend Mr. Webb, who is doing such good service in the Advocate, and in other ways more private bat not less useful, tells me that Professor Cairnes's admirable work is about to pass into another edition. As a proof of how extensively it is read, I may say that I have made two unsuccessful attempts to obtain it from Mudie's circulating library, (the greatest in the world,) where there is a large number of copies. The answer on both occasions was, that every copy was in the hands of subscribers.
Mrs. Stowe's eloquent and beautiful address to the women of England is exciting great interest, and cannot fail to do much good. It was published by Sampson Low & Co. on Wednesday, in the form of a small volume; and it has since been reprinted entire in the columns of the Morning, Star, and the Daily News—a remarkable tribute to the popularity of Mrs. Stowe in this country, as well as a proof of the earnest interest which these journals take in the good work. It could not have appeared at a more favorably moment, for on Tuesday last the Times, with a maniacal folly, which is often linked with malignity, published an article pleading Biblical sanction for slavery, and actually suggesting that it was perhaps a religions duty, on the part of the slave, to refuse his freedom, even if it were offered him! Nothing could be more calculated to stir up the religious sentiment of the country against the cause of which the Times has made itself the principal champion. This is another example of the manner in which the devil sometimes over-reaches himself.
Very truly, yours
F.W. CHESSON.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
<c05>
ATLANTIC MONTHLY.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for February, is full of good things. The contents and contributors are:—
Sovereigns and Sons, by C. C. Hazewell. Under a Pear Tree, by Mrs. Hopkinson. Threnody, by the author of "Charles Auchester." THE Utility and the Futility of Aphorisms, by Wm. B. Alger. Shelley, by a Son of Leigh Hunt. The Test, by Bayard Taylor. The Preacher's Trial, by C. A. Bartol. The Ghost of Little Jacques. Boston Hymn, by R. W. Emerson. The Siege of Cincinnati, by T. B. Read. Jane Austen, by Mrs. Waterston. The Proclamation, by J. G. Whittier. The Law of Coats, by D. A. Wason. The Chasseurs a Pied, by W. J. Rose. Latest Views of Mr. Biglow, by James Russell Lowell. Reviews and Literary Notices. Ticknor & Fields, publishers.
The announcement is made that the worthy REV. Homer Wilbur, so long connected with the Biglow papers, is dead, and lies buried in the Jaalam grave-yard, under a large red cedar which be specially admired. Hosea takes the following view of the President's Proclamation:—
An' why should we kick up a muss
About the Pres'dunt's proclamation?
It ain't a-goin' to lib'rate us,
Ef we don't like emancipation:
The right to be a cussed fool
Is safe from all devices human;
It's common (ez a gin'l rule)
To every critter born o' woman.
An' cum what will, I think it's grand
Abe's gut his will et last bloom-furnaced
In trial flames, till it 'II stand
The strain o' bein' in deadly earnest:
Thet's what we want,—we want to know
The folks on our side hez the bravery
To b'lieve ez hard, come weal, come woe,
In Freedom ez Jeff does in Slavery.
Set the two forces foot to foot,
An' every man knows who 'II be winner,
Whose faith in God hez ary root
Thet goes down deeper than It is dinner:
Then 'twill be felt from pole to pole,
Without no need o' proclamation.
Earth's Biggest Country's gut her soul,
An' risen up Earth's Greatest Nation!
The following is the terse and telling poem delivered at the Jubilee Musical Concert in Music Hall, New Year's Day, by Mr. Emerson.— 

BOSTON HYMN.
BY RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
The word of the Lord by night
To the watching Pilgrims came,
As they sat by the sea-side,
And filled their hearts with flame.
God said—I am tired of Kings,
I suffer them no more;
Up to my ear the morning brings
The outrage of the poor.
Think ye I made this ball
A field of havoc and war,
Where tyrants great and tyrants small
Might harry the weak and poor?
My angel,—his name is Freedom,—
Choose him to be your king;
He shall cut pathways east and west,
And tend you with his wing.
Lo! I uncover the land
Which I hid of old time in the West,
As the sculptor uncovers his statue,
When be his wrought his best.
I show Columbia, of the rocks
Which dip their foot in the seas,
And soar to the air-borne flocks
Of clouds, and the boreal fleece.
I will divide my goods,
Call in the wretch and slave:
None shall rule but the humble,
And none but Toil shall have.
I will have never a noble,
No lineage counted great:
Fishers and choppers and ploughmen
Shall constitute a State.
Go, cut down trees in the forest.
And trim the straightest boughs;
Cut down trees in the forest,
And build me a wooden house.
Call the people together,
The young men and the sires,
The digger in the harvest-field.
Hireling and him that hires.
And here in a pine state-house
They shall choose men to rule
In every needful faculty.
In church, and state, and school.
Lo, now! if these poor men
Can govern the land and sea,
And make just laws below the sun,
As planets faithful be.
And ye shall succor men;
'Tis nobleness to serve;
Help them who cannot help again;
Beware from right to swerve.
I break your bonds and masterships,
And I unchain the slave:
Free be his heart and hand henceforth,
As wind and wandering wave.
I cause from every creature
His proper good to flow:
So much as he is and doeth,
So much he shall bestow.
But, laying his hands on another
To coin his labor and sweat,
He goes in pawn to his victim
For eternal years in debt.
Pay ransom to the owner,
And fill the bag to the brim!
Who is the owner? The slave is owner,
And ever was. Pay him!
O North! give him beauty for rags,
And honor, O South! for his shame;
Nevada! coin thy golden crags
With Freedom's image and name.
Up! and the dusky race
That sat in darkness long,—
Be swift their feet as antelopes,
And as behemoth strong.
Come East, and West, and North,
By races, as snow-flakes,
And carry my purpose forth,
Which neither halts nor shakes.
My will fulfilled shall be,
For, in daylight or in dark,
My thunderbolt has eyes to sea
His way home to the mark.
The Atlantic Monthly, for February, also contains the following on the Proclamation, by Whittier:—

THE PROCLAMATION.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
Saint Patrick, slave to Milcho of the herds Of Bally means, sleeping, heard these words:
"Arise, and flee
Out from the land of bondage, and be free!"
Glad as a soul in pain, who hears from heaven The angels singing of his sins forgiven,
And, wondering, sees His prison opening to their golden keys,
He rose a man, who laid him down a slave, Shook from his locks the ashes of the grave,
And outward trod Into the glorious liberty of God. He cast the symbols of his shame away; And passing where the sleeping Milcho lay,
Though back and limb Smarted with wrong, he prayed, "God pardon him!"
So went be forth; but in God's time he came To light on Uilline's hills a holy flame;
And, dying, gave The land a saint that bet him as a slave.
O dark, sad millions, patiently and dumb Waiting for God, your hour, at last, has come,
And Freedom's song Breaks the long silence of your night of wrong!
Arise and flea! shake off the vile restraint Of ages! but, like Bally men's saint,
The oppressor spare, Heap only on his head the coals of prayer!'
Go forth, like him! like him return again To please the land whereon in bitter pate
Ye toiled at first, And heal with freedom what your slavery cursed.
<c06>
A MASSACHUSETTS DELEGATION WATT UPON THE PRESIDENT. The Washington correspondent of the New York, Commercial Advertiser writes, under date of Jan. 26th:-
"The President was waited upon last night by a good sized delegation of the leading Boston anti-slavery men, headed by Wendell Phillips. They obtained a prolonged interview, and doubtless made a more vigorous movement on Mr. Seward's policy than the President has as yet heard. Those who have been favored with an account of this demonstration say that Mr. Lincoln listened with great patience and apparent interest, and at the conclusion of the talk, he shook hands with each one of the party, accepting their assurances that they had nothing but the welfare and the safety of the republic at heart."
The Washington correspondent of the Traveller, writing under date of Monday, says:-
"I notice a good many prominent Massachusetts men about Congress to-day. Wendell Phillips, Dr. Howe and Gov. Andrew are among them. The Democrats in the House gnashed their teeth while Phillips received his friends on the floor of the House this afternoon! Gov. Andrew sat down on a front seat by the side of Mr. Thomas for awhile. Times have changed, certainly."
AUTHORITY GRANTED TO GOV. ANDREW TO RAISE TROOPS OF AFRICAN DESCENT. The following patch from Washington, dated January 27th, appears in the Journal:- 
" GOV. Andrew has been authorized by the Government to raise detached companies of volunteer heavy artillery, and such corps of infantry as he may deem expedient, for three years, unless sooner discharged; and is further authorized to include in the corps so enlisted persons of African descent, but to have them organized into separate corps."

MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCEITY.
Receipts into Treasury, January 27th, 1863. From Weymouth Anti-Slavery Society, by Susan H.
Cowing, Treasurer, to redeem pledges, $25.00
Reuben H. Ober, to redeem pledge, May,1862, 10.00
Mrs. E. B. Chase, Valley Falls, R. L., to redeem pledge, May,1862,
Simeon P. Adams, Boston, to redeem pledge, January, 1862, 5.00
Simeon P. Adams, donation for August 1st, 1862, 1.00
Miss Hannah Lunt, Newburyport, to redeem pledges, 1.00
Mrs. Eliza Lawton, Cambridge, 1.00
Mrs. Abby Harris, Boston, 1.00 
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.
Boston, Jan. 27, 1863.

SPECIAL CONTRIBUTIONS
To The Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, for 1862, (Continued from last week.) 
Eben. D. Draper, Hopedale, $50.00 
Jefferson Church, Springfield, 10.00
L. H. Bowker, Hopkinton, 10.00
MERCANTILE LIBRARY LECTURE.- Henry Ward Beecher will lecture before the Mercantile Library Association, at the Music Hall, next Tuesday evening, Feb. 3d when he will discuss the interesting questions-"what shall be done with New England?"
NOTICE.-HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture in HYANNIS, Sunday afternoon and evening, Feb. 8th. Subject-Mission and Destiny of the American Republic, and the bearing of the Proclamation on the cause of Freedom throughout the world.
E.H. HEYWOOD will speak in HOPEDALE, Sunday, A. M., Feb. 1st.
CONVERSATIONS ON MEN AND THE TIMES. Mr. A. BRONSONM ALCOTT will give four conversations on topics of living interest at the Temperance Hall in Bromfield street, commencing on Monday evening next, Feb. 2d, at half past 7 o'clock, and continuing each succeeding Monday evening until completed. Admission foe, 25cents.
Mr. ALCOTT is a rare thinker and a warm-hearted philanthropist, and we hope will be liberally patronized.]
-Ed. Lib.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M.D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
Reference.- Luther Clark, M.D.; David Thayer, M.D.
Office hours form 2 to 4. p.m.
DIED- In Cincinnati, on Friday, Jan 9th, BENJAMIN BOWN, formerly of Pittsburg, and more recently of Salem, Columbiana Co., Ohio.
We first met Mr. Bown at the Convention which assembled at Harrisburg, in 1836, to form the Pennsylvania Anti Slavery Society; and from that time to the day of his death we knew him as a faithful and laborious friend of the anti-slavery cause. For many years he had been a Vice President of the American Anti-Slavery Society, as well as a member of the Executive Committee of the Western Anti-Slavery Society, and his face was more or less familiar to those who, from time to time, attended the anniversaries of these association. His purse was always open to the claims of the cause, and the hospitalities of his home were freely extended to its advocates as well as to the fleeing bondman. Thus, one by one, in solemn procession, are the early laborers in the Anti-Slavery Movement passing onward and upward to a higher life. What comfort, in their dying hour, they must derive from the reflection that they have spent the vigor of their mortal existence in efforts to break the chains of the oppressed!-Anti-Slavery Standard. 

THE PROBLEM SOLVED. THE RESULTS OF EMANCIPATION.
By M. AUGUSTIN COCHIN. Translated by Miss Mary L. Booth, translator of M. Gasparin's Works on America.
COCHIN is an ex-maire and municipal councilor of the city of paris. He has had great advantages for research among both public and private documents; and has devoted his life to the subject on which his forth- coming volume treats. He recently received the order of knighthood from the Pope, in acknowledgement of the ability displayed in this book; to which also was recently awarded the first prize of three thousand francs by the French Academy.
So little is positively known of the economical and social results of Emancipation in those countries where it has taken place, that the importance of this volume to the people of the United States, in the present crisis, can hardly be overestimated.
It was written at the suggestion of the learned Count Montalembert; is based entirely on official reports; and its statements, which comprehend every form of the question, are fully reliable.
Of the style and attractiveness of the book, the following extract from a notice of the French edition, in the Christian Examiner, may testify. It is pronounced, "among the most remarkable, fascinating, and timely books of the year. It is, act once, cautious and eloquent, candid and enthusiastic; as sagacious as De Tocqueville work on America; and as ardent as Victor Hugo's Legend of the Ages. It is scientific in its arrangement, accurate in its display of facts, logical in its reasoning, and clear in its conclusions."
ALSO
THE TRUE STORY OF THE BARONS OF TH E SOUTH; or, the Rationale of the American Conflict. By Rev. E. W. REYNOLDS, another of "Records of Bubbleton Parish." With Introduction by Rev. S.J. MAY. 12me. 75cts. 
WALKER, WISE &CO.,
Dec12-8t.is 246 Washington Street, Boston 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
LINES,
On hearing of the noble generosity of our American brothers to our suffering operatives.
Ye have conquered us, oh brothers!
Though not on battle-field;
For our hearts are taken captive 
By the generous aid ye yield 
Ye had heard of our poor workmen,
Their starving babes and wives;
Of their patient, brave endurance,
Though famine waste their lives;
Of their homes, once filled with comforts, 
Now stripped to the bare wall-
For their hands can find no labor-
And ye pitying heard their call;
And ye felt they were your brother
For both boast the same descent
From the stern, unbending Britons,
Long by Roman yoke unbent;
From the indomitable Vikings,
Claiming empire of the sea;
From the proud and valiant Normans,
And from merchants, brave and free;
We speak the self-same language,
Read the same historic page-
Both are proud of our old poets,
And old writers, learned and sage.
Be there no more strife between us,
Causing misery and tears,
But the strife of loving brothers,
In the blessed coming years;
The kind strife of loving brothers,
How to do each other good,'
Leaving other States the glory
Dearly bought by woe and blood!
What a noble, great example 
All nations then will see, 
When America and Britain,
The nations of the free,-
All old jealousies forgotten,-
Honor each other's worth;
And in small things though they differ,
Yet agree to bless God's earth!
Hastings, Sussex, England. JANE ASHBY.

For the Liberator.
EMANCIPATION.
Tune-AULD LANG SYNE.
I.
'Tis done!-the righteous deed is done!
Proclaim'd the jubilee!
Columbia hails her faithful son,
The Father of the tree!
The Father, &c.
II
Aloft the signal flag is raised-
The swift wing'd tidings fly:
"Glory to God! His name be praised!"
Unnumber'd tongues reply.
Unnumber'd, &c.
III.
Fair freedom lifts her drooping head-
A smile her tears restrains;
Though mourning still her noble dead,
Who died to break her chains.
Who died, &c.
IV.
A blessing on our Chieftain's name,
Who gave the great command;
Engrave it on the rock of fame,-
HE FREED HIS NATIVE LAND!
He freed, &c.
V.
And let the listening nations hear,
Throughout creation's bound,
That Freedom has her dwelling here-
Her land is holy ground!
Her land, &c.
VI.
A refuge for the suffering poor,
A home for the oppressed,
She opens wide her friendly door,
And feeds them from her breast.
And feeds, &c.
VII.
No more, his eyes with weeping dim,
The slave unpitied pines;
The Stripes and Stars now shelter him-
The sun of Freedom shines.
The sun, &c.
VIII.
Huzza! Proclaim the jubilee!
Let grateful anthems rise!
"Huzza! Columbia's land is free!"
Re-echoes through the skies.
Re-echoes, &c.
IX.
Now let the host of traitors come,
With foreign foes allied,
One tap on Freedom's larum drum,
The world is on our side!
The world, &c.
Weymouth. F.M. ADLINGTON

PROCLAMATION LINES-Jan. 1st, 1863.]
BY A.M. THOMSON.
I heard the silver voice of angels cry,
And Echo sent it all along the sky,
"Hosanna unto Him who sits on high!"
"Yea, glory be to Him that we should see
With these poor eyes this day of jubilee,
And one more race of waiting souls set free."
And as the wond'rous portals were unrolled,
I saw them writing in their books of gold,
The date that all the prophets had foretold.
And while they wrote it with their pens aflame,
The patriot saints of every age and name,
Made Heaven vocal with their glad acclaim!]
The stars grew brighter in the firmament,
And every tongue that sang in leaven lent
Its voice, and down to earth the anthem sent.
The earth prolonged the glorious strain,
And FREEDOM was the grand refrain
Of every color, creed and name.
The eyes that used to fill with liquid pain,
To-day are full of solemn tears again,
But TEARS OF JOY to see the melting chain!
Banish the auction-block and cruel thong 
Back to barbarian night where they belong,
And let this race lift up its natal song!
They shall not feel the bloodhound's smarting gash,
Or know the sting and pain of well plied lash,
Or the dumb ache when fiendish passions clash.
But over in the arch of their dark sky,
The sacred bow of promise hangs on high-
Their hopes of being free no more can die!
Let tyrants sigh, and draw their last lament,
The arrow to their idol's heart is sent:
God bless the archer who the bow hath bent!
O, sacred Liberty! how dear art thou!
How radiant glows the youth upon thy brow!
And never half so beautiful as Now!

SUPPLICATION.
Lord, deliver! Thou canst save,
Save from evil, mighty God;
Hear, O hear, the kneeling slave!
Break, O break, the oppressor's rod!
Love to man and love to God 
Are the weapons of our war;
These can break the oppressor's rod,
Burst the bonds that we abhor.
<c02>
The Liberator.
GERRIT SMITH TO GOVERNOR SEYMOUR.
PETERBORO', Jan. 12, 1863.
HON. HORATIO SEYMOUR:
DEAR SIR,—I have read your Message. Although I belong to no party, I belong to a country. Although there are no party interests for me to promote and adjust myself to, I feel the preciousness of the interests of my country, and am deeply and abidingly concerned for their safety. Seldom more than when reading your Message have I felt the great peril of those interests; for I remember the uttered of its dangerous doctrines it emphatically, if not indeed preeminently, the mouthpiece of a party comprising nearly half the voters of the Free States. I remember, too, what great weight with hit party have the words of a gentleman of commanding talents, high culture, multiplied influential public relations, bland and winning manners, admired social and domestic life. How could I fail to fear that the Democratic party, if not already fully identified with these dangerous doctrines, will, by force of such commendations of them, soon become so?
1st. I find denunciation in your Message, but no denunciation of the rebels. The Cotton States and the New England States do, in your esteem, chare about equally in the guilt of the Rebellion! New England, because she suffered her Garrison to write against slavery, and her Phillips to talk against it, is in your eyes as criminal as the bloody men who flew at the throat of their unoffending country! New England, who, to help put them down, promptly armed hundreds of thousands of her cherished sons, and promptly poured out scores of millions of her wealth, has no less of your censure and no more of your favor than have those bloody men! And yet you propose to put down the Rebellion! But how can this be done, if nearly half of us are like yourself? How could we have the heart to do it, even at little cost—much less at the required cost—if the rebels are no worse than the people of New England? And how, if we had the heart, would it be practicable, should you succeed, as is your too manifest intent, in arraying the Western and Central States against New England instead of Rebeldom?
2d. I see you still regret that the Satanic compromise proposed two years ago was not adopted. I call it satanic, because it was to be a compromise between two guilty parties at the sole expense—and this, too, an overwhelming expense—of an innocent third party. Fresh outrages were to be heaped upon the negroes— ay, and eternized. The malignity of this Democratic compromise, which not a few Republicans also favored, (for there are Republicans too who arc capable of being satirized.) is equalled only by its meanness. That they, who could propose further and greater crimes against the guiltless and helpless, could still make much account of their Bibles and churches, argues either their matchless delusion or their match less brazenness. I do not say that they would have made themselves better by burning up their Bibles and churches, but I do say that they would have thereby made themselves infinitely more consistent.
3d. "The claim of power under martial law" you indignantly and utterly refuse to admit. You say that this claim "asserts that the President may, in his discretion, declare war." I do not believe that it does, and I never before heard that it does. You say that it "exalts the military power of the President above his constitutional rights." I reply that this power is specifically one of those rights, inasmuch as the Constitution makes him the Head of the Army. I admit that he has no other official rights than what the Constitution gives him; and you should admit that it is only from martial law, or, in other words, the law of civilized warfare, that he can learn the measure of his rights as Head of the Army. You say that this "measure is fixed by the Constitution." Rather is it fixed by this martial law which you disparage. It also changes with this law, which changes with the progress of civilization. It is true that Congress has power to prescribe rules for war; but, on the other hand, it is not only true that it could not provide for a Urge share of the cases in which the Head of the Army might find himself, but also true that this power of Congress is to be exercised within the limits and according to the character of martial law. So long as that law shall forbid the poisoning of food or water, or the killing of prisoners, or the selling of them into slavery, Congress has no power to authorize these barbarisms. That a nation may carry on war according to its own laws, be they what they will, Christendom I would never suffer. These laws must be conformed to the law of civilized warfare. If it is true, as recently reported, that the rebels shot twenty prisoners because they were black, and if also their government shall approve it, then will this enormous violation of the conventions of war not only go far to reveal the character of the rebels to the eyes of Europe, but it will also go far to damage their cause with her.
4th. Scouting as you do the doctrine of martial law, it is not strange that you deny the right of the Head of the Army to lay hands, even in time of war, on persons in a loyal State. Indeed, you do not admit that he may on persons in a revolted one. You decline saying whether such a State has lost any of its rights. Your language clearly implies that it has not lost them all. Here, as well as elsewhere in the Message, you treat the rebels as more "sinned against than sinning." Doubtless, you hold that State sovereignty can never die:—no, not even in a State whose people have all turned traitors 1 Possibly, however, you would admit that the Head of the Army has the right to dispose of the hundred Missouri traitors, who, just within the North line of Arkansas, are plotting and promoting the destruction of our army and country. But how farcical the distinction that he may not dispose of them if, availing themselves of your theory, they return a mile, and claim that they can now perpetrate their treason with impunity, because they are again in their loyal State of Missouri! Moreover, Missouri might, at the time, be the principal seat of, the war, and the very State in which traitors could most peril and damage our cause. Whilst writing this letter, I learn that Springfield in Missouri is besieged by rebels. Does not our army there need the right to make the quick and sure military dispositions of both open and suspected traitors? Surely it does: and what fully, not to say what treason, to deny the right, simply because Springfield is in one of the really or nominally loyal States! Upon your theory, a single State, though no larger than Rhode Island or Delaware, might, under its mask of loyalty, by harboring traitors and protecting their operations, accomplish the betrayal of the country into the hands of the enemy. Surely, surely, our nation could nut have meant to leave herself at such fatal disadvantage! She could not have failed to mean that, in time of war, her military power should be free everywhere within her borders to deal with traitors in its own sure and summary ways, where they could not safely be entrusted to slow, uncertain, and what, even though in a professedly loyal State, might prove to be disloyal civil proceedings. If it he bat one State that has broken oat in war against the nation, the war power, nevertheless, is entitled to its paramount rule in every State, so long as the war shall continue. So long it But have the right to practise in every State Its own meat for saving all the Stales. The Military power may not dispose of a man in a loyal State! Amazing error! It may not only arrest him, but reduce his dwelling to ashes. The Head of the Army may, and should, order the arrest of the people of Chambersburg, ay, and the burning of their town, if he is convinced that it is, and if unbent will remain, a nest of traitors. Had it been your purpose so to cripple the President and his army as to render the country an easy prey to its enemy, you could not have written more effectually to the and than you have dose. You say: "The unlimited, uncontrolled despotic power claimed wider martial law is, of itself, a reason why it cannot be admitted." The answer is, that for this very reason, the power must be admitted. No nation ever did
<c03>
or ever can stand, that does not make martial law preme in time of war. The main reason why the comparatively petty Sooth is still able to resist the gigantic North is that the one has, and the other has not, a Democratic party to hold it back from an unrestricted and successful prosecution of the war. The rebels "let slip their dogs of war"; but the Democrats are constantly intent on leashing ours. You will argue the danger of the abase of this martial law; but that will be no argument against the necessity of the law. It will be an argument only against the madness of running rashly into war.
5th. You deny the right of the Head of the Army to proclaim liberty to the slaves of loyalists. You seem to believe that our Government must not only not intend injuries to loyalists, but must so conduct the war that not even incidental injuries, though afterwards paid for, shall ever befall them. The military commander it, however, at as full liberty to burn the dwelling of the loyalist as of the rebel, if in his judgment the necessities of war call for it. It is his right to weaken the foe by calling away 
from him white or red or black men. He may strengthen his ranks by inviting to them the minor sons of loyal fathers, and the apprentices of loyal masters. But if he may invite these to break away from their just and natural relations, how much more may he invite slaves, be it those of rebels or loyalists, to break away from their infinitely unjust and unnatural relations! He may not think the slaves to be in any wise fit for his ranks. He may (and this would be an entirely justifying reason) invite them to leave their rebellious or loyal masters, simply because ha would thereby reduce the force which produces the food and other elements of Southern subsistence and Southern success. In all this, the commander would not be saying that the relation of master and slave is any less moral than the other relations referred to. He would but be saying that he feels bound to do whatever he can, in accordance with the laws and usages of civilized warfare, to weaken his foe and strengthen himself.
6th. Our work, as you interpret it, is to save the Constitution a it if, and to "restore our Union as it was before the outbreak of the war." Right here, at this great error, is it probable that our nation will perish, if perish it must. The breaking out of the Rebellion found the nation so debauched by slavery as to he incapable of meeting the Rebellion on the one square and simple issue of putting it down. For thirty or forty years it had cherished, not to say worshipped, slavery; and nearly all its contests during that time, for the Constitution and the Union, were virtually contests for slavery. Hence, she had scarcely come to blows with the South before the North found her people divided by feigned, false, impertinent and ruinous issues. Loud and incessant was the cry, that the Constitution and Union must be restored. The Democrats and pro-slavery Republicans meant a restoration to the intensely pro-slavery interpretation that the one, and to the intensely pro-slavery character that the other, had reached when the Relation broke out. The anti-slavery Republicans were for restoring the Constitution and Union to what they were held to be in those early days of the Republic when slavery was looked upon as sectional, and liberty national. A part of the Abolitionists said that the Constitution is anti- slavery, and that, therefore, in the name of the Constitution, as well as in the name of God, the Union should also be anti-slavery; and another part said that the Constitution is pro-slavery, and that they preferred no Union at all to a Union under a pro-slavery Constitution.
Oh! had we but been uncorrupted by slavery, how quickly would we have put down the Rebellion, if indeed there could, in that case, have been a Rebellion to put down! We should then have wasted no time, and produced no division amongst ourselves, by talking about the Union, the Constitution, or even the country. Our one purpose then would have been to put down the rebels, and to put them down irrespectively of the bearing it might have on whatever interests. Naked plunderers and murderers were these entirely unwonted rebels; and they should have been put down with as total a disregard of consequences as would characterize the single purpose of a stern father in putting down his revolted child. Who doubts that, with such a disregard, they had been put down instantly? Suppose that scoundrels in Utica—your adopted and my native home—had, with arms in their hands, and using them too, seized her funds, her fire engines, and her other corporate property, and that you had, at the time, been her Mayor— would you have sent to the Common Council a message of the tone and character of that you have just sent to the Legislature? Would you have sought in it to divide her citizens upon a multiplicity of issues respecting the future condition of her Fire Department, her funds and other interests? Oh, no! oh, no! You could have made no Democratic and no other gain by such an insane policy. You would, beyond a doubt, have sought to unite them in the one purpose and one endeavor to subdue and punish the miscreants; ay, to subdue and punish them, come what might of Fire Department, Funds, or even Utica herself. I am wrong—they would already have been thus united. Such union would have been the necessary result of the outrage. Only bad counsels and partisan influences could have disunited them. The, people of the North were united when they heard of the bombarding of Sumter. But, alas! our good and patriotic President temporized! The spirit, which should have been taken at the flood, was allowed time to subside. Hundreds and thousands of lives, and, directly and indirectly, thousands of millions of dollars, have already been the penalty of this mistake:— and only too reasonable is the fear that the loss of the nation will be needed to complete the penalty. How surely and how quickly would he at that time, but for the timidity and hesitancy which grew out of his pro-slavery education, have saved our wealth and toil from this oppressive taxation, our tens of thousands of bereaved families from their sorrows, and our country from the appalling prospect of her ruin! The Rebellion should have been shot dead at once. Whoever denies it, proves therein that he is insensible of its infernal character, and knows not how to deal with such a crime. Or rather, whoever denies it, makes room thereby for the suspicion that he sympathizes with the Rebellion, and is a participant in the crime. At once should the President have brought out the Big Emancipation Gun; and he should have so charged it, and so aimed it, as not to spare one shred of slavery in all the land. The Rebellion would have been ended by the first fire. And what right had the rebels to oar shrinking and delay?—rebels who, without the least provocation, so malignantly and murderously struck at our all—at the life of our country, and therefore at our all?
7th. What a sad exhibition of the power of ambition and party over a great intellect, combined with a gentle and refined spirit. Is your insisting that slavery shall be reestablished; that the Southern "elements of production must be unimpaired "; and that nothing short of this "can command the support of the majority of the American people"! Yes, even now, when, if there ever was, there is no longer any Constitutional obstacle in the way of the stare's freedom— even now, when the slaveholder has himself opened the prison door—you are still determined that he shall remain in bondage, and his children and children's children after him; still determined that this shall continue to be a land in which multiplying millions have no right to husband, nor wife, nor children, nor wages, nor Bibles, nor schools, nor to aught else but stripes and insults, tortures of the body, and tortures of the soul! You are indeed to be pitied. You were not made to be what you are. You were made to be a strong and helpful and sustaining brother among your poor and needy and weak brethren: not an object of terror, but a tower of safety to them. You were not made to bolt but to unbolt the door of the oppressed; not to extinguish but to multiply and realize their hopes. But, alas! your party turned for strength and success to slavery; and so entirely identified itself with it, that the party can live only in the life of the monster, and must die when the monster
<c04>
dies. Hence it is that you are what: you are. You are stone blind, both morally and politically. You see not God's hand in this war. You see not that His time has at last come for setting free his sable children. So deluded are you, as to imagine that proslavery will he popular for ever, and abolition unpopular for ever. But the sun of the Seymour's, and Renders, and Woods will soon set in darkness; and the sun of the Garrisons, and Phillips's, and Cheaters will soon rise in splendor. Your spurious Democratic party, deserted as it is by the Dickinson's and Butlers and by all who love country more than party, and freedom more than slavery, will soon pass away, leaving History to tell on one of her blackest pages of as base and wicked a party as ever defied God or trampled on man.
Your former and your present friend,
GERRIT SMITH.
THE BOSTON REVIEW ON SAWYER'S RECONSTRUCTION OF BIBLICAL THEORIES.
REMARKS BY THE AUTHOR.—No. II.
MR. EDITOR:
DEAR SIR,—The Boston Review commences its article with an introduction entirely out of place in the consideration of any serious, honest and earnest work on Biblical science. It deplores "the lifting up of axes on the thick trees of GOD, and breaking down the carved work of the sanctuary"; it knows that "learning mast have its play-ground, and that there must be a place for target practice, and a field for knight-errantry; but wishes it would not seize on sacred enclosures." It then adds—"Can we not have a substitute on which learned criticism may expend itself without injury to our most sacred interests? Could not the Vedas or the Iliad serve the purposes of this profound scholarship, as well as the sacred oracles?"—p. 685.
Doubtless, inquiry may expend itself on other objects. The field of knowledge is large, and admits an infinite variety of labors. The Vedas may be further studied, and so may the Iliad, with some valuable results; but why may not the Bible be studied too? Does any principle of truth or duty interdict its study? And if men may study the Bible, may they not report what they find in it? The reconstructionist is not treating the Bible as a field for target practice, nor a play-ground for literary amusement, but as a valuable collection of ancient works to be read and interpreted, and made serviceable in the instruction of the human race on the most important subjects of human inquiry. An educated friend of Christianity is the last man in the world who should deprecate the most thorough study of the Bible. If it cannot bear to be studied, it had better be laid aside for something that can. The reconstructionist is not a stranger-to the Bible; he has studied it many years, and endeavored to understand it. In early life, he was thoroughly instructed in the common views, and held them for many years; latterly, he has been obliged to abandon them for others, which he now submits to the public, and on which he asks its deliberate and well considered judgment. There is a field of knowledge in regard to the Bible, as in regard to other books, embracing things that can be known about it and known by it. This field the reconstructionist has endeavored to enter, and in some degree to explore. His volume reports some of his findings, and submits them to the judgment of Christendom. He wishes to have them honestly and truly judged, and expects j to abide by such a judgment when reached. The Boston Review, in its article for November, 1862, has, unfortunately, not reached it. How entirely it fails: has appeared in part from a previous article. It is proposed on the present occasion to note some others of its shortcomings.
2. "To one familiar with the history of doctrines, the views here given will show no novelty. It would be easy to cite authorities for the most, if not all of them."—p. 636.
This is incorrect. The views here given embrace much that is new. The views of the author have been anticipated by no German, English or French writers, and are now for the first time submitted to the attention and examination of Christians. Any one who can confound them with the views of earlier writers is either ignorant of earlier writers and misjudges them, or else has not taken pains to understand the author, and misrepresents him.
The Review says, "We have no fears for the truth." This is well; he need have none, for two reasons: first, the author has no hostile intentions against it, but on the contrary, his sole aim is to serve it; and, second, truth is naturally invulnerable and immortal. It is not liable to ultimate injuries, even by the malice of its enemies. It shares the throne with the Eternal, and can no more fail than He:—
"It sits on no precarious throne,
Nor borrows leave to be."
It waits its time in neglect, and sometimes in dishonor; but a future eternity is the predestined period and theatre of its triumphs and glories.
3. " The crossing of the Jordan was commemorated by a stone heap; the altar of witness erected by the sons of Reuben, Gad and Manasseh, was a commemorative monument, that could not have been necessary if letters had existed in those times."—Reconstruction, p. 9. On this the reviewer remarks thus:—
"That is, the erection of Bunker Hill Monument is proof that letters were not in use in New England at that time, and the oration of Webster at the laying of its corner stone was the composition of some allegorist in a later age."—p. 638.
There is some difference between a rude stone heap, consisting of twelve stones, supposed to have been piled up on the bank of the Jordan after the nation had crossed, and Bunker Hill Monument, with its inscriptions. Bunker Hill Monument demonstrates by its inscriptions the use of English letters, at the time of its erection, and is itself a most elaborate and expensive work of art. A pile of twelve stones, with no structure and no inscription, marks a rude age and an illiterate people. Such the author of Joshua must have judged the age and people whom he thus described to be. All that the stone heap shows is the judgment of the writer as to what was a fit monument of the crossing of the Jordan. The absence of letters from this memorial is an indication that, in his judgment, they were not in use under Joshua.
The altar of testimony is a still stronger evidence against the use of Aramaean letters under Joshua. " The mighty one of gods, Jeva, the mighty one of gods, Jeva, knows, and Israel shall know; if in rebellion and if in transgression against Jeva, save us not this day; [if] we have built for us an altar to turn- away from after Jeva, and to offer on it sacrifices and burnt-offerings, and to sacrifice on it peace-offerings, let Jeva himself require it; and if for fear of this thing, we have not done this, saying. In time to come, your sons will speak to our sons, saying, What part have you in Jeva, the God of Israel? And Jeva has set a boundary between us and you, sons of Reuben and sons of God—the Jordan; you have no part in Jeva; and your sons shall make our sons cease from the fear of Jeva. And we said, Let us now make for us and build an altar, not for burnt offerings nor for sacrifices, but for a witness between us and you, and between our generations after us, that we perform the service of Jeva before him with our burnt-offerings and sacrifices and peace-offerings, that your sons may not say to our sons in time to come, You have no part in Jeva." (Joshua 22: 22-28.) In a rode age, when letters were unknown, or the imperfect Egyptian systems of letters only were in use, and the use of those confined to few, such a testimonial might be deemed necessary to perpetuate a knowledge of the common interest of those Hebrews east of the Jordan in the worship of Jeva, with those on the west side of it; but with Aramaean letters it would neither have been necessary nor admissible. A. monument with inscriptions would have been called for, if any; but this was without inscriptions. Both these monuments have the appearance of being fictitious. Neither the stone heap nor the altar of
<c05>
witness is attested by any valid evidence. The crossing of the Jordan in the manner specified is undoubtedly a fiction, and signifies a crossing by natural means, accomplished by the favor of Jeva. It is a beautiful allegory, but cannot be admitted as a narrative of facts without the strongest attestation of its reality. Instead of being strongly attested, it has no attestation at all. It would not be credited as a literal fact in any other book but that of Joshua, and is no more entitled to credit as such in Joshua, than it would be in Livy, Herodotus, or Walter Scott.
4. Having quoted some statements and conclusions from the author's work respecting the post Mosaic origin of the earliest sacred books, the Review asserts, "All these positions are presented as mere assumptions, dicta of the author. No authority of Biblicists is cited for them, if we except Bunsen on a single point in chronology, and there is but the faintest show of fragmentary argument." p. 341. This statement is erroneous in several respects:
(l.) The author's views are not usually first presented as mere assumptions, but as conclusions from legitimate premises. His arguments are brief and condensed, but they are always on hand, and conclusions are kept in close proximity with premises.
(2.) No authority of Biblicists is cited, because no authority of Biblicists exists on the subjects considered. Questions of interpretation are not capable of being settled by the authority of Biblicists. As well might mathematical questions by settled by the authority of mathematicians. The authority of mathematicians can never be substituted for demonstration in mathematics. The attempt to make such a substitution would be regarded as infinitely absurd and ridiculous. In theology this error has been admitted, and has done infinite harm. It is one of the great objects of the author, in all his Biblical works, to draw attention from erring authorities to unerring and decisive evidence.
(3.) Bunsen's Chronology is not cited in the author's work, as an authority for the establishment of any proposition, but as an example of the judgment of a learned and laborious scholar on the subject to which it relates. The object of the citation is to encourage inquiry, without indicating any conclusions to be reached.
5. "It fares no better with the prophets than with Moses; the later books of prophecy, Isaiah and Daniel among them, are gross impostures, made up after the events and times of which they speak, and palmed off as the living words of the Lord, at the lips of those whose forged names they bear." p. 647.
That the later books of prophecy, Isaiah and Daniel among them, are gross impostures, is an assertion of the critic, not of the work which he is criticising. The reconstructionist entertains no such views of those books, and makes no such charges against them. He regards them as honest books, containing much valuable instruction and information, and his questions respecting them are as to their character and meaning. The reconstruction does not confound fictitious works with gross impostures. He reckons among them the most important and valuable works of all ages and nations, the heroic poems of the Greeks and Romans, their immortal tragedies, and the heroic and tragic poems of other countries, and of later times. These are not impostures nor forgeries; just as little are the Jewish sacred books liable to the charge of imposition or forgery, for being fictitious. Fiction is a legitimate instrument of instruction, and is necessary for the most effective inculcation of all the higher lessons of piety and virtue. No book is disparaged by being called fictitious; the noblest books of the world, in all countries and ages, are of this kind. The reconstructionist regards the Hebrew sacred books as fictitious, and interprets them as such, not to find less valuable lessons than are derived from them by literalists, but more valuable. Besides other advantages, his method has this, that it makes those books a true chart of the existing laws and dispensations of the Creator, while the method of literalism makes them charts of laws and dispensations that have ceased and passed away. The literalist method makes the Scriptures reveal God as doing several things which he does not do; the method of the reconstruction reveals him as having done the same things formerly which he still does, and as still doing the same things which he formerly did. Which is the more practical and useful may be easily determined. What we are mainly interested in knowing of God, is what be now does.
6. "But what of the New Testament? Under the principles laid down by our author, how can it escape the general ruin that he has brought on the Old Testament?" p. 652.
The author has brought no general ruin on the Old Testament. He has examined a part of it, and shown it to possess a fictitious and allegoric character. The Review has not shown the contrary, and cannot show it. Truth win be shown, and untruth cannot. The failure of the Review to demonstrate the incorrectness of the author's conclusions does not arise from any want of critical ability on the part of the Review, but from the impracticability of the object; truth cannot be put in the wrong.
With these few remarks on the shortcomings of the Boston Review, the author begs leave to request its reconsideration of his work, and of the subject to which its relates. If the reconstructionist is misled, let his errors be shown. The points in question are matters of fact, to be determined by evidence, and can be determined by no other means. They embrace the following propositions, which challenge examination:—
1. Aramaean letters are a post Mosaic invention, making the writing of the Pentateuch by Moses impossible.
2. The Hebrew language of the Pentateuch is the language of the period from 550 B. C. to 100 B. C, and cannot possibly have been the language of the Hebrews at the Exodus from Egypt. Documents may be later than the language to which they belong, but they cannot be earlier. The Pentateuch, therefore, cannot have been written long previous to 550 B. C.
3. The history of Creation in six days cannot possibly be a narrative of facts, and must therefore be; accepted as fictitious.
4. The creation of Adam and Eve, the use of the forbidden fruit, and its consequences, the banishment of Adam and Eve from Paradise, their attaining a
knowledge of right and wrong, putting on clothing, and commencing labor and civilization, are represented by allegories and enigmas, and should be interpreted accordingly. So of the later events extending to the times of Samuel.
The fictitious and allegoric character of portions of these narratives is not assumed arbitrarily, but for reasons; and for such reasons as are deemed valid authority for such assumptions in the Greek and Latin classics, in English, German and French literatures, and in all non-Judaic literatures, ancient and modern. Denunciation is cheap, it is easy to dogmatize, and if the reconstructionist is wrong, it will not be difficult to prove him so. He asks no favor for his errors, and entertains no fear for his truths; they cannot be injured, still less overturned.
The Boston Review is a professed defender of orthodoxy in religious opinions. Orthodoxy is judging according to evidence and correct rules, and not according to any false rule. Evidence is the only ultimate rule of faith; wherever found it is decisive, and nothing else is. Truths may be taken second-hand or a hundredth-hand, by tradition; but taken taking always incurs a liability to mistake. The first traditions may hare been mistakes, and have delivered a false judgment, in which case the error will continue on its the subject is re-examined on its evidence, and any one of a hundred successive traditionists may have takes something away or have added something improperly, and thus have corrupted the truth.
It is quite evident that the Boston Review, in the present case, has rushed to the rescue of old opinions with too much haste and too little consideration. Old opinions are not our gods, they are our servants; good servants only when correct—when incorrect, very bad ones. The Review has assailed the author's work, which is mainly argumentative, and pronounced
<c06>
it wrong without proving it so. This is not becoming a champion of orthodoxy. A just judge forms his opinion by the evidence, and takes unwearied pains to ascertain, systematize and estimate it; an orthodox thinker investigates well his secondary rules of judgment, and admits none that are false and deceptive. In the present case, the Boston Review has neither acted the part of a just judge nor of an orthodox thinker. It has not restricted its judgments to the evidence exhibited on the subject, nor exercised due care in respect to its secondary rules of judging. Its method in religious inquiry is like that of a mathematician who should study the conclusions arrived at by mathematicians, and take them on authority, is stead of taking them on proof. There is no intimate authority for propositions but proof; and this is equally true in religious and moral science, and the other sciences. Men can establish by testimony facts of which they are witnesses. All higher truths are ascertained by reason. Reason begins where testimony ends, and the infinite void beyond is everywhere open to its explorations.
With these remarks, the author of the Reconstruction of Biblical Theories begs leave to commend his work to the impartial examination of all earnest in quirers after truth, and to solicit a candid and through judgment of Christendom on the subjects therein considered.
Yours, very truly, L.A. SAWYER.

LETTER FROM WASHINGTON.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 18, 1863.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
I have not seen the Liberator during the last six weeks until to-day, and am sorry to learn, for the first time, that you have been compelled to take into consideration the subject of discontinuing its publication. Just when the principles for which it has so long and ably contended are about to be triumphant is the most unfortunate time for it to be discontinued. We need the voices of the Liberator, if possible, more now than ever, As a personal matter, I do not know how I could do without it. I have now been a subscribes sixteen yours, and it has become a necessity to me. I enclose three dollars to pay for it as long as its Financial Committee deems it expedient, then you are at liberty to call for more.
A week ago to day, James Freeman Clarke preached in the Senate Chamber. I did not know of the meeting, and therefore was not present, but learn from an intelligent man that Mr. Clarke's effort was one of his very best, and this, of course, is saying much. To-day, Wm. H. Channing preached in the same place. This is to put that costly hall to a good use, at least once a week. The occasion reminded me of the memorable days when Theodore Parker, with almost miraculous power, stirred the hearts and warmed the heads of the true representatives of the Puritans in Music Hall. The Senate floor was well filled, and the galleries sprinkled with the very choicest people of this modern Sodom. It is true that Bishop Simpson, of the M.E. Church, one of the most eloquent pulpit orators of modern times, preached it the same hour in one of the fashionable churches, and had among his hearers President Lincoln and a Cabinet minister or two, and that Mr. Lincoln gave two hundred dollars to be made a life-member of the Methodist Missionary Society, and that the collections amounted to about seven hundred dollars; yet sill I shall insist, that the very choicest spirits of Washington went to hear Mr. Channing.
Mr. Channing said he proposed to preach "a Gospel sermon," and he did. The great principles of love and good will among men were applied to life, and to the condition of our suffering, distracted, almost ruined country. All the horrors of this terrible butchery called war were held up to view with awful fidelity. The contrast of a condition of peace with its ample fruits was presented. But then came the faithful warning of the danger of any, the least compromise; and the utter impossibility of securing peace without the complete recognition of purity and justice by the nation, in its dealings with the lowest and poorest, was earnestly and eloquently set forth. Said the speaker—"We must mete out full and perfect justice to the negro. We must admit him to all the rights and privileges of society which we claim for our selves, and this from motives of love and good will, before the nation can be saved." This was the voice which the speaker heard always and everywhere, and this he must dare to proclaim. To him, this voice was the voice of God, and he believed it to be the almost universal consciousness of men, notwithstanding the plotting and secret councils of demagogues and sneaks—such sneaks as affect contempt for Puritanism, and propose "to leave New England out in the cold," when the broken fragments of the Union Shall be again united. Out upon such pitiable, these, insignificant abortions of manhood—"blighted, shriveled, dried up peas, that rattle in the pod"! Let as cast them from us with loathing and contempt.
I do not claim to give the language of the eloquent preacher, but only my impressions from memory. Mr. Channing spoke about fifty minutes, and entirely without notes, but every word and sentence fell from his into the most condensed and beautiful periods into which the language can be formed. What's contrast between such a sermon and the noisy, ecclesiastical trash commonly called sermons! It was the first tolerable preach I had heard for several years, and chiefly because there was nothing to remind one of the priest, except the black gown which he wore—resembling the gown of the judges of the Supreme Court. I thought it very strange that he should consent to wear such a uniform, but" there is no accounting for tastes."
I congratulate the Abolitionists on the conversion of Gen. B.F. Butler, and beg to express the hope that so distinguished and efficient a coadjutor will be welcomed to their ranks with due honors, that others may be encouraged likewise to repent, and bring forth fruits meet for repentance.
The Proclamation of Freedom is gaining friends daily, and the traitorous croakers are growing less. Richardson, Seymour & Co. have met with no encouragement from Brother Jeff. In response to their proffered compromise, and their blowers and strikes are rounding in their points within then lines of the War Democracy. I venture the prediction, that three months from this time, these men will not mention compromise, except upon the terms of submission by the rebels. The danger which has been apprehended, in consequence of their traitorous schemes, is no longer feared. They are powerless for mischief of much magnitude. Washington is rapidly being colonized by Northern men with Northern principles. When the restoration shall have taken place, public sentiment here will have been redeemed, and Northern Congressmen will find it easier to keep their principles from spoiling during their stay at the capital. This will be a great point gained.
A.J. GROVER.

WEIS & ZOEBISCH.
MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN
European and Fancy Furs,
308 Washington Street, 308
OPPOSITE BOSTON THEATRE,
Particular attention is paid to altering and repairing Old Furs.
Furs preserved during the summer. Nov7tf

A.J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
EARLVILLE, La Salle Co., III.
Especial attention given to securing and collecting Claims for Eastern Merchants. 
August 8. If.