THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, AND WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our country is the world, our countrymen are all mankind
J. B. YERRINTON &, Printers.
VOL.XXXIV. No. 40.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1864.
WHOLE NO. 1756.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
THE SPIRIT OF THE CHICAGO CONVENTION. -SAMPLES OF THE SPECHES. 
By Samuel Cox, of Ohio:
Dare you to enter this campaign, and in the same spirit you have shown here, in the face of Provost Marshals and all other intimidations, will you dare carry your principles bravely and boldly through? We shall see. The man who falters in this great crisis is unworthy of the name of man, and disgraces the manhood of our party. We are for peace. We deprecate violence, but there are things even worse than war, and that is a tame and cowardly submission to wrong. Let us endure no longer, but meet the first outrage of our constitutional rights as our fathers met the aggressors of theirs.
By Mr. Johnson, of Missouri:
If it shall be necessary, in the settlement of our difficulties, to allow a few stars to form a constellation by themselves, I think we can be just as safe, just as well protected, and just as free and happy under a union of republics as we have been under a union of States. I want to see this whole continent bound together by a grand Union of Republics.
"No pent-up Utica contracts our powers, 
But the whole boundless continent is ours."
By Mr. Sanders, of Pennsylvania:
Is it not high time that this infernal war is stopped? Has there not been blood enough shed? ["Yes, too much."] You must say in November, "Thus far thou hast gone, and you shall go no farther.” [A voice-“Then give us a peace man; we won't vote for any man who has had anything to do with this war."] we must support the nominee of the Convention; I guarantee he will be right. I want peace We must have peace. [A voice-"Then give us a peace man."]
If the South could be subjugated by this internal war, the bayonets would be turned against the North. Come weal or woe, we will be for the sovereignty of the States and individual rights.
By A, McMasters, of New York:
A man who is in favor of this unnatural war insults the holy name of Democracy when he claims a place in its organization. He is a Judas, and should be cast out as an enemy to humanity and to God. We are often called the " Unterrified.” I trust you are. I hope that your nerves may be of steel, for there is a day of trial coming, and you must meet it.
By C.C. Burr, of New Jersey:
We talk of rebellion and revolution at the South. There is worse rebellion in the North. The Southern people all have an affection for he old Constitutional Union, but here in the North there is a large party who call the Constitution a covenant with hell! That's what's the matter. [Cheers.] This fact was the great obstacle in the way of a restoration of the Union. South Carolina attempted to nullify an act of Congress because it was unconstitutional and unjust. The question as to what will be done with the South has been often asked. I answer, I do not own the South, and they are not the subjects of the General Government in any sense whatever. It is my duty to bring them back into the Union by concession and compromise, if I can, but I have no right to burn their wheat fields or steal their silver spoons. It is not true that the South is fighting for slavery, but the great doctrine of State Rights.” They say that Mr. Lincoln has stolen a hundred thousand negroes. Why, gentlemen, if this be true, he has not stolen a tenth part as many of their negroes as he has of their watches and silver spoons. You cannot have the face to ask the South to come back into the Union until you withdraw your marauding army.
Concerning the conscription, he said if he had been Governor of New Jersey, there should never have been a conscription in his State.
For himself, if conscripted, he preferred to die at home, where his last hours would be cheered with the presence of affection, rather than be taken to the army- and there be murdered in a foreign land and among strangers.
By Mr. Allen, of Illinois:
He wanted the crowd to get ready to fight for their rights, which were soon to be wrested from them by Lincoln, and said he was a peace man, and was ready to fight and the rather than be crushed under the feet of tyrants.
Captain Kountz, of Pittsburg, was next introduced, and, if anything, exceeded his predecessor in villainy. He denounced the present Government in unmeasured terms; in blasphemous terms branding Mr. Lincoln as a thief and a leader of thieves. Lincoln, continued the elegant orator, was now played out, the opposition to him was going to be bold and powerful, there must be no underhand work, and if Democrats catch any of Lincoln's by satrap spies among them, they must cut their d-d throats, that's all. (Applause.) It is the duty of every American to vote for a peace candidate. For seventy years the Democratic party safely guided the Ship of State through all dangers, but now, in less than three years, the shoddy despotism has deluged the country with blood, destroyed all national institutions, broken up the home circle, and changed the most glorious country under the sun into a garden of discord, where the brother lifts up his hand to slay his brother. (Applause.) Shall this state of affairs last? (No, no.) Shall more wives be made widows, and more children fatherless, and greater hate be stirred up between children of the same glorious Constitution? If not, we must put our foot upon the tyrant's neck, and destroy it, The Democratie government must be raised to power, and Lincoln, with his Cabinet of rogues, thieves and spies, be driven to destruction. What shall we do with him? (A voice” Send him here, and I'll make a coffin for him, d-n him.") Yes, continued the speaker, d-n him and his miserable followers. I do not propose, continued Capt. Kountz, to give you to-night the platform of the Democratic party, for as yet it is unborn; but I should like to see the noble Georage B. McClellan as President (cheers), and the great Democrat Horatio Seymour should occupy the position of Secretary of State. In the cabinnet I would see the name of Voohees, and the brilliant galaxy of gentlemen statesmen who cluster round the Democratic banner. Such a government would bring peace to the end would bring peace to the country, and would tend greatly to render negative the evils of the present corrupt administration. What has Lincoln done for the poor man? (Applause.) Abolitionists say he has fooded the country with money, and caused the scale of wages to be raised. Perhaps so; but all the money is in the pockets of his partners, the shoddy contractors, and the raise in wages is twenty times worse than nothing. Under the Democratic rule of purity, a man could purchase with his day's earnings eight pounds 
<c02>
of good coffee. Under the present dynasty, he works harder for a pound and a quarter. Then good sugar was five or six cents a pound, now it is forty or fifty. If such is the remedy, give us the disease. (Cheers.) True, Lincoln sells coffee by the bushel, a dollar or so a peck, but what but the depraved taste of an abolitionist can stomach it? They say it's good; but all I have to say then is, that the worst I can wish of Mr. Lincoln is, that he may be poisoned with his own coffee. After going on in this strain for a short time, the speaker concluded, and the meeting dispersed, with some really excellent music by a Boston band.
At one of the meetings held Saturday night, the distinguished Isaiah Rynders, one of the main pillars of the Democracy in New York, very candidly said:
"At the old line Whig Convention some one had called the Southern people traitors, but he knew the South were as gallant, chivalrous, and noble a people as God ever created. (Cat calls, yells, and other Democratic applause.) He was sorry the South had taken the steps they had, but God knows they had just cause to act as they did act."
Benjamin Allen, of New York, did not believe there was a secessionist per se in the whole South; and if the abolitionists were thrown out of power, they would all come back. The people saw this, and if they could not put Lincoln out by ballots, they would rise en masse, and do it by bullets
The Hon. F. A. Leaver, of New York, declared, peaceably, if we can, forcibly if we must, we will no longer support this war."
Col. Stambaugh, of Ohio, said in a loudly applauded speech, that "when this war is over, he would not give a pinch of snuff for the 5:20’s and the 10.40's hoarded by the rich."
James H. Reed a member of Congress from Indiana, made a speech which even the Chicago Times shrieked from publishing, until by emasculation it was stripped of the major portion of its outspoken treason.
He declared open hostility to the draft, and urged on all, if Abraham the 1st and his satraps attempted to enforce it, to resist it to the death Let every one, he said, who preferred liberty to death, arm himself, if he could get no others to join him, and where there were others, let them organize in squads and companies, and with arms drill twice a week, and be prepared for the worst. If anybody in shoulder-straps attempts to arrest you without a warrant, shoot him down. If they come in force, call in your neighbors, and fight them to the death. Who are they? Only weak men like ourselves, who had usurped the duties of the civil authorities. A million and a half of freemen were opposed to this military despotism, and could wipe it out in a day.
There is much more of the same sort to be not from the oratory of the great occasion at Chicago; but this, in addition to which we have heretofore published, may be enough to show how woefully the "freedom of speech" has been suppressed in this poor tongue-tied country of ours, and to demonstrate how vitally necessary it is for the” “Democratic party" to restore to American citizens the liberty of untrammeled utterance!
OUR FRIENDS IN GREAT BRITAIN.
The Peace Manifesto of the “Southern Independence." party in England has called forth the following spirited Address from the Union and Emancipation Society in Manchester. This well-timed document is from the pen of Mr. Thomas H. Barker, whose letter appeared in our last issue. It may be read with profit by all in this country, who are in danger of being deluded by the false representations put forward by the Peace, Pro-Slavery,-Disunionist, and "Cut-the-throat-of every-Lincolnton". “Democracy.

THE PROGRESS AND PROSPECTS OF THE GREAT
STRUGGLE FOR FREEDOM IN AMERICA.

To the People of Great Britain and Ireland.
FELLOW COUNTRYMEN: Untruthful statements and unscrupulous efforts are still being put forth by the enemies of free government, free labor, and free education, to deceive and mislead you as to the facts and merits of that GREAT STRUGGLE FOR FREEDOM, now going on between the loyal people of the United States and the rebellious Slaveholders Confederacy.
 In your name, but without your authority, the friends of the Slavemongers in this country, united under the banner of Southern Independence  Associations, have recently issued a Peace Manifesto addressed to the People of the United States.
 In that document it is audaciously asserted, that "Peace and the Restoration of the Union are apparently more remote than ever:" and on the strength of this and similar baseless assumptions, you are made to call upon the people of the Free and loyal States to pause and give up the struggle for freedom: that is, to recognize and sanction a new Slave Empire!
 This appeal is made for you in the name of "Religion, Humanity, Justice and Civilization," without one word of protest against that irreligious, inhuman, iniquitous, and barbarous system of Slavery, which was the sole cause of the unholy war the Southern slaveholders have forced upon the Federal Government and the loyal people of America!
 We feel sure that your sanction will never be given to any proposition, even in the holy name of Peace, that seeks to bolster up and sustain an infamous Slave Power, whose only claim to nationality is based on a system of legalized lust and oppression, that outrages alike the claims of "Religion, Humanity, Justice and Civilization"
Remember, that up to Mr. Lincoln's election, every election, every Congress had a dominant party devoted to the interests of the Slave Power; and that this Southern Oligarchy had so moulded the policy and directed the legislation of the nation as to strengthen its political influence abroad, and increase the territorial area for the extension of Slavery at home. The first President and Cabinet especially identified with the advance of Freedom have only held office since the 4th of March,1861;and the following is a record of the progress of Liberty during their administration:-
 1. Emancipation in Western Virginia.
 2. Emancipation in Missouri.
 3. Emancipation in the District of Columbia.
 4. Emancipation in Maryland.
 5. Slavery forever prohibited in all the Territories.
 6. Kansas admitted as a Free State.
 7. Colorado, Nebraksa, and Nevada, provisionally organized as Free States.
 8. Idaho, montano, Dacotah,and Arizona,organized as Free Territories.
 9.Hayti and liberia(colored people) recognized as Independent republics.
 10.Three Millions of Slaves declared declared forever free by Proclamation of the President,Jan.1st,1863.
<c03>
11. All Fugitive Slave Laws utterly abrogated.
12. The Inter-States Slave Trade abolished.
13. Negroes admitted to Equal Rights in the United States Courts.
14.  Equality of the Negro recognized in the public conveyances of the District of Columbia.
15. All rebel States prohibited from returning to the Union with Slavery.
16. Free labor established on numerous plantations in South Carolina, Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee, and Arkansas.
17. Free Schools for the Education of Freed Slaves in South Carolina, Louisiana, Tennessee, and in Eastern Virginia.
18. The wives and children of all Slaves employed as freed men in military and other service of United States declared free.
19.Negroes, whether previously bond or free, enrolled as part of the military force of the nation.
20.The loyal people of Arkansas, Tennessee, Louisiana, and Florida, (rebel States,) seeking a return to the Union on the basis of freedom to all.
21.An Amendment of the Constitution to prohibit slavery everywhere and forever, passed in the Senate by two-thirds majority and only failed of the requisite two-thirds majority in the House of Representatives by a few Democratic votes.
22. The Republican National Convention at Baltimore, June 8th, 1864, declared unanimously for the reelection of Abraham Lincoln, and for an Amendment of the Constitution to prohibit slavery forever.
23. The Federal Government forbidden by Congress to employ any man as a slave in any capacity.
24.One hundred and fifty thousand negroes, mostly freed slaves, in the in the pay and uniform of the Federal Government, as soldiers of freedom fighting for the Union.
25.A new international treaty by the Federal Government with this kingdom, for the suppression of the Slave Trade.
26.The passing of the Homestead Bill, whereby the free and landless may become freeholders on the free soil of the Territories.
27 The foregoing is only an inadequate summary of the facts that demonstrate the vast progress that has been made in the ABOLITION of SLAVERY, since Mr. Lincoln's inauguration in March, 1861.
The Military progress of the Federal arms is equally astonishing, and proves to every impartial mind that the Southern cause is as hopeless of ultimate success as it is infamous in its basis and arrogant in its aims. The following facts will illustrate the military situation:
1.At the commencement of the war, thirteen States were claimed by the leaders of the rebellion, and sought to be disrupted from the Federal Government.
2. Nearly half of these States have either declared their loyalty, or have been rescued from the military grasp of the Confederate armies 
declared their loyalty, or have been rescued from the military grasp of the Confederate armies.
3. The Federal power has gained a firm military footing, or a naval base of operations, in each of the rebellions States.
4. It has securely grasped the great Mississippi river, and established a powerful blockade over the few Southern ports still held by the rebels.
5. So obvious is it that the Southern Confederacy must ultimately succumb to the just power and irrepressible spirit of the free North, that no Government has dared to recognize the would-be Slave Empire in the South.
Bearing in mind these indisputable facts, we ask you, the free and liberty-loving people of the United Kingdom, not to be led away by crafty appeals, in the name of peace, in favor of a cause that excludes the possibility of all peaceful and righteous government, and that embodies all the crimes and cruelties that offend heaven and desolate earth. 
The following words of President Lincoln, in an address on the 18th of August last, clearly indicate the principle involved in the present struggle:-“I wish it might be more generally and universally understood what the country is now engaged in. We have, as all will agree, a free government where every man has a right to be equal with every other man. In this great struggle, this form of government, and every form of human right, is endangered if our enemies succeed. There is more involved in the contest than is realized by every one; there is involved in this struggle the question whether your and my children shall enjoy the privileges we have enjoyed.”
Not until Slavery is annihilated, throughout the United States, can come the longed-for ERA OF PEACE a true, holy, and lasting Peace, founded on UNION, FREEDOM, JUSTICE and HUMANITY.
THE UNION AND EMANCIPATION SOCIETY.
By order of the Executive, Sept. 6th, 1864. Offices of the Union and Emancipation Society, 51 Piccadilly, Manchester.

WHAT "PEACE" MEANS.
There are true and honest devotees of "peace," even in the Copperhead ranks; but most of those who clamor loudest for "peace" are simply traitors, eager only for the unbounded ascendancy of the rebel slave power. What they are intent on is to incite seditions, outbreaks in the loyal States, paralyze the Government, and to encourage the rebels to hold out until their friends can get control of the Federal executive and Congress, so that they may have everything their own way. In additional proof of this, we cite the testimony of Mr. O. P. Brooks, of Syracuse, who writes to the Journal of that city as follows:
For the thoughtful consideration of all those who desire an honorable and lasting peace to result from the termination of this war, I beg leave to submit the following conversation held between myself and several leading men of the peace party, at the Voorhees House, the evening after the late peace convention. Being a peaceable man myself, as well as a man in favor of an honorable peace, I was of course deeply interested in the " great peace movement " of the 18th. But I confess that my confidence in the great apostles of peace received a staggering blow when, by mere accident, I became a listener to the following words, uttered by one of these apostles, a prominent public speaker, and addressed to a select circle of trusty followers:
“I tell you, gentlemen, Jefferson Davis is fighting the battles of the liberties of our country, and he must and shall succeed. I told Gov. Seymour so this morning, and he said, ‘Mr.-,I am aware of it; but what can I do? I am powerless. The majority of the people are against me, and the administration have the whole army to back them.' Gentlemen, we have got to stop this war. It must be stopped. And if Old Abe should finally be elected, we have got to raise a counter-revolution, and overthrow the whole cursed abolition horde.”
Beginning to doubt the sincerity of the peace professions of these men, I straightway sought occasion to propound the following questions to several of Vallandigham’s most confidential and ardent supporters:
First, I asked, in a straightforward way, of Sen-
<c04>
ator Lawrence, "Are yon willing to grant the South its independence, provided that, in the proposed National Convention, its Commissioners demand independence as their ultimatum, after all honorable terms of peace, based upon the reconstruction of the whole Union, have failed? " "Yes, most certainly," was the reply. "This war must be stopped. The Federal Government has no power to coerce a sovereign State into a union contrary to its will. A State has a just right to secede, provided its constitutional rights are violated." I propounded the same query to Senator Young, who boasted of the honor of having cast one of the five original votes in the New York Legislature of'61 against coercion, and I received from him precisely the same answer.
Emboldened at these unexpected responses, I submitted the same question to Wm. H. Bramlette, of Kentucky, a relative of Gov. Bramlette, and said to be a delegate to the Chicago Convention, and was again greeted with a reply similar in every particular. He further stated that "The people of the South will fight as long as they have a dollar left, unless the North concede them the right of self-government." I afterward put the same question to no less than a dozen participants in the Convention, with a like result. My reply to each of these gentlemen was, "Why did you not submit this question, which involves the very vital point in the contest, fairly and squarely to-day in your speeches, to the Convention, and thus test its wishes? You declared in all your speeches that you were, in favor of peace and Union, while you are willing to accept peace and disunion." To this I received but one honest answer. A delegate from Buffalo, whose name I did not learn.’ It would not be politic."
In the conversations with Bramlette and Lawrence I inquired what were the honorable terms that Peace Democrats would be likely to offer the South as an inducement to come back into the Union. Mr. Lawrence said: "We propose to guarantee them the protection of all their State rights.” “one of which he had already affirmed to be the right of Secession; secondly, "we propose to guarantee them the protection of Slavery up to the original lines and throughout all the Territories."
I submit these statements without comment, willing to testify before any court to their correctness, and hoping that unconditional peace men will stop and think before they blindly adopt such extreme and ruinous opinions as these.

"WHERE WE ARE.”
The New York Tribune, feeling like a confined mariner after many days of cloud and storm, turns to the sun, takes an observation, and seeks carefully to discover "where we are." Its endeavor is fortunate. It finds the situation good and hopeful. Instead of the clouds, and darkness, and chimeras dire, born of imagination and nursed by cowardice or disloyalty, it finds bright weather and an inspiring atmosphere. It says earnestly, "henceforth, we fly the banner of Abraham Lincoln for the next presidency." Nobody has supposed it capable of flying any other banner; but the Tribune, by lack of hopefulness, and by a spirit that has sometimes seemed like cowardice or want of resolution, has contributed something to promote that unreasoning "dissatisfaction with the present state of affairs" which has existed of late, and to which it refers. If there has been "wide-spread doubt," there have been fomenters of this condition of mind who had no good warrant for what they did; therefore, we are glad to hear the Tribune talk so reasonably, ask, so earnestly:-"Must we submit to defeat, not through the inherent strength of our opponents, but in succumbing to the weakness which we ourselves have generated and nurtured?" It was time for others to ask it, and desist from making sport for the copperheads. The Tribune goes on:-
"Not so. Our cause to-day is stronger than ever before. Let us understand and acknowledge that this apprehension of the future had its origin in our unmanly tears, and not in the actual condition of affaires The administration to-day is precisely what it was, and what we knew it was, six months a year two years ago. It is not that it has developed any new characteristics, but that we, through impatience and the egregious folly of extravagant expectations, have been called upon to meet new disappointments. We have met them every year every six months since the war begun; we have met them and overcome them bravely, with, at the end of each period, new triumphs to encourage and strengthen us. Shall we give up in despair when so near the end We might, indeed, have a better administration; we might have one, on the other hand, a thousand times worse. We shall have a worse one before we have a better.”
“It is very true, although some have appeared to forget it, that President Lincoln's administration is to-day what it was one or two years ago; or, if there be a difference, it is better now, less open to criticism, and stronger against the rebellion. It is always much easier to criticize sharply than to supply that shining perfection which, would silence criticism and make complaint impossible; and it is never easier than when " through impatience and the egregious folly of extravagant expectations " we create for ourselves unnecessary disappointments and imaginary dangers and disasters. President Lincoln has done nothing to warrant the criticism that has been bestowed on him by the hysterical despondency or very angular individualism of some good friends of the Union cause It is encouraging to know that they will lay aside criticism, give more attention to what he has done to merit favor, and unite to secure his re-election The Tribune says to itself and others-“Mr. Lincoln has done seven-eighths of the work (of crushing the rebellion) after his fashion; there must he vigor and virtue enough left in him to do the other fraction." If that journal had all along given this thought more prominence, it would have done the nation better service.
We are sure to re-elect President Lincoln by a very large majority. Some of his friends as well as many of his opponents would be greatly astonished at the result could the vote be taken to-morrow, so large and decisive would be the majority in his favor The people have too much at stake to place the control of the national government in the hands of such! men as the managers of the Chicago Convention. They are not ready to choose disunion, anarchy, and a half century of civil war, instead of that assured and lasting peace which will soon be secured by the national forces under Grant, Sherman, and Farragut. If the doubt and depression that have prevailed among; those who support the Union cause have led their opponents to be over confident, they may have done some good; and, at any rate, it was better to have them in August than in October. They are fast disappearing. They came from a mood that could not last; and, as the atmosphere brightens more and more, it becomes more and more visible that the loyal people of this nation are about to overthrow and crush out both the confederate traitors of the South and their friends, the copperheads of the North, and, also, that this is the easiest and speediest way to peace and permanent restoration of the Union.-Worcester Spy.
<c05>
INTERESTING CORRESPONDENCE.
WITHDRAWAL OF GENERAL FREMONT.
BOSTON, Sept. 9, 1864.

MAJOR GEN. JOHN C. FREMONT, Nahant:
GENERAL,-In the present state of public affairs, and especially since the avowal at Chicago of sentiments and purposes which all good citizens must regard as cowardly and treasonable, we are desirous of hearing your views on the present canvass and its consequences, and we tender you, therefore, an invitation to address your fellow-citizens in Faneuil, Hall at such time as is convenient to yourself.
Respectfully yours,
GEORGE L. STEARNS,
S. R. URBINO,
 JAMES M. STONE,
 F. W. BIRD,
 SAMUEL G. HOWE,
 ELIZUR WRIGHT.
NAHANT, MASS., 17th September, 1864.
GENTLEMEN,-I thank you for your letter of the 9th, inviting me to speak at Faneuil Hall upon the consequences involved in the approaching Presidential election, and more particularly in respect to the policy announced at Chicago. It would give me pleasure to do so, but I think that anything I have to say now may very well be put in the briefer limits of a letter.
I am so fully impressed with the importance of, these consequences that, in view of the misfortunes to which the triumph of the policy announced at Chicago would expose the country, I feel it my duty to make one Step more in the direction indicated by my letter of the 25th August, and withdraw my name from the list of candidates.
The Presidential question has, in effect, been entered upon, in such a way that the union of the Republican party has become a paramount necessity. The policy of the Democratic party signifies either separation or reestablishment with slavery. The Chicago platform is simply separation. Gen. MeClellan's letter of acceptance is reestablishment with slavery. The Republican candidate is, on the contrary, pledged to the reestablishment of the Union without slavery; and, however hesitating his policy may be, the pressure of his party will, we may hope, force him to it. Between these issues I think that no man of the liberal party can remain in doubt, and I believe I am consistent” with my antecedents and my principles in withdrawing not to aid in the triumph of Mr. Lincoln, but to do my part toward preventing the election of the Democratic candidate. In respect to Mr. Lincoln, I continue to hold exactly the sentiments contained in my letter of acceptance. I consider that his administration has been politically, militarily and financially a failure, and that its necessary continuance is a cause of regret for the country.
There never was a grander unanimity in a country than was exhibited here at the fall of Sumter, and the South was powerless in the face of it. But Mr. Lincoln completely paralyzed this generous feeling. He destroyed the strength of the position and divided the North, when he declared to the South that slavery should be protected. He has built up for the South a strength which otherwise they could have never attained, and this has given them an advocate on the Chicago platform. The Cleveland Convention was to have been the open avowal of that condemnation which men had been, freely expressing to each other for the last two years, and which had been made fully known to the President. But, in the uncertain condition of affairs, leading men were not found willing to make public a dissatisfaction and condemnation which would have rendered Mr. Lincoln's denomination impossible, and their continued silence and support established lord him a character among the people which leaves now no choice. United, the Republican party is reasonably sure of success; divided, the result of the Presidential election is, at the least, doubtful.
I am, gentlemen,
Very truly yours,
J. C. FREMONT.
To Messrs. George L. Stearns, and others, a Committee, &c.
NAHANT, 17th September, 1864. GENTLEMEN,-I enclose you my letter of reply to an invitation from some of my Republican friends to meet them at Faneuil Hall. In declining their invitation, I have informed them of my intention to stand aside from the Presidential canvass, and assigned my reasons for doing so. To avoid repetition, I enclose you this letter, in communicating to you now officially my desire to withdraw my name from the list of Presidential candidates. In this decision I have the approval of such of our friends as I have been able to consult. Urged by the near approach of the election, I have thought it not prudent to incur the longer delay of consulting others, but I have reason to believe that they will unite with me fully upon the propriety of the step I have taken. But in withdrawing from the post of candidate, I do not in any way intend to withdraw from my share in the labor which we jointly undertook to secure the triumph of the ideas represented by the radical democracy. Whatever the next administration may be, we owe it to ourselves to form a phalanx, compact and capable by its thorough unity of exercising a pressure strong enough to assure the eventual success of the principles for which we have been contending; the reestablishment of the Union, the abolition of slavery, and practical respect for liberty. In the present composition of parties, it is indispensable that earnest men should devote themselves to watching the progress? and insuring the success of these issues, regardless of men or of parties.
Mr. Lincoln says that he does not lead, but that, he follows the will of the people. It remains then for the people, in the event of his reelection, vigilantly to require this following at his hands, and further to require that, in the execution of his duties, he keep scrupulously within the constitution and the laws. To make him recognize that he holds his place and his power, not as belonging to himself to, be used at his pleasure, but as a really faithful servant of the people this is the important duty which we have how to perform. Although as representatives of the Cleveland movement we surrender our functions, the duty of watching party politics in the interest of Liberty and the Constitution remains. What steps are necessary in the performance of that duty must be the subject for future consultation.
I am gentlemen, Respectfully and truly yours,
J. C. FREMONT.
Messrs. Worthington G. Sucthen and others, a Committee, &c.
Referring to Gen. Fremont's letter, The Commonwealth says-“We regret that the letter, otherwise unexceptionable, should contain what most people will regard as expressions of personal irritation towards Mr. Lincoln."
<c06>
WITHDRAWAL OF GENERAL COCHRANE.
To the War Democrats of the United States:
A Convention of men of various political tenets assembled at Cleveland on the 31st day of May last, for the purpose of discharging from the suppression of the rebellion the infraction of the rights of both individuals and States which attended it. The presence of a large number of War Democrats unexpectedly contributed to my nomination by the Convention for the Vice-Presidency, preceded by that of John C. Fremont for President.
The principles which dictated my acceptance of the nomination, approved themselves at the time to very general regard, and have since, in my opinion, lost none of their original virtue or vigor. Their practical assertion was required, it was thought, by the success with which personal liberty had been assailed, and the extremities to which constitutional freedom had been reduced. Not the least inducement, however, was the consideration that the redress of grievances in the manner proposed could not interrupt, but would entirely consist with a vigorous prosecution of the war. It certainly was not contemplated that the success of the candidates should in any degree impair or endanger that most important part of the Platform which resolved that " the rebellion must be suppressed by force of arms and without compromise."
Instead of the Democratic party, as was then hoped and expected, cooperating at this point, they flouted the war, at Chicago, and pronounced for unconditional peace. When, "to exhaust the resources of statesmanship," and to allow " the spirit of conciliation and compromise to prevail," Gen. McClellan virtually asserts that there should be "a cessation of hostilities," he is in agreement with the Convention which nominated him. When, however, he proposes, in the alternative of war, that the rebellions States shall be restored to precisely their former condition in the Union, with precisely the same political representation as when they departed from it, he rejects a Convention of States, on which, as the peaceable means, the Chicago Convention evidently relied for reconstructing the Union out of States physically debilitated and politically shorn. While, therefore, Gen. McClellan resolves upon an impossible Union as it was, through war, the Convention resolves upon an impossible Union as it should be, through peace. That the candidate does not stand erect upon his platform, though admitting a question whether, if elected, he would negotiate a peace, permits none that, if elect he could not effectively prosecute the war.
The success of the Chicago nominees would, therefore, at the best but place in ower a party of divided counsels, of uncertain policy, and of indecisive action. Clearly, such an event would be at the farthest from a suppression of the Rebellion by force of arms and without compromise."
The “Baltimore platform, however objectionable at other points, is unimpeachable at this; and while it fails to vindicate personal rights, and the rights of Free Speech and the Press, it does not fail to refer the reestablishment of constitutional liberty and the restoration of the Union to the arbitrate of arms, in which, and in which alone, the national safety is to be found. We stand within view of a rebellion suppressed within hail of a country reunited and saved. War lifts the curtain, and discloses the prospect. War has given to us Atlanta, and War offers to us Richmond.
Shall we exchange the proffered victory for a "cessation of hostilities "? No! As we fought at the beginning, we should fight to the end; and when Rebellion shall have laid down its arms, may we peacefully reconstruct whatever this war for the Union shall be found to have spared. "Lay down you arms " then, as it was at the commencement, so it is now, all that is demanded by loyal Americans of their rebellions brothers.
I would certainly prefer that the American people could be brought to a vote on the several propositions peculiar to the Cleveland platform. The right of asylum the one-term policy the direct vote of the people for their national chief magistrates the Monroe doctrine the confining exclusively to the representatives of the people in Congress, the reconstruction of States and the amendment of the Federal Constitution to prohibit Slavery are principles of primary magnitude and importance. But before all these is our Country. It is menanced by Rebellion. Loyal armies alone protect it. Should those armies retreat, and <Illegible> protection be withdrawn; or should they advance, and our safety be established? Shall there be peace through the concessions of politicians, or peace through the action of war? That is the question.
Peace and division, or war and the Union Other alternative there is none. And, as I still am of the mind that once led me to the field with the soldiers of the Republic, I cannot now hold a position, which, by dividing, hazards the success of all those who whatever their difference at other points, agree, as upon the question of first consequence, that the restoration of the Union cannot be effected without the uninterrupted continuation of the war.
I, therefore, withdraw my name from the Cleveland ticket. Very truly yours,
JOHN COCHRANE.
New York, Sept. 21, 1864.

THE POLITICAL CAMPAIGN IN KENTUCKY.
Dr. Robert J. Breekinridge made a speech in Lexington, Kentucky, on the 12th inst. It was a county court day, and the people keep up the old custom of assembling in large numbers. He said:
"I cannot now go into a consideration of the platform in detail. But their great cry is an armistice and a convention of the States. What after that? They may not make peace, and then what is to be done? But, first, how is the convention to be called? It requires two-thirds of Congress to vote for such a call, which call must be ratified by three-fourths of the States; and these votes you can never get. What chance is there of getting three-fourths of the States to go for a convention for the purpose of bringing us under Jeff Davis, or for dividing the Union? The thing is absurd. If it cannot be done, what then? Then we are in favor of any other peaceable remedy Dear, blessed souls! Any other peaceable remedy; nothing that is not peaceable. Now, for God's sake, and for your country's sake, look at it! Here we are, after between three and four years' war; after spending two or three thousand millions of dollars; after spilling the blood of a million of our brothers, and consigning five hundred thousand of them to their graves; after conquering to an extent of territory 1500 miles in length by 600 in breadth; we have an army in every State of the Confederacy, and the majority of them under control; we have every strong hold taken from them except Mobile and Charleston and Richmond; and notwithstanding all this, we are asked, as if we were a set of poltroons, to disgrace ourselves to the latest generation of mankind, to sacrifice everything we have fought for and that is worth living for, and make all the world; say free
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitant! thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institution., and SLAVERY AM0NG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATSS, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO 0RDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATI0N OF THE SLAVES.... from the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERPRETED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves takes or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power,... It a war power. I say it is war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion 
or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institution swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in Martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory"—J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
government is worthless, that it cannot take care of itself. God Almighty in heaven grant that every man who utters such a thought may be choked until he becomes a penitent and better man. (Great applause.) 
"No, sir! no, sir! we will never do any such thing. We love peace-love it for its own sake. They love peace because they are afraid we will first whip the rebels, and then punish them. They want peace that they may make new conspiracies, and the peace they propose is disunion peace, which means separation of the States and endless ruin to the whole country. Ten thousand times better would it have been for us to have acquiesced at first, and never shed a drop of blood, than under these circumstances, and at this time, to make such a peace as that." 
McCLELLAN'S SPEECH ON SHERIDAN'S VICTORY.
On Tuesday noon the entire North was electrified with the news of Sheridan's victory over Early. 
On Tuesday night McClellan received in Newark, N. J., the ovation of a torch-light procession, long prepared and carefully arranged. 
On Tuesday noon McClellan knew that the Union army in the Shenandoah Valley had overwhelmed the forces of the Rebels, killing and wounding five thousand, capturing two thousand, sending the fugitive remainder "whirling" through Winchester, and leaving to Grant a free way to his purpose, and to Sheridan the path to Richmond's last remaining line of supply. A great victory with great results! 
On Tuesday night McClellan stood in the grounds of Senator Wright of New Jersey, and complacently viewed the passage of a procession gotten up in his honor, among whose transparencies and mottoes were the following: 
“Tenth Ward Club: Geo. B. McClellan, the White Man's President; Abe Lincoln, the Negro Exterminator." "I prefer preaching to fighting." "Old Abe is sick." (This last transparency bore the picture of a face wearing a lugubrious expression ) " We have no rails to split." "Old Abe's jokes have operated for little Mac since Antietam." “Spades are trumps; McClellan and Victory." "Old Abe can't see this joke." "No Vulgar Joker for President." "We want gold and silver, not rags." "Old Abe—first in war, and first in the pockets of his countrymen." "A big job: cleaning the White House of its present filth." "McClellan, the Washington of the 19th Century." "Fourth of March, 1865; Little Mac and a good time." 
On Tuesday noon McClellan knew that in the hospitals, in and around Winchester, twenty-five hundred of his professional comrades in arms laid suffering with wounds. 
On Tuesday night he stood upon a small platform in front of Senator Wright's house, constructed to lift him up in full view of the vast mob filing before him, and received with simpering joy an offering of incense from a Doctor Vail, open faucet of a prepared oration, in which McClellan was told: "The hopes of the down-trodden and despotically oppressed of every nation throughout the civilized world are concentrated in you to-day."
On Tuesday noon a girdle of joyous bell-ringing and salute-firing went round the loyal States in honor of Sheridan's victory. 
On Tuesday night, after the open faucet of adulation had shut, the Democratic candidate for the Presidency made his first electioneering speech. Here is every word of it:—
MY FRIENDS: I cannot refrain from expressing my gratification for your kindness at this great demonstration in behalf of the Union, the Constitution, and the Laws. I thank you for the honor done me. You surely will not expect me to address you at length at this time, and will excuse me for not making a speech, and allow me to retire. Gentlemen, again I thank you, and bid you good-night. 
What sullen silence over Sheridan's victory! What heartless indifference to the wounds of the twenty-five hundred braves in the Shenandoah! What unpatriotic, what inhuman neglect of a great victory, and most precious political event! —N. Y. Tribune. 
THE REBELS AND THEIR NORTHERN ALLIES. 
The Charleston, S. C. Courier, in speaking of the fall of Atlanta, indulges in the following instructive reflections relative to the connection between Southern reverses and Northern politics:— 
Our success in battle insures the success of McClellan. Our failure will inevitably lead to his defeat. It is the victories that have crowned our arms since this year began, that have given existence, strength and harmony to that organization which has arrayed itself with firm, defiant front against the despot and his minions. 
That heavy reverse occurs at the infancy of that organization. It has now been but started in its career. It has not had time to mature its plans, and to develop and augment its actual strength. We are aware that that party, no matter how numerous, harmonious and powerful, engages in the contest with the party in power under many and grave disadvantages. Even if the campaign under Grant and Sherman come to grief before the end of the present month, it is extremely doubtful whether Lincoln. will not defeat his rival, and replace himself in the Presidential Chair. It is highly probable he will be able to retain the power he now wields, even in case we are altogether victorious; there is no ground for the hope that the opposition will succeed if our armies are visited with defeat. 
Contemplating the fall of Atlanta from this point of view, we are obliged to consider it a disaster of great magnitude." 
What do the Union and War Democrats who still cling to McClellan, think of this? "OUR SUCCESS in battle," says this rebel, "INSURES THE SUCCESS OF MCCLELLAN." Do you desire to work in such company? 
By way of comment on Sheridan's splendid victory, the following from The Richmond Examiner of July 30 will do to print again:— 
It is singular to remark that these States have not only a profound interest in that foreign election (though without votes to influence it), but are exercising a most controlling power in deciding it They also are fighting in the Yankee Presidential campaign, after their own manner. If Grant is engineering for Lincoln's reelection on the Chickahominy and Appomattox, while Sherman is log-rolling for him about Atlanta; on the other hand we regard Gen. Lee as an arrant pipe-layer for the Democratic Convention at Chicago, and Gen. Early, it is said, has gone over to stump the States of Maryland and Pennsylvania for the Peace party." 
Early, however, seems to have had a pressing engagement further South, and couldn't stop even to help his Chicago friends. 
ANOTHER CURIOUS INSTANCE OF FORGETFULNESS.
Some of General McClellan's supporters have as poor memories as their candidate. For instance, the Journal of Commerce this morning prints a long string of quotations from speeches made so long ago as 1850 and 1856—before the war-by Wendell Phillips, Garrison, John P. Hale, Wm. H. Seward, and others of similar political opinions, and it does this to prove that these men are disunionists. Now, the Journal in this case apparently "does not remember" that the men it thus villifies and misrepresents, whatever they may have said in other years, have been, to a man, faithful to the Union and loyal to the flag during the present struggle. Not one of them took service under the slaveholding Confederacy; not one of them but showed, when the Union was attacked, that whatever words he might have spoken in the heat of debate, or in the excitement of political dispute, his heart was loyal and true.
This the Journal does not remember; and it is a painful thing to find such a treacherous memory, for we fear it will lead the Journal to still greater and more dangerous vagaries. "The speeches, writings and acts of these men," it says, "all form one black history of enmity to the Union." According to this we shall next see the Journal parade the Union speeches of Jefferson Davis, Breckinridge, John Bell, Stephens, and other rebel leaders, 1850 and subsequent years before the war, to prove that these rebels are now true Union men. It will find such a collection easy to make. Mr. Davis, for instance, in 1858, made a summer journey through New England, and in his speeches at Portland, Augusta and other eastern cities be made repeated and most solemn protestations of his devotion to the Union. At Portland he said, after a long eulogy of the glory 
<c02>
and prosperity, the wisdom and necessity of the Union: 
"If, at some future time, when I am mingled with I am mingled with the dust, and the arm of my infant son has been nerved for deeds of manhood, the storm of war should burst upon your city, I feel that, relying upon his inheriting the instinct of his ancestors and mine, I may pledge him in that perilous hour to stand by your side in the defence of your hearthstones, and in maintaining the honor of a flag whose constellation, though torn and smoked in many a battle, by sea and land, has never been stained with dishonor, and will, I trust, forever fly as free as the breeze which unfolds it." 
The Journal ought to republish this Portland speech as a proof that Jeff. Davis is a firm and devoted friend and defender of the Union. Perhaps the McClellan managers might even circulate it as a campaign document, and advertise it as "The powerful speech of that well-known southern Unionist, Jeff. Davis."—N. Y. Evening Post. 
SUBMISSI0N CREED. 
The coming election wakes the politicians to new life. During the interim between the struggle for power, politicians become amazingly stupid, but every new effort to attain or retain power wakes them to wit as well as wisdom, and in an electioneering campaign a joke is often better appreciated than an argument. The following is a good specimen of the current literature:— 
We believe that Cotton is king, and that Jefferson Davis is its only lawful vicegerent. 
We believe that chivalry is a divine institution made manifest in the middle ages, and perfected at the present time by the laudable custom of flogging women, of starving prisoners, and of hanging citizens who defend the Union. 
We believe that Abraham Lincoln fired the first gun at Charleston, and slaughtered unoffending citizens in the streets of Baltimore, and that therefore he alone is accountable for the horrors and miseries of this unjust, devastating and calamitous war. 
We believe that the right of secession is inherent by nature in every State and township of the Union, and affords the only remedy to dissatisfied parties against unlawful attempts of government for the aggrandizement, improvement, preservation, or prosperity of the nation. 
We believe that the Constitution is an instrument having two sides intended for different sections of the country, a north side which prohibits the election of a president and vice president from the same section, and a south side which provides for and justifies treason, theft and rebellion. 
We believe that an armistice of a few months is at this time highly necessary to our afflicted Southern brethren, to enable them to recover their needful breath, to fortify their last ditch, and to establish commercial relations with European powers. 
We believe that a convention of the people of all the States might produce results highly beneficial to the South, if managed in Southern style, with the wholesome controlling presence of bullies, bludgeons and bowie knives. 
We believe that political wisdom consists in promoting the greatest good of the smallest number, and that, therefore, all schemes for educating the "poor trash," and thereby giving them notions of equal rights, is in the highest degree detrimental and dangerous to subordination on the one side, and safety on the other. 
We believe that when a great and patriotic confederacy have proved their just hatred to their government, by bringing to the altar their last man and their last dollar, and are moreover solemnly prepared to see themselves in proper time exterminated, a sense of respectful justice demands that we should assume their confederate debt as the smallest compensation which we can make them for three or four years of devastation by fire, sword, famine, and misery. And on these terms, together with indemnity for the past and security for the future, we might perhaps hope to obtain remission for the wanton injuries inflicted on them during the four years of the present successful administration. 
PROFESSOR NEWMAN’S REPLY. 
SEPTEMBER 1st, 1864. 
To the Editor of the English Leader. 
DEAR SIR,— I am obliged to you for sending me a copy of Mr. Garrison's reply to my letter, which I had not before seen. It puts me into a grave difficulty: for I do not desire any personal controversy with one whom I so much respect; yet unless I disown his extraordinary misinterpretations of what I have written, I fear it will be supposed that I acquiesce in them. My letter was not written for this side of the Atlantic, but for the Anti-Slavery and Republican party of the Union, who seem to me in danger of grave mistake in supposing Mr. Lincoln's honesty to be a vast advantage, and almost a security that things will come right. I am as much convinced of his honesty, I believe, as Mr. Garrison can be; and I distinctly say, when his principles are not those which an Anti-Slavery man should desire, the more honest he is, the worse for that cause. He has been brave enough to veto the Congress in his tenderness for slaveholding rebels. An eloquent gentleman from America defended to me the painful address made by Mr. Lincoln to the colored men when he propounded his scheme for colonizing them, by saying that the President was only intending to throw dust into the eyes of the Kentucky slaveholders. I was shocked by that address, and ill-accepted the excuse; but when his Emancipation Proclamation came, I thought he had turned over a new leaf. In a great national convulsion, all is well that ends well; but it is now too manifest that Mr. Lincoln has a mean prejudice against color; and his public declaration that he greatly prefers gradual to sudden emancipation is no abstract preference, but is one which, in spite of his Emancipation Proclamation, he is bent upon making a reality, by introducing serfdom in place of slavery. Mr. Garrison totally misinterprets what I said was "a terrible truth," although I wrote so explicitly as to think it impossible. The dry fact, stated without a particle of color, is, that the President conferred freedom on the slaves of the States still in revolt, over whom he had no power; and refused to bestow freedom on the slaves of Tennessee and Louisiana, (after those States had revolted and had been subdued,) over whom he had power. Nothing hindered him in the latter case but his own interpretation of the Constitution; which is not Sumner's interpretation, nor Butler's, nor Andrew's. I do not say that Mr. Lincoln is dishonest, as Mr. Garrison strangely supposes (and if I did think him dishonest, to impute publicly what I could not prove would be truly absurd and highly blameable): but I see his interpretation of the Constitution is such as to give vast advantage and vitality to the slave system; and from this I feel grave alarm for the future. 
Mr. Garrison simply repeats the statement against which I remonstrated as clearly inaccurate, that the President emancipated more than three million slaves by his word; and still winks at the fact that he gratuitously sustains slavery in Tennessee, and did not abolish it on the Mississippi. He erroneously supposes that I regard the President to wield autocratic powers. It is not for me to define what are his powers; but as far as I have a right to have an opinion, it is, that Mr. Lincoln has exceeded his powers in his new and dangerous Louisiana Constitution. Native Americans must look to such matters. I look only to great moral interests. Undoubtedly I do expect that if he is to have any honor from us, he shall treat the colored race as his "fellow-citizens," and shall recognize in them, wherever he has legal power, the same rights which any ordinary European, any English Tory nobleman, would recognize. It is notorious that English generals regarded the revolt of the American colonists as a forfeiture of their right to have their local laws respected; and therefore, as a thing of course, saw in their slaves only men and not property. Mr. Lincoln insists, to this day, on seeing the slaves of Tennessee as “property;" and I cannot make Mr. Garrison understand that I am shocked to find him not to resent this. It is a simple fact, and not an imputation on my part, or an “unmerited sarcasm," that Mr. Lincoln does not regard the treason of the rebels to have forfeited their constitutional rights over their slaves; but does regard present and galling danger, and that alone, to justify his emancipation; and after nominally emancipating, he does his best (or his worst) to hinder the emancipation from being sudden; i. e., to keep the colored race in serfdom. 
I earnestly trust that the Congress will overrule this. If it does not, I have a mournful certainty that long and chronic miseries will convulse the Union, and will endanger the safety of what seems to have been won. European intervention will follow any renewal of war. This, also, Mr. Garrison passes over, as if I had not said it. He once more 
<c03>
blows a trumpet note, ascribing to Mr. Lincoln not only his own merits, which are great, but things for which he has no merit; and shuts his eyes to the possibility that this frightful scheme of serfdom may yet ruin everything. 
I saw in another paper an extract from Mr. Garrison, which I do not see in this letter, where he pleads the non-enfranchisement of English peasants as justifying Mr. Lincoln in refusing to allow political suffrage to the colored race of Louisiana. Besides all the other cardinal diversities of the cases, this overlooks that Mr. Lincoln has volunteered to put the colored race there beyond the protection of Congress, and has put them back into the local power of the white men who had already cruelly oppressed them; who also revolted in order to continue that oppression; white men who had broken the treaty with France by which the rights of the colored freemen in Louisiana were secured. Surely, even Mr. Lincoln's duty to France is here something. 
I fear to touch on Mr. Garrison's very ungenerous and needless allusions to Mr. Conway, lest I say too much. I am, sincerely yours, 
F. W. NEWMAN.
The Liberator. 
BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1864. 
PROFESSOR NEWMAN'S REPLY.
In another column we print the reply of Professor Newman, of England, to the criticisms we made upon a letter he addressed to us some time since, <illegible> condemnatory of the course pursued by President Lincoln on the slavery and negro question. We regret to learn from it that the two numbers of the Liberator (of July 15th and 22d,) containing our rejoinder, failed to reach him, from some cause or other, until put into his hands by the Editor of the English Leader. Of course, this explains his long silence. From the tone of his reply, however, we are led to believe that, at the time of writing it, he had not read that portion of our replication contained in the Liberator of July 22d. It shall be carefully forwarded to him for his perusal. 
We are sorry to perceive what appears to us a foregone determination in his mind to see as little of good done by Mr. Lincoln as possible, and to magnify and aggravate a few incidental evils and wrongs still to be removed, before full justice is done to our colored population. If he means to be just, why does he not analyze the awful state of the country when Mr. Lincoln took his inaugural oath to be true to the Constitution; then see how entirely helpless, for the time being, was the Government, in regard to its naval and military power, and its financial means, though the perfidy of the Southern traitors in the cabinet of James Buchanan; then remember how— up to the hour of the rebellion itself-the pro-slavery spirit was everywhere at the North roused to mobocratic violence to gag freedom of discussion and disperse anti-slavery gatherings—even rendering it extremely perilous for Wendell Phillips to speak in opposition to slavery at the Music Hall, on Sundays, in Boston; then consider that, long after the rebellion broke cut, it was not deemed by the great body of the loyal people at the North so formidable as to warrant governmental interference for the abolition of slavery in rebeldom, even as a military necessity; then reflect how insignificant the radical abolitionists were, numerically speaking, and how little aid they could give directly to Mr. Lincoln; then understand the nature of the oath taken by the President, the limitations of the power assigned to him by the Constitution, and his solemn duty honestly to discharge the duties devolving upon him within the purview of his official station, not in accordance with the opinions or convictions of others, but as he apprehended them; then bear in mind the existence (to quote the language of Professor Newman in his first letter) of a "ruinous national insanity, prejudice against color," infecting and controlling the great mass of the Northern people; then look at the anomalous condition of the great Northern army, composed mainly of those who had for many a year done what they could to crush the anti-slavery movement, and to conciliate the ever dissatisfied South—who had no purpose beyond maintaining "the Union as it was," with all its pro-slavery guarantees—and who, at the outset, would have scouted the doctrine of freedom and equality for the negro; then, finally, view the splendid measures consummated within the last twenty months for the total extirpation of slavery, by Mr. Lincoln and under his Administration, and candidly admit that probably no man in such a critical situation, and with such discordant elements to contend with, could have done better, and give him words of commendation and cheer, instead of severe denunciation and biting invective? 
We contend that in no other way can a fair or statesmanlike view of Mr. Lincoln's course be taken. Possibly he might have done more and gone further if he had had greater resolution and larger foresight: that is an open question, and opinions are not facts. Possibly he could not have gone one hair's breadth beyond the point he has reached by a slow and painful process, without inciting civil war at the North, and overturning the government: God only knows. All speculation of this kind is idle: the past cannot be recalled. This we do know: that his Emancipation Proclamation of January 1, 1863, liberated more than three-fourths of the entire slave population; that since that period, emancipation has followed in Maryland, Western Virginia, Missouri, and the District of Columbia, and is being rapidly consummated in Kentucky and Tennessee, thus terminating the holding of property in man everywhere under the American flag; that all the vast Territories have been consecrated to freedom and free labor; that all Fugitive Slave Laws have been repealed, so that slave-hunting is at an end in all the free States; that no rebel State can be admitted to the Union, except on the basis of complete emancipation; that national justice (refused under every other administration) has been done to the republics of Hayti and Liberia, by the full recognition of their independence; that an equitable treaty has been made with Great Britain for the effectual suppression of the foreign slave trade, through right of search; that a large portion of the army is made up of those, who, until now, have been prohibited bearing arms, and refused enrolment in the militia of every State in the Union; that tens of thousands of bondmen have obtained their freedom in Maryland, Kentucky, Missouri and Louisiana, together with their wives and children, by their enlistment as soldiers,— a law of Congress decreeing that no slave shall be recognized as fighting under the American flag; that free negro schools are following wherever the army penetrates, and multitudes of young and old, who, under the old slave system, were prohibited learning the alphabet, are now rapidly acquiring that knowledge which is power, and which makes slavery and serfdom alike impracticable; and that on numerous plantations free labor is "in the full tide of successful experiment." These are cheering, inspiring, undeniable facts,—facts of momentous importance and glorious significance,—facts which will bear rehearsing a thousand times over, with joy and exultation,—facts which disprove every allegation or insinuation as to the pro-slavery spirit or tendency of Mr. Lincoln's administration. And what but facts like these have caused all the pro-slavery elements in the land furiously to conspire for the defeat of Mr. Lincoln at the approaching presidential election, so that either the old state of things may be restored, with fresh concessions to the Slave Power, or the independence of the Southern Confederacy secured? 
Professor Newman complains that we have given "extraordinary misinterpretations "of his language concerning Mr. Lincoln. We do not see in what particular. He says—" I am as much convinced of his [Mr. L’a] honesty, I believe, as Mr. Garrison can be"; yet he brings against him such charges as fairly imply that, after all, he regards Mr. Lincoln as no better than a heartless trickster, animated by a pro-slavery 
<c04>
purpose, who gives "a Southern interpretation to the Constitution "with the hope of conciliating the rebels, and who, at best, only emancipates slaves where he has no power to do so, and keeps them in bondage where he might free them! He avers that this "honest" President has "forced Northern soldiers to become the vile instruments of the slaveholder, which they disdained to be in their native States."— that to brand his Emancipation Proclamation as "a villanous hypocrisy," however envenomed the phrase, "is no slander at all, but a terrible truth"(!)—that his course has been marked by "a combination of baseness and folly"—that "he seems to believe that he has sworn to support slavery for the rebels" (!) —that he "excludes morality from his Presidential duties"—that he "dares not indulge the moralities of his heart, through conscientious tremors at the guilt of violating the wicked laws of conquered rebels" (!) —that "he has been brave enough to veto the Congress in his tenderness for slaveholding rebels"(!)- that "he has a mean prejudice against color"—that "he regards present and galling danger, and that alone, to justify his emancipation"—that "after nominally emancipating, he does his best (or his worst) to keep the colored race in serfdom"—that "his frightful scheme of serfdom may yet ruin everything"— that "he has volunteered to put the colored race in Louisiana beyond the protection of Congress, and has put them back into the local power of the white men who had already cruelly oppressed them"—&c., &c, &c. "Honest Iago!" 
Not such is our estimation of the "honesty" of Abraham Lincoln. We believe such accusations as these amount to positive dishonesty and intentional inhumanity in their implication; and we are quite sure that they are not based upon a fair, considerate, comprehensive view of our national situation, and the terrible paradoxes and complications arising out of the rebellion itself. 
As a gratifying offset to the querulous but well-meant letter of Professor NEWMAN, we present the following unexpected but commendatory letter from THOMAS HUGHES, who modestly thinks that we "have probably scarcely ever heard his name," but whose public-spirited interest in the laboring calsses as one of the founders of the Working Men's College in London, and whose distinguished literary efforts as the author of "Tom Brown's School Days," "Tom Brown at College," &c., have made his name familiar in every part of our country. We thank him for his encouraging words, and for his testimony in regard to the feelings of "the great majority of Englishmen" as to the course pursued by Mr. Lincoln. 
3 OLD SQUARE, LINCOLN'S INN, 
LONDON, Sept. 9, 1864. 
MY DEAR SIR: I cannot resist writing you a line, though you have probably scarcely ever heard my name, to say how right and wise I and many other Englishmen think the course you have taken upon the question of supporting Mr. Lincoln for reelection. I was much pained by Professor Newman's letter to you; still more by the line which many of the leading American Abolitionists have taken upon the question, and by the tone they have thought fit to adopt as to yourself. I think I may safely say that the great majority of Englishmen, who have really taken the trouble to study the question, agree with me in thinking that Mr. Lincoln has proved himself thoroughly honest and trustworthy in the fearfully difficult and trying position in which your nation have placed him, and that these qualities far more than outweigh his faults, which have been only such as arise from caution and distrust of himself. 
It would be impertinent in me to add any opinions of my own as to your great revolution. My excuse for writing at all is, that I have taken the deepest interest for many years in American politics, and especially in the noble stand which you and others have made against slavery in the United States; and I could not remain silent when some of the ablest and best of your own friends are turning against you for conduct which seems to me most wise, and consistent with all you have said and written for the last thirty years. 
Whatever other issue your tremendous struggle may have, it seems clear that God will, through it, make an end of slavery on your continent; and that end will have been cheaply purchased, even if the Union should perish. 
Believe me with all good wishes for your own and your country's future, Most truly yours, 
THOS. HUGHES. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, ESQ. 
In this connexion, we publish with pleasure the following statement from a recent number of the London Morning Star:— 
"The next Parliament will not be honored with the presence of Mr. Thomas Hughes as one of its members. The genial author of 'Tom Brown's Schooldays' was solicited to stand for Finsbury at the next election, and consented, but having discovered that the honor would probably cost him about a thousand pounds, he has written a letter, in which, with characteristic straight-forwardness, he says that he could not afford to spend such a sum, and that if he could, it would not be consistent with his principles to spend it in such a manner. This is, perhaps, not much to be regretted, as authors seldom cut much of a figure in Parliament. There is, to be sure, Sir Bulwer Lytton; but he is the exception. Mr. Haliburton, of "Sam Slick" fame, makes a poor show in the House. Mr. Dickens has steadily refused all offers to be put in nomination, and Mr. Thackeray's best friends were not sorry when he was unsuccessful at Oxford. If, however, Mr. Thomas Hughes wants a constituency, he would not have much trouble in finding one which would elect him at much less cost; as he is no mere theorist, but a practical and tried friend of the working classes." 
We have also the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of a private letter from Miss HARRIET MARTINEAU, which corresponds in sentiment to that of Mr. HUGHES. As the steadfast, unwearied and invaluable advocate of the Anti-Slavery cause in America for the last thirty years,—never losing sight of it for an hour, and thoroughly posted as to all that relates to its rise and progress,—her testimony at this time is of special value. She says:— 
If there was any way in which I could publicly express my own views, I should be very glad to bear my testimony to what seems to me our entire agreement on the question of Mr. Lincoln's characther, deserts and claim to re-election; and to express my hearty admiration of the magnanimity of your conduct as well as of the justness and clearness of your views in the most critical hour of the history of your Republic. All who know me here know what I think; and if it could be of any use (which I hardly suppose) its being understood on your side of the water, I should be glad that it was known." 
Referring to a conversation between herself and Professor Cairnes, in relation to the course pursued by President Lincoln, Miss Martineau says:— 
"Professor Cairnes and I were anxious each to know what the other thought of Mr. Lincoln, and of your course; and it was pleasant to find how entirely we agreed." 
Speaking of the prevalent opinion in England, regarding the "Abolitionists" of America, she says:— 
I believe that they are revered as having brought about the national repentance and amendment; and that they are merged in the nation, in people's view, and taken leave of with congratulations, on the nobleness first, and next on the success, of their work." 
"We judge it best to avow, on all reasonable occasions, our wish for Mr. Lincoln's re-election, and our respect for the patriotism and wisdom of those abolitionists who are forbearing with his human frailties, for the sake of the national welfare." 
She speaks of John Stuart Mill, Professor Cairnes, and W. E. Forster, M. P., as men whose opinions have "great weight" with the public of Great Britain; and of Professor Dr. Goldwin Smith, (at present in this country,) as "another real power." 
Alluding to the recent personal attacks upon us, she says:—" Your reputation is in no danger, and never will be." 
<c05> 
NEW PUBLICATIONS. 
BROKEN LIGHTS: An Inquiry into the Present Condition and Future Prospects of Religious Faith. By Frances Power Cobbe. Boston: J. E. Tilton & Co. 1864. 
As in her very remarkable work on "Intuitive Morals," so in this dissertation. Miss Cobb evinces uncommon ability as a writer and thinker on questions of a profound and recondite nature. Her style of writing is singularly devoid of any feminine characteristic, and is equally lucid and vigorous. The contents of this new work are— 
Part I The Present Condition of Religious Faith. Chapter I. The Great Problem. II. The Solution of the Problem, Historical and Rational, Palaeologian and Neologian. Historical-III. The High Church Solution, and IV. The Low Church Solution, Palaeologian V. The First Broad Church Solution, and VI. The Second Broad Church, Solution, Neologian. VII. The Solutions of the Parties outside of the Church. Appendix I. Bishop Colenso on the Pentateuch. II. Ernest Renan's "Vie de Jesus." 
Part II. The Future Prospects of Religious Faith. Chapter VIII. The Rationalist Solution of the Problem. IX. The Faith of the Future. X. Theoretic Theism. XI. Practical Theism. 
Of course, a disquisition of this kind must unavoidably disturb, more or less, the preconceived opinions or sectarian prejudices of the readers thereof; yet none can justly take exception either to its spirit or language—the spirit being truly catholic and reverent, and the language unexceptionable on the score of candor and taste. It is a work that challenges and deserves a serious, thoughtful perusal, and a charitable reception by all who claim to be honestly seeking to know the truth, and desire to be sustained by an enlightened religious faith. 
NEW MUSIC. Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington Street, has just published a collection of popular patriotic airs, entitled the "TRUMPET OF FREEDOM " —among them Battle Hymn of the Republic, Do they Pray for Me at Home, Maryland, my Maryland, Garibaldi Hymn, Rally round the Flag, Glory, Hallelujah, Vive la America, Mother, when the War is over, American Marseillaise, The Negro Boatman's Song, (words by Whittier,) Keep this Bible near your Heart, The Volunteer's Wife—&c., &c. Also a piece entitled "Liberty's Call; or, Hurrah for Abe and Andy":— 
"Freemen, rouse in strength divine,
And shout for Abe and Andy; 
Bright the stars of freedom shine,— 
Hurrah for Abe and Andy! 
In serried rank, triumphant host, 
Freemen, onward to your post! 
Let proud Colombia be your boast— 
Hurrah for Abe and Andy! 
Love shall here her altars build— 
Hurrah for Abe and Andy!
Sublimest art proud structures build 
In praise of Abe and Andy. 
Order and law triumphant reign; 
No binding yoke, no galling chain; 
Return the golden age again, 
And blest be Abe and Andy!" 
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER, for September, contains the following papers:—I. Antisupernaturalism in the Pulpit. II. Carolina Colorado. III. American Art and Artists. IV. The Bible and Slavery. V. The Religious Lesson of Religious Controversy. VI. The Two Carlyles, or Carlyle Past and Present. VIII. The Brothers Grimm. VIII. American Expositions of Neutrality. IX. Review of Current Literature. New Publications received. 
The two particularly noticeable articles in this number are those on "Antisupernaturalism in the Pulpit," by Rev. Dr. Hedge, and "The Two Carlyles," by D. A. Wasson. The reputation of this Quarterly, for ability and interest, is well sustained. 
Owing to the greatly increased cost of publication, the proprietors of the Examiner announce that they are compelled to diminish somewhat the size of the present and the November numbers, and also to raise the terms of subscription. With the commencement of a new volume, in January next, the subscription price of the Examiner will be five dollars per annum, in advance; single copies one dollar each. 
HARPER'S NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE, for October, offers the following table of contents:—1. A Tour through Arizona, by J. Ross Browne—(Illustrations.) 2. The Inner Life—(with an Illustration.) 3. Straw Bonnets, and their manufacture—(Illustrations.) 4. Hereafter. 5. Mrs. Gisborne's Way. 6. October. 7. cenes in the War of 1812—XI. Privateering—(Illustrations.) 8. Dobbs's Horse. 9. A Royal Bengal Tiger. 10. From a Soldier's Wife. 11. Shells on Lookout Mountain. 12. The Candidate for St. Jude's. 13. A Letter. 14. The Little Monk. 15. Death and Love. 16. Our Mutual Friend. 17. How we Fight at Atlanta. 18. Northern Farmer, Old Style. 19. Monthly Record of Current Events. 20. Editor's Easy Chair and Drawer. 21. Fashions for October— (Illustrations.) 
For sale by A. Williams & Co., Washington Street, Boston. 
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for October, has been published by Ticknor & Fields, and presents a very tempting table of contents:—1. A Night on the Water, by Col. T. W. Higginson; 2. On a Late Vendue; 3. The Ride to Camp, by G. H. Boker; 4. The True Story of Luigi, by Harriet E. Prescott; 5. Communication by D. A. Wasson; 6. House and Home Papers, IX, by Harriet Beecher Stowe; 7. Service, by J. T. Trow bridge; 8. Madame Recamier, her Lovers and Friends; 9. The Wellfleet Oysterman, by Henry D. Thoreau; 10. Charles Lamb's Uncollected Writings, Third paper; 11. Works and Days, by T. W. Parsons; 12. Paul Jones and Denis Duval, by Felix Carter; 13. The Future Summer; Democracy and the Secession War; 14. Reviews and Literary Notices. 
In the next number, Col. Higginson will begin a series of papers describing the traits and adventures of his pioneer colored regiment, the 1st South Carolina, under the title of "Leaves from an Officer's Journal." 
The pressure of the times has compelled a change in the terms of subscription, which will hereafter be: single subscriptions, $4 per year. Club rates—two copies, $7; five, $16; ten copies, $30; twenty-one copies, $60.
THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY, for October, is received. Contents: 1. Some Uses of a Civil War. By Hugh Miller Thompson. 2. Proverbs. By E. B. C. 3. The Uudivine Comedy. A Polish Drama. Part 11. By Count Sigismund Krasinski. Translated by Martha Walker Cook. 4. The North Carolina Conscript. By Isabella McFarlane. 5. Does the Moon Revolve on its Axis? By Charles E. Townsend. 6. Lunar Characteristics. By Charles E. Townsend. 7. A Glance at Prussian Politics. Part II. By Charles M. Mead. 8. "Ye Know Not What Ye Ask." By Fanny L. Glenfield. 9. Coming up at Shiloh. 10. Enone. Chapter XIII. 11. Aphorisms. By Rev. Asa S. Colton. 12. Excuse. By Kate Putnam. 13. American Women. By Mrs. Virginia Sherwood. 14. A Wren's Song. 15. Word Stilts. By William Wirt Sikes. 16. A Great Social Problem. By G. U. 17. Our Great America. By January Searle. 18. Longing. From Schlegel. 19. The Lesson of the Hour. By Edward Sprague Rand. 20. The Scientific Universal Language: Its Character and Relation to other Languages. Article I. The Origin of Speech. By Edward B. Freeland. 21. Flower Odors. 22. Locomotion. By David M. Balfour. 23. Literary Notices. 24. Editor's Table. 
Single copies, $3,00 a year, in advance. Postage paid by the Publisher. All communications whether MSS, or on business, should he addressed to John F. Trow, Publisher, 40 Greene Street, New York. 
This magazine is always characterised by literary ability, and political and scientific talent. 
<c06>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XVII. 
NEW YORK, Sept. 22, 1864. 
To the Editor of the liberator: 
Gen. McClellan has not refused to stand for the Presidency, nor on the other hand has he tendered his sword to his Commander-in-chief, whose rival he professes himself to be. We must not look, however, for nice ideas of honor in one whose double-tongued words now clamor feebly for war, now hiss for peace and surrender. The letter of acceptance attributed to him is a wily document, but it is difficult to determine who was its author-whether, in effect, McClellan is a knave or a tool. That he is thoroughly <illegible> principled is sure on either supposition. I leave it to the Daily News-consistently infernal to the last-and to its sympathizing mates the Catholic organs of this metropolis, to decide upon the meaning of the utterances of the Chicago nomination. They with indignant disavowal, and the rest of the Peace party with exultant adhesion, may pronounce the color of <illegible> rhetoric war-crimson and not milky-white,-no matter. The people know that he courts and will receive the votes of those whole views are embodied in the Chicago platform; that he offers no protest against being linked with an unequivocal Copperhead like Pendleton; and that he lacks the ghost of a chance of election, except from the connivance and united support of the most unscrupulous, desperate, traitorous portion of the community. The poor expedient of a personal platform, independent of the solemn declarations of his party, cannot rescue McClellan from the infamy attaching to them. Sinbad might as well have endeavored to deny to an unprejudiced observer, that he was troubled with an Old Man upon his shoulders, as this political General ignore his pack load of Wood and Seymour and Vallandigham. With his own confession of subserviency to slavery-with his avowed disposition to receive any rebellious State desiring to return to the Union, with a complete restoration to place and power, with no punishment for its crime and no guarantee for its fidelity hereafter- what is the froth about maintaining the Union by force of arms if must be, but the concealment of the reactionary undertow which would sweep us back under slave rule in thirty days from the 4th of March next? Better, because more honest, less dangerous, because more open, the naked devil which denounces in toto the arming of the North; for either we have been wrong from the beginning, or we were never more justified than we are at this moment. 
What was predicated of Hercules, that you might know him by his foot, is equally to be held of his Satanic Majesty, whose prime minister, you are well aware, in the Empire State, is Horatio Seymour, Governor. I had the misfortune, a week ago this day, to take passage down the North River in company with the dregs of that political gathering in Albany which renominated Seymour by acclamation, and swallowed separately, like bane and antidote, the Chicago platform and George B. McClellan. I have no right to complain that these office famished delegates so overcrowded the boat as to leave neither state-room nor berth for many decent folk, but I fancy that few even of the couched were altogether undisturbed in their slumbers by the noisy crew outside, who assuredly penetrated every one of the half-dozen corners where I essayed to forget myself and them. I could do neither; at least, if I was tempted to forget myself, it was when indignation possessed me for the language I was forced to hear from lips which drooled with whiskey and McClellan. Then I wished that if there were any upright, well-meaning, but obfuscated man whose present intent is to vote as Chicago directed, he might be with me in that cabin, and listen to the profane and drunken talk, the immoral revelations [in vino veritas) of party management and party aims, the blood-thirsty imaginings, the brutal threats, in short, the manifestations of such a dearth of principle and human feeling as would disgrace a semi-barbarian, on the part of these midnight disturbers of the peace. I esteemed myself in a measure compensated for my sleeplessness by the knowledge thus unwillingly acquired, though in truth, if one allowed him self to reflect on the existence and activity of these ruffians, his general repose would hardly be improved. The men whom I encountered were not exceptional members of the Copperhead Peace Democracy: they were types. They came from crowning with fresh laurels an accomplice if not a principal instigator of the riots of last year,—he in turn with the dust of travel yet upon him from his pilgrimage to the shrine of slavery. Rum, cowardice and treason constitute one extreme, a Major-General on the shelf the other, and Seymour is the middle term. 
Perhaps the war has hardly afforded a more curious illustration of the changed posture of men and parties than is to be seen in the Democratic mottoes now everywhere displayed. "Free Speech! Free Press! A Free Ballot or Free Fight! Personal Liberty!" From whose mouths issue these familiar battle-cries? From those who scoffed at their legitimate authors as "freedom-shriekers, "scarce a decade since. FREE PRESS! out of the gloomy hollow of the past there comes an echo-"Lovejoy!" FREE SPEECH! Lo, Sumner scarred and gory! FREE BALLOT! What a wail from Kansas! And when she fought for suffrage, and met fraud in arms with arms, how was the FREE FIGHT relished then by the virtuous defenders of a pure democracy now? What terms too strong to denounce it—murder, arson, rebellion? What haste too great to suppress it with all the strength of the Government? Good friends, the men who won in that free fight with slavery and the official power of the nation are not to be intimidated to-day by the howls of a faction in the last stages of death. And as for PERSONAL LIBERTY-secured by statute, no doubt—what capital for Democratic outcry, what justification for Southern encroachments and rebellion, has not sprung out of the Personal Liberty laws we struggled so long to enact in every Free State of the Union! "Strike a woman, will you!" said the Amazon who floored a policeman only to be herself laid prostrate immediately. Such is the picture of a party which, a pitiless bully in the plenitude of its strength, whines like a cur in the impotence of its decay. M. DU PAYS. 
"A FREE BALLOT OR A FREE FIGHT"-ITS FULL IMPORT. 
LIVONIA, (Michigan,) Sept. 17, 1864. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON: 
MY FRIEND-I fear this battle-cry of the Democratic party is but little understood or appreciated, I heard and read the speeches of the Democratic Convention.in Chicago, while that Convention was in progress of forming its platform and selecting its candidate. Most of those speeches made by the prominent actors in that stupendous gathering to "give aid and comfort" to those who, by plunder and murder,are seeking to destroy the Republic of Freedom, and erect on its ruins a Slave Empire, in which the staple of trade is the bodies and souls of men and women, I have just read, and "a free ballot or a free fight" is a prominent thought in them all or free fight "is a prominent though in them all. As explained by themselves it means, "Let all vote who wish to vote, or we will have a free fight." No matter who he is, or where from, his vote must and shall be received, if he vote the Democratic ticket, or scenes of riot, of plunder and murder will be enacted around the ballot-box. Voters are to be imported from the Rebel States, from Canada and from Europe, to defeat Lincoln and elect McClellan; and it is computed that over one hundred thousand of those traitors and aliens are, or are to be in Indiana, Illinois and Iowa alone, to give a majority in those States in favor of subjugating the North slavery and slave institutions, and to give ascendency to the Slave Power over the nation and continent. The cities and towns on the borders of Canada and Rebeldom are to receive large accessions of voters, who, the Democratic party says, shall be allowed to vote, or "a free fight will ensue." And it was said, as a common saying in Chicago, among the attendants on the Democratic Convention, that August Belmont, the agent and partner of the banking 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
house of Rothschilds, which loaned one hundred millions of dollars to the slavemongering Confederacy, stands pledged, if need be, to spend ten millions of dollars in importing voters from Canada and Europe and the rebel States to secure, by ballot, the triumph of the rebellion, and the payment of the war debt  of the South. Freedom to vote against freedom and for slavery is to be secured to these imported aliens and traitors, by bullets and bayonets, if need be. Such is the meaning of "a free ballot or a free fight," the watchword of the Peace Democracy. In the third resolution of their platform, the Democratic <illegible> distinctly announce that they shall resist by arms and blood any interference to prevent traitors and aliens from voting in November. The Confederacy has its agents all over the West, arousing the Democratic party, and organizing and drilling them to resist all interference to prevent any one from voting who shall appear at the polls to vote for Mc Ciellan, though he be a known alien from Europe or Canada, or a known traitor and border ruffian from the land of whips and chains.
What is this civil war that now sacrifices on the alter of slavery our first-born? Simply and solely an armed and murderous rebellion of the Democratic party, as a national party, against the fundamental principle of democratic or republican institutions—i.e., THE RULE OF THE MAJORITY! Had the Democratic party been willing to submit to the majority as made manifest in the exercise of a free ballot in the election of Mr. Lincoln this war had never existed. That party was defeated by a free ballot, and Mr. Lincoln chosen by a constitutional majority; and the Democratic party inaugurated this most bloody civil war solely to compel the majority to submit to the minority, in the interest of the "sum of all villany," slavery. Not a widow nor an orphan had been made, not a home been desolated, nor a mother's heart riven with anguish, to sustain and propagate slavery, had the Democratic party submitted, in 1860, to the decision of a free ballot in favor of freedom. And now that party, as it is expressed through its platform, its candidate, its speeches and organs, openly declares, that unless they can elect their candidate by ballots, they will involve the North in a civil war, and gain their end by plunder and murder. And all this to secure the funds invested in rebel stocks by the moneyed aristocracy of Europe, and to secure the triumph of the minority over the majority-of aristocracy over <illegible> democracy—of slavery over liberty.
Shall the majority or the minority rule? Shall the Republic or the Confederacy die? Shall Liberty or Slavery rule the nation and continent? May God arouse the people to see that this question is to be answered at the election in November!
Yours, HENRY C. WRIGHT.

THE ANTI-SLAVEEY MOVEMENT. 
SAILORS' HOME, Sept. 24, 1864.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Esq.
From the beginning of the Anti Slavery struggle up to the present, the Abolitionists have always contended for free speech, free thought, and a free press; or, in the language of Jefferson, "error of opinion may be safely tolerated whilst truth is left free to combat with it." Great changes have taken place since you first promulgated to the American nation the new gospel of liberty-viz: the immediate and unconditional emancipation of all the slaves under the stars and stripes. If this stiff necked nation had repented at the preaching of this gospel, the world would not have witnessed this terrible war. The question is now settled beyond the shadow of a doubt, that Slavery was the sole cause of the war, and not instigated by the so-called ravings of a handful of non-resisting abolitionists. This would be giving them too much credit. However much we may deplore war and its dreadful consequences, we can lay our hands upon our hearts, and say to this afflicted nation, "Shake not your gory locks at us, and say that we did it!"
The Abolitionists have been charged with attempting to encourage slave insurrections, or, in other words, emancipating the slaves, by cutting their masters' throats. On the contrary, we have counselled the slave not to do evil that good may come, but patiently wait God's deliverance. It is true, we have counselled heel resistance, and have helped thousands to get their liberty on the peaceful underground railroad, now monopolized by the United States Government; it is true, we have resisted the Fugitive Slave Law, now repealed, and many things we have done to resist the Slave Power; but our weapons have always been spiritual, and not carnal. Moral power is stronger than physical force.
But enough of this. In all our labors to overthrow this gigantic, monstrous system of negro slavery, we among ourselves have often had occasion to differ. Honest differences of opinion never should alienate friends. Perhaps the time has come for Abolitionists to enter the coming Presidential Canvass, and perhaps not. For my part, I differ from many of our friends; still, I am willing that every man should be fully persuaded in his own mind; or, in the language of the poet—
Oh, give me the freedom to speak as I think,
And Liberty's fullness with Milton to drink; 
To bask on the mountain, to bathe in the stream,
With sages to wander, with poets to dream!
Oh, give me the freedom to utter and teach
The heartfelt conviction, in plain open speech;
With Cato, and Hampden, and Chatham to stand,
And plead with all boldness the weal of my land!
Oh, give me the freedom to make honest search
For seet and for party, for creed and for church;
To act for myself in all matters divine—
Nor soundings to take with another man's line!
Oh, give me the freedom to stand forth alone,
And vice to expose, though the vice of the throne;
Nor let me be shackled, or fettered, or fined,
Whilst stringing my bow at the faults of mankind.
Oh, give me the freedom and home of the brave,
With soil never trod with the foot of the slave; 
Where tyrants, and dungeons, and chains are unknown,
And Liberty's smile is the stay of the throne!
Oh, give me this freedom-then perish the gold 
That miser-fools bartered for liberty sold; 
I'll roam on the mountain, the broad ocean scan,
And sing the loved freedom that makes me a man!
Entertaining these views, and believing them to be the foundation upon which rest the great reforms of the world, I am surprised to find a few of the old pioneer Liberator, deserting from its support just as the victory is about to perch upon its banners.
All I can do now is to pay up my subscription, which I have been doing for the last thirty-two years, and only regret that it is not in my power to do more.
WM. P. POWELL.
LEBANON, (N. H. ) Sept. 27, 1864.
Editor Liberator—Mr. William Andrew Jackson (formerly Jefferson Davis's coachman) spoke last evening in our Town Hall, which was crowded with attentive listeners, who manifested their appreciation of his lecture by a liberal contribution. He is doing good service in this vicinity. He speaks at West Lebanon to night, and from thence will follow the valley of the Connecticut North, as far as circumstances will warrant.
Very truly yours,
E. Y. CHENEY.
T. B. Peterson and Brothers, 306 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, have just published-in advance of its publication in Europe-" THE HAUNTED, TOWER," by Mrs. Henry Wood, Author of " The Castle's Heir," "Verner's Pride," "The Channings," &c. &c. Complete in one volume-price 50 cents. For sale by Nichols & Noyes.
The new constitution of Louisiana has been adopted by a large majority, probably a four-fifths vote, in the whole State. In New Orleans it had about 4000 majority, only 800 votes having been cast against it. The friends of the new government claim that a majority of the present voting population of Louisiana participated in the election.
The communication of "B.," on "The Disturbance in India Street," shall appear next week.
<c02>
SERGEANT HENRY L. STONE, Co. I., 11TH MASS. VOLS. The friends of this gallant young soldier, who has been missing since May 12th, (says the Boston Journal) will be glad to learn that he has been heard from. A letter has been received from him stating that he was taken prisoner at the battle of Spottsylvania, and at the time of writing was in good health. Sergeant Stone, in writing just previous to the last battle he was in, and alter having served three years, says:—
"It is sad to see so many of my companions shot down by the rebels. I know not how soon my time may come. I can, however, endure anything,-even death,-for my country and freedom. They are worth all to me. I am as true to my principles now as when I first enlisted, and will serve the cause just as long as I am able, if it is fifty years. I am death on Rebels, Copperheads, and the Rebellion."
The following stanzas,-originally published in the Liberator,-were repeated by this noble young soldier of freedom, with much applause, at a school exhibition, when he was but ten years of age; and the above extract from his letter shows that their patriotic sentiments have grown with his growth and strengthened with his strength:—

MY COUNTRY.
Deep anguish reigns within my breast,
Dear country, for thou art not free!
A plague-spot rests upon thy crest,
The stain of Negro Slavery.
Thy stripes are black, thy stars gone out,
Thy freedom but a mocking jest;
What are thy Senators about,
With such a load of shame to rest?
What! are they sunk to coward knaves,
That revel in disgrace and shame?
Are we become such fallen slaves
That we cannot redeem our name?
Let us not sit down tame and coldly, 
While there's a wrong or galling chain;
But up! and seek redemption boldly,
And wipe out every spot and stain!
Let us proclaim, ALL MEN ARE FREE,
And banish sorrow, care and pain,— 
Abolish all of Slavery,
And then our stars will shine again:—
But not till we've fulfill'd our trust,
And that unto the very letter ;
Freed our good weapon from its rust,
And with it sundered every fetter.
Then tell the world, we are a nation
"That means to do the thing that's right,"
And occupy our proper station,
With "stars and stripes" all clear and bright.
W. J. W.

GENERAL SHERMAN'S REPLY TO GENERAL HOOD ON THE CHARGE OF "UNGENEROUS CRUELTY."
WASHINGTON, Sept. 21.
The following is the reply of Gen. Sherman to Gen. Hood's charge of studied and ungenerous cruelty, which was received in Washington to-day:
To General. J. R. Hood:
GENERAL-I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of this date, consenting to the arrangements I had proposed to facilitate the removal south of the people of Atlanta who prefer to go in that direction. I enclose you a copy of my orders, which will, I am satisfied, accomplish my purpose perfectly.
You style the measure proposed unprecedented, and appeal to the dark history of the war for its parallel as an act of studied and ungenerous cruelty. It is not unprecedented, for General Johnson himself very wisely and properly removed families all the way from Dalton down, and I see no reason why Atlanta should be excepted. Nor is it necessary to appeal to the dark history of war when recent and modern examples are so handy. You yourself burnt dwelling-houses along your parapet, and I have seen today 50 houses that you have rendered uninhabitable because they stood in the way of your forts and men.
You defended Atlanta on a line so close to the town that every cannon, shot and many musket shots from our line of investments, that overshot their mark, went into habitations of women and children.
Gen. Hardee did the same at Jonesboro', and Gen. Johnston did the same last summer at Jackson, Miss. 
I have not accused you of heartless cruelty, but merely instance these cases of very recent occurrences, and could go on and enumerate hundreds of others, and challenge any fair man to judge which of us has a heart of pity for the families of a brave people. I say it is kindness to these families of Atlanta to remove them now at once from scenes that women and children should not be exposed to, and a brave people should scorn to commit their wives and children to rude barbarians, who thus, as you say, violate the laws of war as illustrated in the pages of its dark history.
In the name of common sense, I ask you not to appeal to a just God in such a sacrilegious manner. You, who, in the midst of peace and prosperity, have plunged a nation into civil war, dark and cruel war; who dared and badgered us to battle, insulted our flag, seized our arsenals and forts, that were left in the honorable custody of peaceful servants; seized and made prisoners of war the very garrisons sent to protect your people against negroes and Indians, long before any overt act was committed by the "hateful Lincoln government;" tried to force Kentucky and Missouri into rebellion spite of themselves; falsified the vote of Louisiana; turned loose your privateers to plunder unarmed ships; expelled Union families by thousands, burnt their houses, and declared by an act of your Congress the confiscation of all debts due Northern men for goods had and received.
Talk thus to the marines, but not to me, who have seen these things, and who will this day make as much sacrifice for the peace and honor of the South as the best born Southerner among you.
If we must be enemies, let us be men, and fight it out as we propose to-day, and not deal in such hypocritical appeals to God and humanity. God will judge us in due time, and he will pronounce whether it be more humane to fight with a town full of women and the families of a " brave people " at our back, or to remove them in time to places of safety, among their own friends and people.
I am very respectfully,
Your obedient servant,
W. T. SHERMAN.
STATEMENT OF GEN. SHERMAN. Major Gen. Sherman telegraphs from Atlanta, 25th, to the Associated Press, correcting a rebel statement in regard to the treatment of refugees who arrived at Macon from Atlanta on the 14th. Gen. Sherman says:— 
"The truth is, that 446 families wese  removed South, making 705 adults, 860 children, and 469 servants, with 1651 pounds of furniture and household goods on the average to each family, of which we have a perfect recollection by name and articles."
He also gives a letter from Maj. Clam of Gen. Hood's staff to Col. Warner of his own staff, in which the former, at the close of their official intercourse, writrs:— 
"You will permit me to bear testimony to the uniform courtesy you have shown on all occasions to me and my people, and the promptness with which you have corrected all irregularities arising in our intercourse, hoping at some future time to reciprocate your courteousness, and in many instances your positive kindness.”
THE CHICAGO PLATFORM. This platform appears to my mind the well-framed creed of northern servility to the criminal arrogance of the South-a sanction of highest handed lawlessness. The election of Gen. McClellan means armistice-armistice means separation—-separation means disintegration, (the instant separation of California, the dropping off of Utah, an empire in the Mississippi valley, the excision of New England, and an inorganic clustering and re-clustering of the eastern middle States without any inherent character. ) Disintegration means defiance to the wonderfully great and self-completing geography of our country, and a lapse into that state which fell before Europe at the beginning of the middle ages, when principalities rose and fell, enduring only long enough to perpetrate the sanguinary turmoil; it means a repetition of the chronic revolution which has afflicted South America this half century, possibly with a neighbor growing in monarchic power, which soon would claim the right of extension and recuperation. Disintegration means the reckless rising against that policy which the Disposer of Events has ordained as the normal type of modern civilization, against the nationalized government, which is the opposite to the halting league, the vast yet incoherent monarchy, the provincial kingdom, the petty city, state, and the fragmentary feudalism. It means quarreling, bloodshed, and ruin, without an idea, for a century to come, and disgrace forever. It means the heartless destruction of a nation appointed to perform great and sacred tasks. It means all this, and slavery to boot, that " divine institution " whose altar is the auction table, on which the undivine ties of parents and children are torn asunder by the auctioneer, who thus becomes a holy missionary of the worshipped institution.—Dr. Francis Lieber.
Hon. John A. Peters, in a speech in Portland, the other evening, referring to McClellan's prospects, said:— "If he couldn't take Bichmond makidg Washington his bace, yet you may safely aver he will never take Washington making Richmond his base!"
<c03>
THE BAPTISTS OF WEST NEW JERSEY AND THE UNION.
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune.
SIR: Will you please publish the following Resolutions passed by the " West New Jersey Baptists' Association " at their meeting held in Pemberton, on the 13th inst.
The Baptists of West New Jersey are "true blue," and will poll an almost united vote for Lincoln and Johnson.
WOODSTOWN, New Jersey, Sept. 20,1864.
Resolved, That Civil government, whether among Christian or Pagan nations, is an ordinance of God, intended to establish natural justice among men, and our American Government is the nearest approach to right since the Institutions of Moses.
Resolved, therefore, That this Southern Conspiracy against our Nation's life is the greatest political atrocity since Israel rebelled against Jehovah.
Resolved, That as the Lord appointed War, Pestilence and Famine to humble and subjugate the Jews, so we believe this Nation has His sanction for the costliest sacrifice of treasure and blood that History records, in order to exterminate, even with fire and sword, those devoted agents of disunion and barbarism, who perseveringly swear that they will destroy the Union or themselves.
Resolved, That the measures thus far employed by our Public Representatives and sanctioned by the People have, for the most part, been right and expedient, and that their results do, just now, afford abundant promise and glorious hope of the triumph of liberty, justice, and humanity.
Resolved, That any terms of peace short of unqualified submission by the rebels would be an act of unparalleled treason against the industrial, social, and moral interest of man, and a mockery of the Divine Providence which has so eminently exalted us in the political heavens to be the pole-star of liberty to the human race.
SAMUEL AARON, A. J. HINKS,
S. G. WRIGHT, S. C. DARR,
JOSEPH HEMMATT, MILLER JONES,
Committee.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 22. The following is the copy of a correspondence which took place between the President and Lieut. Gen. Grant, and may prove interesting, as it furnishes an inside view of military affairs:
" EXECUTIVE MANSION,
WASHINGTON, D. C. , April 30, 1864.
Lieut. Gen. Grant: Not expecting to see you before the spring campaign opens, I wish to express in this way my entire satisfaction with what you have done up to this time, so far as I understand it. The particulars of your plan I neither know nor seek to know. You are vigilant and self-reliant, and pleased with this I wish not to obtrude any restraints or constraints upon you. While I am very anxious that any great disaster or capture of our men may be avoided, know that these points are less likely to escape our attention than they would mine. If there <illegible> anything wanting which is within my power to <illegible> do not let me fail to know it.
An now with a brave army and a just cause, may God <illegible> you!
Yours very truly,
(Signed) A. LINCOLN."
"HEADQUARTERS ARMY OF THE UNITED STATES, CULPEPPER C. H., VA., May 1., 1864.
Mr. President: Your very kind letter of yesterday is just received. The confidence you express for the future and satisfaction for the past in my military administration is acknowledged with pride. It shall be my earnest endeavor that you and the country shall not be disappointed. From my first entry into the volunteer service of the country to the present day, I have never had cause of complaint, and have never expressed or implied a complaint against the Administration or the Secretary of War for throwing any embarrassment in the way of my vigorously prosecuting what appeared to be my duty. Indeed, since the promotion which placed me in command of all the armies, and in view of the great responsibility and importance of success, I have been astonished at the readiness with which everything asked for has been yielded without even an explanation being asked. Should my success be less than I desire and expect, the least I can say is, the fault is not with you.
Very truly your obedient servant,
U. S. GRANT. Lieut. General."
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTORS. The following is the number of Presidential Electors to be chosen at the election in November, as by States:—
Maine, 7 Ohio, 21 
New Hampshire, 5 Michigan, 8
Massachusetts, 13 Indiana, 13 
Rhode Island, 4 Illinois, 16 
Connecticut, 6 Wisconsin, 8 
Vermont, 5 Minnesota, 4 
New York, 33 Iowa, 8 
New Jersey, 7 Kentucky, 11 
Pennsylvania, 26 Missouri, 11 
Delaware, 3 Kansas, 3 
Maryland, 7 California, 5
West Virginia, 5 Oregon, 3 
Total number of Presidential votes, 231—making 216 necessary for a choice.
Belmont's equipage at Newport is valued at $33,000. The horses cost $25,000. It consists of a barouche and four outriders, &c.
This same Belmont made a speech at the Chicago Convention, which he called to order, in which he indulged in the " luxury and ruin." Everything was going to destruction-not including the above named "equipage," of course. We clip from a New York paper the following account of the turn-out of this distinguished deplorer of his country's situation: 
It consists of a low barouche drawn by four elegant and fiery " thorough-breds," with postilions mounted on the left or " near " horse of each pair. The footmen in extreme livery are suspended from a high seat on the back of the carriage, technically called the "rumble." The barouche is lined with rich satin damask ; the out trimmings are of heavy gilt. The postilions are dressed in buckskin breeches and high top boots, with black silk velvet jackets, and caps highly ornamented with gold lace. The men are peculiarly well-formed, having been selected and trained in Europe with especial reference to their "build " and the extra size of their "calves. " Their livery is imported at a cost of $1000 a suit, and the cost of the whole affair may be conjectured, when I state that the horses are valued at $25,000, the carriage at $5,000, and the harness and other trappings at $3,000. When the royal cortege makes its appearance on the avenue with the Democratic prince in full costume, all other vehicles instinctively give way, as though the occupant was indeed a "crowned head."
THE PEACE POLICY. The Boston Herald, well known as a zealous supporter of Mr. Douglas, when a candidate, has generally reflected the sentiments of the war democrats, so called. In a leading editorial, the editor takes decided ground against the peace policy inaugurated at Chicago. The following paragraph indicates the tone of the Herald:— 
"The talk about free speech, a free press, and the Constitution, are very pretty and capital catch-words to deceive honest voters. But how is it in the dominions of Jefferson Davis? How about a free press and free speech there? If a man in Virginia should dare to utter one word against Davis or his plans, he would be hung to the first tree or most convenient lamp-post for his temerity. Yet these leaders are the men that the Chicago Convention proposes to restore to power in the nation to wreak their vengeance upon those at the North who have opposed them. What kind of liberty of speech and the press would there be then? The success of the Chicago ticket would be but the beginning of a series of disasters which would come upon us, too horrible to contemplate. For ourselves, we support no such doctrines and no such ticket as that made and put forth at Chicago, and which we believe will be repudiated by the people at the polls."
CHOOSING AN EPITAPH. "Now, fellow citizens, I must close; but I would ask, in conclusion, when I die, to have the slab over my grave thus inscribed: Here lies the body of an American who refused to aid in slaughtering eight millions of his fellow-citizens in order to give freedom to 'four millions of black men.’"-Gov. Weller at a McClellan meeting in Providence, Sept. 17.
Gov. Weller, and those who think with him that it is better for the rebellion to succeed than that any of the slaves should be set free, need have no anxiety about their epitaphs. Their position is very clearly understood while they are living, and they are not likely to have injustice done them in this respect when they are dead. Any intelligent stone-cutter who wished to express the truth literally would say: "Here lies the body of a traitor who refused to defend his country when it was in danger, and freely gave his counsel and sympathy to the enemy for the avowed, purpose of keeping the oppressed race in bondage."— Worcester Spy.
Several of the German national clubs which have heretofore been uncompromising in their support of Fremont have come out for Lincoln. The Hoboken club in its resolutions tersely states the ground of this action to be that "there are, in fact, only two parties opposed to each other-the anti Union, reactionary Pro-Slavery party, under the leadership of McClellan, on the one side, and the Anti -Slavery pro Union National party of Congress, under Lincoln, on the other; and every split in the National party will work for the triumph of the traitor party."
<c04>
GEN. MCCLELLAN AND THE REBEL LEADERS. That Gen. McClellan cherished feelings of personal respect and liking for the rebel leaders has been well understood before now. Here is an apt piece of testimony to that effect from Col. Metcalf of Kentucky, who said recently at a public meeting:—
"I got my eyes opened on that young Napoleon in the spring of 1861. I went to see Gen. McClellan, and in the course of the conversation I said to him that Jeff. Davis was a scoundrel and a repudiator. He (McClellan) straightened himself up quickly, and said: "I do assure you, sir, that you are mistaken. Jeff. Davis is a perfect gentleman." Well, if a traitor, conspirator, thief, repudiator, and the civil devil who is instigating all this murder is his beau ideal of a 'perfect gentleman,' I hope our country will never be cursed with his morality and virtue at the head of affairs."
Gen. McClellan's letter of acceptance is one of those specimens of plausible rhetoric in which the art consists in saying nothing in words of apparent significance. The delvers for its meaning are placed in the position of unsuccessful speculators in petroleum wells. There is a deceiving film on the surface of the watery vermiage, but the most indefatigable explorers fail to "strik ile."
The Portland Press says that McClellan may be the "coming man," but if he does not come faster than he went towards Richmond, he will find the White House occupied by an older, a taller, and an infinitely better man, with a lease of the premises, signed by an overwhelming majority of the people, for four years from the 4th of March next.
GENERAL MCCLELLAN'S MEMORY AT FAULT. He says, "the preservation of the Union was the sole avowed object for which the war was commenced." The war was not commenced for any such purpose; and the plainest, most simple, and most easily understood facts of history show that McClellan has either forgotten when and how the war was commenced, or willfully misrepresents or falsifies the record. The attack on Sumter in April, 1861, was the commencement of the war, and everybody knows it. This attempt of the standard-bearer of the Copperheads to fasten the commencement of the war upon the North is mean and contemptible. Slaveholders began the war, and their "sole avowed object" was not to "preserve," but to destroy "the Union."-Portland Press.
Gen. Schenck, discussing the Democratic platform, in a speech at Hamilton, Ohio, brought down the house by this apt allusion:
"I know nothing at all that is like it, unless it may be the character of the fruit that is sold by an old lady who sits at the door of the court-house in Cincinnati. She is a shrewd old woman. A young sprig of a lawyer stepped up one day, and said to her: 'You seem to have some fine apples. Are they sweet or sour?' The old lady tried to take the measure of her customer, and find out whether his taste was for sweet or sour apples. ' Why, sir,' said she, 'they are rather acid; a sort of low tart, inclined to be sweet.'"
THE ARMY FOR PRESIDENT LINCOLN. The soldiers in four hospitals in Maryland recently expressed their preferences for the Presidential nominees by voting. The total number of votes cast was 2481, of which Lincoln had 2074, McClellan had 306 and Fremont 51. McClellan received 1 vote in 8. On the evening of the 11th inst., the 13th West Virginia Volunteers took a vote for the Presidency, which resulted as follows: Abraham Lincoln 415, McClellan 15. Three Indiana regiments in Sheridan's command gave the following vote: Lincoln 901, McClellan 68, Fremont 7.
The following recent votes are reported in the Western papers: 10th Indiana Regiment-450 for Lincoln, 20 doubtful; 135th Indiana-742 for Lincoln, 22 McClellan, 4 Fremont; on three railroad trains- 649 for Lincoln, 118 for McClellan, 31 Fremout and doubtful; 43d Indiana-207 Lincoln, 8 McClellan; 24th and 28th Iowa-664 for Lincoln, 99 McClellan, 24 Fremont.
WHAT THE REBELS EXPECT FROM THE COPPERHEADS. The editor of the British American, of Kingston, C. W., who was recently at Halifax, reports a conversation which he had there with the first officer of the rebel pirate Tallahassee. The rebel pirate stated as follows:
"That the opinion was universal among his people, that the present campaign was the final one of the war-the South only requiring to hold their own during the Presidential canvass at the North, which would ensure the success of the Copperhead candidate and immediate negotiations for peace on the basis of Southern independence."
SOMETHING FOR DOUGLAS DEMOCRATS TO REMEMBER. Before the rebellion broke out, Senator Douglas, referring to the Southern States, said:-" If they remain in the Union, I will go as far as the Constitution will warrant me in securing their rights; but if they secede, I am in favor of allowing them just as many slaves and just as much slave territory as they can hold at the point of the bayonet."
HON. B. F. WADE ON THE " SITUATION." Senator Wade, in a recent speech at Meadville, Pa., said: " I have but lately visited our army. I have been through its lines. I have talked with its officers. I have learned from them some of the plans now on foot. Of these I am not permitted to speak, but I can tell you one thing-treason is played out, and you'll hear thunder along our line. long before the Presidential election And now, in closing, let me exhort you to go home as missionaries. Let every man devote himself to work for the Union cause, and the greatest triumph ever awarded to a nation will be yours, the country's, and mine."
The thunder is already booming down the Shenandoah Valley.
In twenty-seven campaign tracts advertised by the Democrats, there are three devoted to the defence of slavery as a divine institution! One by Bishop Hopkins, another by Prof. Morse, and another that undertakes to show that emancipation has everywhere proved a calamity to the negro. Thus Democracy still clings insanely to its own and the nation's curse.
Within the Union lines, in the army and navy, bravely helping to crush this accursed rebellion, are more than 200,000 colored men, who form a part of the " rights" which the Democrats are so anxious to restore, immediately, to the slaveholders of the South.
Cripple the efforts of Grant, Sherman and Farragut, by depleting their forces of nearly a quarter of a million of men! Reward those men for their heroic services in the Union cause by sending them back into perpetual slavery!
Such is the latest Democratic scheme for settling our national troubles, and bringing about "an immediate cessation of hostilities." For the proper execution of this plan, a secessionist-Pendleton, and his little-twin brother " Mac,"-have been appointed agents and commissioners.
During the special session of Congress, in the summer of 1861, Mr. Eliot, from the Committee on Commerce, reported the following resolution, and asked unanimous consent to have it put upon its passage:
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Treasury be requested to employ immediately sufficient force to protect our commerce from the pirates that infest our seas.
Vallandigham at once objected to its consideration. Mr. Eliot in amazement asked: "Do I understand the gentleman from Ohio to object?" " Yes," said Val landigham, the leader of the McClellan party,—and because of his persistent objection, the resolution had to be dropped. Now the copperheads are constantly howling because the Government does not protect our commerce.—Greenfield Gazette.
Parson Brownlow is anxious to have somebody hung. His own neck would fit a rope handsomely.—Boston Post.
Of course. Brownlow has been loyal to the Union from the start. That is reason enough why a Chicago surrender man should want to get rid of him.- Yarmouth Register.
Some jackass sent us this last night, among our regular telegraphic dispatches:—"Domestic traitors are very jubilant over the reported nomination of McClellan at Chicago." How shall we protect our selves against these insults?—Manchester Union.
Stop being such " domestic traitors," and your feelings will not be hurt. 
Henry Winter Davis, of Maryland, has come out for the Lincoln and Johnson ticket, and will immediately stump his State.—Washington Correspondence of the Boston Herald.
Matthew Hale Smith, at the Democratic meeting in Connecticut last week, said that "a good name was a good deal of a thing to a man." What does he know about it?
Hon. Josish Quincy, in his speech in Portland on Saturday evening, told his audience how McClellan was to ride with one foot on a war horse and the other on a peace platform. The platform is to turn on a pivot, and the horse will travel around on the cider-mill system.
The officers of the colored troops in Grant's army desire that they may all be united in one corps, and allowed to accomplish some grand military achievement unaided by white soldiers. They are confident that they would thus win unfading laurels.
<c05>
THE FRIGHTFUL, ACCIDENT ON THE PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL RAILROAD. MANY PERSONS BURNED TO DEATH. The telegraph has given a brief narration of a terrible disaster which occurred on the Pennsylvania Central Roalroad about half-past four o'clock on Wednesday morning, in consequence of the collision of two trains. The following additional particulars are from the Philadelphia Press:
"The morning being quite cold, about half an hour before a fire had been kindled in the first car. The stove was instantly upset by the collision, and, the hot coals spreading over the floor of the car, the flames burst up and soon enveloped it. Frantic efforts were made by the passengers to escape. They rushed to the doors, and found them locked. The key was probably in the pocket of the Conductor, who was on this car, and who must have been killed instantly. Many of the passengers were stupifled at the imminency of the danger, and made but feeble efforts to escape.
Some endeavored to get out of the windows, but this was difficult, and in some cases impossible. Some, after having thrust their head and shoulders through the windows, were unable to get further, and found a slow and torturing death from the flames. Others had their limbs broken while getting out. By continued efforts, to which was lent all the desperation of dying men, the doors of the cars were then finally kicked open, and a few escaped through. It is thought that not more than twenty, if that many, escaped from the car. Probably more than thirty were crushed or burned to death, but in most cases their bodies are utterly consumed, and it will be some time before their number and name can be ascertained. The car was burned to cinders.
Of the conductor nothing could be found except his ticket-punch. His name was John Mallison. He is believed to have lived in Middletown. A sergeant of one of our returned regiments was in this car, and succeeded in getting his head and shoulders out of a window, but could get no further. Every effort was made to extricate him from his fearful position, but in vain; and the heat of the fire finally driving away those who were trying to help him, the poor soldier was left to perish. When the car was so much burned that it fell to pieces, a head and arm rolled out, which are supposed to have been those of this unfortunate man.
Some of the bereavements suffered are terrible. One woman lost three children, who were burned in this car. Her aunt was also burned. One poor boy, who was badly injured himself, lost his father in the flames. Many parents lost their children, and their agony exceeds the power of words to picture.
The second car caught fire from the first, but from this, although the doors were also locked, I believe all the passengers escaped with their lives, but some of them were badly burned before being rescued. Two died after they were taken out. One was a woman. A man had his legs completely burned off. This car, like the first, was burned to cinders. The other cars (four in number) were saved by the passengers, who uncoupled them, and pushed them back out of danger.
Two army Surgeons were fortunately upon the part of the train which was uninjured, and they, with a physician residing near by, rendered most efficient assistance to the unfortunate passengers. Other physicians were sent from here.
The coal train, the stoppage of which caused the accident, was bound in the same direction, but had stopped beyond its usual time, and only partially observed the precaution usual on such cars. It is customary to place a man upon the track, with a light, at a sufficient distance from the waiting train to give the coming one timely warning of the danger. In the present case, the man who was stationed to give the warning was only about fifty yards from his train, and the morning being very dark and foggy, the light was not seen till too late. The engineer reversed the engine, But the collision could not be prevented. The fault seems to rest entirely with the parties in charge of the coal train."
Eighty-six of the passengers who escaped injury have signed a protest against the locking of car doors, which is a dangerous practice.
HEADQUARTERS ARMY OF THE POTOMAC, Sept. 23. A deserter who came in on Thursday evening says the rebel army is very much discouraged on account of Early's defeat, and he thinks before long Lee will have to evacuate Richmond and Petersburg. The people of Richmond and vicinity are suffering terribly for the necessaries of life, and particularly firewood, the cost of which places it almost beyond the reach of the mass of the community.
General Sherman, by special arrangement with Hood, has effected an exchange of 2000 prisoners. Of 900 rebels, 17 refused to be exchanged, and took the oath. Of 100 picket men on duty with a flag of truce at Rough and Ready, 21 deserted. This is a fair indication of the demoralized condition of Hood's army.
Richmond papers contain very little news. They admit their defeat in the valley, and give their loss at 2500, about 500 of whom are prisoners. Rhodes's division lost 1000 men. They put our loss at from 6000 to 8000!! Generals Rhodes and Goodwin were killed, and Gen. Fitz Hugh Lee and Col. Patten wounded. Gen. York lost an arm. Gen. Early was intrenched at Fisher's Hill, 22 miles south of Winchester.
NEW YORK, Sept. 26. The Tribune's Winchester dispatch of the 24th has details of the battle at Fisher's Hill:
Gen. Crook, after a rapid and difficult march, struck the rebel left flank, and threw one of his divisions in their rear. By a magnificent charge, the rebel left wing was driven in confusion upon the centre, which at the same time was charged in front by the 6th and 19th corps. This combined front, flank and rear attack was too much for the rebels, and their whole army broke and run, abandoning their artillery and everything, that could impede their flight. The line of retreat was literally covered with every species of property known in an army.
NEW YORK, Sept. 23. The Herald's City Point, correspondent, writing on the 21st, says Gen. Sheridan's great victory has inspired our men more than a reinforcement of twenty thousand men. It was received with uproarious enthusiasm. Gen. Grant telegraphed at once to Washington to make Gen. Sheridan a Brigadier in the Regulars, which was as promptly done. A salute of ten shotted guns from each battery was fired this morning, making over one thousand discharges upon the rebel lines.
The rebel battle flag of the 2d Virginia infantry—the old " Stonewall brigade"—with 13 battles inscribed on it, was captured by a member of the 37th Massachusetts infantry. Its captor is missing.
The New York Herald gives a partial list of rebel officers captured near Opequan Creek, by Sheridan, consisting of 2 Colonels, 7 Lieut. Colonels, 1 Major, 19 Captains and 75 Lieutenants.
Immediately upon entering Atlanta, Col. Walker, who was in command of the column, sent the following dispatch to Gen. Geary: "General: We have possession of the town. The Second and Third divisions entered together. The flag of the Third brigade will be the first to float o'er the city. Glory, Hallelujah! This elects Abraham Lincoln."
The Chicago Convention sneers at our "four years failure to restore the Union by the experiment of war." So with far greater show of truth might Benedict Arnold, in 1782, have sneered at our "six years failure to secure our independence by the experiment of war." It is the last year which determines whether a war is a success or a failure. In the eyes of our enemies at home and abroad, we expect it to be styled a failure until it is ended in our favor.
THE TWO KEYS. An intelligent contraband makes the following sagacious statement:
"Well, you see, honey, de Lord has two great keys in his hand; one is de Dar-key; with that he has unlocked the Union, so all de niggers, as you call 'em, will come out free; de other is de Yankey, and with that de good Lord will lock de Union up again."
THE JOHN BROWN FAMILY. Mrs. John Brown, widow of him whose soul is travelling on, with her son Salmon, and his wife and three daughters, have left their home among the Adirondac mountains—where John's "body lies mouldering in the dust," together with his sons, who were shot at Harper's Ferry, to seek a new home in California. They undertook the journey via the overland route, taking with them some cattle and Vermont fine-wooled sheep. There is a painful rumor, not yet confirmed, that after leaving Missouri, it having been ascertained that they were John Brown's family, they were pursued by Missouri guerillas, captured, robbed and murdered. The homestead is now occupied by Mrs. Brown's brother.— 
Burlington (Va.) Times.
A ROW AT HARVARD COLLEGE. The present sophomore class of Harvard College were responsible for a disgraceful row on Monday night, Sept. 5th, because the annual game of football had been suppressed. They got a coffin and enacted the burial of the football, amid groans for the Faculty and President Hill. They then paraded with a transparency, calling loudly for the faculty to "come out," and finally wound up with a fight with the Freshmen, whom they attacked, knocking down some of the college officers in the struggle. The Harvard sophomores of ‘64 ought to be ashamed of themselves. The Boston Transcript says the officers of the college were powerless to prevent the disturbance.
<c06>
A CALL
FOR A NATIONAL CONVENTION OF COLORED CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES.
FELLOW-CITIZENS: The present state of our country, together with the claims of humanity and universal freedom, and the favorable developments of the Providence of God, pointing to the liberation and enfranchisement of our race, demand of us to be united in council, labor and faith.
The nation and the age have adjudged that the extinction of slavery is necessary to the preservation of liberty and republicanism, and that the existence of the Government itself is contingent upon the total overthrow of the slave holders' oligarchy and the annihilation of the despotism which is inseparably connected with it.
Brethren, the present time is immeasurably more favorable than any other period in our history to unite and act for our own most vital interests. If we are to live and grow, and prove ourselves to be equal to the exigencies of the times, we must meet in council, and labor together for the general welfare of the people. Sound morality must be encouraged ; education must be promoted; temperance and frugality must be exemplified, and industry, and thrift, and everything that pertains to well ordered and dignified life, must be exhibited to the nation and the world. Therefore, the strong men of our people, the faithful and the true, are invited to meet in a National Convention, for the advancement of these objects and principles, on Tuesday, the 4th day of October, A. D. 1864, at 7 o'clock, P. M., at Syracuse. The progressive and liberty loving people of the loyal States are invited to send delegates, properly and regularly chosen. Lat them come from the cities, towns, hamlets and districts of every section of the country, and lay the foundation of a superstructure, broad and deep, which in the future shall be a stronghold and defence for ourselves and our posterity.
[Signed by Henry Highland Garnet, Washington; Robert Hamilton, New York; Amos G. Beman, Jamaica; William Rich, Troy; J. W. Loguen, Syracuse; Wm. H. Johnson, Albany; J. W. B. Smith, Williamsburg; Louis H. Putnam, Brooklyn; Moses Viney, Schenectady; O. C. Gilbert, Saratoga Spa; Geo. Weir, Jr., Buffalo; George H. Washington, George Henry, John T. Waugh, James Jefferson, Providence; Peter H. Nott, Hartford; Robert J. Cowes, New Haven; Jno. F. Floyd, Middletown; Abraham J. Morrison, New Milford: Charles Lenox Remond, Salem: Alexander W. Wyman, William E. Matthews, H. H. Webb, Baltimore:: J. D. Harris, M. D., Portsmouth, Va.: Sampson White, Hiram H. Arnold, Alexandria: James Lynch, Abraham Murchison, Jacob Robertson, Beaufort, S. C.: Charles Heads. Vicksburg, Miss.: Wm. Steward, Florida: Clinton B. Pearson, Newbern, N. C.: A. H. Galloway, Beaufort, do.: J. W. Ellis, Adrian, Michigan: James L. Campbell, Saginaw, do.: Joseph Ferguson, M. D., Detroit, do.: L. Gross, John Waugh, Uniontown, Pa.: Hiram S. Fry, Grayson S., Nelson, Reading, do.: Wm. H. Riley, Alfred M. Green, Ebenezer D., Bassett, Philadelphia: Peter D. Hedges, Newark, N. J.: Joseph H. Barquet, Illinois: Ransom Harris, Alfred Menefee, Peter Lowry, Nashville, Tenn.: and many other representative colored men in the various States.]

PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES
SEVENTH SERIES.
AT MUSIC HALL.
OPENING ADDRESS BY 
GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS, ESQ.,
On TUESDAY EVENING, Oct. 11, 1864.
To be followed on successive Tuesday Evenings by 
Oct. 18—OCTAVIUS B. FROTHINGHAM.
Oct. 25—ANNA E. DICKINSON.
Nov. 1—OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.
Nov. 15—DAVID A. WASSON.
Nov. 22—To be announced. 
Nov. 29—CHARLES G. AMES.
Dec . 6—WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Dec. 13—JACOB M. MANNING.
Dec 20.—HENRY WARD BEECHER.
ORGAN CONCERT each Evening at 7 o'clock.
W. EUGENE THAYER, Organist.
Tickets admitting the bearer and Lady to the Course, at $3 each.
Tickets admitting one person to the Course, at $2 each.
Cheeks for SEATS RESERVED TILL 7 1-2 O'CLOCK, $1 50 additional for each seat.
For sale at Oliver Ditson & Co's, 277 Washington street; John C. Haynes & Co's, 33 Court street, John S. Rogers's, 1071 Washington street, and at the Anti-Slavery Office.
Checks for Reserved Seats for sale only at Oliver Ditson & Co's, and at John S. Rogers's.
Only an average quality of seats will be reserved, (the east section of the hall,) leaving the same quality of seats (the west section) for those who do not purchase reserved checks. Sept. 16.
WM. WELLS BROWN will attend the National Colored Convention to be held at Syracuse, N. Y., on Tuesday, Oct. 4th, and will spend a few weeks in Western and Central New York, speaking at the principal places on the "Rebellion and the Duty of the Hour.”
DIED—In New Bedford, (suddenly,) on Sunday, Sept. 18th, Mrs. KEZIAH JACKSON, (colored,) aged 96 years. She was born in Fredericksburg, Va.

Young Ladies' Boarding-School.
DIO LEWIS, A. M., M. D., will open a Boarding School at Lexington, Mass., on the first day of October, 1864.
ISAAC N. CARLETON, A. M. , for several years teacher of Latin, Greek and Mathematics in Phillips's Academy, Andover, Mass., will be the Resident Principal, and will devote himself wholly to the work of instruction. Mrs. CARLETON, a tried and successful teacher, will instruct in French.
MR. THEODORE D. WELD, for many years Principal of the Eagleswood School in New Jersey, will have charge of an important department.
In all the approved features of the best schools nothing will be wanting, while it is Dr. Lewis's special aim to illustrate the possibilities in the department of physical training.
Parents having daughters of delicate constitutions to educate are invited to send to Dr. DIO LEWIS, Lexington, for a Circular.
Lexington, Sept. 8. 

MISS H. M. PARKHURST'S
BOARDING AND DAY SCHOOL
FOR YOUNG LADIES,
NEWBURG, N. Y.
The Fall Term will commence on Wednesday, Sept. 21. Aug. 26—2w
MR. AND MRS. D. MACK'S
Family Boarding-School for Young Ladies,
AT ORCHARD HILL, BELMONT, MASS.
THE School will commence the last Monday of September. 
Circulars and references when requested.
July 8. 3m

A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
OTTAWA, La Salle Co., Illinois.
Special attention given to securing and collecting claims for Eastern Merchants.
References:
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Boston.
A. L. PAINE, Esq., Suffolk Bank, do.
FARWELL, FIELD & Co., Chicago, Illinois.
STEVENS & BARNUM, Washington, D. C.
Sep 12 . tf
ALL interested in Phonographic Shorthand should send for the PHONOGRAPHIC VISITOR, No. 4, seven cents. Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 now ready, 22 cents.
Address ANDREW J. GRAHAM,
491 Broadway, New York.
June24. Dec. 1.

“FREE LOVE,"
OR a Philosophical Demonstration of the non-exclusive nature of Connubial Love. To which is added a Review of and Reply to the exclusive phase in the writings of the Fowlers, Adin Ballou, H. C. Wright, and A. J. Davis, on the Love and Marriage question. Price, (post-paid,) 50 cents, or to the poor, paper, 35 cents. Sold by the author—AUSTIN K EN’ a East Stockholm, St. Lawrence Co.,
N. Y. Sept. 30.
Poetry.
For the Liberator. 
THE UNDERCURRENT. 
BY JOHN T. SARGENT. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
PSALM 46, v. 4. ”There is a river, the streams where-of shall make glad the city of God." 
Beneath this fret and foam of civil strife, 
Fierce countercurrents with their battling noise, 
Where” rights of man” are struggling for their life, 
And party passions lift their stormy voice, 
There flows a tide predestined by God's grace, 
And, by his will, majestic, onward driven 
To bear the fortunes of a suffering race 
From woe to weal; from Southern hells to Heaven! 
For half a century, hindered in its course 
By selfish prejudice of Church and State, 
That undercurrent has been gathering force 
To save the Union from impending fate. 
Yea, deep beneath the driftwood of the hour,
The floating wreck of too long suffered wrong, 
These river shackles of despotic power, 
The shattered remnants of what once was strong,-
There moveth still, with silent strength but sure, 
The ground-swell of a. tide ordained to bear 
Our suffering country onward to its cure, 
With LIBERTY established everywhere! 
That full-crowned herald of her” greatest good," 
FREEDOM FOR ALL, must have triumphant way, 
And” FORWARD MARCH," alas, through seas of blood!
Till the last slave stands disenthralled for aye!
For the Liberator. 
OCEAN. 
BY ALMIRA SEYMOUR
Best type of the Infinite-unresting, 
Measureless; heart-beat that knows no suspense-
Timing the steps of hurrying ages;
Sounding the key-note of Creation's chimes;
Nor Future, nor Past but exhaustless Now.
I look on the mountain-sky-towering, vast-
Its deep granite roots earth's firm centre grasp, 
And man at its base a poor pigmy moves; 
Yet centuries, yea, seasons, write on it ”change,"
And the poor pigmy's wit writes there his will. 
I list to the chorus of birds, streams and winds, 
And all the divine through the human has tuned, 
But still the last note from the finite rebounds. 
Thy voice has no echo save from that depth
Where God plants his foot, his own circling all; 
And I know this majestic symphony 
Fell on the first ear as it falls on mine-
Shall fall on the last in cadence unchanged. 
Man casts on the bosom countless displays 
Of wit and daring and ingenious power; 
They leave not one foot-print, check not one pulse; 
Too great to deride, thou watchest their play, 
Then smilest, benign in thy grandeur,” The same." 
Sound on, O, song of the Infinite Depth! 
Throb on, O, pulse of the Infinite Heart! 
Weary and sad, I came to thine altar; 
Strengthened and calmed, I return to the world. 
I, too, am Infinite-thy Parent mine! 
Ay, more-for I from his Essence came forth, 
Whilst thou art the creature alone of his Will.
Thou, glorious clepsydra, marking his Time-
I, destined to count his Eternities! 
Sound on, O, song of the limitless depth;
Throb on, O, pulse of the unresting heart; 
Weary and sad, I came to thy presence; 
Strengthened and calmed, I return to the world. 
Show me my work, Beneficent Father! 
Though it be least among thy Immortals, 
My soul shall sublime it with new-born power-
Her truth shall sound deep the key-note of duty;
Her patience shall time the passion's hot haste; 
Her meek greatness smile, unharmed, unscorning, 
On ephemeral forms of ingenious ill. 
Show me thy will-I bring thee obedience 
Untiring as Ocean's-yes, Father, more-
I bring to my labors thy essence-Love! 
Hingham, Sept. 1st, 1864. 
For the Liberator. 
OUR COUNTRY'LL LIVE! 
Our country'll live!'tis so decreed, 
And perjured traitors kiss the dust; 
God's sable children shall be freed-
His works are surely wise and just. 
I cannot paint the horrid fray 
Of bloody steel and murderous lead, 
Where brothers meet to brothers slay, 
The sights and sounds from wounded-dead. 
'Twere well to look beyond the strife 
That comes on earth's dark battle-fields, 
And see the awful waste of life 
Which vice and all transgression yields. 
I do rejoice that God is just-
That Nature ever has her course-
That all who in the Right do trust 
Escape the lower law of Force.
Richfield, Sept., 1864. D. HITCHINGS. 
ENGLAND AND AMERICA, 1863. 
BY RICHARD MONCTON MILNES. 
We only know that in the sultry weather, 
Men toiled for us as in the steaming room, 
And in our minds we hardly set together 
The bondman's penance and the freeman's loom. 
We never thought the jealous God would store 
For us ill deeds of time-forgotten graves;
Nor heeded that one day the Mayflower bore 
A freight of pilgrims and another slaves. 
First on the bold upholders of the wrong, 
And last on us, the heavy-laden years
Avenge the cruel triumphs of the strong, 
Trampled affections and derided tears. 
Labor, degraded from her high behest,
Cries, ”Ye shall know I am the living breath,
And not the curse of men. Ye shall have pest-
The pest of famine and the pest of death." 
Oh. happy distant hours that shall restore 
Honor to work, and pleasure to repose,
Hasten your steps, just heard above the roar 
Of angry passions and the crash of foes! 
PEAN FOR VICTORY. 
Shout, shout! the tidings o'er 
The land, from shore to shore, 
All shall be free! 
The Knights of Bondage bleed,
 Rebellion's ranks recede, 
Our arms triumphant lead 
To victory! 
All hail the glorious sight! 
Columbia's martial might 
Traitors astounds!
Fair Freedom's valiant host 
Has silenced Slavery's boast,
Along Secessia's coast, 
And through her bounds! 
God grant we soon may see 
Enduring unity, 
And sheathe the sword;-
Our country's foemen felled, 
Secession's spirit quelled, 
The smoke of strife dispelled, 
And peace restored! 
Then ”Union's banner bright
Shall herald Freedom's light
On shore and sea,
And Heaven's benignant rays
Illume the nation's days, 
Our hearts ascribing praise,
Great God, to Thee! 
THE DEAD. 
The dead are like the stars by day, 
Withdrawn from mortal eye.
Yet holding unperceived their way 
Through the unclouded sky. 
<c02>
The Liberator.
GERRIT SIMTH ON McCLELLAN'S NOMINATION AND ACCEPTANCE. 
[CONCLUDED.] 
McClellan professes great love of the Constitution and the Union. I love them. The costliest gift whereby I might contribute to preserve them, I have not withheld. Both in Peace and in War, abundantly 
with both lips and pen, I have opposed even the slightest alteration in the Constitution. But, whilst McClellan sees our Government making war upon the Union and the Constitution, I see no other war upon them than that which his own party and its Southern allies are waging.
I said that I love the Constitution. But I love my country more. I would use the Constitution to save the country. But the Democrats juggle with it to destroy the country. Instance their incessant knavish talk about the constitutional rights and the reserved rights of the Seceded States. Whereas the plain fact is, that those States did, in seceding, forfeit every right but the right to be punished. France, were England to conquer her, would have no right to the present political subdivisions of her soil; and the South being a rebel, and the guiltiest of all rebels, will, if conquered, be more emphatically destitute of all right to hers. I would hope that the old State lines might be recognized; 
but this would be for her conqueror alone to determine. The theory so industriously and injuriously and traitorously inculcated by the Democrats-that what were rights before the Rebellion must be rights after it, ay, and all the way through it is the veriest nonsense. I have instanced the talk of the Democrats at one point. Instance, too, their incessant knavish talk about carrying on the War according to the Constitution. They know that the nation, which should try to carry on War according to a Constitution, would certainly perish; and hence, indeed, is it that they are continually urging the Administration to make this altogether unprecedented experiment. Our Constitution does not attempt the folly of prescribing the way in which we shall carry on war. The simple truth in this matter (and they are either silly or disingenuous who deny it) is, that War must ever be a Law unto itself, and that no other Law can meet its exigencies. 
I said that I love the Union. My whole heart is set on its restoration; and, therefore, have I done all I could to compel the South to return to it. I say compel, because I believe she must be compelled. During all the years of the Rebellion, McClellan and his party have constantly held that the South would return to the Union, if the North would prepare the way. But the South has as constantly held to the contrary. For the reasons I have already given, the South will not consent to return. She has set up her new nation with Slavery for its boasted corner-stone; and she will not, but upon compulsion, belong again to a nation of another kind. There is, I admit, one way in which the South might possibly be induced to return to the Union. That way McClellan and his Party know; and that way I have not the slightest doubt they are willing, and no small hare of them eager, to prepare. Should the North consent to set up Slavery within all her borders, and to put, as Slavery requires, the claim of property in man on the same footing with the claim of property in horses and hogs, the South might possibly consent to return to the Union. The Democratic Party knows that this is the only way in which she would consent to return, and this way the Democratic Party would open to her. 
The pernicious cry that our sole legitimate object in prosecuting the War is to save the Constitution and the Union is, of course, abundantly echoed in McClellan's Letter. The declarations both in and out of Congress, in the early stages of the War, that our one work was to restore the Constitution and the Union, I am not disposed to criticise. But very unwise was it to repeat such declarations after the Rebellion had taken on its wide dimensions, and was putting forth its gigantic and appalling efforts. Then our one work was to put down the Rebellion; and, if need be, at whatever expense to Constitution or Union. The forms of the Constitution and the terms of the Union had then become of comparatively little account. Nay, the Rebellion, greatest of all the crimes earth ever knew, must go down, though all do go down with it. Alas, how unreasonable and insane for the enemies of the Rebellion at such a time as this, when the common work' of putting it down claims the hands of all, and all the interests of all, to be making issues between themselves about the character of the Constitution or the conditions of the Union! Put down the Rebellion! Put it down now and unconditionally! Matters about the Constitution and the Union can be adjusted afterward. This Democratic shouting for the Constitution and the Union is but to call us off from crushing the Rebellion. 
I notice McClellan's pathetic appeal for the votes of the soldiers and sailors. What an impudent affectation in him to profess regard for these brave and devoted men, whilst he worms his way up to the platform in which the cause they are battling, bleeding and dying for, is condemned, and its abandonment called for! I say its abandonment-for such is the only possible meaning of the immediate armistice, or ”cessation of hostilities," which the platform demands. If, as President Lincoln's favorite story says, it is ”no time to swap horses when crossing the stream," so it is no time to stop horses when crossing it. To stop at that critical moment is to expose all to go down stream. For us to stop the War at this time is to abandon the War, and to make vain all we have sacrificed in prosecuting it. Moreover, it is to abandon it when it is on the very eve of accomplishing its one object-the overthrow of the Rebellion. 
I said it was an impudent affectation in McClellan, whilst indorsing the platform which insults the brave men who are fighting our battles, to be professing regard for them. So it is for him to be professing that regard whilst he places himself on that platform by the side of a Vice Presidential Candidate, whose sympathies with the South are as open as his own are sly! This Candidate, for whom also is necessarily every vote cast for McClellan, and who, if elected, becomes, in no very improbable event, the President of the United States, is George H. Pendleton, who is a member of Congress, and who in that capacity steadily votes against supplies of men, and money, and taxes for carrying on the War. He is the same Pendleton, who, with but nineteen others, voted against censuring Harris for using treasonable language on the floor of Congress, and who, with but fifteen others, voted against the Resolution which declares the duty of crushing the Rebellion. Greatly mistaken is McClellan if, with his unenviable military reputation, and his base and guilty political connections, he hopes to catch our discerning soldiers and sailors with such chaff as his heartless praises of them. They read him ”like a book." They will turn their backs upon him, and will give their approving faces and approving votes to the honest Lincoln, who deals in not twaddle about the Constitution and Union, and who speaks what he means; to the patriotic and earnest Lincoln, who believes in the cause for which our soldiers and sailors are contending, who does his utmost to reinforce them, and who scouts as spurious any Peace with the rebels which shall precede their unconditional surrender. This attempt of McClellan to get the votes of the armed defenders of the country, reminds us of the similar attempt of the Convention that nominated him. In one of its Resolutions, the Democratic Party is made to promise to take ”care" of the” soldiery." Impudent and insulting promise! Undoubtedly,” the soldiery” will, in turn, take care of the Democratic Party. It will take care of it at the approaching Election; and when the War is over at the South, and the day of reckoning for Northern rascality shall have come, it will again take care of Northern traitors whose sympathies have made strong the hands of Southern traitors, and who have in this 
<c03>
wise greatly prolonged the War, and greatly swollen the sum of the sufferings of our Army. 
I spoke of McClellan worming his way up to the platform, which the Convention prepared for him and his fellow Peace man to stand on. He did not mount it like a bad bold man, but crawled upon it like a bad timid one. His timidity, however, was in no wise because of a disagreement between the platform and his own views-for he virtually says that there is no disagreement between them when he says: ”Believing that the views here expressed are those of the Convention and the people you represent, I accept the nomination-" He believes that the Convention and its constituents agree with him, for the sufficient reason that, having read their platform, he finds himself agreeing with them. It is well that the traitorous and infamous platform is so outspoken, since in this wise, inasmuch as McClellan does himself believe that he and his framers mean the same thing, we are enabled to put confident interpretations upon the double-meaning phraseologies in his cunning and cowardly Letter. Oh no! McClellan's shyness of the platform was in no degree because he dissented from it-for he did not dissent from it. It was solely because he feared that his open, plump indorsement of a Peace platform would leave him no votes but those of the Peace Democrats.
I have not failed to notice the patriotic, brave and warlike words with which McClellan has sprinkled his Letter. Inasmuch, however, as they are at entire variance with other parts of it, and with the obvious spirit and aim of the whole; and inasmuch, also, as they are repugnant to both the entire body and soul of that platform which, by his acceptance of his nomination, as well as otherwise, he expresses <illegible> proval of; and inasmuch, moreover, as these cunningly flung-in words are out of all harmony with the words and deeds of that other George who stands beside him, and of the unprincipled Party which nominated them-inasmuch as all this is so, I make no account of them. I cast the affected words aside, declaring them to be, as the lawyers would say, void for inconsistency. I could wish that these words might cost McClellan the loss of the votes of some Peace Democrats; but I have no idea that they will. These Peace Democrats know their man, and they are as sure of one George as of the other. Hence, whilst nothing McClellan can say in favor of a War policy can shake their confidence in his purpose for a Southern 
and Pro-Slavery Peace, the more he shall say in favor of such policy, the more he will rise in their esteem
all that he so says passing to the credit of his cunning in catching the votes of War Democrats.
I am not ignorant that the Daily News and Metropolitan 
Record, Vallandigham and other such, have come out against McClellan; but they will be for him when election comes. Why should they not be? Why should they not, trust him? Like them, he slanders the Government and the North. Like them, instead of ever saying so much as one word against slavery, he is constantly proving that his great concern 
is to save it. It is true that their treason is more open and noisy than his, but his is, nevertheless, as real and earnest as theirs. The coming out of Peace Democrats against McClellan is most, likely but part of the game. Their showing a want of confidence in him is expected to increase the confidence of War Democrats in him. But even if there are a few Peace Democrats, who, because of the warlike words in his Letter, do not like to vote for him, they, nevertheless, will vote for him. Such fellows are always either coaxed or whipped in. Let not the friends of 
the country flatter themselves that McClellan, who is in heart just what the Peace Democrats could wish him to be, will lose so much as one of their votes.
I pass on to inquire why it is, since the South is so obviously the guilty party in this war, so large a share of the Northern people goes with her. It is because 
of the power of party. It was long ago that the Democratic party came into alliance with slavery. I do not believe that it was as a prominent politician in effect declared it to be, a ”natural" alliance. In the early days of the Republic, the parties, morally considered, were not essentially different. But its espousal of the Pro-Slavery policy wrought a sad change in the Democratic Party. Its good men saw it, and lamented it; and from time to time many of them quit it. When at length slavery, having failed to accomplish its ends by political, commercial and ecclesiastical agencies, burst forth in rebellion, (for the rebellion is neither more nor less than slavery in arms,) then, as was to be expected, there was a great exodus from the Democratic party. Thousands of that party, who had been guilty of falling in with concessions 
to slavery, hoping thereby not only to help their party, but to preserve the quiet and promote the prosperity of the country, could remain in their Pro-Slavery party after slavery had undertaken the violent dismemberment of the nation. Nevertheless, the Democratic party did not become weak. As is natural, those who clung to it became more than ever devoted to slavery; and the more Pro-Slavery the party became, the more attractive was it to the aristocratic element in our population. For aristocracy, 
not in England only but the world over, must ever be in sympathy with slaveholding. Contempt of the toiling poor, black or white, bond or free, is common to both. Moreover, as the Democratic party increased in devotion to slavery, it grew in favor with those ignorant and debased multitudes who love slavery because they love to have a stratum of humanity still lower than their own. Again, these multitudes go for slavery because they are taught by the demagogues, who get their votes, that the colored people not in slavery are their rivals for the humble forms of labor.
The Democratic party, now so openly and shamelessly 
the servant of the Slave Power as to be at work either to break up the nation or to bring all parts of it equally under the reign of slavery, has long been the servant of that Power. Instance its in numerable mobs to prevent or break up the discussion of slavery. To embarrass the Government and help the rebels, it has become the champion of the right of Free Speech. Nevertheless, its Amos Kendall, who is now so conspicuously on the side of Free Speech, went so far the other way as to let slavery stalk into the Post Office Department, and wield its mighty machinery against Free Speech. Even our bland and gentle Gov. Seymour, who is now so distressfully concerned for the safety of Free Speech, was, but little more than three years ago, planning in conclave with kindred spirits the forcible prevention of a speech against slavery.
That the Democratic party should, even now, when all Christendom is giving up Slavery, still cling to it, is not unaccountable. Its whole life has come to be in Slavery; and it knows that when Slavery dies, it must itself die. Hence, to expect the Democratic party to give up Slavery is to expect it to give up itself; and the political party has not yet been which will consent, to give up itself.
The Democratic party is, in short, neither more less than the Northern wing of the Rebellion; and the same spirit of opposition to universal freedom, and to the lifting up of oppressed and degraded humanity, which imbues the Southern rebels, imbues the Northern rebels also. That such a party should do what it can to hinder the putting down of the Rebellion is only what might be expected. But that even so guilty a party should taunt us with incompetence to carry on the war, and with lack of success in it, is a meanness and hypocrisy which it surely did not need to add to its stupendous wickedness. How multiplied are its hindrances to our successful prosecution of the war! It discourages enlistments. It opposes drafts, and goes so far as to make them occasions for plundering and murderous riots. It impeaches the national credit, and does all it can to shake confidence and prevent investments in Government Bonds. It slanders and vilifies our upright and able President, and his upright and able Cabinet. Whilst sullen over the victories achieved by our Army, it exaggerates and rejoices in its defeats. I need specify no further. Enough is it to add that its crimes and character are summed up 
<c04>
in the crowning infamy of a Convention which built that traitorous and hypocritical platform, and put upon it the two Georges, who are precisely suited to it and to each other. How sad that the men who are doing these things are even too depraved and too infatuated to pause, and consider what a heritage of shame they are preparing for their children! 
The friends of the country must not allow themselves to be discouraged by all that its Northern, and therefore its worst enemies have done, and are still doing, to discourage them. They must continue to believe that a cause so good as is their cause will not fail. They must still have faith in God, and still believe that He will not suffer the hard-earned treasure and righteous blood which we have poured out in the War to be but waste. They must still believe that our brave and dear soldiers and sailors, who have died or been crippled in this ”War, have not died nor been crippled in vain. They must still believe that the sorrows of our scores of thousands of bereaved families will find their soothing and recompense in a nation of all its former boundaries, and of far more than all its former justice, freedom and prosperity.
This nation will live. It has given ample proof that it can withstand both foreign and domestic foes, both Northern and Southern rebels. This nation will live to see herself and the whole continent free from oppressors not from slaveholders only, but from imperial despots also. The Democratic Party will not much longer, by weakening and disgracing us, encourage the designs of the Napoleons and Maximilians. For the Democratic Party will soon die. As life is the law of righteousness, so death is the law of wickedness; and the wickedness of the Democratic Party is fast nearing that extreme limit where wickedness, 
all ripe and rotten, dies of itself.
Let us be of good cheer. Atlanta is already ours. So also is the Bay of Mobile. Very soon we shall have conquered two or three other important points; and then but a brief, feeble, flickering life will remain to the Rebellion. What is scarcely less important, the Election will also be ours. And then, thanks to God, the Democratic Party, that ugliest of all the enemies of human rights and human happiness, will be dead. The name may survive, but the Party that shall wear it will be as unlike to the present Democratic Party as day is to darkness. 
GERRIT SMITH. 
Peterboro', September 14th, 1864. 

EDUCATION OF THE FREEDMEN. 
In February last was issued from this Department Headquarters, General Order No. 23, containing the famous” Labor System” of Louisiana. This order may, perhaps, be styled the initial step of progress for the Freedman. By its provisions the able-bodied black laborer obtained food, clothing, medical attendance, a house to live in, and one hundred dollars a year in the shape of what is called wages. He was also therein promised a free school for his children. The whip was discarded, the peremptory discipline of slavery annulled, and the absolute power of the master reduced to a degree corresponding with that of an employer to his hired workman. On the other hand, the laborer was required to work, negropholism was disfavored, and vagrancy and idleness forbidden under sure and sufficient penalties. 
Education followed swiftly the footsteps of liberty. 
The next month the promise of free instruction 
for the colored people of Louisiana began to be fulfilled. General Order 38 was issued, constituting a Board of Education, consisting of three persons, Major B. Rush Plumly, Lieut. E. M. Wheelock, and I. G. Hubbs, whereof Major Plumly was chairman. This Board was empowered to establish common schools, employ teachers, erect school-houses, regulate the course of studies, and” have generally the same authority that Assessors, Supervisors and Trustees in the Northern States have in the matter of establishing and conducting common schools."
The scope and purpose of the order are stated to be-"For the rudimental instruction of the Freed-men of this Department, placing within their reach the elements of knowledge, which give greater intelligence and greater value to labor." 
The members of the Board, from the time of their appointment, began energetically their work, and have given to it their undivided time, strength and thought. The results are commensurate. They have established, and are now sustaining in successful operation, sixty-nine colored schools, giving employment to 109 teachers, and containing an aggregate of 7722 pupils. Previously to being employed, these teachers were required to attend the normal class, from one to six weeks, according to their respective needs. Of the 15,340 colored children indicated 
by the recent, census of the Provost Marshal's as being within our army lines in loyal Louisiana, more than one-half are already gathered into these free schools. It is expected that within the next three months, the remaining moiety will also be placed under instruction. 
The country schools are prosperous and thronged, and although they have been in being but a few months, they are rapidly demonstrating the capacity of the African to receive our civilization. Children who eight weeks ago were beginning the alphabet, are now reading in First Readers, and solving with facility problems in the primary, rules of arithmetic. 
The more intelligent of the planters are comprehending, 
that whatever contents and dignifies their labor is a reciprocal benefit to themselves; and the instances are continually increasing where the planters not only willingly, but cordially, aid the Board in the location of schools on their plantations. 
The city schools, fourteen in number, are conducted 
by 14 teachers-have an average attendance of 2427 pupils, with a total of perhaps 300 more. The ages of the scholars range from 5 to 18, with several grown persons of either sex, servants, teamsters and seamstresses, who manage to save an hour or two from daily toil, and devote it to gaining the elements of knowledge. About one-half of these children, prior to last October, did not know their letters. 
The different members of the Board have frequently 
and thoroughly visited these schools, and are conversant with the teachers and their methods of instruction. 
Certainly, the general cleanliness of the children is to be remarked. Their parents are poor-most of them very poor, owning not even themselves till that ever memorable, day in April, 1862, when the serfdom of Louisiana vanished in the smoke of Farragut's guns-yet the little ones always enter the school-room with their brown faces and bands shiningly clean, with shoes and clothing often wofully 
patched, yet painstakingly neat. 
The pupils display great eagerness for knowledge 
and facility of acquisitions. Their perceptive faculties are particularly good; too much so, perhaps, as in the reflective faculty and memory they seem somewhat deficient. No severity of discipline is used or required; the threat of expulsion from the privileges of instruction being sufficient to tame the most mounting spirit. 
The weekly report of the teachers show that the number of instances of absence and tardiness are less than, and the average daily attendance fully equal to, that in the white schools. 
No school buildings have been built, but such quarters as could be devised on the spur of the moment have been obtained; such as confiscated houses, the attics of untenanted stores, and in two instances the basements of churches. These latter were grudgingly given, or rather, not given at all, but taken. The pastors bad followed the able-bodied of their flocks into the elysium of the Confederacy, and the walls that had been defiled with the paeans of Treason and Slavery are consecrated anew by the breath of Instruction, and the Songs of praise of these” little ones” slaves no longer. 
In organizing these schools, many obstacles were met with, and one after another overcome. The prejudices of the people were actively enlisted against the education of” niggers. "It was thought impossible to procure teachers, except, from the North. Yet the true-hearted women of New Orleans came forward promptly to the work, and quietly bore the load of calumny, sneers and social proscription that fell to their lot. Louisiana has furnished the work with seventy-five earnest and laborious teachers.; All honor to them! The history of their State would be poorly written should it omit their names. 
A better day is now dawning here. The progressive 
triumphs of our arms have purified the political atmosphere. Many who were blind now see; and the community are fast perceiving that as 
<c05>
the Negro, bond or free, must still furnish the labor of the South, it is better to have that labor instructed 
than brutalized, and to spend in schools in order to save in prisons. 
In these schools careful attention has been paid to the correct vocalization of the elementary sounds; the pupils have been trained to a clearness and purity of tone creditable to Saxon voices. The advanced classes have finished the primary books of reading and geography, and are now reading the Third and Fourth Readers with facility. They have acquired the knowledge of arithmetic as far as long division and fractions, the multiplication table, the use of the outline maps, and can write with 
commendable neatness. 
Such are the general features of these schools. Even if they were now closed, the work of self-instruction, with the more advanced classes, could go on, and nothing can eradicate the knowledge they have thus gained. 
Three years ago, it was a crime to teach their race. Now they read the Testament and the newspaper. They are learning the geography of the world. They are gaining the knowledge of figures with which to do the business of Labor and Life. They are singing the songs of the Union and Freedom. They show a healthy mentality, and have made it appear to reasonable minds that they are very much like the rest of mankind, and are thus entitled to a fair chance in the world. 
The result of this new chapter of human experience 
will be a general resurrection of buried mind 
through the worn and wasted South. Our military expeditions do the pioneer work of blasting the rock and felling the forest. Education follows to sow the grain and raise the golden harvest. The most glorious 
work is now opening-to lift up the Freedmen with instruction, counsel, culture. The day of antagonism 
is over, and that of befriending" begins. 
Behind the advancing lines of our forces follows the small pacific army of Teachers and Civilizers; and 
the school-house takes the place of the whipping-post, and scourge. E. M. W. -New Orleans Times, Sept. 2. 
FEELING OF ENGLAND 
TOWAEDS AMERCA.
We have now in this country an Englishman who will be received, as he deserves, with a truly national 
welcome. This is Prof. GOLDWIN SMITH, of the University of Oxford, who is one of the very few men of the higher classes in England who have defended our cause stoutly from the beginning of our struggle. His name is associated with those of Richard Cobden and John Bright. He has now come across the Atlantic to see America for himself, to learn the prospects of the war, and to see the nation 
pass through the crisis of a Presidential election.
A few days since he was present at the Commencement at Brown University, in Providence, and received from that institution the degree of Doctor of Laws. In a short speech acknowledging the courtesy, he spoke thus of the feeling which existed among the different classes in England toward this country: 
"I most heartily thank you for the compliment you have kindly paid me and the great University, the elder sister of this institution, whom I have the honor to serve. I am no practised orator myself. I am a student, not an orator, and the only public meeting it has been my privilege to address was the great meeting in the Free Trade Hall in Manchester, England, to protest against the outrage of sending forth the Alabama.... 
It is true there have been causes of estrangement, and I am afraid that in this great struggle you have too much reason to complain, not only of a want of sympathy, but also of positive antipathy. But this is not true of the whole people; it is true only of certain classes, and that it is true of them I most deeply regret. When the Prince of Wales visited this country, he was received by you, not only with kindness and courtesy, but with cordiality and enthusiasm, and you might have hoped that throughout England a deep sympathy would have been manifested 
in behalf of your cause. Unhappily, dark clouds have now come between us, which I trust time may dispel. 
You must not think, however, that the nation is against you, though it were idle for me to deny that the privileged classes, our aristocracy and clergy, have. been opposed to you in this struggle. You have been a standing menace to them, not in a military sense, but in a moral and political sense. Their instinct teaches this, no matter what, their lips may say. They know that your principles are certain to endure; they know that their doom is linked with the destiny of this nation, and that it is opening a political future which shall overthrow their schemes of power. I do not say that they could not feel otherwise than they do, but it would be unnatural that they should, while they realize so keenly the tendency of your institutions. The feeling is not one of malignity, but of natural opposition to your political views and theories of government.
Believe me, too, there are other gentlemen ashamed of the language which has been used by a portion of their countrymen. When we come to the middle classes, there is a better feeling. This, it is true, is not what we might have expected. They are very rich, and their wealth has made them indifferent to what would once have greatly moved them; and I fear, although I am almost ashamed to say it, that some of them are not above the feeling that it is most genteel to agree with those who are hostile to you. The feeling of this class is not a feeling of real hostility, however. 
The London Telegraph is the great paper of the middle class. It has a circulation nearly treble that of the London Times. It has been against the war, but not in hostility to this country and its free institutions; 
and such is the character of much of the war talk which you read. I have now with me, I believe, a letter from one whom you know to be one of the best friends of America, my honored friend Mr. Bright, in which he says, if he envies me my visit to this country, he pities me also. His sorrow at the calamities that have overwhelmed you is almost anguish. He is truly a most cordial friend of this nation. Others may feel with equal strength that this war is a calamity, and express that feeling, and yet they may be, like him, the friends of your cause. 
But let us come down a little further in the strata of English society; let us come down to the masses, the lower middle class, as we call them, among 
whom are a great number of non-conformists, who are a class friendly to this country, whether actually 
in favor of the war I cannot” say. If we come down to the laboring classes, those who are agricultural 
laborers, a kind of peasantry, are scarcely above the condition of medieval serfdom; they have the least idea of political rights and privileges. But of the intelligent laborers, the mechanics and workingmen in our large cities and towns, there are few indeed whose hearts are not with you in sympathy, few indeed who have not followed your” fortunes; and, from the moment when the broad issue was made between freedom and slavery, they, in spite of, great suffering and great temptations, have warmly and steadily adhered to your side. We alone have been able to hold great public meetings, and the enemies of your cause have tried in vain to hold such meetings. 
I dare not trust myself to speak what I think of the London Times. Trust me, that it does not represent the feelings of the nation, and its utterances are not the voice of the English people. It has been sold by the editor, for what he regards as a sufficient compensation, invitations to aristocratic houses and the patronage of aristocratic society. 
Mr. President and gentlemen, I have ventured to speak upon this topic because many have been surprised at the position of England, and because I wish to show you that the English people are not your enemies. They have every motive to make the hearts of the two nations one. I would not venture to trench upon a subject upon which American opinion is divided. 
I trust that these institutions will have an influence 
to awaken the whispering of kindly and social feeling between us, when this terrible struggle shall be ended." 
THE”NASBY PAPERS" 
CHURCH UV THE NOO DISPENSASHEN,
Goodly 30. 1864. 
Our class meeting have been sumwhat neglectid uv lait. Sumhow it is in our church ez it is in the hetrodox-
we air hot and cold alternitly. Last Sunday we hed preshus seezn. 
Bro. Siples spoak. He confest that he was a week mortel. He had his ups and downs, bad. It woz ruff on him. Whenever Grant and Sherman had a success, his faith failed him, and sumtimes he hed difficulty in cumin in time even wen Lee whips Grant.
<c06>
But he hed recently paid $ 2 per gallon for whiskey, and that stird him. With one hand upon his 2 often empty jug, and tother pointed to heaven, he had sworn eternal hostility to them ez had razed these prices, which is ablishnists If convenyent he asked the brethring to pray for him.
Bro. Hopp riz. He hed his ups and downs alsorayther downs than ups. His sole was full wen Forrist killed the niggers, but alas! woe was on him Wen Sherman flaxt em at Atlanta. Now the skize is brite. Lee holds out bully, and tother day 4000 niggers waz killed at Petersburg-
At this pint I interrupted bro. Hopp. The <illegible> uv niggers iz no coz uv rejoisin. What a destruction uv property-4000 niggers at $1,500 per nigger, is 6,000,000! This sum uv muney, even at the present ablishin princes,wood prodoose propose 60,000,000,000 nips!
Wood, o wood, that I wuz condemd to consoom emall! Ef the niggers hed been white men, I wooleat hev keered. Wy? Bekoz, white sogers is all abllishnists Don't shake yer had, bro. Gramp, it's so. Your own son, even, backslid. He it wuz who me hum a sayin that if hed come back, and found that old hypocrit Nasby a eeting chickens about your howse, had plump a ounce ball into him. Hypocrit! Chickens! Such baseniss confirms me in my belief in the doctrin uv totle depravity. I am an <illegible> gest at the table uv my flock. Troo I etc, but wood eny uv em say that chicklings was a equivalent for my improvin conversashen? Ez for the paltry munny I borror, I allez give my goat, which settles them transactions.
2 resoom. Every nigger killed inflaims our brethren powerful. Imagin my brethren, a surthin artilrist a bringin uv his peace to bare upon the advansive enemy. He sees their air niggers, and his hart sinks. Neerer and neerer they cum. Seezin a glass, he vews em, and, horror! in the front rank, ”clothed in soots uv blu," he beholes his indocile niggers! Neerer! neerer! Fain would he spare em, for them very niggers may be the uncles uv a dozen uv his childre,n, (which is patriarkle,) to say nothing uv the munny he has in wested in em. But no! The order is given! ”Fire!” He pulls the battle string, and ez he beholds his own property bleeding on the place, he swoons away. My jentilgentle friends, I maik no doubt that half the cases reported in the Suthrin papers ez sun stroke wuz from that coz.
Uther brethrin giv their experience in. The feelin is improvinsence the draft, and I have faith that of our groseries kin hold up till Sept. 5, under the credit system, and too many don't run 2 Kanady, we will be able to while many Provo Marshel's forse they send again us.
PETROLEUM V. NASBY.
Paster uv sed Church in charge.
A HORRID NUISANCE.
This road, and nearly every other railroad in the country, is in one respect a NUISANCE, and yet such a nuisance as may be readily corrected, and ought to be, and would be if the managers would give the matter a little thought and care. Sitting as I do almost over the road, within a few feet of it, yet so shut in by the trees that it is invisible, I am in the habit of observing the peculiarities of the management, the signals which the bell and whistle make, and the difference of these in the various trains. The nuisance which every dweller on the line of a railroad suffers, and especially those within one or two miles of a station, is the unnecessary noise of the steam pipe, the hideous screech, the <illegible>, prolonged howl which the engineer perpetrates by night and day. So long and so closely have! studied this nuisance, that I am able to affirm it to be often made at the mere whim of the engineer, generally, I believe, for his own amusement, with that secret, malignant satisfaction which a man finds in startling his neighbors, giving them fits, making them jump., &c. This scream, more tearful than the yell of a tribe of Indians or a horde of rebels, is made sometimes by an express train passing through a village, and again the same trains go through as the same hour of the day or night, and omit the howl. It is never necessary as a warning,. for the noise of the coming train is heard for miles, and the bell is a sufficient signal, if any were wanting.
BUT -WHAT IS THE HARM?
This is the harm: In every village and hamlet 
on the line of every railroad in the world, there are houses in which are sickness, feebleness, infancy and age, delicate nervous temperaments, wounded, suffering 
people, dying people, some of them, all of them in need of rest, all sensitive to sound and racked with anguish when a harsh noise tears through their nervous system, dislocating every joint of the aching spirit, and rasping the fine fibres of a feeling heart. Is there no harm, most humane director, in sending an army of savages to sound the war-whoop under the windows of these abodes of suffering? 'But a thousand voices could not more 
fearfully startle the slumbers of a sick person than the blast of this horrid steam pipe, making night 
hideous with its scream. And it is repeated every hour or so, through the day, and prolonged in the 
night till suffering humanity moans out a despairing 
wish that it would stop, or that deafness might 
be granted as a boon. I know it will be very hard 
to convince business directors that this is a matter 
of any moment. They will smile at the simplicity 
of a man who supposes it to be any concern of theirs whether people are annoyed by noise or not. And that will be the end of it. But not so thought the governors of a hospital in which I once spent a night, by the side of a crushed and dying boy. The attendants passed their time playing games, laughing and talking near the mangled patients, sensitive to the least sound, and disturbed and distressed by this harsh and unnecessary noise. I laid the subject before the Board of Governors, and the head sinner 
was reformed out of office; and the rest reformed while in. No such good result will this plea produce in behalf of suffering humanity. I shall be laughed at for making so serious a matter of it, but if I could reach the directors of one railroad, (here or elsewhere, for there is scarcely any difference among them,) and produce an order forbidding any more of these screeches than is needful to give signals to the men on the train, and to clear the track. I should feel that this plea had not been altogether in vain.-New York Observer.
FRETFUL. PEOPLE. Men make themselves uncomfortable; destroy the peace of their families, and <illegible> ally make themselves hated, by fretfulness. Beecher says:
It is not work that kills men; it is worry. Work is healthy. You can hardly put more on a man than he can bear. Worry is rust upon the blade. It is not the revolution that destroys the machinery, but the friction. Fear secretes acid, but love and trust are sweet juices.
We knew a man with a patient, good, Christian, wife, and we never heard him speak a kind, pleasant word to her, and doubt if he ever did in the half century they have lived together. He is always in a fret. Everything goes wrong. You would think that he was made of cross- grained timber, and had always been trying to digest a cross-cut saw. He is eternally cross, and thinks that his wife and children, hired hands, and all the domestic animals, have entered into a combination to worry him to death. He is not only rusty, but fairly crusted over with it. He is encased in a shell of acid secretions, through which no sweet juices ever distil. Friction has literally worn him out, and he will soon worry himself to death. Of course, he has never worked to any advantage to himself or anybody else. With him everything always goes wrong. He superstitiously believes ”it is because the devil has a spite against him, ”when intruth it is nothing but his own fretfulness.
WHAT MAKES A LADY. When Beau Brummel was asked what made the gentleman, his quick reply was,” "Starch, starch, my lord!" This may be true; but it takes a great deal more to make a lady; and though it may to some seem singular, I am ready to maintain that no conceivable quantity of muslin, silk or satin, edging, frilling, hooping, flouncing, or bellowing, can per se, or per dress-maker, constitute a real lady. Was not Mrs. Abbott Lawrence just as much a lady when attired in twelve cent calico, in Boston, as when <illegible> in full court dress at St. James, London?” As Mrs. Washington was said to be so grand a lady," says a celebrated English visitor,(Mrs. Thorpe,)”we thought we must put on our best bibs and bands; so we dressed ourselves in our most elegant ruffles and silks, and were introduced to her lady ship; and don't you think we found her knitting, and with her check apron on! She received us very graciously and easily, but after the compliments were over, she resumed her knitting. There we were without a stitch of work and sitting in state, but Gen. Washington's lady, with her own hands, was knitting stockings for the husband." Does not that sweet republican simplicity command your admiration?
The Alexandria Journal learns through sources that cannot be doubted, that the guerilla Mosby was severely wounded in a skirmish near Fairfax, Va <illegible>days since. 
