THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID.) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $ 1.50 for cents is three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:- SWENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV NO. 4 BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1773
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
SPEECH OF FERNANDO WOOD,
In THE U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
On the proposed Anti-Slavery Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
This question, Mr. Speaker, has been very thoroughly discussed, and I doubt whether it is possible for either side of the House to advance any new or original proposition with reference to it. At the last session I had the honor to submit my views to the consideration of the House, and to state the reason why I should vote against the adoption of this resolution to amend the Constitution. I stated then that I doubted the power, in this mode, to reach the object aimed at; and I have listened with a great deal of interest to the discussion to-day, particularly that part of it between the gentleman from Iowa and the gentleman from Indiana, and I have heard nothings that has in the least altered or modified the views I expressed at that time.
I admit, with my friend from Ohio, [Mr. Cox,] that the people can alter their fundamental, organic form of government, and so can the people change entirely their government. That is the doctrine, which the Southern people assert. But, sir, that is not this proposition to change the form of government, a form adopted with certain theories, with certain principles, for certain objects; and I contend that while we may amend the Constitution in the mode provided by that instrument, we can amend it only to reach and cover those subjects or powers which were delegated originally to the General Government. The Federal Government was made by the States; the people collectively were never called to act upon it; and while the Constitution provides for its own amendment, so as to enable the General Government to carry out the objects originally delegated to it, still all the reserved rights are still reserved to the States. If we can amend the Constitution in this respect, we can amend it so as to reach to the marital relations and all other matters of a domestic character.
Mr. Speaker, I do not propose to repeat what I said at the last session upon this question. I should be glad to know that I was wrong; but having formed those opinions after careful study, having deliberately and carefully, and as I think, without partisan bias, reached that conclusion, with all due deference to the President of the United States, I am of the same opinion now.
But, sir, we are nearly a year later in the unfortunate and calamitous present history of this country than we were at the time this question was discussed at the last session. Events of moment have transpired since then, and therefore I have taken the floor for the purpose of offering for the consideration of this House a few practical remarks as to the policy of pressing this resolution; as to the effect if finally adopted by the necessary number of States; and whether, even if the effect shall be to free the slaves, we shall have given to that unfortunate race any amelioration of their condition, any social or political elevation of their status, or have advantaged them in any regard whatever.
Sir, the President tells us in his annual message at the commencement of this session, that he hopes we will now pass this resolution. He refers to the action of the people at the late election, and tells us that if we fail to pass it, the next Congress will, and that as the next Congress will why, forsooth, we ought to pass it.
Well, sir, that is very strange reasoning for that functionary. We all know that death is certain, and yet should we anticipate it? Because any evil that is hanging over the country or over us as individuals is inevitable, shall we forsooth meet it hurriedly and in advance? Sir, I cannot agree to the President’s reasoning, that because this is inevitable we should stultify ourselves, and go counter to our principles and our honest convictions in voting for a proposition which we utterly deplore and condemn. I am not sure that the President’s premises are correct. The next Congress may hold a different opinion upon this question. Slavery, as it now exists, may cease altogether before the next Congress of the United States assembles. The whole condition of our country may be altered, North and South, before the assembling of the next Congress. But assume this should not be, and the next Congress does recommend this alteration of the Constitution, do we not have Legislatures elected between now and that time? Will not the people be called upon then to act for the first time on this question? Will, not Legislatures be voted for and elected on this question? Because, sir, although, as stated by the gentleman from Iowa, this was an issue of the presidential election, according to the Baltimore platform, it was no issue in the elections for members of the Legislatures; and before the Legislatures can be called upon to act, new questions may intervene for their consideration, and new reasons why they should not accede may prevent their doing so.
But, sir, we will assume that Congress passes this resolution; we will assume that the Legislatures of the States carry out the recommendation of Congress, and agree to this amendment; what then? Will any man contend that it will free one slave? Did the President’s emancipation proclamation free one slave? Was it not, in his own expressive language,” like the Pope’s bull against the comet”? This also would be a mere brutum fulmen so far as the States in rebellion are concerned. If they continue in rebellion as they are now, no action of this Congress can affect the status of slavery within these States. They disregard the action of this Congress; they will disregard any action that we may take in an amendment of the Constitution. In those States slavery will continue, except in the triumphant path of our armies. Therefore the practical effect of this amendment will really be nothing. Without we hold their territory by military power it will free no slaves; where our armies march, where their tread is felt there slavery ceases; but it ceases only so long as our armies occupy slave territory; and when you withdraw that, slavery will again exist if the confederate power so will it.
But I go further, because I desire upon this occasion to discuss this question freely and frankly. And what I say, I say for myself, individually. I know the popular error is that it is politic for men to go for the abolition of slavery. I know the politicians of the North, looking for political preferment and the success of partisan power, run with this popular current of the day. And the man is looked upon as a fool who is honest, and frankly and boldly expresses his convictions to the contrary. But whether it be right or wrong, politic or impolitic, so far as I am concerned, I will, as I have always done in this House, and since the commencement of my public life, frankly and freely express my honest sentiments.
Now, sir, we will assume that by an amendment to the Constitution you abolish slavery: what then? Why have you abolished it? The gentleman from Iowa [Mr. Kasson] has to-day attempted to tell you of some of the evils which surround this institution.
<c02>
He calls it a social evil; others call it a political evil. All the evil acts of the rebels are attributed to the fact that slavery exists there. And it is assumed that this rebellion never would have existed, that it could not have been begun, that it could not be prosecuted or sustained, except that slavery existed within those States.
I will not stop to answer these fallacies. Our revolutionary fathers went into a rebellion, and were successful. The institution of slavery was not any hinderance to their success. When they threw down the gauntlet to their masters upon the other side of the Atlantic, the colonies all held slaves, and yet they prosecuted a seven years’ war successfully, during which we lost all our large cities. They all held slaves, yet no one among our enemies in England declared slavery as among the evils of our rebellion, or that in consequence of its existence we were prosecuting a bad cause for a wicked and bad purpose.
Well, sir, we will assume that we have abolished slavery. What then? The gentleman from Kentucky [Mr. Mallory] asked you yesterday, what do you propose to do with these people when you have freed then? Deport them? As the gentleman told you, it would add $4,000,000,000 to your debt; but that, in his own expressive language, would not deter gentlemen upon the other side of the House. The scheme of colonization has been abandoned; that scheme had for its supporters such men as Henry Clay and Daniel Webster. Our new lights have gone against that. They desire to keep these negroes here for home consumption. First, to use them as instruments by which to obtain political power. Secondly, to retain the power thus obtained. Thirdly, to gratify vengeance against the slaveholder. Fourthly, as an excuse for continuing the war, and thus to continue the army of Government officials; and finally, if possible, to elevate the negro to the condition of the white man and give him suffrage, and by that means to create a power which will forever rule and control this country.
Sir, the gentleman from Kentucky [Mr. Mallory] thus presented a question, which must be considered and decided. Wendell Phillips, in New York recently, more fully developed the design. He boldly announced the doctrine. He sustained it, asserting that a crossing of the white and black races would create the most superior race that has yet existed. And in reply to an inquiry, the distinguished gentleman to whom I refer boldly admitted that the object was to make the highest and most glorious specimen of human nature that the world has ever seen. Mr. Speaker, we may amend the Constitution; we may by superior military force overrun and conquer the South; we may lay waste their lands and destroy their property; we may free their slaves. But there is one thing we cannot do: we cannot violate with impunity or alter the laws of God.
The Almighty has fixed the distinction of the races; the Almighty has made the black man inferior; and, sir, by no legislation, by no partizan success, by no revolution, by no military power, can you wipe out this distinction. You may make the black man free, but when you have done that, what have you done? Have you elevated his condition? Have you advantaged him physically, socially, morally, or intellectually? I asserted here at the last session, I now repeat the assertion, that the condition of domestic servitude as existing in the Southern States is the highest condition of which the African race is capable, and when compared with their original condition on the continent from which they came, is superior in all the elements of civilization, philanthropy, and humanity. Sir, look at the African in his native condition, where he is supposed to be not only free, but” monarch of all he surveys.” I will ask the Clerk to read an extract from the volume of Captain Garnot, published by the Appletons, in 1854, describing what he saw in Africa, and the condition of the negro in his native wilds.
The Clerk read, as follows:
“In my wanderings in African forests, I have often seen the tiger pounce upon its prey, and with instinctive thirst satiate its appetite for blood, and abandon, the drained corpse; but these African negresses were neither as decent nor as merciful as the beast of the wilderness. Their malignant pleasure seemed to consist in the invention of tortures that would agonize, but not slay. There was a devilish spell in the tragic scene that fascinated my eyes to the spot. A slow, lingering, tormenting mutilation was practised on the living as well as the dead; and, in every instance, the brutality of the women exceeded that of the men. I cannot picture the hellish joy with which they passed from body to body, digging out eyes, wrenching off lips, tearing the ears, and slicing the flesh from the quivering bones; while the queen of the harpies crept amid the butchery, gathering the brains from each several skull as a bonne bouche for the approaching feast!
After the last victim yielded his life, it did not require long to kindle a fire, produce the requisite utensils, and fill the air with the odor of human flesh. Yet, before the various masses were half broiled, every mouth was tearing the dainty morsels with shouts of joy, denoting the combined satisfaction of revenge and appetite! In the midst of this appalling scene I heard a fresh cry of exultation, as a pole was borne into the apartment, on which was impaled the living body of the conquered chieftain’s wife. A hole was quickly dug, the stake planted, and faggots supplied; but before a fire could be kindled the wretched woman was dead, so that the barbarians were defeated is their hellish scheme of burning her alive.
do not know how long these brutalities lasted, for I remember very little after this last attempt, except that the bushmen packed in plantain leaves whatever flesh was left from the orgie, to be conveyed to their friends in the forest. This was the first time it had been my lot to behold the most savage development of African nature under the stimulus of war. The butchery made me sick, dizzy, paralyzed. I sank on the earth benumbed with stupor; nor was I aroused till nightfall, when my Kroomen bore me to the conqueror’s town, and negotiated our redemption for the value of twenty slaves.”
Mr. Speaker, I presume it will not be contended that the condition of the native African is, in any regard, equal to that of the American slave. Sir, the Africans live in their native wilds as slaves. The Africans are sold into slavery by themselves. I contend that their condition in this country is in every regard improved. From barbarians they become civilized Christians; from slaves they become freemen. Admitting all the sins with which slavery is charged, it cannot be denied that it has been an instrument in the hands of God by which to confer a benefit upon that unfortunate race.
Now, sir, I contend that, if we desire to be philanthropic-if we desire to confer a benefit upon that people-let us afford every, amelioration of their condition that we can under the law; but, sir, let us not forget that, evil though slavery be, there is yet a greater evil for this unfortunate country, and that is in destruction, the disunion, the consummation of the ruin now before us.
The gentleman from Indiana [Mr. Voorhees] said yesterday, we may be anticipated in our beneficent desires– that, in his opinion, the confederates themselves are preparing to abolish slavery. I know that it has recently been stated in the South that, rather than yield to the North, they would make terms with England and France, on the condition
<c03>
of the recognition of their independence, with the abolition of slavery to follow as a consequence. Sir, that may be; but in my judgment, it will not be. Neither England nor France will interfere in this question upon conditions of that kind; nor do I believe that the confederate government would accept the recognition of their independence by any European Power, if based upon the abolition of slavery without the consent of the States and the people thereof.
Mr. Speaker, I had hoped that at this session of Congress there would exist a condition of public affairs that would bring about certain peace and Union: that these measures of aggression against the Southern States would no longer have necessity or palliation. I had hoped that this Government would entertain propositions, which have been made for a cessation of hostilities and the restoration of this Union upon the basis of the existing Constitution.
But, sir, I have been disappointed. There is no disposition to heal this quarrel at all. There is no disposition on the part of the party in power to restore the Union upon the basis of the old order of things.
I can only say further, Mr. Speaker, that I shall vote against this resolution. I shall vote against it because it is not within the power of Congress to pass it I shall vote against it because it is unwise, impolitic at this time, if we could pass it legally. I shall vote against it because it is another step toward the eternal separation of the two sections. I shall vote against it because it would be no advantage to the negro if successful. I shall vote against it because it is an improper intermeddling with the domestic affairs of others. I shall vote against it because I want to remove every obstacle to the peaceful solution of this great question; I want to alleviate the condition of the South as well as the North; I want to discontinue these controversies and struggles now pending between men who but yesterday were fellow-citizens of the same greats country, with the same constitutional rights and privileges. I shall vote against it because I would leave to every State and every political community the entire control of their own domestic affairs. I shall vote against it because I want to preserve the essence of our constitutional liberties.
I want to continue this as a Republic. I want to disseminate power. from this central point instead of concentrating it here. I want to preserve the limitations of the Constitution and of the Government as originally constructed, in theory as well as in letter and spirit, that we shall not interfere with the relation of master and slave any more than between husband and wife.
I want to allay this excitement. I1 do not believe slavery has had anything to do with it. I know that at the North slavery is obnoxious to the people,. I know that the sentiment there is against the existence of slavery upon the continent of America. But there are evils at the North, which I should like to see exterminated. There are evils everywhere, among every people in every part of the world; and before we assume the right to do away with the evils of our neighbors, we ought to do that which is right ourselves.
We are in a war, a terrible civil conflict. Those who believe that it is near its termination are in error, because after you have abolished the armies of the rebels, there is power of resistance left among the people inhabiting that vast territory, which will make it necessary to have a standing army upon every square mile to retain it You will have not only to conquer, but keep conquered. It is not only necessary to conquer their armies, to deprive them of the power of resistance, but, in order to preserve the essence of our Government, you must conquer their hearts. You must get their assent or you must hold them in subjugation, and when you do that, we will have ceased to have a republican form of government.
I want to restore this Union. Under no circumstances, I repeat, would I consent to disunion. But, sir, to restore this Union you must accompany the Army with the olive -branch. You must learn from General Sherman, who has done more to conquer the people of Georgia by kindness than ten thousand triumphant armies marching through that State could do. It is only by conciliation and kindness that we can conquer the rebels. Reverse the picture: suppose we were in rebellion against them; how long would we resist an attempt to subjugate us, and control our domestic relations? They are as brave a people, as generous a people, and as noble a people as ourselves, and as such it is wisdom to treat them. The Republican position for forcible abolition is illogical, because when their slaves are freed by this mode, yon you have enslaved the matter. One follows as the consequence of the other. I say you must hold them in bondage before you can accomplish your purpose in this way. What is the distinction? A distinction without a difference. I should be loth to say here that forcible emancipation is the result of wickedness alone, but I will say it, is a combination of wickedness and folly. We want the Union; we want these States back again; we want to see these men represented upon this floor; we want to obey the laws and the Constitution. Admitting they have committed a wicked folly in attempting to rebel,
“To err is human; to forgive, divine;”
and it is only, in my judgment, by conciliation, by affording them every guarantee of the Constitution and every privilege under the Constitution, that we can bring that people back again with us to live under one common Government, recognizing one common Constitution, one common head, and one common flag.

Selections.
SPEECH OF HON. MR. GRINNELL,.
IN THE U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
On the proposed Anti-Slavery Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
I will detain the House but a few moments, in tending to divide my time with the gentleman from Illinois, [Mr. Farnsworth,]
I regard this as a marked day in American politics and American history. I am happy to follow a gentleman from a slave State-and a slaveholder too, I believe—[-[Mr. King,] who advocates a constitutional amendment whereby slavery may become extinct throughout all the breadth of the land. I rejoice that the State of Iowa, which I have the honor in part to represent upon this floor, and is known by her forty thousand majority for freedom, has no so honorable a neighbor, so magnanimous and so able a philosopher and statesman upon this floor.
It seems to me this is a day of great opportunities; great for the conservative Republican who shall never more have to apologize for his votes, correcting his record; and a great day for the Democrat, who may now break the shackles of party, and stand forth with great men and patriots in our early histo-
<c04>
ry, and march on in the royal highway of freedom for all nations. Sir, this is one of the days, which make the text for volumes of history, big with the fate of races and an empire.
Now, sir, as I have not to talk about my own consistency, having been, so far as I know, always an abolitionists, I am here to say that I1 do not enter into the discussion of the simple propriety of this measure. No; at the threshold I deny that there can be property in man. I never believed in the doctrine. My whole nature revolted at it, and the reading of books of law, volumes of history, and of God’s word, never taught me else than that the institution was barbaric, in defiance of natural justice, and so shameful in its pretensions that in no State in this Union has its legal existence been established by any law. And here I desire to ask the gentleman from Kentucky, [Mr. Clay,] when he spoke of the legal and constitutional rights of his people, where he finds a law in the State of Kentucky, or in any other slave State, that establishes the system of African slavery? ”It cannot be found. Slavery is an outlaw, and we are but proposing to execute the criminal that has been an outlaw for generations in this country.
It is well known that the British constitution and the common law of England and the decisions of the great jurists of England were against the existence of slavery in that country. One John Hawkins was the first to engage in the slave -trade in this country. He planted the institution here. Did that legalize slavery? Did he have from his queen any authority to traffic in human beings? None. How did slavery come to exist in the colonies? From whence came the authority to hold slaves? From, England? No. Did it come by colonial legislation? No. How, then, came it in these States? By brutal force. As I have already said, it is not found to be established by law in any State, and must stand here as an outlaw. The great expounders of our Constitution have said that the Declaration of Independence itself, proclaiming all men free and equal, laid the corner-stone of our Confederacy, and that it is above all constitutions and all laws. That is enough for me; and we are only tolerating here what should have ceased to exist long ago, and spared us civil war. Sir, if I1 had my preference, I would rather see slavery wiped out here by a legal decision, and announced by a chief justice—our Lord Mansfield, I trust-on the great principles of justice, rather than by the tardy action of States.
I wish now to refer for a moment to the statement made by the venerable gentleman from Kentucky, [Mr. Clay,] that we are about by this measure to deprive his State of representation in this Chamber. How is that? They now have three-fifths representation for their slaves; when the genius of liberty shall take possession of that State, and the votes of the people shall have destroyed slavery there, then their slaves will be counted as freemen. Instead of decreasing their representation, we augment it.
But the gentleman asks, What will you do with our slaves? What shall we do with them? Ah! it seems to me there is something due to those who have so long supported their masters certainly to be let alone. Cannot they who have supported themselves and their masters, in the past take care of themselves? That, sir, is a question that we can well afford to leave unanswered, since the enslaved race are establishing their manhood and fighting our battles.
The gentleman from New York [Mr. Brooks] stands up here in defence of those who are now in rebellion, so far as to declare that slavery has not ruled the country. I wish, sir, that he bad had been more conversant with American history; that he had read less of newspapers, and more of our political history. Why, sir, it is well known that the great majority of the people of this country have been controlled by the institutions of the South,. We propose to break away from that control, and stand forth free and independent, never more to be bartered away by a body of men banded together for any political or selfish purpose, much less by those in the control of tyrants.
If you look into the facts and figures in regard to this control, you will find that up to the year of the rebellion, for two-thirds of the time the Presidency of the United States had been held by slaveholders or southern men; you will find that of the Presidents of the Senate, slavery had sixty-one out of seventy-seven; you will find that of the Speakers of the House of Representatives, they had twenty-one out of thirty-three; you will find that of Attorney Generals they had fourteen out of nineteen; and that they have had the Secretary ship of State nearly two-thirds of the time; and since the slavery agitation, as if it were to be ready for this conflict of arms, for four-filths of the time have the Secretary of War and Secretary of the Navy been from the South.
Look, too, at the Supreme Court of the United States and its organization; slavery has had seventeen out of the twenty-eight members. It was organized purposely, as all the world knows, to give five judges to the slaveholding States, and four to the free States, notwithstanding that the free States exceeded the slave States almost one third in population, and one half in wealth and in business for the courts.
Thus do facts answer that assertion of the gentlemen.-man. And hence it is the business, the high and holy work of the American people henceforth to sunder these spackles, and no more to be controlled by the system of slavery which was fast binding us, and defenceless, to be cast into outer darkness.
Mr. Speaker, I have noticed the agonies of gentlemen over the tomb of slavery. I do not forget how they agonized, even to the going down of the sun, against the abolition of slavery in this District. There were, according to them, untold horrors looming up from that measure; but what has been the result of its passage? It has raised the value of property in. thus this District two hundred per cent. It bane fitted benefited a race and enacted justice. Not one of the horrors which filled men’s imagination has visited us. Then, again, when the enlistment of negroes was proposed, we were told that the negroes would not fight, and that if we tried to make soldiers of them our white troops would resist it, and the rebels would fight with increased desperation. Neither assertion was true. So, too, on the discussion of the confiscation law, we were told that if it were passed, rebels would fight to the last ditch, and our last victory was won. Twenty thousand people in Savannah and a hundred and fifty thousand is in New Orleans have made your prophecy false. They came out to take food from your hands and welcome the old flag. You shed ink in great profusion in protest, and opened the lachrymal founts over unborn children; yet the born children mock at your fear, and you, gentlemen, are in tolerable health to-day, except in that sense political in which you seem to be on the verge of dissolution. But there is political health to be found in this grandest opportunity of the century which is gives to make the land of the Pilgrims and of Washington free; so free that another rebellion will be impossible; to make the nation’s destiny so glorious that Heaven shall look down to see.
<c05>
Mr. Speaker, I am an aware that there has been much coaxing outside and inside of this Hall in effort to induce Democrats, who have voted against the Republican party and against the amendment so long, to come new now” and vote for the amendment. I for one do not share the solicitude of many on this point. I am in no coaxing mood. If these gentle-men see -no wisdom in giving orders for a shroud, that there may be an early and decent burial of that which is in its death -throes and ought to have been hastened to the tomb long ago, we can endure its putrescence till the ”ides of March” at least, when at a called session of Congress, if a necessity, a jubilant majority will give the vote which they were elected to cast, and will ally their names with the honored dead of the centuries. We can pass the constitutional amendment then, without coaxing, thank God. The next Congress was elected for that purpose, and we shall have an overshadowing majority, which will open a new page in our political history; and to vote for this constitutional amendment is just the feast to which those members fresh from the people were invited. Those who sunder party ties, and vote for it, cannot fail of grateful remembrance, for slavery and Democracy nave, have been mutual supporters for thirty years. They cling together like the Siamese twins. And so theirs shall be the folly, theirs shall be the curse, if they do not resist the sorcery of party. Let them abide together, and go down to the depths” with bubbling groan,” for, pleasant in their lives, in death they should not be divided.
Mr. Speaker, I need not give my reasons in full why I shall vote for this constitutional amendment. I will simply state a few of the reasons that will impel me to do so. In the first place, I will vote for it because the Constitution provides for its own amendment. Secondly, I will vote for it because it allows the people of the States to exercise their sovereignty -that” popular sovereignty” which we have heard beard I descanted upon, lo, these many years. I propose to have a practical illustration of the doctrine. I will vote for it because it is a measure of justice to millions in chains it o, hundreds of thousands fighting our battles. The country demands it. The people, although their Representatives here heed not their voices, demand it. They demand it by the voice of four hundred thousand majority given in the late election to the present Executive of the United States. Above all there is a voice sounding out louder than thunder if men would hear it; it is the voice of God to this nation,” Break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free.”
I rejoice, Mr. Speaker, to welcome so many who are coming into the ranks of free men, and to know that there is a breaking up of unholy alliances. I rejoice not in mere party victory, but I am gladdened in seeing men restored to their right minds, and placing themselves in the currents of intelligence and patriotism, so that when there shall be a reorganization of the Government, when there shall be an adjustment, when the war is ended, we shall find men of all classes and of all parties allied together invoking the blessing of Almighty God to the end that this may be the great, the glorious, the free, the mighty nation of the earth.
In conclusion, Mr. Speaker, I take pride in the fact, and let it go down to history, that but one gentleman on the other side of the House has stood up here to advocate” the sum of all villanies,” American slavery. Thank God, he did not belong to a slave State. A thousand thanks, those who live in the midst of the institution do not dethrone their reason and provoke the vengeance of the Almighty by standing up here in defence of American slavery. But let him, [Mr. Fernando Wood,] living on northern soil and in a mighty city, degrade, if he choose, his manhood, defame the African race, and thus bear off all the honors to which his pandering and vassalage entitle him. ”Let him enjoy his solitary ignominy,” is said all around me. Yes, sir, I repeat it. That gentleman, born and reared in a free State, has seen fit to stand up in this year of 1865, and declare that American slavery is the best condition of the African race. He deserves the shackles he would fasten upon others; and as I trust in God, I believe his posterity will at least wear his brand of ignominy, if not wear the chains he would forge for others. Reproaches of scorn for slavery’s defender, but thanks for those who have broken the shackles of party, and are coming forth for their country! I rejoice that this is their day of freedom, and that we are now about to give liberty to millions who have no voice in this Chamber.
I will now yield the remainder of my hour to the gentleman from Illinois, [Mr. Farnsworth,] who desires to speak upon this question.

SPEECH OF HON. MR. FARNSWORTH.
MR. FARNSWORTH. Mr. Speaker, ”property,” “vested rights,” “robbery,” are the dying cries from the agonized hearts of the men who defend man-stealing and woman-whipping, and who apologize for treason. I do not rise here for the purpose of making a constitutional argument, but only for the purpose of briefly answering those charges. It seems to me that they core come from’ the wrong side of this question. When used by the men who oppose this constitutional amendment
“Property!” What is property? That is property, which the Almighty made property. When at the creation He gave man dominion over things animate and inanimate, He established property. Nowhere do you read that He gave man dominion over another man.
“Vested rights!” What vested rights so high or so sacred as a man’s right to himself, to his wife and children, to his liberty, and to the fruits of his own industry? Did not our fathers declare that those rights were inalienable? And if a man cannot himself alienate those right, how can another man alienate them without being himself a robber of the vested rights of his brother-man?
“Vested rights” and” robbery,” forsooth, from the slaveholder! Why, sir, it is passing strange that men, from usage and familiarity with a crime, will even get to using the very words and phrases in defence of that crime which legitimately and properly describe the crime itself. There never was a highwayman who had pursued his course of crime for a series of years, who did not regard the execution of the law upon him for his crimes as most unjust to him. The poet has well said that-
“No rogue o’er felt the halter draw,
With good opinion of the law”
It has been truly said by the gentleman who preceded me, [Mr. Grinnell,] that in the statutes of so slave Stales States in the Union can you find the origin of Slavery. There is not a statute in any one of those States that ever established property in slaves; not one. It is a carbuncle; it is an ulcer; it is a cancer, which has grown up by stealth upon the body politic, which has only from usage become familiarized to men, and they have surrounded it with statutes protecting the relation that we find in any of the codes of the slave States. You cannot find in any statutes of any civilized nation on the face of the earth where property in things animate or inanimate
<c06>
is established. Nowhere is that property defined; nowhere is it declared in any statute statue in the world that man shall have property in this or that thing. Because, as I have said before, the Almighty having given property in these things, it is only necessary that civilized society should surround it with laws to protect men in the possession and enjoyment of it.
I trust we shall hear no more of robbery, of vested rights. Slavery commenced in robbery and theft, and has been carried on by a trespass, and no usage in the lapse of time can make that just or legal or right, which in its origin and inception was a crime.
What is it that we now propose to do? We propose to say in the organic law of the land that there shall be no more involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime. And there w another thing; we are now dealing with a class. While there may be now and then a loyal slaveholder in the rebellious States, as a class the slaveholders are traitors, as a class they brought on this rebellion, as a class they are fighting our soldiers in the field, starving our prisoners in their dungeons, and by every high handed and ruthless outrage conducting this war of treason. That is the character of slaveholders as a class.
But there is another class of people there, denominated slaves. What are they? Invariably the friends of the Union; invariably the friends of the Union soldier, giving him aid and comfort, secreting him on his stolen flight from Southern dungeons to the lines of our Army, furnishing him food and shelter on the way, and diverting from him the bloodhounds on his track.
It is but a day or two since, that I took by the hand the adjutant of that grand old regiment that I raised and took into the field. For a year and a half he had been sojourning in a variety of Southern prisons. Escaping from Columbia with a few others, he was for twenty days and nights within the rebel lines, traveling by night, and secreting himself by day in the but of the slave, until he reached the lines of Sherman near Savannah. In every instance, (and his tale is but a repetition of the tale told by thousands.) in every instance he could with the utmost confidence approach the humble door of the slave, either by night or by day, and rap for admittance, and could obtain there concealment, protection, and food. He was never turned away and never deceived by any slave from whom he sought assistance. The slaves guarded him; they fed him. upon the best they could procure, and sent him on his way rejoicing. And when the slaveholders, these men who, according to the declaration of the member from New York, [Mr. Fernando Wood,] are a brave, generous, and noble people, put upon his track die the bloodhounds and the bull-dogs, and when their hoarse howling was heard upon his track, his pursuers were, by the arts taught by the slaves, diverted from the scent, and he was protected.
Sir, it is said, I believe, that every man looks upon and appreciates character from his own standpoint. I suppose that a man who stands upon the gallows, and feels the halter drawn about his neck, would regard a very disreputable person, it if exempt from the doom of that punishment, as very respectable; and I suppose that, if a man has escaped the penitentiary by the statute of limitations or any other device, he would regard as very respectable a character which others might consider very ignoble. Men of a low class regard the character of others from their own low stand-point, and by a comparison with their own position in the moral scale. But it is left for the member from New York to justify and support this barbarous institution of slavery, and to declare that the slaveholders engaged in this rebellion are, par excellence, the noble, gallant, and generous people of the United States. Mr. Speaker, I do not so regard them. From the stand-point which I occupy, I look upon them in a very different light. I think that they are neither just, generous, nor noble; and, sir, you shall find that, wherever slavery has existed for a series of years, it makes the slaveholder ignoble, unjust, ungenerous, and tyrannical. Such is the natural effect of the institution everywhere.
The member from New York caused to be read at the Clerk’s desk a description, as I learned afterward, of some horrid scene in Africa as written by a .traveler; I did not know when it was read from what source it was taken, nor had I heard what was said by that gentleman in connection with it Forming my surmise on the character of the description,. I turned to some one near me, and asked whether it was a description of the horrid atrocities committed by the denizens of the Five Points and others, constituents of the gentlemen, during the riot in New York city a year or two ago. It seemed so apt and complete a description of the scenes which occurred during that riot, as they were detailed in the New York papers, that I thought it must be an extract from some history of those occurrences. We all recollect that, during that riot, colored orphan asylums were set on fire, negro women with children in their arms were murdered, and in some instances negroes were burned. Those are scenes, which were participated in by voters of that member’s own city and district. You need not go to Africa to find scenes of horror.
I think we should deal justly with the unfortunate class of people who will be freed by the adoption of this amendment. Justice, long delayed, should be awarded to them. Why, sir, suppose that, by some turn of the wheel of fortune he slave should become the master, and the gentleman from Kentucky, [Mr. Clay,] who addressed the House yesterday, should become the slave. Would he then cry out, ”Robbery! Violation of vested rights!” if we sought to strike the shackles from his limbs? Yet his slave is a man. And Thomas Jefferson declared that it was by no means impossible that some turn of the wheel of fortune might bring about that state of circumstances; and he declared that in case of a contest between the masters and their slaves, the Almighty possessed no attribute? that would take sides with the masters.
Mr. Speaker, I thank God that, by the votes of my constituents, who sent me here by over thirteen thousand majority, I have the privilege to-day of standing up here, and advocating this amendment; and I know that when the light of the past and the present and the future shall with their concentrated rays throw a focal blaze upon the page of history that we are making to-day, it will be a source manse of the highest pride for my children to point to the record which I make and the vote which I give to day; while I1 know equally well that as to the men who may vote against this amendment, and particularly those who apologize for the institution of slavery, their action will be an everlasting disgrace to themselves, and their children, and their children’s children. Sir, we are making history, and we are making it is fast. These things will not be looked upon fifty years hence as they are now. When this usage of slavery is abolished, and when we have ceased to be familiarized with the clank of chains, then we hall look upon this thing with the horror it deserves.
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof”.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state a of things, so far from its being true that the State. s where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITESUNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CUNGRES extend CONGRESS extent to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.” -J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
THE LAST SPEECH OF EDWARD EVERETT
His Voice rained in an Appeal for Generosity and Justice to the South-He inculcates Love of Neighbor, Charity to the Suffering, whoever they may be.
The following speech was delivered by Hon. Edward Everett, in Faneuil Hall, Boston, on the evening of the 9th instant, at a meeting called to obtain relief for the suffering people of Savannah. It is his last speech, as it was delivered scarcely five days before his death. It breathes, from the first line to the last, a true Christian spirit of charity and love of neighbor.
MR. MAYOR: After the statements to which we have just listened from Col. Allen, the eye-witness of the scenes he has described, I do not feel as if anything I could say wanted to induce the citizens of Boston to respond promptly to his appeal. The condition of Savannah certainly makes an imperative call upon our best feelings. It contains 20,000 men, women and children, suffering to a greater or less degree for clothing, fuel, and food. Their care-worn looks, their haggard faces, their emaciated frames, as described by Col. Allen, bear witness that they have long been in this condition. Gen. Sherman having escaped into the city, and Gen. Hardee having escaped out of it, the authority of the United States has been restored in this principal seaport of Georgia, and cheerfully accepted, say, joyously welcomed by the main body of the inhabitants.
There can, I think, be no doubt of the last fact. At the great public meeting convened by the. Mayor-a meeting of all classes of the citizens, held in Masonic Hall, the largest in the city-after the address of the Mayor, which has been generally copied into our papers, the resolutions, which have also been extensively inserted in our journals, were passed by acclamation, the allusion to the flag of the United States and the home of the President being received with hearty cheers. Now, this I consider one of the most remarkable and encouraging events of the war. It proves what I have always asserted, because I have always known that there was a wide-spread Union sentiment at the South. There is not one of the Southern States, with the possible exception of South Carolina-and I doubt even that-in which, if the question had been thrown to a popular vote, after a full and free discussion for a year and three quarters, as was the case with the Constitution framed in 1787, the first blow of the rebellion could have been struck. But long before the outbreak a system of political proscription and intimidation, enforced when necessary by acts of violence, had established a complete reign of terror, so that when the time came, the masses were ”precipitated” by a few ambitious and disappointed political and military leaders into the rebellion. Gladly would they have thrown off the yoke, but the means that placed it have riveted it on their necks. All history teaches how small an organized military power suffices to hold an unarmed population in subjection. With all their able -bodied men, of whatever opinion, forced into the army, and the pains and penalties of treason visited upon every one who manifests in word or deed a wish for the restoration of the Union, it is not to be wondered at that an open expression of the sentiment has not taken place. Considering the vicissitudes of war, and the possibility, as it may seem to them, that the Confederate yoke may again be placed upon their city, though we well know that that event will take place when Savannah river runs up hill, I rather wonder that her citizens have ventured even now to take that the step they have. It is evidently a fair expression of sentiment of the city. The meeting was called by the mayor, at the request of leading citizens. None of Gen. Sherman’s army, officers or men, were present. Sentinels were placed at the door to keep the soldiers out, and none, in fact, were admitted. There have been other manifestations equally expressive of good will between the people of Savannah and General Sherman’s army. The best understanding exists between the military and local authorities. Private property is respected; the officers of the army are gladly received as private boarders in the houses of the citizens, and there is not probably in the United States, at this moment, a better governed and more quiet and orderly city than Savannah. These precious boons have been brought back to its citizens with the flag of the Union. But something else must go with it. There is no store of food there. Their ware-houses, their dwelling-houses, are empty of provisions and other necessaries of life, and there are 20,000 men, women, and children, who, in the interval which must necessarily elapse before trade can return to its accustomed channels, must be clothed, and warmed, and fed. It is our duty, as I know it will be our pleasure, to do our part in this benevolent work. They offer, it is true, to send the rice which General Sherman has given them, and sell it at the enhanced price which it bears in our market, in payment of the supplies of which they stand in sore need. But New York and Boston don’t want their rice. Savannah wants our pork, beef, and flour; and I say in the name of heaven, let us send to them without money and without price. By and by we will trade with them as we did in the good old times before the curse of secession and rebellion came upon the land. By and by we will take the rice and the cotton, and give them our food and our fabrics in return.
Now, sir, I had rather not be paid for the relief we send them. Our storehouses and granaries are full-our farmers never had a better year. Some branches of trade and manufactures are depressed, but others are more than usually active and profitable. The great West, big as she is, hardly big enough to hold the wealth that is annually reaped from her fertile fields; and, as if the accustomed products of the soil were deemed insufficient by a bountiful Providence, the very clods of the earth throughout the Middle States “are pouring out rivers of oil,” till King Petroleum bids fair to sway the markets of the world as King Cotton did before his fibrous majesty was dethroned. In this state of things, sir, I don’t want our great commercial cities, warm-hearted Boston and imperial New York, to go to chaffering with poor, war-stricken, starvings Savannah for the food she needs for her famished citizens. No, sir; I should as soon have expected the fond father in the parable, that loveliest page in the sacred volume, to drive a bargain with his returning son for a meal’s victuals out of the fatted calf. Let us offer it to them freely, not in the spirit of almsgiving, but as a pledge of fraternal feeling, and an earnest of our disposition to resume all the kind offices of follow-citizenship with our returning brethren. Do you say that they were lately our enemies? I am well convinced that the majority, the great majority, were so but nominally. But what if they were our enemies? ”If thane enemy hunger, feed him: if he thirst, give him drink,” especially when he has laid down his arms and submits to your power. And I hope we may never have to retaliate in any other way the cruelties of starvation practiced upon our poor prisoners. Nothing so plainly shows the ruthless spirit of the leaders of the rebellion as the manner in which our prisoners of war have been treated at some of the depots. The accounts of these cruelties which have reached us have, of course, been contradicted, but I know them to be true. I know it from some of the living victims of these cruelties. A young officer exchanged from Libby-a person as well entitled to credit as any one, high or low in office, priest or layman, by whom his account has been or can be contradicted-assured me that the statement so frequently made, of the cruel manner in which our prisoners were treated in that prison are unexaggerated. An officer, recently escaped from Columbia, informed a friend of mine, who repeated it to me last Saturday, that the allowance even to officers was a very small quantity of uncooked cob meal daily, with a spoonful of sorghum syrup. The condition in which the returned prisoners come back of to us-their wasted frames, their sunken eyes, their nerveless limbs-shows that it is the settled policy of the rebel leaders to send them home broken down, body and mind, and unfit for service. In other words, to keep them out of the grave just long enough to be exchanged for far a rebel prisoner, who will return better fed and clothed than he was at home, hale and hearty, and ready to take the field. That such is the case with the Southern prisoners of war at our depots, I had some opportunities to know personally. The prisoners at Fort Warren are as well housed and fed, as far as substantial are concerned, as nine-tenths of the people of Massachusetts-that is, they have comfortable shelter, space for exercise, adequate clothing, and food, animal and vegetable, in abundance. I visited Camp Douglas, near Chicago, at a time when 8,000 Confederate prisoners were confined there. They had twenty acres of ground for exercise and games in which they chose to indulge. They had comfortable barracks. I saw Western hams by the cart-load unloading into their store <illegible> and I passed through their quarters just at 
<c02>
the dining-hour. The tables certainly were not spread with damask table-cloths, nor set out with porcelain or cut glass, nor did I taste the food; but, judging from looks and smell, it was as wholesome and savory as I ever wish to see on my own table, and in quantity and quality it was equal to that of the Union regiments that guarded the depot. A similar state of things, I was informed by am an intimate friend of mine, an officer high in the public service, exists at Johnson’s Island, in Lake Erie. I have also heard from trustworthy sources similar accounts of the treatment of the prisoners at Fort Delaware. Mr. Davis made it a complaint in one of his messages that Southern prisoners were confined at a place so far north as Fort Johnson. He did not appear to remember that Millen and Anderson vile, in summer, might be as trying to a Northern constitution at as Port Johnson to a Southern constitution in winter; and it is a current fact, officially ascertained, that, the proportion of persons frozen to death is greater at the South than the North, in consequence of our more effectual precautions to resist the cold. I mention these facts the rather now that, as an offset to the cruelty practiced on our prisoners at the South, an attempt is making to persuade the sympathizing classes in Europe that Southern prisoners are made to suffer at the North. Now, sir, I believe that the best way in which we can retaliate upon the South for the cruel treatment of our prisoners is for us to continue to treat their prisoners with entire humanity and all reasonable kindness, and not only so, but to seize every opportunity like the present to go beyond this. Indeed, it is no more than our duty to treat the prisoner well. The law of nations requires it. The Government that refuses or neglects it does not deserve the name of civilized. Even inability is no justification. If you are yourself so exhausted that you cannot supply your prisoner with a sufficient quantity of wholesome food, you are bound, with or without exchange, to set him free. you have no more right to starve him than to poison him. It will, however, be borne in mind that while the hard fare of our prisoners is defended by the Southern leaders on the ground that it is as good as that of their own soldiers, at the same time they maintain that their harvests are abundant, and their armies well fed. There is no merit in treating a prisoner with common humanity: it is simply infamous and wicked to treat him otherwise. While we take no credit to ourselves that we do not starve our prisoners, let us show that we are glad of a chance to minister to the wants of our fellow-citizens of the South when we are under no moral obligation to do so.
Under no moral obligation, did I say, sir? I am not so sure of that. Forty years ago, we thought it our duly to relieve the starving Greeks. We sent shiploads of provisions to them in charge of a worthy citizen (Dr. Howe) to make the distribution, and the memory of that kindly deed still dwells on the ”Isles that crown the AEgean deep.” When the icy hand of famine smote the toiling millions of Ireland in 1847, the cry of their distress reached this hall, and returned with a generous response. The want of employment, caused by the cessation of the supply of cotton, deprived the operatives of Lancashire of their” daily bread; our friends in New York sent the George. Griswold, laden with provisions, to their succor. The pirate Semmes showed what he was made of by burning the vessel on her return. Not a twelvemonth has elapsed since the heart of our community was stirred to its depths by the pathetic eloquence of Colonel Taylor, setting forth the distress of our brethren in East Tennessee. The relief extended by you in all these cases was not a mere gush of sentimental benevolence; it was, you so considered it, the performance of a Christian duty, an act of obedience to the great law of love, which, paramount to the Constitution and law of the land, lays its sacred obligation on every rational creature, and makes us all brethren, mutually dependent on each other, in the one great human family. And shall we shut out from this great family our brethren of Savannah, who, by the valor and conduct of our armies, and the heroic skill of their noble leader, are again gathered, nothing lath, beneath the folds of the sacred flag? Gen. Sherman, as kind as he is brave, who desires only to preserve by the gentle sway of gratitude and love what his unconquered sword has won, has himself said that ” the timely relief of the suffering citizens of Savannah will be worth more to the Union cause than ten battles.” For heaven’s sake, my friends, let us hasten to win these bloodless victories, saddened by no parent’s bereavement, no widow’s tears. While we subdue the armies which a merciless conscription of old and young drives to the field, and maintain a cordon of iron and fire around the shores of persistent rebellion, from the moment a desire is manifested on the part of the masses to acknowledge the authority of the Government, let us hasten to extend to them the right hand of Christian love, to supply their wants, to relieve their sufferings, and to mark their return to the Union by the return of a prosperity to which, by the selfish and cruel ambition of their leaders, they have so long been strangers.
DEATH OF EDWABDEDWARD EVERETT.
The death of this eminent statesman and admirable scholar is announced by our telegraphic dispatches to have taken place at his residence in Boston on Sunday, Jan. 15, after a brief and severe illness. Few of our public men have filled a larger space in the world of politics, or the brotherhood of letters, and there is perhaps none whose sudden decease would cause a deeper thrill of sorrow in the most refined and intelligent circles of society, although in the latter years of his life he had ceased to occupy the prominent positions which form the passports to popular fame. Of a reserved and fastidious turn of mind, of a singularly sensitive temperament, shy, almost to coldness, in the expression of personal feeling, with the timidity which proceeds from delicacy of organization, and a spirit of excessive caution and forecast, more fond of the approval of his inferiors than is usually the case with men of decided originality and independence of character, and a constitutional aversion to extremes both in the sphere of thought and of action, he was little fitted by nature or habit for the stormier scenes of politics, the rude strife of parliamentary debate, or the adroit and ready tactics of an unscrupulous party leader. His native tastes and endowments inclined him to a life of purely intellectual and aesthetic pursuits; he was more at home in the ”quiet and still air of delightful studies” than amid the throng and pressure of practical affairs; with the exception of strictly abstract and metaphysical discussions, there wag no branch of literature in which his capacity would not have enabled him to become a master, and there were few in which both his aptitudes and his attainments did not entitle him to highly honorable distinction. In the field of poetry, history, criticism, classical learning, popular eloquence, he possessed abilities, which, if exclusively directed to a single object of ambition, would have given him a brilliant preeminence; no department of what is somewhat loosely called polite letters was foreign to his nature; and m in several of the higher spheres of intellectual activity, he was probably without a rival among the ablest and most distinguished men of the past or present generation. He, certainly, lacked the force of character which qualifies a man to guide and mold the opinions of his fellows; with a genuine love of progress, it is no paradox to say that he combined a dread of innovation; he shrank before the ghosts of public rumor; his trust in principle was even modified by his mistrust of consequences; with a want of the enthusiasm, the personal magnetism, the free, spontaneous abandonment to the general impulses of the moment, which make ardent friends, he was annoyed with the perpetual fear of making enemies; be he carried his kindness of manner, his spirit of conciliation, his deference to prevailing prejudices, his love of complimentary allusions, to the very verge of sincerity; it was hard for him to make up his mind to call a bad thing, or a false idea, by its name; and even in the defense of vital public interests, he trembled before the audacious or the subtle assaults of his antagonists; he was too fond of granting concessions for the sake of peace; thus at times incurring the contempt of his opponents, who saw no distinction between his gentleness of statement and cowardice of spirit, between his aversion to giving offence and a willingness to compromise the noblest principles of statesmanship. The great error of his life, in this respect, and one from which he never recovered in the esteem of many pure and earnest and noble minds, was his memorable apology for slavery in his maiden speech on the floor of Congress, which called forth the expression of such withering scorn from Mr. Randolph, and which clung, like a plague-spot, to his garments, until they had been purified, as by fire, amid the bloodshed and agony of the terrible crisis which armed the heart of the aged statesman with more than the vigor and determination of his fresh-
<c03>
est. youth. Yet, on the whole, the career of Mr. Everett may be deemed to have, been singularly fortunate and successful. He gained no common share of renown in several distinguished spheres of action, in any one of which success would have been fame. The passing clouds which obscured the high noon of his public course disappeared amid the western splendors of his setting sun. Since the commencement of the present deplorable rebellion, his name has been mentioned by no loyal tongue save in terms of grateful and deserved admiration. Forgetting his timorous, and shall we say time-serving antecedents, unreduced by the baleful example of cherished personal friends and political associates, he did not hesitate for a moment to throw the weight of his resplendent talents, his public influence, his political learning, his captivating eloquence, on the side of our national integrity and of universal freedom. In spite of the deepest personal sympathies with the South, with a warm appreciation of the charm in character and manners of so many of the Inhabitants of that sunny, impulsive region, and with lively recollection of their enticing hospitalities and flattering tributes to a pardonable self-love, his allegiance to the North never wavered for an instant. When the battle was struck between treason and fidelity, his manlier instincts won she the day. The loyal truthfulness of his last years will serve to redeem the errors of his youth and manhood; and so no lover of his country, no admirer of genius and learning!, no worshipper of brilliant gifts of intellect, will read the tidings which we announce to-day without a thrill of sorrow, and in how many cases, of unfeigned anguish.-N. Y. Tribune.
THE LIBERATOR.
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 1865.
I REPEAT THE DECLARATION MADE A YEAR AGO, THAT WHILE I REMAIN IN MY POSITION, I SHALL NOT ATTEMPT TO RETRACT OF MODIFY THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION, NOR SHALL I RETURN TO SLAVERY ANY PERSONS WHO IS FREE BY THE TERMS OF THAT PROCLAMATION, OR BY ANY OF THE ACTS OF CONGRESS. IF THE PEOPLE SHOULD, IT WHATEVER MODE OR MEANS, MAKE IT AN EXECUTIVE DVTY TO RE-ENSLAVE SUCH PRRSONS, ANOTHER, AND NOT I, MUST BE THE INSTRUMENT TO PERFORM IT.
I REPEAT THE DECLARATION MADE A YEAR AGO, THAT WHILE I REMAIN IH MY POSITION, I SHALL NOT ATTEMPT TO RETRACT OF MODIFY THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION, NOR SHALL I RETURN TO SLAVERY ANY PERSON WHO IS FREE BY THE TERMS OF THAT PROCLAMATION, OR BY ANY OF THE ACTS OF CONGRESS. IN THE PEOPLE SHOULD, BY WHATEVER MODE OR MEANS, MAKE IT AW EXECUTIVE DUTY TO RE-ENSLAVE SUCH PERSONS, ANOTHER, AND NOT I, MUST BE THE INSTRUMENT TO PERFORM IT.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
“IN THE MAJORITY.”
If we stood ” solitary and alone,” when we commenced the anti-struggle upon the basis of immediate and unconditional emancipation, it was not because we sought conspicuity or desired isolation. The standard which we unfurled to the breeze,-that of impartial freedom and eternal justice,-should have promptly brought under its folds the great body of the people, at least in every free State. But for this step there was, alas! no preparation of mind, no moral vision, no conviction of sin, no sympathy with the oppressed, no recognition of the inherent wrongfulness of slavery, no thought of national peril through national complicity with a merciless oligarchy, whose subsistence and supremacy depended upon robbing the poor and needy, and trafficking” in slaves and the souls of men.” Hence, we put forth every effort for the dissemination of light, and made use of every lawful instrumentality to change the views and feelings of the people, so as to secure their co-operation-in other words, so as to place ourselves” in the majority” as soon as possible. Slowly but surely the lump began to be leavened, light began to spread, agitation to extend from east to west and north to south, till thousands and tens of thousands became regenerated in their minds, and openly espoused the cause of the oppressed, through much tribulation. At last the nation, rent and bleeding at every pore for its great transgression, is, by this severe but merited retribution, led to acknowledge that slavery is a terrible curse, the immediate removal of which is demanded alike on the score of principle and expediency. By an overwhelming vote at the polls in November last, the people decreed not only that the foul system ought to be abolished, but that the Constitution of the United States ought to be so amended that, hereafter, neither slaveholder nor slave shall be recognized as existing within the domains of the republic. The abolitionists find their strongest utterances against slavery ever where acceptable, and repeated with emphasis and popular applause by the most influential men in Church and State. They are no longer regarded as fanatical or visionary; but, on the contrary, it is conceded, that had their warnings been duly heeded and their counsels followed, this terrible civil war would not have taken place. For a long and trying period constituting an insignificant force, numerically speaking, they now find themselves ” in the majority,” and hear the shouts of ransomed millions. Will it be credited that this marvelous change is made the occasion of a slur upon us and our unflinching coadjutors, in a paper making high anti-slavery pretensions? Read the following extract of a letter in Saturday’s Commonwealth, dated London, December 3I31, 1864:-
“ The anti slavery men of America are just now supping with the men whose chief political recreation, up to the war, was to break up their meetings, and hurl bricks at the heads of their leaders. Garrison and Everett are lying down together. State street am and Wall street lions are on good terms with the Melodeon fatlings, and the Liberator youngling plays on the hole of the asp at Washington. All this is very well, if the lion has experienced a change of heart, and the asp left its hole forever,-if the anti slaver; y millennium has come.... As Mr. Garrison is it now with the majority, it is to be hoped that the strange phenomenon has been wrought by the majority coming over to him.”
The author of this petty thrust assumes to be ”An Earnest Loyalist;” but if he is (as we suppose) none other than Moncure D. Conway, he might, for the past year, have done the loyal cause in this country much better service than by making a prima facie seditious overture to the rebel Commissioner Mason in London, and writing letters designed to divide the loyal ranks on the presidential question, and filled with bitter and sweeping accusations against Mr. Lincoln and his administration. And if the editor of the Commonwealth had been guided by the dictates of propriety, he- would have discreetly omitted the fling at Edward Everett, seeing that his mortal remains were last week consigned to the tomb-especially as we find among those who, a few days since, participated in memorial services in honor of Mr. Everett, at the Everett School, and made eulogistic remarks upon the character of the deceased, the name of the afore-said editor of the Commonwealth!I
The assertion of this London Theorists, that the anti- slavery men are now fraternizing with those who, up to the war, broke up their meetings, is not true; for those motorcars were then, as they are now, of the Democratic copperhead stripe, who read with relish whatever it is said in defamation or ridicule of Mr. Lincoln and his administration. If we are now ”with the majority,” it is because it is with us for the immediate and eternal overthrow of that system which is ” the sum of all villainies”; and we hope- never to be found again in the minority on that question. 
FURTHER MISREPRESENTATION AND INJUSTICE.
FURTHER MISREPRESENTATION AND INJUSTICE. Last week, we charged the Commonwealth with erroneously stating to its readers, that the Liberator had repudiated its motto, ” No Union with Slaveholders.” The manner in which that paper makes retraction of its misstatement may be seen by the following paragraph:-
“BACK AGAIN!-The Liberator of last week restored its ancient ’ mete and bound’ at the top of its editorial column-’ ‘No Union with Slaveholders.’”
This is doubly unjust. It is the reaffirmation of the original misrepresentation, by insinuation and inference, while assuming to be dealing fairly with us. Is it possible that the editor of the Commonwealth means to persist in such conduct!? As an act of fairness, he is bound to lay our denial and explanation before his readers, as given by us last week.
<c04>
PROMOTION OF A. COLORED OFFICER FOR GALLANTRY.
Nearly a year ago it became known to some of those who were specially interested in the history and character of the 54th Regiment of Massachusetts Volunteer Militia, that Sergeant Stephen A. Sails of that regiment had been recommended for promotion by Col. Hallowell, on the ground of his conspicuous gallantry in action, and his merit as a man of intelligence and character. Thereupon, on the 11th of March, 1814.1864 a 2d Lieutenant’s commission was granted him by Governor Andrew.
Some time after, Sergeant Shorter, an officer of distinguished merit in the 55th Regiment, received a similar recommendation from his Colonel, and the grant of a 2d1 Lieutenant’s commission from Governor Andrew. A subscription was raised among his friends in Boston to give him a suitable outfit, and great confidence was felt among those who knew him that be he would do honor to his new station.
Months passed away, and the promotions thus ordered were not put into effect. The two Sergeants remained Sergeants, though their Colonels and the Governor earnestly desired their promotion, and had taken all the steps needful for it. There was a bitch somewhere. After a good deal of Inquiry, the point of obstructions was understood to be in the mastering officer. He did not feel authorized to muster a colored man out for promotion, or to muster him in as commissioned officer. An act so unusual required special warrant from Washington, he thought.
Had this been a groundless pretence of the mustering officer, he might have been cashiered for neglect of duty. Had nothing been wanting but an official order, that might have been sent any week of the nine or ten months that hare have elapsed. The ways of high public functionaries are not as our ways, but it really seems as if these acts might have been accomplished sooner, had the President and the Secretary of War agreed in desiring them.
At last, however, one little step forward has been taken. The Transcript of last Monday evening informed us that the case of Sergeant Sails has continued to be a subject of correspondence between the War Department, the General commanding the Department of the South, and the Governor of Massachusetts, until the present time; and that on that very day the Governor had received the copy of an order from the Secretary of War, expressly authorizing the discharge of Sergeant Sails, and his muster in as a 2d Lieutenant
That the Government has at last moved to this extent, in this affair, is certainly a matter of rejoicing. Unfortunately, it doth not yet appear whether it is a matter for gratitude. Some power in the country might have done this piece of justice long ago. It seems as if it ought to have been done long ago. More accurate knowledge is necessary before we can intelligently give either thanks for the act or censure for the delay. But the form, and manner, and circumstances of this promotion necessarily suggest certain questions respecting the future.
The promotion of Sergeant Sails of the 54th (if no further difficulties intervene) seems now to be assured. But how about Sergeant Shorter of the 55th? And how about other colored men who have already given, or who may hereafter give, good cause to be recommended for promotion? Will these cases proceed to completion without further delays than ordinarily occur in the cases of other soldiers?-or is each such instance to be made the subject of a protracted correspondence, a series of postponements, and finally a special order from the War Department?
It is not merely justice to the colored people that it is here in question; though that is not so small a matter that the Government can afford persistently to ignore it. But the nation, and the nation’s cause, may yet receive such a vast amount of help or hindrance from the relation assumed to them by four and a half millions of Africa-Americans, that the nation’s rulers are making a serious blunder in statesmanship by the system they seem to have adopted of turning the cold shoulder to this class of men. ”He gives twice who gives promptly,” says the proverb. Why should not the officers of the General Government (like our noble Massachusetts Governor) put a little heart into their official acts to these people, and grant such acts of favor or justice as circumstances require, in a manner suited to make a favorable impression on the recipient?? Man, as well as God, loves a cheerful giver. How much rather should he who discharges a weighty obligation (or some small installment of it) do so with an ungrudging aspect! If our rulers will not spontaneously think of these things, it is quite time for the people to think of them.-C. K.K. W.

REFORM MOVEMENT 1NIN PENNSYLVANIA.,
The Pennsylvania Telegraph of the 20th inst. contains an able and excellent speech delivered in the Senate of Pennsylvania, the previous day, by Hon. Morrow B. Lowry, of Erie, in support of a bill, introduced by himself, forbidding the exclusion of colored people from the passenger-cars of railroads in that State.
Assuming that the object of government is to execute impartial justice between man and man, and especially to protect the weak against the strong-and noticing the obvious fact that the existing war is God’s judgment against this land for its sin of oppression- Mr. Lowry proceeded to show that it is not enough for us to make the black man nominally free. Ceasing to enslave him is not sufficient. We should make him really and truly free, and protect him in the rights which inhere in a freeman. Putting away slavery, we should also put away slavish things. We are bound to reform those usages and correct those abuses which exist as incidents of slavery, and which have formed part of the machinery of that infernal system, and we should lose no time in removing every disability which the contagious example of slave States has imposed upon the colored people of States nominally free. Mr. Lowry then sketched, in a forcible and impressive manner, the folly, injustice and meanness of such proscription of the colored people as is practiced in the street cars of Philadelphia, pointed out that it is the worse and not the better classes of society that wish this proscription continued, and paid a hearty tribute of praise to the exemplary conduct of the people of color, North and South, since the war began.
It is to be hoped that Mr. Lowry’s bill may pass without delay, and that Pennsylvania may show herself at least as much disposed to reform as her neighbor Maryland. We are making progress; but there is stilt still an immense amount to be done. All of us, free States as well as slave States, owe a vast debt of justice to the Africa -American people. Even those of the New England States whose codes have been pruned from class distinction (through the assiduous labors of the Abolitionists) have still much to reform in their manners and customs. Let us unite to do this work heartily and thoroughly. After talking so long about ”the rights of man,” let as put them in practice.-
C. K. W.
HARPER’S MONTHLY for February has arrived, and is, as usual, full of good and interesting reading matter. The following table of contents will show what a feast the editors have prepared for their readers:
Ryerson’s Raid; Peace; Birds of Passage; A Tour through Arizona; At Rest; The King of the Amazons; In the Autumn Twilight; The Saprobes; The Ballad of Ishmsel Day; John Jacob Astor; A New Year; Christmas at Trinity; Armadillo; Sheridan’s Victory of Middleton; Wanted-an Education; English for the Portuguese; Our Mutual Friend; Autobiography of an English Snob; Monthly Record of Current Events; Editor’s Easy Chair; Editor’s Drawer; Fashions.
A. Williams & Co., 100 Washington Street 
The article signed TWEED, in the Liberator of last week, should have been credited to the Watchman and Reflector, and not to the Recorder.
<c05>
MEETING AT WORCESTER.
The Annual Meeting of the Worcester County (South Division) Anti- Slavery Society was held in Washburn Hall, Worcester, on Sunday, Jan. 15th, commencing at 101/2½ o’clock in the forenoon, and continued with afternoon and evening sessions.
The President, JOSIAH HHEN SHAW, occupied the chair, and opened the meeting with a few congratulatory and hopeful remarks and reminiscences. Samuel May, Jr. read appropriate passages of Scripture. The usual committee on Business, Nominations, and Finance, were chosen.
A. T. Foss made a short speech in hopeful review of the situation, and of the bright prospects of the National and the Slave’s affairs.
Stephen S. Foster followed in condemnation of Mr. Foss’s positions, and of all those who hopefully felt or manifested any sympathy with the Anti Slavery progress of the government, denouncing in particular Mr. Garrison and the Liberator, as having forsaken and betrayed the cause. He affirmed that the government had made no change for the better, but that it stood in essentially the same position it had done for many years past, when abolitionists refused it support. He declared the proposed Constitutional Amendment a deceitful device, and a pro-slavery measure; and speaking of the proposed arming of slaves by Jefferson Davis, he stated that he thought the prospect was that Davis would sooner recognize the manhood and equality of the negro than Lincoln.
Wendell Phillips from the Business Committee reported the following Resolutions:
Resolved, That we acknowledge with devout gratitude the marvelous triumphs of the anti-slavery principle throughout the United States-the redemption of Missouri and Maryland from the curse and sin of the infamous system, and the bright hopes that Kentucky and Tennessee will soon follow their honorable example.
Resolved, That while these successes give us unfeigned delight, strengthen and encourage us, and while the victorious march of the national armies enables us to execute justice between man and man, and teaches us meanwhile at every step its imminent necessity, we stilt remind oar our anti-slavery coadjutors that the end is not yet, that real and complete success is not achieved, and that the slave’s cause needs yet our most devoted efforts, and our incessant vigilance.
Resolved, That if, as we are assured, the present so-called reconstruction of Louisiana is endorsed by the President, and its admission urged by him in Congress, either as an allowable exception or as a model for the other rebel States, we feel bound to protest against acknowledging such reconstruction, or its admission to the rights of a State.
Resolved, That waiving our objection to it as American citizens, which may not be fully discussed on a strictly anti slavery platform, we consider that reconstruction a practical denial of the first principles of the anti-slavery agitation, that a negro is entitled at once and of course to all the privileges that belong to a white man in the same circumstances; that any system of apprenticeship or gradual abolition is at once impossible, unjust, and the seed of difficulty only. And we hold such form of reconstruction a continuance of all the evils of slavery, except the name, as putting to hazard all the fruits of national victory, and postponing indefinitely justice to the negro.
Whereas, a nation’s duty it is measured by its power; and whereas, considering the nature of our government and the relations of the national and State governments, no individual is safe unless he holds in his own hands the means of protecting his own rights;
Therefore, resolved. That no reconstruction of the rebel States will be safe for the nation, and no national policy ought to be satisfactory to the abolitionists, which does not secure the ballot to the freedman.
Resolved, That, in our opinion, the United States Constitution needs two amendments: one prohibiting slavery everywhere throughout the Union, and another forbidding the States to enact laws which make any distinction among their citizens on account of race or color.
Samuel May, Jr., from the Business Committee, offered the following:
Resolved, That by the death of JAMES A. WHIPPLE, which occurred since our last meeting, this society has suffered the loss of a highly respected member and officer,-a loss which we sensibly feel and deplore; rejoicing, nevertheless, that his support and friendship were continued to our cause so long, and that he sealed the testimony of his life by being faithful unto death; and trusting that the remembrance of his earnestness and devotion may console those who were dearest to him, and animate us all with a cheerful purpose to leave no honorable labor undone, by which the perfect triumph of Liberty and Justice may be secured.
Wendell Phillips made a brief speech, affirming that the Government had avowed no policy, nor taken any ground that recognized the negro as entitled to the same rights as the white man, giving among other illustrations the alleged instances of Sherman, in his march through Georgia, taking up bridges after all the army had passed, leaving thousands of colored refugees to be shot by the pursuing cavalry of the enemy; which was, he said, an act of wickedness and criminality unparalleled in any history of civilized or barbarous warfare.
The afternoon session was opened by Mr. Foss with remarks justifying his support of the government, and in review of some of Mr. Foster’s criticisms.
Mr. May followed in deprecation of all ungenerous criticism, referred to the marvelous progress of the Anti-Slavery reform under the administration of President Lincoln, spoke of the thorough manner in which the Republican party of the North had committed itself to the strongest anti-slavery ideas and measures, and remarked upon the striking unanimity of the colored people, slaves included, it behalf of President Lincoln.
The Resolution upon the death of James A. Whipple was passed unanimously.
Wendell Phillips made an address setting forth in a very clear and lucid manner his views of the Louisiana reconstruction, reviewing with masterly ability the arrangements of Gen. Banks for the freedmen and for the so-called recognized State, citing from various letters and publications statements that seemed to make Gen. Banks’s claims for the loyal and popular basis of newly organized State government quite untrue.
Mr. Phillips also showed the danger to whites as well as blacks of any reconstruction that did not give the negro the ballot on the same terms as the white man held it.
The evening session was opened with brief remarks by A. F. Foss and S. S. Foster upon the general question.
Stephen S. Foster from the Committee on Nominations reported the following names for officers of the Society for the ensuing year, viz., Josiah Hens haw, of West Brookfield, President. Samuel May, Jr.., of( Leicester; Aden Balloon, of Milford; Moses Swain, of Southbury’; Adeline H. Howland, of Worcester; Clark Aldrich., of Upton; Moses Buffo, of Oxford; Adams Foster, of Holden; and Esek Pitts Millbury of Millbury, Vice Presidents. Sarah E. Wall, of Worcester, Treasurer. Alfred Wyman, of Worcester, Auditor. Joseph A. Howland, of Worcester, Secretary. Abbey Kelley Foster, Sarah F. Earle, Sarah M. Whipple and Isaac Mason;, of Worcester; Abuja Allen, of Millbury; E. D Draper, of Milford; Maria P. Fairbanks, of Millville; Nancy B. Hill, of Black-stone; Sylvester C. Fay, of Southbury’, and William t Duane of Charlton, for Executive Committee.
Which report was adopted. Joseph A. Howland! said that, without undertaking to endorse or justify every position or remark of Mr. Garrison.-,-for he was like other men fallible, and liable to many of the infirmities of human nature, so that we were often called to differ from him,-yet as he had in the main with rare fidelity and unparalleled diligence and persistence.
<c06>
maintained the right of the colored man, and as he doubted not that this society was fully impressed with the great usefulness of the Liberator as an invaluable instrumentality in the promulgation of the principles, of our organization and movement, he would move that our Treasurer be instructed to pay fifty dollars to aid the Liberator in sustaining its free list.
That motion brought Mr. Foster out in strong opposition, and in denunciation of the Liberator.
Mr. May replied to Mr. Foster, especially denying Mr. Foster’s assertion that Mr. Garrison had ever approved the appointment of Gen. McClellan to the command of the U. S. Army.
Mrs.. A. K. Foster moved that Mr. Howland’s motion be laid on the table, to hear Mr. Phillips; but as this motion failed, Mrs. Foster claimed her own right to the floor, and spoke at some length against the appropriation, and in defense of the ”Hove Trustees” for their withdrawal of funds from the free list of the Liberator; and then relinquished the floor to Mr. Phillips, to continue the criticism upon the Liberator and the defense of the ”Trustees.”
Mr. Phillips, commenced by saying that he had never criticized Mr. Garrison in speech, and did not intend to; that he regretted the introduction of matters that elicited this personal criticism and discussion; and that he held that a person a traitor to the cause who would introduce such matters; and then went on to discuss the general questions before the meeting as involved in the Resolutions. From his repeated reference to the short comings and wrong- doings of ”prominent abolitionists” and” Anti-slavery papers,” his position in regard to Mr. Garrison and the Liberator were clearly understood by the audience, although he would have us suppose he deprecated personal criticism. In all Mr. Phillips’s discussion of the right of the Freedmen to the ballot, he seemed to ballot as against opponents in the society or audience, audience while to us it seemed that no such opposition was present, certainly none were expressed.
At the close of Mr. Phillips’s address, Mrs. Foster renewed her motion to lay the Liberator motion on the table.
Mr. Howland said that he must dissent from Mr. Phillips’s criticism upon the introduction of personalities into our discussions; and if any one was blame-worthy for this introduction to-day, it was Mr. Foster, who had brought Mr. Garrison and the Liberator very prominently into his denunciations in his forenoon’s speech. And while the opposition were determined to discuss the motion at great length, with the apparent intention of out-talking the audience and preventing the Society voting its own pleasure, the friends of the motion were willing and desirous to have the vote without discussion, believing that the Society were sufficiently informed of its merits to vote aright without this long and unpleasant interruption, which he much regretted the opposition had made.
As a large part of the audience had retired on account of the lateness of the hour, with very many members of the Society friendly to the appropriation, the motion to lie on the table was now by a small vote carried. It being supposed at first that the motion to lie one the table had failed, Mrs. Foster sprang to the floor, stating that she would talk till midnight, rather than come to the direct vote on the question!
The Resolutions before the meeting were then adopted unanimously, although Mr. Howland suggested that some alterations, would make them more in accordance with the facts as he understood them; but on account of the lateness of the hour, he would waive the matter.
The Finance Committee reported a collection of $32,50. And the meeting adjourned sine die.
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Secretary.
WORCESTER,, Jan.16, 1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator: •
At a meeting of the Worcester County Anti-Slavery Society, held in this city last evening, a resolution was introduced by Joseph A. Howland to appropriate fifty dollars, from the Society’s treasury for the support of the Liberator. In the discussion which ensued I stated, as one of the reasons why the appropriation ought not to be made, that the Editor of the Liberator, within the last eight or ten months, had said, through the columns of his paper, that he approved the appointment of McClellan as commander-in-chief of the army, at the time it was made, and that this endorsement of Mr. Lincoln’s, action was given with a full knowledge of the fact, that McClellan had recently issued a proclamation warning the slaves that, should they attempt to avail themselves of this favorable opportunity to break the yoke of their rebel masters, he would crush them ”with an iron hand”!”!
This statement was rudely discredited by Samuel May,. Jr., and denounced as a base slander. It was Mr. Howland also denied by Mr. Howland it in a manner still more offensive and discreditable, to the evident gratification of the outer ring of our audience.
As this denial and denunciation were made in the interests of the Liberator, by persons high in the esteem of its readers, and with the apparent intention of weakening the public confidence in my veracity, for the purpose of thereby extending its circulation, I ask, as a simple act of justice, that you will insert in your editorial columns, the following extract from your speech made at the last New England Convention, and published in your issue of June 10th.
Yours, respectfully, 
S. S. FOSTER.
EXTRACT.
“Again I say-that, in regard to all his prominent military appointments, the President has acted up to all that loyalty and that abolitionism asked at this hands. Both were satisfied, first with Gen. Scott-a veteran in the service-as commander-in –-chief of the army, until it became evident that, through his feebleness of body and his great age, it was necessary to make a change. Then Gen. McClellan was appointed; and I ask if he was not heartily hailed by all classes, as ”the coming man”? (Mr. Foster-“No; never.”) Was there any party feeling against him? On the contrary, was there not universal confidence in his military ability and thorough loyalty?”
DEAR MR. GARRISONDEAR MR. GARRISON,-Having been permitted to see the foregoing letter prior to its publication, I would like an opportunity to disclaim any thought or intention of rudeness to Mr. Foster, personally. I was, indeed, thoroughly astonished at the extraordinary character of his charges against the Liberator and its editor, and defended them with warmth, but without thought of personally offending Mr. Foster, whose pardon I most cheerfully ask if I gave him cause of offence. He urged me very hard to give him an answer, Yea or Nay, to a question, as to whether Mr. Garrison had not betrayed the Anti -Slavery cause by giving his sanction to the appointment of Gen. McClellan as Commander of the Army. I declined doing so until I had seen the paragraph on which he founded his censure. Having seen it, and that it entirely fails, to support his charge, (so improbable in itself,).) I am glad that I did not reply, except by a denial of the alleged fact.
SAMUEL MAY, JR. JED.
Boston, Jan. 24, 1865.
UPHOLD THE LIBERATOR.
DEAR MR. GARRISON-If affords me great pleasure to comply with the wishes of the two following correspondents:-
HAGOR, Jan15,BANGOR, Jan. 15, 1865.
I wish you to please take the enclosed three dollars and fifty cents, and pay my year’s subscription for the Liberator. I hope the Liberator is not going to die for want of support. I will be one of a hundred colored men to pay ten dollars, on demand, towards its support from this year. Colored men have never given the Liberator the support they ought to have done. I am not of those who think we have no further use for a Garrison or a Phillips, after they have borne the burden and heat of the day.
Yours, &c., 
J. F. MURRAY.”
A letter from DANIEL SEALESDANIEL SEALS, an enterprising colored man of San Francisco, California, contains five dollars for the benefit of the Liberator.
W. C. N. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
LETTER FROM J. M. McKIM. 
PENN’A FREEDMEN’S RELIEF ASSOCIATION, 
424, WALNUT ST. PHILA., Jan. 17, 1865.
MY DEAR FRIEND-I have read with much interest your article on “Equal Political Rights.” It confirms what I have all along said-that there is no radical difference of opinion among radical anti slavery men of our school on the subject of negro suffrage. You say, and you say well: “Nor has there been, nor is there now, among the abolitionists of this country, any conflict or division as to the wrongfulness of complexional proscription, whether at the ballot-box or elsewhere.”
I could have wished, that while stating this proposition you had considered it more in regard to events in the future than with reference to incidents past; that you had discussed it not so much deferentially, as against inside critics, as aggressively against outside opponents. In that case I think it would have been manifest, that on all essential points connected with the question you are in opposition with all, and not in opposition to any, of the sincere friends of negro equality. For there is not, and in the nature of things cannot be, any difference of opinion among abolitionists on any essential point connected with this subject.
As abolitionists, we are the friends and advocates of negro suffrage. We are opposed to the word white-socially, ecclesiastically and politically-as a vulgar impertinence and tyrannous ostracism, fit only to be despised and scouted. We are opposed to this odious distinction not only in the abstract, but in the concrete; in the present and for the future; in heart and in soul; in word and in deed; as toward the old States and toward the new; toward Louisiana and toward all other Southern States to be admitted; toward the Legislature of Pennsylvania’ and that of Illinois; to ward Gov. Hahn and toward Gen. Banks; toward the President of the United States and toward Congress; toward all public bodies and all men in power,-whenever and wherever the question may come up, or may be judiciously brought up.
In regard to Louisiana we demand-of all of whom the demand may be rightfully made-that whatsoever shall be the measure of political rights the color of the skin shall not be.
We do not demand this in this case of a sine quanon, but we nevertheless demand it. We do not say-“The ballot of the negro, or the bullet of the rebel,” but we do say, and mean to say, in terms not to be mistaken-“The right to vote for the negro on the same terms that it is given to the white man.”
This is the doctrine and attitude of abolitionists, is it not? I cannot be mistaken, and I am sure that you will say, “Yes.”
I am, ever yours, 
J. M. McKIM.

EQUAL RIGHTS OF TRAVEL IN THE CARS.
At a meeting held at Concert Hall, Philadelphia, on Friday evening, the 13th inst., of which Matthew W. Baldwin, Esq., was President, a large number of the most respectable and influential citizens of that city acting as Vice Presidents and Secretaries, the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:-
Resolved, That, in the words of our venerable and respected townsman, whose name leads the call for this meeting, [Horace Binney, Esq.] we are “opposed to the exclusion of respectable persons from our passenger railroad cars on the ground of complexion.”
Resolved, That we have heard, with shame and sorrow, the statement that decent colored women have been forced to walk long distances, or accept a standing position on the front platform of these cars, exposed to the inclemency of the weather, while visiting, at our military hospitals, their relatives who have been wounded in defence of the country.
Resolved, That we recognize as the two main causes of all our present troubles, the enslavement of the black man at the South, and contempt for him at the North; and we hold it to be fitting and just that both these great evils should disappear together. But, while we accord to every member of society the fullest liberty of choice and action in whatever relates to private interests, subject only to the control of law and conscience, we protest against the assumption, that unchristian prejudice or a fastidious taste may longer be allowed to take precedence of justice and humanity in determining the rights of any class of our citizens to the use of our public conveyances and institutions.
Resolved, That we respectfully request the Presidents and Directors of our City Railroads to withdraw from their list of regulations this rule of exclusion which deprives our people of color of their rights, and is in direct opposition to the recent decisions of our Courts of Justice.
Resolved, That in view of these recent decisions, the rights of our colored fellow-citizens in respect to the cars are without reserve; and to confine them to the use of special cars, bearing aloft the degrading abels of caste, and running at long intervals, is a simple substitution of one act of injustice for another, and is as much in violation of their rights as is the rule of total exclusion.
Resolved, That a Committee of twenty-one be appointed by the Chairman, with power to add to their number, whose duty it shall be to present, in person, a copy of these resolutions, with the names of the officers of the meeting appended, to each one of the Presidents of our City Railroads, requesting, in respectful terms, his response to the same, and to report the result of their mission, through the public press or otherwise, on or before Wednesday, 25th inst. 
The Committee contemplated by the last resolution was constituted as follows:-B. P. Hunt, Cadwallader Biddle, Horace Binney, Jr., M. L. Dawson, John Ashurst, N. B. Browne, Charles Gibbons, Stephen Colwell, E. W. Clark, P. P. Randolph, John W. Field, Abraham Barker, Edward Wetherill, Robert T. Corson, George H. Stuart, John P. Verree, Lemuel Coffin, James Mott, J. M. McKim, Francis R. Cope, S. S. White.

GEORGE THOMPSON AT NORTH BROOK FIELD.
DEAR GARRISON-Our mutual friend Thompson lectured here last evening. The weather and traveling were both favorable, and we had the finest attendance of the season. Our town-hall, a most capacious one, was well filled. The audience listened with the most profound attention for nearly an hour and a half. I have heard Mr. Thompson many times within the last thirty years, but think I never knew him more eloquent. He gave the highest satisfaction to all, through, according to his wont, he spoke with the greatest freedom of our past history and present position.
I am glad to learn that he has frequent invitations to lecture, for I really think he does more for the moral education and elevation of the people by his discourses than any lecturer I ever heard speak, besides giving a great amount of most useful information, and affording a brilliant illuetration of the of the highest kind of oratory. We intend to have him here again as soon circumstances will permit.
I am, with great respect, 
Your obedient servant, 
AMASA WALKER.
North Brookfield, Jan. 10, 1865. 
The following gratifying note contained the generous donation of fifty dollars:-
BOSTON, Christmas, 1864.
DEAR MR. GARRISON,-I cannot repay the Liberator the benefit it has been to me in forming a part of my education; but I embrace this joyous Christmas to offer to it an humble thank-offering, with the hope that it may never swerve from its just and consistent course, and that it may live as long as a vestige of slavery shall linger in the land. 
Your attached pupil, 
MARTHA B. GOODRICK.
<C02>
THE ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN TENNESSEE.
NASHVILLE, Jan. 15, 1865.
To the Editors of the Boston Journal:
The celebrated saying of Galiileo that, “the world does move,” should be signed, sealed, and delivered over for careful preservation among the musty records of the Massachusetts Historical Society. It has had its day. It is played out. “The world does move.” Move, quothn! it trotteth now; and seems to be getting into a 2.40 guit.
Hardly a month has passed since we saw here the embattled hosts of slavery rampant, confident, defiant, powerful, threatening to seize Tennessee, and to plant its black flag on the banks of our Ohio. Today, those hosts-where are they? Broken, dispirited, flying in unseemly disorder toward the Gulf, which is destined very soon to hear the million-footed tramp of the armies of freedom in hot and fatal pursuit. Nor is this the only change. In the hall of the House of Representatives of Tennessee, in which the State was betrayed, bound and banded over to the allies of the rebellion, 500 men have been deliberating all the week long, how soonest and most emphatically they can declare that slavery shall no longer be permitted to pollute the pure air and the virgin soil of this great western common wealth. Hardly a month had passed since I saw the flash and heard the loud roar of cannon which slavery loaded and fired, ere I heard the loud cheers and saw the beaming eyes which announced that slavery was dead, dead, dead-in Tennessee. And what are those fainter sounds? They are the echoes of another joyous cheer which tells us that in Missouri, also, slavery is numbered with the dead!
This great event in the history of Tennessee deserves a careful narrative. I will therefore briefly review the proceedings of the Convention which met on Monday, and closed last night, regretting that an absence in the field prevented me from giving you an earlier and daily record of them.
FIRST DAY.
Monday was devoted chiefly to the organization of the Convention. Various resolutions were offered relating to the nature of the Convention-whether it should resolve itself into a Constitutional body, or merely set forth a declaration of principles, and prepare a general ticket of delegates to amend the Constitution, or proceed at once to destroy slavery, and offer for adoption by the loyal voters certain necessary changes in the organic law of the State. There were also debates as to the policy of admitting any but citizens who had been always true to the National cause. Committee on Credentials and other Committees were appointed; and the body was fully organized for action. Among the propositions offered for adoption were these two, which were received with enthusiastic cheers:
Sec. 1. Slavery and involuntary servitude, except for the punishment of crime, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, are hereby forever abolished and prohibited.
Sec. 2. The Legislature shall make no law recognizing the right of property in man.
Gen. Mulligan, who offered these resolutions, declared that there was no possibility of reorganizing the State, except through the abolition of slavery. Its knell was sounded, and it was impossble for any man to stay the tide which was sweeping it away. There were two ways of abolishing slavery-by the action of a Constitutional Convention or by a direct rote of the people. He was in favor of direct action. If the people failed to ratify the action of this Convention, we would stand as now; if they did ratify it, the expense and delay of another Convention would be avoided.
Parson Brownlow said he was for the shortest cut to the restoration of the State and the damnation of the rebels. There were 510 delegates present, 160 of whom were from East Tennessee; they had taken up up the Cross, and were determined to follow the Stars and Stripes until the rebels had received their merited doom.
SECOND DAY.
On Tuesday there was some debate as to the mode of voting. It was moved that each county have one vote, and one additional vote for every 100 Union ballots, polled against separation. West Tennessee delegates objected, because, they said, that election was not a fair one; Union men could not rote in West Tennessee. Beauregard’s bayonets did the voting; hence, strong Union counties gave but few votes against separation. The East Tennesseeans replied that if Beauregard was in the West, Floyd and Pillow were in the East, and yet that section did vote; and if the West Tennesseeans had wanted to vote, they could have done it; but harmony finally prevailed.
Dr. Bowen asserted that large slaveholders had voted for secession for fear of being called Lincolnites; that there were few of the aristocratic class in East Tennessee; and even if they had gone to the devil the masses would not have followed them. Another said that all Union men were in favor of finishing slavery. The oldest member said he was not particular about measures; get rid of slavery somehow, he didn’t care about the instrument used to kill it-a statement received with cheers. A West Tennessee member said that the life of an old man was threatened if he did no vote for separation. He at last yielded, and said he would vote for separation and damnation, for it would all end in that if secession prevailed. Another said that he felt long ago that slavery was wrong, and almost everybody felt so now. An East Tennesseean said that his county had sent 2000 soldiers to our army out of 2800 voters.
These testimonies are important as showing the fallacy of the assertion that the people of the South desired separation; and as showing also that this war is liberating not the blacks only, but the whites, who never hitherto, as a class, have governed themselves nor enjoyed the rights of free speech. Men who have felt all along that slavery was a crime, now, for the first time, are permitted to say so.
THIRD DAY.
On Wednesday, after a little spatting and some explanations between East and West Tennessee delegates, and offering of the various resolutions which were referred to the appropriate committees, there were a few speeches delivered to kill time before the presentation of the reports. It was urged by Mr. Tillman and others that efforts should be made to win back the rebels-not the leaders, who should be crushed, but the masses when penitent. We should try, he said, to detach them from their leaders. We must be liberal. We are required to forgive our brethren. He was not for electing rebels to office: indeed, such as repented would not expect it; but let them return, and if they behave themselves let them be protected and forgiven, but let them keep in a private station. We have been four years in civil war. The prospect is more bright; but we have a great work to do; we must re-establish the State Government on the basis of universal freedom-freedom to the white and the black man. He would conciliate the masses of the rebels; induce them to repent if they will; but if not, crush them. He believed there were no practical Union men except such as were abolitionists. Whereupon, an original genius, a Mr. Carper, rose and said he was opposed to forgiving rebels; opposed to pardoning or forgiving any one; he repudiated the whole doctrine. Let men not transgress, and they will need nothing of the kind. An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. Let every transgressor be punished. Rebels were coming back and saying, “We failed to destroy the Government, therefore we are discouraged, and conclude to be good citizens, and want an office.” They have no rights under the Constitution except to be hanged. Rope and lead were the only medicine which should be applied in their case!
The Business Committee gave in their report. They presented four amended sections to the Constitution, and a schedule of nine sections with appended resolutions. Mr. Hood, Postmaster of Chattanooga and editor of the Gazette, had a minority report, which was devoted exclusively to an enumeration of reasons for prefering a regular constitutional convention to the method of at once submitting amendments to a popular vote.
Sections 1 and 2 are the resolutions for abolishing; slavery quoted above in the account of the first day. 
Section 3 declares that the Judges of the Supreme Court, Attorney General and Reporter shall be appointed by the Governor, and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
Section 4 is as follows:
Sec. 4. All free white male persons, twenty-one years of age, citizens of the United States and of the State, and of the county where he offers his vote for six months preceding the day of the election, and all who have volutarlly borne arms in the service of the United States, the same being citizens of Tennessee, shall exercise the right of suffrage; Provided, That no person shall be disqualified from voting in any election on account of color, who shall be by the laws of the State a competent witness in a court of justice against a white man; Provided, further, That all civil, judicial, and other officers of Tennessee and of the so called Confederate States, who knowingly and willingly acted in hostility to the Government of these United States and in concert with those engaged in armed rebellion against it by giving them aid and comfort, or by passing or executing laws, or otherwise, shall be forever disfranchised, and shall never hold any office of honor, profit or trust in this State; yet nothing herein, shall be so construed as to disfranchise or affect those judicial and other officers of the State who can establish their loyalty beyond all doubt; Provided, further. That all officers in the Provisional Army of Tennessee, or in the armies of the so-called Confederate States, above the grade of Lieutenant Colonel, shall be forever disfranchised and debarred the privilege of holding any office of honor, trust or profit in the State of Tennessee; Provided, further, That the Legislature may have power to re-enfranchise such persons, well-disposed toward the government of the United States, as in their judgment may seem to them proper. 
The power of giving the right of suffrage to negroes is hidden in this section. Can you find it?
BERWICK.
<c03>
MISSOURI STATE CONVENTION.
ST. LOUIS, MO., Jan. 21. The Convention passed yesterday, in committee of the whole, by nearly a unanimous vote, the 4th, 6th, 7th and 8th sections of the Bill of Rights as follows:
The 4th section asserts that all political power vested in, and was derived from, the people. All government of rights originates from the people, founded on their will only, and instituted for the good of the whole.
The 5th section, that this State shall ever remain a member of the American Union, and all attempts, from whatever source, upon whatever pretext, to dissolve said Union, ought to be resisted with the whole power of the State.
The 7th section, that every citizen of this State owes paramount allegiance to the Constitution and Government of the United States, and no law or ordinance of this State in contravention thereof can have any binding force.
An ordinance has been introduced, confiscating the property of rebels engaged in overt acts, and asking Congress to release the claim of the United States to confiscate rebel property to the State of Missouri.

COLORED PEOPLE’S CONVENTION-EQUAL RIGHTS WITHOUT REGARD TO COLOR.
A meeting of the Executive Board of the Pennsylvania State Equal Rights League was held last evening, at their rooms, on Lombard street. Vice President Dr. James McCrummell was called to the chair. A report was presented from the Committee on Call for a State Equal Rights Convention, from which it appears arrangements have been made for holding the Convention at Harrisburg on Wednesday, the 8th day of February; 1865. It was stated that delegates would be present from all parts of the State, that a committee had been appointed at Harrisburg to make all the necessary arrangements for the reception and accommodation of the delegates and visitors during the sessions of the Convention, and that ample arrangements were made for the holding of the Convention, which was expected to be the largest ever held by them in this State. The general agent of the State League will leave in a few days for the purpose of visiting and addressing the citizens of Lancaster, Columbia, Harrisburg, Altoona, Hollidaysburg, Blairsville, Pittsburg, Brownsville, Uniontown, Greensburg, Johnstown, Huntingdon, Danville, Williamsport, Pittston, Montrose, Scranton, Wilkesbarre, Belvldere, Allentown, and Reading, upon the great questions which will be presented for the consideration of the Convention. The earnestness manifested by the colored people in all the sections of our country, since their great National Convention, held in Syracuse, in October last, has awakened a corresponding interest among leading men in all sections of our country upon the subject of equal rights, without regard to color. The rapid strides made by public sentiment, and embodied in the action of the late Constitutional Convention of Louisiana, Maryland, Tennessee, Missouri, and Kentucky; the celebrations of emancipation in Baltimore, Cooper Institute, New York, and at the headquarters of the supervisory Committee in this city; and the great meeting advocating their right to equal car privileges, held at Concert Hall, on last Friday evening, all indicate, with unerring certainty, that ere long the freemen of Pennsylvania will be called upon to acknowledge their claim to equal rights at the ballot-box, as they have already their manhood, loyalty, patriotism, and bravery, upon many a well-fought and bloody field of strife, during the progress of this monstrous rebellion. “Let justice be done to whom justice is due, though the heavens fall,” will ere long be the universal sentiment of the people of our State and nation.-Philad. Press.
TRIBUTES TO MR. EVERETT IN BOSTON.
The citizens of Boston assembled in Faneuil Hall, on Wednesday of last week, to pay their tribute of respect to the memory of Edward Everett. The Hall was draped in mourning. Mayor Lincoln presided, and made the opening address, alluding in fitting terms to the public services and the virtues of Mr. Everett. S. H. Walley offered a series of resolutions, which were adopted; among them the following:
Resolved, That a life so full of well directed, industrious effort, coupled with powers of a high order-a life marked strongly throughout, but brilliantly at its close, by deeds of unselfish patriotism, deserves to be held up no less for the imitation of posterity than for the commendation of contemporaries: and in order to associate in the minds of future beholders the lineaments of his person with the history of his greatness, it is expedient that a statue should be erected in honor of Edward Everett.
Addresses were made by C. G. Loring, Robert C. Winthrop and others. Mr. Winthrop read the following letter, one of the last written by Mr. Everett:
“SUMMER STREET, 12 January, 1865.
My Dear Mr. Gray: I am greatly obliged to you for sending me word of the success of the Savannah subscription. What a large-hearted, open-handed place we live in! It is on these occasions that I break the tenth commandment, and covet the wealth of you millionaires. I have been in bed almost ever since Monday, having narrowly escaped an attack of pneumonia. I had been in the court house all the morning, and had to return to it for three hours in the afternoon to attend a harassing arbitration case, and left Faneuil Hall with my extremities ice, and my lungs on fire. But in such a cause one is willing to suffer.
Ever sincerely yours,
EDWARD EVERETT.”
The following dispatch was received from Mr. Seward:
“WASHINGTON, January 18.
His Excellency Governor Andrew, Boston:
It is impossible for the President and the Cabinet to attend the funeral.
The President of the United States, and the heads of the departments, tender to the Common wealth of Massachusetts their condolence on the lamented death of Edward Everett, who was worthy to be enrolled among the noblest of the nation’s benefactors.
W. H. SEWARD.”

FUNERAL OF EDWARD EVERETT. Boston was draped in mourning on Thursday, last week, and business very generally suspended, in respect to the memory of Edward Everett, whose funeral obsequies were observed at the Chauncey Street Church. Appropriate resolutions and remarks were made in the Legislature in the morning, and committees appointed to attend the funeral. Messrs. Lovering and <illegible> of this city, were on the committees from their respective branches. The following distinguished gentlemen acted as pall-bearers: John A. Andrew, Governor of the Commonwealth. F. W. Lincoln, Jr., Mayor of Boston. Thomas Hill, President of Harvard University. George T. Bigelow, Chief Justice. George Ticknor, Trustee Public Library. Robert C. Winthrop, President Historical Society. C. G. Loring, Vice President Union Club. Asa Gray, President Academy Arts and Sciences. J. D. Graham, Colonel U. S. Army. Silas A. Stringham, Real Admiral U. S. Navy. The remains were conveyed to Mount Auburn. The burial procession was large and imposing. Two companies of volunteer cavalry, two of infantry, and a company of marines from the Navy Yard, acting as escort.
MR. EVERETT AND THE FRENCH MISSION. In a letter to Mr. Robert Bonner, of the New York Ledger, dated Dec. 30, 1864, the late Edward Everett thus alluded to the then current rumor that he was about to be appointed successor to the late Minister Dayton to the Court of France:
“With respect to the French mission, it has been occasionally mentioned to me, never by me, except at this moment in writing to you. Unless our ministers, now abroad, are recalled, it is not likely that Massachusetts, which has now three full ministers, will be allowed to have another. Even if they should come home, there are other Massachusetts men who will do what I shall not-seek the place for themselves or friends. In fact, I am very doubtful whether I should accept it, if offered to me. I have been ten years in Europe. I am in my 71st year. I don’t want the salary. I refused, two years ago, to go abroad on a confidential mission to all the leading Courts, with leave to stay as long as I thought expedient in each capital; to have a secretary, and an allowance equal to the highest salary. It is true, I was not to have a regular commission; but I was to have a plenary credential from the President, and a letter from the Secretary of State to all the ministers of Foreign Affairs. Having declined this, when urged upon me, you can judge whether I am very eager to go abroad, or very likely to solicit any office. I do not wish these things published now, but when I am gone you can affirm them on good authority. In the meantime, my moderation is not likely, on this occasion, to be put to the test; for there is not the least probability that the office will be offered me.”
BALTIMORE, Jan. 23. The Maryland Legislature to-day unanimously passed resolutions expressive of regret at the death of Hon. Edward Everett, and highly eulogistic of his distinguished character and public services. Also making arrangements for the appointment of some one to pronounce an eulogy on the illustrious deceased at an early day.
PERSONAL. Gen. Hamilton’s wife and children succeeded in effecting their escape from Central Texas, by the way of Galveston, on the 4th, and, with the families of Judge Duvall, Col. Hancel, Mr. Harrison and others, have arrived safely at New Orleans. It is two years since Gen. Hamilton was forced to <illegible> from his home, and separate from his family.
<c04>
CONDITION OF KENTUCKY.
The Louisville Journal give the following description of the condition of affairs in Kentucky. It is a fitting commentary on the semi-loyal position which she at times has been made to assume by some of her politicians since the rebellion commenced:
The larger portion of the State is overrun with marauders, and given up to plunder and despoliation. Society is fearfully disorganized, and we no longer appeal to the statutes for the redress of a wrong. Lawless bands roam at will, and the peaceful citizen it hunted down with the greatest eagerness, and robbed and murdered in the coolest manner possible. The desperadoes bid defiance to all authority, and they mock at all attempts to bring them into subjection. A ruthless warfare is waged. The knife is red with the blood of innocent victims, and the firebrand of the bold incendiary is applied with feelings of exultation, and the blackened ruins of many homes attest how well the work is and has been done. Trade is destroyed. But few signs of prosperity are to be seen in many portions of the State. The inland towns are no longer full of the bustle of business. Stores are closed, and an air of desolation reigns on every side. Men are forced to flee for their lives, and whole families are abandoning pleasant homes and moving to other States. The proud old commonwealth has suffered terribly indeed. The outlaws are praying upon her vitals, and if a remedy is not soon applied the disease will become hopeless. Lands are fast depreciating, property is going to destruction, and everywhere stalks the form of ruin. 
The Richmond Sentinel contains a very important editorial, believed to be from the pen of Jeff. Davis. Secretary Seward is reported to have sent if to all the foreign ministers, as showing the complete exhaustion of the rebellion, and consequently the rebels are no longer entitled to consideration as belligerents.
It says: “Our late reverses have done much towards preparing our people for extreme sacrifices if subjugated. The question is simply whether we shall give for our own use, or whether the Yankees shall take for theirs. It would be more glorious to devote our means to success than lose them as spoils to the enemy. Our situation, stripped of our property, but masters of our government, would be infinitely better than if despoiled by the enemy, and wearing his bonds.
Subjugation is a horror that embraces all other horrors. Troublesome times are upon us. Great exigencies surround us. We need all our strength and wisdom. Let there be a conference of our wise men. Let there be a calm investigation of our wants. Then let all obstacles to the employment of all our resources be removed.
So long as we have a man or a dollar, let the call for them be honored. It would be adding disgrace to our misery if we were overcome without exhausting every resource of defence. If the government determines that it needs our lands, houses, negroes, horses, money, or ourselves, it must have them.
If Providence condemns us to a master, let it not be a Yankee. Of all people on earth, we have most reason to loathe and dread them. Any terms with them would be preferable to subjugation by them. If statesmanship cannot save us, it can palliate our misery by saving us from the Yankee. Our people would infinitely prefer a favorable alliance with European nations.”
The Richmond Enquirer, after commenting on the above, says, “If it be necessary to convince the world that we are fighting for self-government of the whites that we should liberate the negroes, and if that liberation should secure the recognition and the guaranty of England and of France to our independence, we believe the people of these states would not hesitate to make the sacrifice. The consequences of emancipation would fall upon the negro. The act would be one of necessity, not of choice, taken against our judgment and convictions, but to save us from the horrors of a prolonged war, and the disgrace, ruin and destruction involved in the success of our enemy.”
The Richmond Sentinel closes thus: “If France and England will enter into a treaty with these Confederate States, recognizing our nationality upon the abolition of slavery in all the States, rather than continue the war, we should be prepared to urge the measure upon our readers. We believe such a proposition would be favorably received and acted upon by those nations, and it ought to be made to them.”
The Richmond Enquirer has an article on Foote’s peace resolutions in tire rebel House of Representatives which concludes by saying: “If we would have peace, we must gain victories. The army must have more men and better organization. This is the only work for our Congress to do. Let them do it, and do it quickly. Turn peace over to Mr. Blair and Mr. Foote. Let them hob-hob over it to their hearts’ content, and whether this side or the other of the Potomac makes no matter. War and war measures for the Congress of the confederacy is the only thing now left for our legislators.”
The Richmond Sentinel, recognized as the organ of Jeff. Davis, has a long editorial headed “Subjugation and Reconstruction,” which are set down as equivalent. It says: “A distinction between them would be a distinction without a difference. Lincoln has taken anxious pains to assure us of this. The only reconstruction-the only peace-he will allow us is by submission. This is subjugation. The reconstruction of Southern States is not conceived of at the North. How vain the effort! How foolish to reconstruct upon any terms a Union which perished through the bad faith of those whom we should have to trust again!”
How THE PRESIDENT RECEIVED HIS COLORED FRIENDS. At the Presidential reception on New Year’s, the colored people hung round the doors until the crowd of while visitors sensibly diminished. They then summoned up courage, and began timidly to approach the hall. Some of them were richly and gaily dressed, some were in tattered garments, and some of them in the most fanciful and grotesque costume. All pressed eagerly forward. When they came into the presence of the President, doubting as to their reception, the feelings of the poor creatures overcame them. What followed is thus narrated by a correspondent:-
For nearly two weary hours, Mr. Lincoln had been shaking the hands of the “sovereigns,” and had become excessively weary and his grasp languid, but here his nerves rallied at the unwonted sight, and he welcomed this motley crowd with a heartiness that made them wild with exceeding joy. They laughed and wept, and wept and laughed, exclaiming, through their blinding tears, “God bless you!” “God bless Abraham Lincoln!” “God bress Massa Linkum!” Depend upon it, those who witnessed this scene will not soon forget it. For a long distance down the walk, on my way home, I heard fast young men cursing the President for this act; but all the way I kept saying to myself, “God bless Abraham Lincoln!” He has within him a great heart that feels for his brother man, of whatever hue or condition. May the hopes of this down-trodden people soon be realized, and may Abraham Lincoln live to see every yoke broken, and every American citizen rejoicing in the boon of liberty!- Commonwealth.
THE ATTACK ON JUDGE KELLEY. A Washington dispatch gives the following particulars of the assault on Judge Kelley of Pennsylvania by Judge Field of Louisiana:
“Late last evening [Friday] as Judge Kelley, Hon. Charles O’Neil and Major Harper were sitting at the treatable at Wilard’s, one Judge Field, who is claiming a seat in the House as a member from Louisiana, remarked in a loud voice to Judge Kelley: ‘Well, Judge, you were all afraid to show your hands on admitting our delegation,’ accompanying it with an bath, to which Judge Kelley made no reply, as he had no acquaintance with Field; but on the continuance of his insults, Judge Kelley replied that when his name was called, it would not take him long to decide upon his case; to which Field continued his violent talk, with a ‘Damn you, your people want us back bad enough, and you are afraid to face them if you don’t vote for us.’
He finally left, threatening Kelley with personal violence, and on subsequently meeting Kelley in the corridor, he rushed at him with a bowie-knife, and being a more powerful man than Kelley, collared him, and as Kelley tried to disengage himself, he cut his hand open to the bone with his knife. A number of persons rushed up and disengaged him before he could inflict any dangerous wounds upon him. Kelley was taken to his room, and Dr. Stone called in to dress his wound. Field was taken to the Station House, and finally released on bail of one thousand dollars, for a further hearing, which is to come off this afternoon.
This morning Fields has been refreshing himself in Willard’s lower rooms with proclaiming his ability to whip any d-d member of Congress that insults him.
WASHINGTON, January 22.
Mr. Fields who was interrupted in the murder of Judge Kelley, in Willard’s, was examined yesterday before a magistrate, and in his fury and profanity exceeded his slave-driving display in the hotel, barring the bowie knife. He was bound over in a trifling sum to appear and to keep the peace, a keeper of a drinking saloon going his ball.
SLAVERY IN BRAZIL. In Brazil there are about 3,000,000 slaves, but their bondage has many alleviations which Southern slaves do not. The parliament entertains the plan of emancipating the whole body of them at a period not for distant. Under the reign of the present Emperor, the slaves have <illegible> 1.000,000 while the products of the soil have increased 35 per cent. These facts and figures show the progress of events in that quarter of the world.
<c05>
THE NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW. No. CCVI. January. 1865. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. New York: American News Company, D. G. Francis.
Its new proprietors, Messrs. Ticknor & Fields, of Boston, <illegible> the first number of the new year with entire punctuality. Remaining in the editorial charge of Prof. James Russell Lowell and Charles Eliot Norton, Esq., who have already given it a fresh impulse and popularity, the North American must hold its place as the leading Review of the country, and stand side by side with the ablest abroad.
The first article of the present number is a fine analysis of the character and policy of the President, and should be read by everybody. The next is a discriminating discussion of the relations between the early Church and slavery, showing how, almost without exception, the weight of the Church, from the beginning, was on the side of Freedom. The Records of Venitian Diplomacy forms the theme of the next-a very curious and instructive article. Girard College and its Founder is the subject of the fourth article, from which every one may learn, in the most agreeable manner, the strange history and character of this famous Philadelphia banker, and his motives and purposes in the chief bequest of his will.
Merivale’s great History of the Romans under the Empire suggests article V., in which are ably set forth the train of causes and events which resulted in the decline of the power of the nobles and the fall of the Republic, and led the way to absolute monarchy. Article VI. is a most seasonable discussion of the national resources; full of remarkable facts and nice statistical analysis; most hopeful and encouraging, but strictly careful and reasonable in its whole tone, and fitted to remove all doubts of the ability of the nation, neither prostrated nor exhausted thereby, to bring the gigantic civil war in which it is engaged, to a triumphant issue. Article VII. is highly appreciative of Dr. Palfrey’s admirable History of New England, just brought by the publication of his third volume to one of the possible bounds which its accomplished author originally fixed for his labors. Of the rest of the number, we can say nothing now, beyond the titles of the other articles, which are Natural Theology as a Positive Science, occasioned by Prof. Cook’s Graham Lectures; Heraldry in New England; and Aristocratic Opinions of Democracy. The Critical Notices are numerous, and form a marked feature of the Review, “The semi-centenary” of this valuable journal, the completion of its “fiftieth year,” with its great progeny of one hundred veterans, is fittingly noticed in an appendix.-N. Y. Christian Inquirer.
THE EMANCIPATION JUBILEE AT NEWBERN, N. C. The anniversary of the issue of President Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclamation was celebrated at Newbern, Jan. 2nd, in a very enthusiastic manner. There was a procession of the military, State Leagues and Schools, and on its arrival in the Park, a meeting was held, at which speeches were made by Bishop Clinton, A. H. Galloway, and others. In the evening, meetings were held in various colored churches. One of the most pleasing occurrences of the day was the presentation of an elegant silk flag to the 1st N. C. Heavy Artillery, colored, by the scholars of the Palmer school.
UNION SOLDIERS KILLED BY BLOODHOUNDS. A federal officer who has reached Louisville after a stealthy and weary, flight from prison in South Carorolina, says he was hunted by bloodhounds, and only escaped their fangs by the most incessant vigilance. At one time he threw the bloodhounds off their scent by putting turpentine on the soles of his boots. Just previous to his escape from Columbia, he saw a fellow officer, who made an unsuccessful attempt to escape, brought in so horribly torn by bloodhounds that he died in a very few hours. This method of capturing fugitives from military prisons has become almost the main reliance of the rebels in all parts of the South. The flying parties, whatever their number at the start, of course break up into very small squads, and hounds are the surest agents for their capture.
The Richmond Sentinel says: “Mr. Blair sought an interview with the President, ostensibly for the purpose of procuring certain captured documents, and broached the subject of peace, but admitted that he had no authority to negotiate on the subject. The answer of the President is said to have been that the Confederate Government is now, as it always had been, ready to receive properly authorized Commissioners from the United States, or to send Commissioners to that Government, to negotiate a settlement of the difficulties now existing.”
The Express has the following from Washington:
“The exodus of the negroes from here to the different localities in Maryland, from whence they came prior to their emancipation, is large and greatly augmenting. They go to seek employment from their former owners, which they readily procure at fair remuneration, with the addition of comfortable quarters, and association with friends and scenes of their childhood.”
It strikes us that these people evince good sense-considering that they are nothing but “niggers.” They didn’t like to work longer for nothing-so they ran away from slavery in Maryland to freedom in Washington; but, now that Maryland is free, they quietly return to their old homes, and hire out to their old masters, or such neighbors as they like better or will pay them more. They like their old neighbors, old firesides, and all the associations of their early years, and they mean to enjoy them if they can do so in freedom. Doesn’t this fact go far toward answering the Copperhead question-“What are you going to do with the niggers after you have freed them?” We propose to let them alone. -N. Y. Tribune.
The N. Y. Times fitly says:
We have talked of the Cawnpore massacre by the Sepoys, of the atrocities of the Sarawak pirates, of the deeds done with the tomahawk and scalping knife of North American Indians, but in no known part of the world, for the last century, has there been such fiendish cruelty as has been practised upon our prisoners by these Southern rebels. Its peculiar nefariousness lies in the fact that it has been so cold blooded. The fire of passion has had nothing to do with it. It has been kept up steadily month after month. The difference between this conduct and that of other savages has been the difference between murdering inch by inch, and murdering by one fell stroke.
THAT SACK OF FLOUR. A sack of flour was won in a bet on the election of Mayor of the city of Austin, State of Nevada. It was won by the Union man, and the loser carried it some two miles on his shoulders in a procession headed by a band of music playing Old John Brown. The winner presented it to the Sanitary Association with $500 in gold coin. It was afterwards sold many times in several localities, until the sum realized from it amounts to over $63,000 in gold. The sack is to be sent to the Central Sanitary Association in New York city. That is the way they do the things in the far West.
A COLORED SOLDIER COMMISSIONED. Sergeant Stephen A. Swaile, 54th regiment Mass. Vote. (colored.) was commissioned Second Lieutenant in that regiment, on the recommendation of Colonel Hallowell, for his conspicuous gallantry in action, and his merit as a man of character and intelligence, 11th March, 1864, but in consequence of his being a colored man the orders of the War Department prevented his being mustered as a commissioned officer. On Saturday, Governor Andrews received a communication from Secretary Stanton, authorizing Swails being musered.
Gen. Butler’s rooms at Willard’s are crowded with visitors, many of whom believe him to be unjustly deprived of his military command, It is understood that Gen. Grant has written a long letter to the President, giving the reasons which prompted him to ask for Butler’s removal, and that the lack of success in capturing Fort Fisher is not one of them.
Gen. Grant will appear in a few days before the Committee on the Conduct of the War.
The Senate has ratified the extradition treaty between the United States and Hayti.
A Savannah belle stepped off the sidewalk the other day, with a pouting expression, to avoid walking under an American flag which hung in front of an officer’s headquarters. General Geary, military commandant of the city, immediately gave orders to have her promenade back and forth under the hateful symbol for an hour, as a warning for similar offenders.
The New Haven Palladium says a curious letter from Mr. Charles F. James, the rifled ordnance man, who was formerly a Democratic U. S. Senator from Rhode Island, was lately discovered in Savannah. It bears date at Providence, Nov. 26, 1860, and offers to contract for supplying “such rifled cannon, projectiles, &c., as may be needed” for the rebel service. It is addressed to a lieutenant in an artillery corps at Savannah.
It is stated that when Hood entered Tennessee, he had 40,000 men and 110 pieces of artillery, while Thomas had only 20,000 troops in hand. When Hood left Tennessee, he had 18,000 men and twelve guns, while the army of Thomas now numbers 40,000 veterans. He has beaten his enemy all to please, and begins a new campaign with a numerous army, flashed with the most complete victory of the war.
The Presidential vote thus far exceeds by 19,115 the aggregate cited by Mr. Lincoln to demonstrate the continued growth of the loyal States, not  withstanding the drafts of the war. 
<c06>
THIRD EDITION.
THE TRIBUNE ALMANAC FOR 1865.
The third edition of this popular Annual new ready.
In addition to the usual CALENDER AND <illegible> 
CALCULATIONS, it contains:
United States Government, Ministers, &c.
Senators and Representatives of XXXVIIIth Congress.
XXXIXth Congress, so far as <illegible>
Laws passed at the last <illegible> of Congress.
Public Resolutions and Proclamations.
Party Platforms of 1864, (Baltimore and Chicago.)
The Rebel Government, Congressmen, &c.
Slaveholders’ Rebellion, or Chronicle of War Events.
Native States of the American-born People.
Election Return, for President, Governors, <illegible>, &c., in 1864, compared with the Presidential Vote <illegible> 1860.
State Capitals, Governors, Salaries, Time Legislatures meet, Time of State Elections.
Territorial Capitals and Governors.
Popular vote by States in 1854, <illegible> and 1864.
Vote of 1860 elaborately analyzed and compared, by Population, Free and Slave, with percentage &c.
PRICE 20 CENTS. SEVEN COPIES FOR ONE DOLLAR.
Orders (enclosing cash) should be addressed:
THE TRIBUNE,
Jan. 27. New York, 
INFIDEL CONVENTION.-The Infidel Association of America will hold their Annual Convention at Evans Hall, No. 3 Tremont Row, near Howard St., Boston, on Sunday, Jan. 29, 1865, (the anniversary of the birth-day of Thomas Paine.)
Infidels, Deists, Atheists, Liberals, Spiritualists and Christians are respectfully invited to attend.
For order of the Executive Committee,
J. M. BECKRTT, Secretary.
Boston, Jan. 20, 1865.
THE PAINE BALL!
The One Hundred and Twenty-Eighth Anniversary of the BIRTH-DAY OF THOMAS PAINE will be celebrated by a Grand Ball, at Minot Hall, 1131 Washington Street, (corner of Springfield Street, Boston,) on Monday Evening Jan. 30, 1865.
Ample preparations will be made to equal, if not surpass, any good time ever enjoyed on a similar occasion.
Minot Hall contains ample room and superior accommodations, and the Committee will spare no pains to reader the Ball one not to be forgotten by those who honor it with their presence.
MUSIC-Savage’s Quadrille Band.
DANCING to commence at 8 o’clock.
Tickets, admitting a gentleman and two <illegible>, $2, for sale at the Investigator Office, or by any of the following Committee of Arrangements:-
JAMES M. BECKETT, HORACE SEAVEH,
JOSIAH P. MENDUM, T. L. SAVAGE,
OTIS CLAPP, GALEN COFFIN,
F. G. HARTSHORN, PHILIP PEAK.
Boston, Jan. 17, 1865.
BOSTON YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION.-The next lecture in the “Popular Course” will be delivered by Hon. GEORGE THOMPSON, on Wednesday evening, Feb. 1st, in Tremont Temple, at half-past 7 o’clock. Subject-“Now and Then.”
Tickets may be obtained at the rooms of the above Association, Tremont Temple, at 25 cents each. A few reserved seats are at the disposal of the Committee at 50 cents. Jan. 27.
A FARM OF 1500 ACRES 
FOR SALE.
THE St. Mary’s Lake Farm, 3 1-2 miles North from the city of Battle Creek, Calhoun county, Michigan, is offered for sale. The proprietor wishing to retire, offers this Farm for sale on reasonable terms as to price and time of payments. The Farm consists of 1500 acres of as rich agricultural land as can be found in the Northern States; 1000 acres of which are improved in the best manner. There are on this farm thirty-seven miles of rail and board fence, mostly new. St. Mary’s Lake is one of the most beautiful sheets of clear crystal water in the country, and one of the finest fishing lakes in the State. This lake is in the center of the farm, and is a mile and a quarter long by one third of a mile wide. The surroundings of this lake are unsurpassed for beauty of scenery. There are some eight or ten beautiful sites for <illegible> on either side of the lake. No low marshy grounds connected with the shore of the lake. There are about 400 acres of timber, and 100 acres of the best marsh meadow land on the west side of the farm. The buildings are, the large Farm House, 88 by 56 feet, elevated 50 feet above the lake, commanding a view of a great portion of the farm and of the lake; also, a large frame Boarding-House, and seven frame Tenements; two large Barne, 153 by 70 feet each, with stabling below for 130 head of <illegible>, also, four other Barns, 50 by 40 feet; also, a Steam Circular Saw Mill, 80 by 60 feet-said to be one of the best mille in the State; an Orchard of 800 apple and 1200 of the choicest peach trees, all in fine bearing order; 350 standard pear trees, a large number of plums, cherries, quinces, and a great quantity of grapes and small fruits, too numerous to mention. Perhaps there is not a 1500 acre farm in the Union better adapted to cattle and sheep-raising than is this farm, every field of which has never-failing water. The land is moderately rolling, and no outlay need ever be made for manures. There is one of the most extensive Brick-yards on this farm in the interior of the State. A more beautiful residence cannot be found than is on this farm. A gentleman having sons to settle around him could arrange to make six or eight beautiful farms, each having a large front on the lake, with a beautiful sandy beach. Battle Creek City is one of the best markets in the State, and is 120 miles west and 162 miles east from Chicago on the Great Michigan Central Railroad. No situation is or can be more healthy. All the water on the farm is clear as crystal, soft and excellent. This farm affords a rare chance to one wishing to go into stock and sheep raising; it is now seeded down to clever and timothy. The farm, with all the stock sheep, farm utensils and 250 tons of clover and timothy hay, is offered at the greatest bargain.
Letters of inquiry, addressed to me at Battle Creek, will receive prompt replies. I refer to Henry C. Wright, Charles C. Burleigh and Parker Pillsbury, who have visited the St. Mary’s Lake Farm.
HENRY WILLIS.
Battle Creek, Nov. 18, 1864.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
FOR THE RAPID CURE OF
Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Hoarseness, Croup, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and for the relief of Consumptive Patients in advanced stages of the discuss.
So wide is the field of its usefulness; and so numerous are the cases of its cures, that almost every section of the country abounds in persons publicly known, who have been restored from alarming and even desperate diseases of the lungs by its use. When once tried, its superiority over every other expectorant is too apparent to escape observation: and where its virtues are known, the public no longer hesitate what antidote to employ for the <illegible> and dangerous affections of the pulmonary organs that are incident to our climate. While many inferior <illegible> thrust upon the community have failed and been discarded, this has gained friends by every trial, conferred benefits on the afflicted they can never forget, and produced cures too numerous and too remarkable to he forgotten.
We can only assure the public, that its quality is carefully kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all that it has ever done.
Great numbers of clergymen, physicians, statesmen, and eminent personages, have <illegible> their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of our remedies, but space here will not permit the insertion of them. The agents below named furnish gratis the AMERICAN ALWAMAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the complaints they cure.
Those who require an <illegible> medicine to purify the blood will find AYER’S COMP. <illegible> the <illegible> to use. Try it once, and you will know its value.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO. Lowell, Mass, and sold by all druggists.
Jan. 6. 2m 

CARPENTER’S 
Great National Picture.
THE 
Emancipation Proclamation 
BEFORE THE CABINET.
PAINTED <illegible> 14 1-2 by 9 <illegible>, and containing full-length life-size Portraits of President LINCOLN, Secretaries <illegible> CHASE, STANTON, WELLS, SMITH, Postmaster General <illegible> BATES, together with a faithful representation of the 
Old Cabinet Council <illegible> 
WILLIAMS & EVERETT’S
234 WASHINGTON STREET.
 ADMISSION, 25 CENTS
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
THE FREEDMEN OF WASHINGTON TO CHARLES SUMNER.
BY KATY CARLISLE, 
On reading the anecdote of a black man who begged admittance to the Senate Chamber with ‘“Boss, could you let a poor nig see Massa Sum’er?”
The white brow <illegible> the dark hair’s careless grace,
The soulful eyes and chiseled lips, the stature
Like an archangel’s-and that form was bowed
‘Neath ruffian hands-that brow, all bathed in blood,
Bent even to the base earth, for me and mine!
And, lit by Freedom’s fire on his heart’s altar,
Those eyes,-that kindled like his own North star,
Or shot indignant flashes at the sight
Of our wrongs, till our tyrants quailed before them,
Had well nigh closed in death’s eclipse, while bright
With their meridian lustre, for the sake
Of those who might not dare to speak his name,
Writ in their hearts!-But now, when chains are broken-
When, with such hands as his reached down to us,
We may e’en rise to win a place beside him-
And, looking through the vistas of the years,
We see that in the future, we may look-
Aye, stand here as erect as our God made us,
Where none may dare to spurn us from these halls
Our brethren’s swords, on hundred fields, have sav’d
From treason’s torch and plundering hand-and gaze,
With all our rapt souls beaming from their windows,
On our deliverer’s face! You hoary father,
So bowed with unrewarded toil, his face
Furrowed by plowshares of deep woes and wrongs,
Looks on the here;-looks with his dim eyes
Glittering with tears, his trembling hands outstretched,
Fraught with the benison of the poor; his lips
Moving in broken, whispered words of blessing;
And all for “Masa’r Sum’er,” who sits there
Pondering in his great heart on some new plan
For the land’s freedom!-O thou slandered North,
Is this thy son? How does he look beside
Our braggart Southern lords, brave-when they carry
Their loaded canes; and gallant-when they whip
Our wives and mothers; generous when they heap-
The hospitable board, and measure out
His peck of corn to the tiller of their soil!
But this man, with his lips of eloquence,
His Christ-like manners, and his sterling soul
That Premierships or Judgeships cannot buy-
O far-off barren coast, that Southrons scorn,
If more such eagles dwell among thy rocks,
Methinks that I could bear to feel thy frost
Chilling my heart’s blood, but to breathe a breath
Of thy free air!
Boston, Jan.6, 1865.
MARYLAND REDEEMED.
Hurrah! hurrah! let joyous shouts resound with deafening peal;
The hills and rocks shall echo back the joy too they must feel:
Hurrah! hurrah! the mountain winds are calling to the sea;
Hurrah! hurrah! chimes ocean’s roar, “for Maryland is free!”
How anxiously we listened for the sovereign people’s voice!
While doubtful murmurs filled the air, we did not dare rejoice:
But louder, clearer comes the cry, bid trembling, doubting flee,
For, hark! it tells like silver bells, “Our Maryland is free!”
Down Allegbany’s mountain heights, up from her deepest mines,
From every dashing rivulet within the county lines;
From Washington’s green lovely hills, and eke the flowery lea,
A mighty shout comes pealing out, “Let Maryland be free!”
The fertile farms of Frederick in noble chorus join
With Baltimore and Cecil too, and little Caroline;
And with them in the city ten thousand men agree:
Let rebels fight with rage and spite, Our Maryland is free!
For many armed citizens, when dreadful carnage stayed,
Still thought upon their native State, and the curse that on her laid:
And hands that many a bullet sped against the rebel Lee,
The ballots gave that loosed the slave, and Maryland made free!
The air is fresher that we breathe, it brings no bondman’s sigh-
Ourselves are freed from haughty sway, that ruled in days gone by;
One stripe is purer on the flag, one star more brilliant see;
On far ship-mast they tell the blast that Maryland is free!
O, free and loyal sister States, again we clasp your hand 
With deeper love, with strengthened ties, together now we stand:
And you, ye erring ones, O! hear a sister’s warning plea,
Repent, return, and wisdom learn, for Maryland is free!
Let joyful praise from thankful hearts to God our Father rise,
That bonds have fallen from the slave, the scales from off our eyes:
Pray Peace and Union, Truth and Right may soon in love agree,
And millions say, “We bless the day, that Maryland made free!” ORIOLE
A.S. Standard.

FREE MISSOURI.
JANUARY 10, 1865.
O, fitly may the silver light,
From all the round moon’s cycle bright,
Shine o’er the sleeping town to-night.
No smallest cloud to dim her ray,
She moveth on her splendid way,
To bless the night of Freedom’s day.
For unto many an humble home,
With quiet feet no more to roam,
The Angel of the Lord has come;
And broken lies the heavy chain,
That at his bidding snapped in twain,
And left the slave a man again.
Till many hearts forget their care,
As joyous, solemn words of prayer
Float upward on the quiet air.
And North and South, where still the broad
And swelling river rolls its flood,
Go up the freedman’s thanks to God.
And West, to where, o’er war-worn lands,
Our freedom-loving Kansas stands
And welcomes him with outstretched hands.
O, earth! Roll round, and bring the sun,
To shine upon the triumph won,
Upon the better life begun.
To shine upon the rescued State,
All thrilling with the coming fate,
That asked but this to make her great.
For now at last, redeemed and free,
She sends her voice to either sea,
And cries, “O, sisters, welcome me!”
Through all the storm-clouds of the fight
Our God has led her steps aright,
To Freedom’s first, most blessed sight.
Nor doubt we that He <illegible> still,
And <illegible> all the land until
He gives us peace. We wait His will. A..E.
Missouri Democrat,

DEATH.
Why, what is death but life
In other forms of being-life without
The <illegible> attributes of man, the dull
And momentary decaying frame which holds
The eternal spirit in and binds it down
To brotherhood with brutes? There’s no such thing
As death; what’s called so is but the beginning
Of new existence, a fresh segment in 
The eternal round of change.
<c02>
The Liberator.
GEORGE THOMPSON IN PHILADELPHIA.
PHILADELPHIA, 1st mo,17, 1865.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
ESTEEMED FRIEND-Last evening, our Concert Hall was crowded on the inauguration of a series of meetings by the “Social, Civil and Statistical Association of Colored People of Pennsylvania.” It was expected that thy presence would open this remarkable movement-the first of the kind-in our city. It was with the deepest pain we learned that illness prevented thy coming, and a profound sympathy went out from that meeting, and many a fervent prayer for thy speedy recovery.
The substitution of our revered friend George Thompson was warmly appreciated. It was generous in thee, and magnanimous in him. His very soul seemed electrified with the sight of white and colored people mingled together in so much earnestness of purpose.
It was a splendid ovation. His reference to your early and long-continued friendship, and his searching examination into the difficulties that surround our country, were happily and feelingly referred to. The climax of his oration was in bringing the matter to our very threshold. “Begin at home!” he said “make diligent haste to fit yourselves for universal freedom.”
This may well be the universal watchword of the hour. No wonder our friend Rachel Wilson Moore felt impressed to add a few words of benediction and encouragement. It was something new to find the plainly-attired “Friend” upon the platform, urging our people to accept the great truths of the orator of the evening; and it produced a profound impression.
Mr. Thompson spoke for nearly two hours, and seemed almost overcome. Indeed, upon his arrival at my house, I noticed he was much fatigued. He is very weary with his constant labors. We must take care of him; he needs rest.
He decides to remain here until next week. As he is to speak in the Spring Garden Hall on Monday the 23d, he wants to be well rested for it. Hence he can not fulfil an appointment made for him in New York State, which he deeply regrets. Feeble health alone prevents.
The colored people are making laudable efforts, and must succeed in gaining that recognition and equality which are their birth-right and their salvation, and the salvation of our nation.
My sincere regret for thy illness, and fervent hopes for a speedy restoration. 
Ever thy friend,
ALFRED H. LOVE.

MARYLAND ADVANCING.
MY DEAR MR. GARRISON: Matters in Maryland are progressing finely since the emancipation of our good old State. Already we have been visited by quite a number of our Northern friends, while a great many natives of the State, who were forced by the influence of slavery to seek a refuge elsewhere, are (like the dove) again returning, and taking up their abode in the home of their earlier days. Frederick Douglass was among the first to visit us, to see the State of his birth arrayed in the beautiful garments of freedom, and progressing in the early dawn of the morn, which is yet to expand into a bright and glorious day. Mr. Douglass spoke six times to crowded houses. Our white friends turned out in strong numbers to hear this marvel of eloquence and statesmanship. Among them were members of the Maryland Legislature, members of the City Council, the Lieut. Governor of the State, Major Generals, clergymen, and other dignitaries.  They all seemed delighted with him, and applauded most when he uttered his most radical sentiments. There is a prospect of Mr. Douglass locating in this city. There is no doubt that he would exert a healthy and powerful influence with our law-makers.
Madam Louise De Monte of Boston has given three readings here recently. The entertainments were attended by our best citizens, and she was highly spoken of by the press. Her pronunciation is perfect, her gestures easy and graceful, her voice rich and flexible, and her physique pleasing and commanding.
Tuesday and Wednesday of this week, Mrs. Frances Ellen Watkins Harper lectured in this city. You will remember that Mrs. Harper is also a native of this city, where she spent the better portion of her life, and received her education.
We would be more than pleased if you, Mr. Garrison, and your good friend Wendell Phillips, would come and speak a word to us. An overflowing house would greet either of you.
The great work of establishing a system of education for colored children free of expense has begun in this city under the patronage of an association of gentlemen of generous impulses and philanthropic feelings. I send you a copy of their printed circular, which I hope you will find room for in your valuable journal.
Yours, as ever,
WILLIAM E. MATTHEWS.
Baltimore, Jan. 14, 1865.

CIRCULAR OF THE ASSOCIATION
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE COLORED RACE IN MARYLAND.
BALTIMORE, Dec. 15, 1864.
SIR-Your attention is called to the Association formed in this city for the moral and educational improvement of the colored people.
The address of the Association to the public is hereto appended, and your aid and countenance in furtherance of its charitable object is earnestly requested.
Any amount of money you feel able to contribute may be handed to any member of the Finance Committee, and will aid the Association in their efforts to aid the education of the colored people.
Rooms of the Baltimore Association for the Moral and Educational Improvement of the Colored People-Room No.3 Bible House.
FELLOW-CITIZENS-Since the adoption of the new Constitution, very grave issues are submitted for your consideration.
That instrument, by its benevolent provisions, has added to the eighty thousand free colored people of our State eighty-seven thousand others, recently slaves.
These two classes constitute the greater portion of the labor of the State.
They are likely to remain among us, for they are attached to their homes, and no government has ever consented to the violent removal of one-fourth of its population.
For the most part they are ignorant. The habits of their former industry have not been such as to teach them ideas of thrift, carefulness or providence. Thrown upon their own resources though their labor is in great demand, they cannot be expected to know the necessity of industry, or how to seek at home permanent occupation and employment.
We are forced to think it the duty of every citizen of Maryland to seek to make this population most useful to the State, as it is the bounden duty of Christian men to seek their moral improvement.
There are but two courses to be pursued. The one is to leave these persons in the ignorance and moral destitution in which many of them now unhappily are, and the other to endeavor by education to improve their habits, instruct them in their industry, make diligent the idle, reform the vicious, and stimulate the good, that they may rise in the scale of being, and he better fitted for the varied duties they are called on to perform.
The first course may at first seem the least trouble some and expensive, but ignorance is the mother of vice, and unless <illegible> people are taught their duty to the State. And their more important duty to God, and are not suffered to remain in the helpless state in which
<c03>
slavery has left them, the necessity for almshouses, jails and penitentiaries will teach the folly of such economy.
Educated labor produces more than uneducated labor. It is, therefore, the interest of the State that all labor should be instructed.
One of the hopes of the friends of emancipation was, that that measure would induce immigration into the State, raise the price of our lands, give demand for our labor in erecting mills and dwellings, and in manufacturing the various utensils necessary for the increased a population of Maryland. But it cannot be expected that any number of the class of emigrants we desire will leave their homes to dwell in Maryland if they know they are to be surrounded by an illiterate, ignorant population, whose ignorance and vice are to be daily increased by withholding all instruction in the arts of labor, all educational improvement, and every teaching of morality which would lead them to higher ideas of duty to God and their neighbor.
To pursue this plan would deprive the State in the first place of the productive labor of one hundred and sixty thousand people, and would prevent desirable emigration into her borders, and oppress those of us now residents of the State with additional taxation to furnish what the expense of education would have entirely prevented.
Perhaps those of the colored people whose circumstances require daily toil for the support of their families can receive but little direct benefit at their time of life from any effort now put forth, but we believe the influence of the education of their children will be felt upon the home and the household, that family respect will increase, that thrift and cleanliness will be promoted, and the same beneficent effects which education produces upon other populations will be felt among the colored people.
They have been taxed for a long while for public schools, but have been allowed none. Their present condition, when we consider what has been denied them, and how little means or opportunity they have had for self-improvement, is a standing rebuke to those who think they are incapable of moral or mental culture.
They long for opportunity to show how readily they may becomes people no longer degraded by, but useful to the State.
The Baltimore Association for the Moral and Educational Improvement of the Colored People, intends to do what it can to give them such opportunity. Its members will give their best efforts to this charitable purpose.
Those of our fellow-citizens who feel any interest in a people upon whom their vote has thrust the responsibilities of life, and those in whom Christianity prompts kindness and duty toward these people, are invited to give us their support in such manner as they may think the most useful, that we, if necessary, by private benevolence may do what long since ought to have been done, and we hope soon will be done, by the State, i.e., provide means for the moral and educational improvement of one-fourth of our population.
We annex a list of the officers of the Association:-President, Evans Rogers; Vice Presidents, Archibald Stirling, Thos. Kelso, Wm. J. Albert, Francis T. King, John W. Randolph; Recording Secretary, Geo. A. Pope; Corresponding Secretary, Joseph M. Cushing; Treasurer, Jesse Tyson.
Board of Managers.-Rev. F. Israel, Rev. Wm. Bruce, Rev. F. L. Brauns, Rev. T. Stork, D. D., Rev. J. F. W. Ware, Hon. H. L. Bond, Dr. C. C. Cox, Dr. R. W. Pease, Dr. J. C. Thomas, Galloway Cheston, Win. J. Albert, Wm. Kennedy, Hazlett McKim, G. T. Hopkins, Daniel Holliday, Ashur Clarke, James Carey, Alex. M. Carter, Richard M. Janney, Henry Stockbridge, William Daniel, Jas. Carey Coale, A. Stirling, Jr., John A. Needles, John T. Graham, E. Stabler, Jr., George B. Cole, Alex. T. Johnson, W. K. Carson, John S. Gilman.
Finance Committee.-Wm. J. Albert, Archibald Stirling, Sr., E. T. King, John W. Randolph, James Carey, Wash. K. Carson, Wm. Daniel, Edw. Stabler, Jr. Alex. T. Johnson, Geo. B. Cole.

THE POPE’S ENCYCLICAL LETTER.
We give below the larger portion of the Pope’s encyclical letter of the 8th ult. The London Times, in its remarks upon this extraordinary document, says, “of all the allocutions and other apostolic messages which he has yet launched against this evil world, none approaches in fatuous presumption this last invective,” and the Stur declares that “so outspoken and thoroughgoing a denunciation of all the principles of enlightenment, liberty, and progress has not been delivered for centuries.” Pius IX. writes:
To our venerable brethren, all the patriarchs, primates, archbishops, and bishops in communion with the apostolic see-we, Pius IX. Pope, send greeting and our apostolic blessing.
As you are aware, venerable brethren, we had scarcely been raised to the chair of St. Peter above our merits by the mysterious designs of Divine Providence, than, seeing with the most profound grief of our soul the horrible storm excited by evil doctrines, and the very grave and deplorable injury caused specially by so many errors to Christian people, in accordance with the duty of our apostolic ministry, and following in the glorious footsteps of our predecessor, we raised our voice, and by the publication of several encyclicals, consistorial letters and allocutions, and other apostolical letters, we have condemned the principal errors of our sad age, reanimated your utmost episcopal vigilance, warned and exhorted, upon various occasions, all our dear children in the Catholic Church, to repel and absolutely avoid the contagion of so horrible a plague. More especially in our first encyclical of the 9th November, 1846, addressed to you, and in our two allocutions of the 9th December, 1854, and the 9th June, 1862, to the consistories, we condemned the monstrous opinions which particularly predominate in the present day, to the great prejudice of souls, and to the detriment of civil society-doctrines which not only attack the Catholic Church, her salutary instruction and her venerable rights, but also the natural, unalterable law inscribed by God upon the heart of man-that of sound reason.
But although we have not hitherto omitted to prescribe and reprove the principal errors of this kind, yet the cause of the Catholic Church, the safety of the souls which have been confided to us, and the well-being of human society itself, absolutely demand that we should again exercise our pastoral solicitude to destroy new opinions which spring out of these same errors as from so many sources. These false and perverse opinions are the more detestable as they especially tend to shackle and turn aside the salutary force that the Catholic Church, by the example of her divine Author and His order, ought freely to exercise until the end of time, not only in regard to each individual man, but with regard to nations, peoples, and their rulers, and to destroy that agreement and concord between the priesthood and the government, which have always existed for the happiness and security of religious and civil society. For, as you are well aware, venerable brethren, there are a great number of men in the present day who, applying to civil society the impious and absurd principle of naturalism, as it is called, dare to teach “that the perfect right of public society and civil progress absolutely requires a condition of human society, constituted and governed without regard to all considerations of religion, as if it had no existence, or at least, without making any distinction between true religion and heresy.” And, contrary to the teaching of the Holy Scriptures, of the church, and of the fathers, they do not hesitate to affirm “that the best condition of society is that in which the power of the laity is not compelled to inflict the penalties of law upon violators of the Catholic religion, unless required by considerations of public safety.” Actuated by an idea of social government so absolutely false, they do not hesitate further to propagate this erroneous opinion, very hurtful to the safety of the Catholic Church and of souls, and termed delirium by our predecessor, Gregory XVI., of excellent memory, viz: “Liberty of conscience and of worship is the right of every man-a right which ought to be proclaimed and established by law in every well constituted State; and that citizens are entitled to make known and declare, with a liberty which neither the ecclesiastical nor the
<c04>
civil authority can limit, their convictions, of whatever kind, either by word of mouth, or through the press, or by other means.” But in making these rash assertions they do not reflect, they do not consider, that they preach the liberty of perdition, (St. Augustine, Epistle 105, al. 166,) and that “if it is always free to human conviction to discuss, men will never be wanting who dare to struggle against the truth, and to rely upon the loquacity of human wisdom, when we know by the example of our Lord Jesus Christ how faith and Christian sagacity ought to avoid this very culpable vanity.” (St. Leon, Epistle 164, al. 133,s. 2, Bol.ed.)
Since, also, religion has been banished from civil government-since the doctrine and authority of divine revelation have been repudiated, the idea intimately connected therewith of justice and human right is obscured by darkness and lost sight of, and in place of true justice and legitimate right brute force is substituted, which has permitted some entirely oblivious of the plainest principles of sound reason to dare to proclaim “that the will of the people, manifested by what is called public opinion or by other means, constitutes a supreme law, superior to all divine and human right; and that accomplished facts in political affairs, by the mere fact of their having been accomplished, have the force of law.” But who does not perfectly see and understand that human society, released from the ties of religion and true justice, can have no further object than to amass riches, and can follow no other law in its action than the indomitable wickedness of a heart given up to pleasure and interest?
For this reason, also, these same men persecute with so relentless a hatred the religions orders, who have deserved so well of religion, civil society, and letters; they loudly declare that the orders have no right to exist; and, in so doing, make common cause with the falsehoods of the heretics; for, as taught by our predecessor, of illustrious memory, Pius VI., “the abolition of religious houses injures the state of public profession, and is contrary to the counsel of the gospel, injures a mode of life recommended by the Church and in conformity with the apostolical doctrine, does wrong to the celebrated founders whom we venerate upon the altar, and who constituted these societies under the inspiration of God.” (Epistle to Cardinal de la Rochefoucauld, March 10, 1791.)
Others, taking up wicked errors, many times condemned, presume, with notorious impudence, to submit the authority of the Church and of this apostolic see, conferred upon it by God himself, to the judgment of civil authority, and to deny all the rights of this same Church and this see with regard to exterior order. They do not blush to affirm “that the laws of the Church do not bind the conscience, if they are not promulgated by the civil power; that the acts and decrees of the Roman Pontiffs concerning religion and the Church require the sanction and approbation, or at least the assent, of the civil power; and that the apostolic constitutions, condemning secret societies, whether these exact or do not exact an oath of secrecy, and branding with anathema their secretaries and promoters, have no force in those regions of the world where these associations are tolerated by the civil government.” It is likewise affirmed “that the excommunications launched by the Council of Trent and the Roman Pontiffs against those who invade the possessions of the Church and usurp its rights, seek, in confounding the spiritual and temporal orders, to attain solely a terrestrial object; that the Church can decide nothing which may bind the consciences of the faithful in a temporal order of things; that the law of the Church does not demand that violations of sacred laws should be punished by temporal penalties; and that it is in accordance with sacred theology and the principles of public law to claim for the civil government the property possessed by the churches, the religious orders, and other pious establishments.” And they have no shame in avowing openly and publicly the thesis, the principle of heretics, from whom emanate so many errors and perverse opinions. They say, “that the ecclesiastical power is not of right divine distinct and independent from the civil power, and that no distinction, no independence of this kind can be maintained without the Church usurping the essential rights of the civil power.” Neither can we pass over in silence the audacity of those who, insulting sound doctrines, assert that “the judgments and decrees of the Holy See, whose object is declared to concern the general welfare of the Church, its rights and its discipline, do not claim the acquiescence and obedience under pain of sin and loss of the Catholic profession, if they do not treat of the dogmas of faith and manners.”
How contrary is this doctrine to the Catholic dogma of the full power, divinely given to the Sovereign Pontiff by our Lord Jesus Christ, to guide, to supervise, and govern the Universal Church, no one can fail to see and understand clearly and evidently
Amid so great a perversity of depraved opinions, we, remembering our apostolic duty, and solicitous before all things for our most holy religion, for sound doctrine, for the salvation of the souls confided to us, and for the welfare of human society itself, have considered the moment opportune to raise anew our apostolic voice. And, therefore, do we condemn and proscribe, generally and particularly, all the evil opinions and doctrines specially mentioned in this letter; and we wish that they may be held as rebuked, proscribed, and condemned by all the children of the Catholic Church.
Lastly, let us ask of God from the bottom of our heart the abundance of all his celestial benefits for you. We ourselves bestow upon you, venerable brethren, and upon all clerks and faithful of the laity committed to your care, our apostolic benediction from the most loving; depths of our heart, in token of our charity towards you.
PIUS IX, Pope.
Given at St. Peter’s, in Rome, the 8th of December, 1864, the tenth anniversary of the definition of the dogma of the Immaculate Conception of the Virgin Mary, the Mother of God.

TREATMENT OF LUNATICS.
We mentioned last week the result of the trial in Miss Underhill’s case. The Jury were doubtless satisfied that she was justly restrained of her liberty. But her case has led to the examination of the law, by which persons accused of insanity may be imprisoned, and the result is a very deep and wide-spread feeling that the law is grossly and dangerously defective, affording and indeed inviting the most cruel abuse, with scarcely a chance for any adequate and timely remedy. In this State, and in other States, on the deposition of two physicians that they believe A. B. to be of unsound mind, the magistrate before whom the deposition is made is required to issue his order for the confinement of A. B. in a Hospital for the Insane. Thus any man or woman without the form of trial, or the chance of being heard in his or her defence, may by the opinion of two medical men, however influenced, be consigned to the most horrid imprisonment, and the very result produced which the Institution was designed to remedy. It is obvious that here is a great abuse. It is astonishing that a law so manifestly unjust and so easily prostituted to purposes of avarice or malice, should be suffered to disgrace the statute books of a civilized State. In no case ought a person charged with lunacy to be committed to a public prison or asylum, until the magistrate granting the order has given the accused an opportunity of showing that he is not a fit subject for such an exercise of arbitrary power. It may be that the conduct of the party will give prima facie evidence of his insanity; but if not, then he has a right, a sacred right, to be permitted to show that he is not amenable to the charge on which he is threatened with the cell or chamber of a madhouse.
Every one is interested in this matter; for reason is the highest gift bestowed on mortals, so no man knows how soon the weakness or wickedness of his fellows may suggest that he has lost it, and by this suggestion he may be deprived of his liberty and perhaps his life. The Legislature ought to make quick work in reforming these defective laws.-N. Y. Observer.

SHERMAN’S MARCH ACROSS GEORGIA.
A Savannah correspondent thus sums up the events of the recent great march of our army:-
No pen has yet adequately described the scenes of the great march through Georgia. I can only give you a few suggestive instances told me by eye witnesses. Hundreds of negroes followed the army, tired and sore-foot, little children as well as gray-haired men, from Atlanta down to Savannah On the march they were joined by thousands, some of whom came into camp singing. Prayer-meetings were held at the stopping-places, and there the sol-
<c05>
diers gathered around to hear them praying with souls in tears and voices in frenzy for the great Yankee army. The poor contrabands were told that the Yankees would burn, roast, boil and slaughter them, and were instructed to hide when our forces should come-but all to no avail. This simple but shrewd people knew their friends afar off, and came pouring in from all quarters, bringing information with them. At night, mirth and festivity reigned in the camp. The contrabands assembled around the fires, and made minstrelsy such as we have never heard in the North. Every soldier who had a violin brought it out for the contrabands to dance by, and while a few patted their knees, the rest went tearing away like mad in the plantation jig and walk around. Every man, woman, and child, poor, downtrodden things as they were, regularly made their sixteen miles a day, living upon the charity of the good-hearted soldiers, and sometimes upon the refuse of the camp. It was impossible to misconstrue their joy at the sight of the army. I have talked with many of the new freedmen, and words are poor to convey the character of their gratitude and admiration toward the soldiers. The march was full of humors. “Never had better living in my life,” remarked a private soldier to me. Turkeys, chickens, and fowls of every kind were gobbled up from every quarter; honey was in abundance, and it was not uncommon to see soldiers bearing off the combs, while swarms of bees followed and stung them. There were many swollen lips which confessed to a just punishment from the little tyrant of the cell. At several places on the march, money was dug up, and it is said that a private soldier has become the possessor by discovery of something like $10,000. Little escaped the search of the bayonets, and even valuables hidden under the furrows were brought to light. “Breeding plantations,” which to name is enough, were among the curiosities and horrors of slavery which the army encountered. Nearing Savannah, the army gained a large accession of slaves, who had fled from cruel masters, and one of the most cruel of these masters was a fellow named Hines, who “larruped his niggers” after the pattern of Legree.

INTERESTING LETTER FROM PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
The Philadelphia Press says the following letter from President Lincoln was written by the President prior to his reelection to Mrs. Eliza P. Gurney, the widow of the late well-known Friend and philanthropist Joseph John Gurney, who was one of the wealthiest bankers of London. Mrs. Gurney is an American lady, and since her husband’s death has resided at Burlington, N. J.:-
“MY ESTEEMED FRIEND: I have not forgotten, probably never shall forget, the very impressive occasion when yourself and friends visited me on a Sabbath forenoon two years ago. Nor had your kind letter, written nearly a year later, ever been forgotten. In all it has been your purpose to strengthen my reliance in God. I am much indebted to the good Christian people of the country for their constant prayers and consolations, and to no one of them more than to yourself. The purposes of the Almighty are perfect and must prevail, though we erring mortals may fail to accurately perceive them in advance. We hoped for a happy termination of this terrible war, long before this, but God knows best, and has ruled otherwise. We shall yet acknowledge His wisdom and our own errors therein; meanwhile we must work earnestly in the best lights He gives us, trusting that so working still conduces to the great ends He ordains. Surely He intends some great good to follow this mighty convulsion which no mortal could make, and no mortal could stay.
Your people-the Friends-have had, and are having, very great trials, on principles and faith opposed to war and oppression. They can only practically oppose oppression by war. In this hard dilemma, some have chosen one horn and some the other.
For those appealing to me on conscientious grounds, I have done and shall do the best I could and can in my own conscience under my oath to the law. That you believe this, I doubt not, and believing it, I shall still receive for our country and myself your earnest prayers to our Father in heaven.
Your sincere friend, A. LINCOLN.

HORRIBLE TREATMENT OF NEGROES ON SHERMAN’S MARCH.
Brevet-Maj. Gen. Jeff. C. Davis, commanding the Fourteenth Army Corps in Sherman’s Army, is before the United States Senate for confirmation. The following recital of his treatment of negroes on the recent march through the cotton States is taken from a letter written by a soldier, an eye-witness of the facts he narrates:-
“There is one incident, the blackest of the war, I want to tell you. The negroes along the entire route were our friends and informants in all matters, both as to the movements of the enemy and the places where he had secreted his stores. After using them in this way, they naturally wanted to follow us to avoid the vengeance of their masters, and they came. The able-bodied men were employed, but the women and children followed also, under the shadow of our protection. They were no incumbrance, and interfered in no way with our movements. They were simply an eyesore, and came in spite of advice to the contrary. After following us for some time, on coming to a bridge over Buck Head Creek, Brig. Gen. Jeff. C. Davis, who commands our Corps, turned them back and destroyed the bridge behind us, leaving them to the mercy of our pursuers, i.e., the Rebel cavalry, who followed in our wake. At this point most of them swam over, but two were drowned in crossing. Later, during the night of the 8th of December, this atrocity was repeated under more revolting circumstances. Our Corps (the 14th) had to cross Ebenezer Creek, a deep, broad stream. The approach to the bridge was by a long narrow causeway cut through a swamp. This passage was a mile in length, and the swamp not passable. Near this bridge, Davis placed two of his staff officers, who, as the column passed, stopped them, and put the poor wretches ashore on a sort of island. The Rebel cavalry followed close behind, and when it had entered the causeway, there was no escape for any one to the rear. As soon as our troops had crossed the stream, Davis had the bridge taken up. The negroes were thus actually penned and delivered to the Rebels, not simply driven out to shift for themselves, as they might have been in the open country. It is said the Rebel force, being baulked in their pursuit of us, fired upon these helpless women and children. The number thus driven back and left to Rebel butchery was about 300. Every man in the Corps was shocked and indignant at the outrage, and many officers were heard to express their deepest condemnation at this brutal conduct of our Corps commander; and our disgust and abhorrence of his conduct was not lessened on learning that in every other general division of Sherman’s army, the women and children were permitted to follow their husbands and fathers.”

INCIDENTS OF SHERMAN’S MARCH.
The Milwankie Wisconsin has accounts from Sherman’s army, from which we copy the following:
HOW THE NEGROES CAME IN.
Every town and plantation by which we passed was depopulated of negroes, who came to us in crowds, bringing women and children, and the maimed and blind old and young; the octogenarian and the suckling babe swelled our ranks. It was amusing to see the motley character of this black cloud. Some were in carts drawn by oxen or mules, others in master’s best buggy; some on donkeys and mules, or horses; many on the old-cast-off train mules, which they had picked up on the way; whilst the largest portion were on foot, backing feather beds, heavy iron pots and kettles, or old deal boxes, containing the accumulations of their lives. Even old split bottomed chairs were loaded on the backs of some; and all the rubbish of a negro’s quarter was to be encountered. One cart, drawn by a pair of lean, broken-down oxen, contained no less than nineteen pickaninnies; the oldest of these was not over three years, and about them were packed everything to be found in a plantation negro’s cabin. The anxious mothers walked in procession on each side of the cart, endeavoring to hush the squallings of the brood.
THE BLOODHOUNDS KILLED.
Dr. Benson, of Mil waukie, surgeon of the Fourteenth Wisconsin, has just returned from Savannah, having left that city on the <illegible> the day after the surrender. He accompanied Sherman’s expedition through Georgia as Medical Inspector of the Seventeenth corps. He says that bloodhounds and dogs of various species were found in enormous numbers along the route, kept for the purpose of hunting Union men, deserters and negroes. These were slaughtered without mercy, not far from five hundred being killed daily.
THE SENATIORIAL QUESTION. We cannot but regret the action of the Massachusetts Senate yesterday in deferring the election of a United States Senator. Many of the friends of Mr. Wilson thoughtlessly united in this movement. Its effect will simply be to encourage plotting and intrigue for the purpose of defeating the will of the people of Massachusetts. It will not be successful, but the public might have been spared a useless controversy. The <illegible> question was virtually decided at the State election, and if the House of Representatives, coming fresh from the people, did not fairly represent their wishes when they gave 207 out of 225 votes for <illegible> is no significance in a popular election.
<c06>
The opposition which has suddenly been developed to the election of Mr. Wilson does not come from the people. We believe that but one Union Paper in the Commonwealth is hostile to him, and even in the columns of that paper there is as yet no pronounced opposition. The intriguing against Mr. Wilson is confined to the State House lobby, and, so far as we can learn, is mainly instigated by a few eminently respectable parties who cannot forget that Mr. Wilson was once a shoemaker. We should like to see them go before the people on that issue. They would hear such a response as would convince them that Massachusetts esteems the sterling qualities of a self-made man, an astute statesman, and an active patriot, over the finest strain of blood or the most eminent respectability.-Boston Journal.
FOR SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY. The New York <illegible> Post, in view of Mr. Fessenden’s return to the Senate, hopes that his successor will be taken from among the practical merchants of New York city. It adds:
“But if there are reasons why some man of this class of practical financiers cannot be chosen, we do not know a better or more competent person for the position than the Governor of Massachusetts.  His large experience in the administration of the first State in the Union, his indomitable will and perseverance as a worker, his inflexible honesty, combined with his clearness of insight and his moderation and prudence would seem to point him out as one peculiarly entitled to a place in the next Cabinet; if not for the Treasury Department, for some other, in which his zeal and ability would be of the broadest service to the nation.”
Young, the leader of the St. Albans raiders, and several of his accomplices, have been recaptured in Canada. They were on their way to New Brunswick, endeavoring to work themselves out of the country.
Jeff. Davis has issued a long proclamation, setting forth the arrest of Bennet G. Burley in Canada, and his demand by the United States, under the extradition treaty, as accused of robbery and piracy in attempting to capture the steamer Michigan; but declaring that it was a belligerent expedition, directed and sustained by the authority of the Confederate Government, and confided to its commissioned officers for execution, among whom was Bennet G. Burley.
The entire list of casualties by the late accident on the Cleveland and Pittsburg Railroad now foots up six killed and forty-eight wounded. Of the latter, two are injured so seriously they will probably die from the effect of their wounds.
Three brothers named Rossman were drowned in Storrs, Ohio, on Christmas day. Two of them went on the ice with their sleds and fell through, and a third in attempting to save them also fell in and met his death.

LUCIFER MATCHES.
THE philanthropist sighs over the fearful list of human woes, incurable diseases, and premature deaths, which have been caused by inhaling the fumes of phosphorus and sulphur in the manufacture of common Lucifer or Friction Matches. The most ghastly of these diseases is Necrosis, the decay of the lower jaw bone. Thirteen of these cases, mostly young women, have been treated in the New York hospitals, within a few months: what then must be the aggregate of human suffering from these causes?
Humanity drops a Tear
of sorrow over the numerous cases of accidental deaths caused by the use of these easily ignited, inflammable agents. A truthful inscription upon many a little tombstone would be,-
This Child was Burned to Death
BY LUCIFER MATCHES.
Scarcely a week passes without a record of one or more children losing their lives by these dangerous articles.
THE PICTURE IS INCOMPLETE,
dark as it is, without reference to the annual loss of valuable property, which may safely be stated at millions of dollars.
FIRE WE MUST HAVE,
and the Lucifer Match, dangerous as it is, has been regarded as a very great convenience, when contrasted with the primitive mode of ignition, the rubbing of dry sticks together, or the still more useful advance upon that mode, the old-fashioned 
TINDER-BOX, FLINT AND STEEL.
While tolerating these Lucifers, (clearly as a choice of evils,) scientific chemists have, for more than a quarter of a century, been experimenting upon the difficult problem of the production of instantaneous light and fire, in combination with two important requisites,-
First, Freedom from offensive and injurious odors.
Second, The insuring of perfect safety in its daily use as a match composition. The honor of the discovery belongs, to a
SCANDINAVIAN CHEMIST, 
who has produced to bless mankind, the long-looked-for alchemy; and if it is true that he who makes two blades of grass grow where but one grew before is a public benefactor, will not the meed of a world’s gratitude be awarded to him whose persevering efforts have resulted in producing chemical combinations, the practical application of which in daily use will be the annual saving of thousands of lives and millions of treasure?
A MATCH INODOROUS AND SA E,
all will admit, is a valuable discovery, and these are the qualities of the new match.
NO SULPHUR OR PHOSPHORUS
enters into its composition. Satisfied of its great value and superiority over all others, the distinguished inventor was awarded the Prize Medal by the Committee of the International Exhibition at the Crystal Palace in London, while all other Matches were excluded from the building In order that the
PEOPLE OF AMERICA 
may share with those of Europe the blessings of this invention, arrangements have been made for the working of the patent here and an association formed under the name of 
The Universal Safety Match Co.,
who now offer to the citizens of the United States
A DOMESTIC MATCH, INODOROUS AND SAFE,
and for out-door use
A Safety Flaming Fusee, or Wind-Defier, which neither wind nor rain can extinguish 
A fair trial will verify the truth of our statements.
JOHN P. JEWETT,
General Agent of the Universal Safety Match Company,
NO, 18 TREMONT STREET, BOSTON.
P. S. A beautiful feature of this great invention is its adaptability to wax compositions. Our arrangements are nearly completed for the manufacture of the neatest, safest and most perfect wax tapers ever produced.
Dec.9.-twis.
MR.GARRISON’S PORTRAIT.
THE Portrait of Mr. Garrison, the publicities of which has been delayed in consequence of the <illegible> and protracted illness of the artist engaged in <illegible> ring it to stone, is now ready, and will be furnished to subscribers immediately. Orders may be addressed to R. F. WALLCUT, Esq., Liberator office, or to the Publisher Price $1.50 per copy.
It is a portrait which, as a work of art and as a likeness, gives great satisfaction.
C.H.BRAINARD, Publisher
<illegible> Dec.20 1864. 

GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H.B. Stanwood & Co’s, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co’s, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the <illegible> being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manners of 

JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
In the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned <illegible> stopped, Gas Fixtures done over and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for <illegible>
Shop under the Marlboro’ Hotel. Orders may be left as Messrs. Hall & Stowell’s Provision Store, 132 Charles street, Boston, NELSON L.PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co.
Oct, 30-ly
WANTED,
A MAN and wife to take charge of a small farm; <illegible> who is willing to work with his own hands, and likes to take care of stock, and makes no use of <illegible> drinks, tobacco, or profane language.
Such as one may have a good situation by corresponding with THOMAS HASKELL.
West Gloucester, <illegible>, Jan. 4. 3w
