THE LIBERATOR 
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,.
-AT-
221 WASHIKGTON ST., ROOM No 6.
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS—Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent. 
Advertisements making less than one square in <illegible> three times for 75 cents—one square for $1.00. 
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS
WM.LLYOD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printer’s.
VOL. XXX. NO. 40. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER 1554.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION. 
<c01>
HEAR MR. J. THOMAS STEVENSON! 
Extract of a speech made by Mr. J. Thomas Stevenson, of Boston, at the Bell-and-Everett State Convention held at Worcester, Sept. 12th:-
It is objected that the party which supports Bell and Everett are pro-slavery men. 
Whoever makes such a charge must know better when he is guilty of its utterance. Whoever has enjoyed opportunities of knowing many of the men so spoken of, most know that they are, and always have been, opposed to slavery in all its forms, whether it be the slavery of the black man to his master who cares for him, or the slavery of the white man to a morbid passion for notoriety which corrupts him.
we all know that there is but one judgment here on that subject, and that there is but one line of division which can be drawn. On one side of that line stands those who, sincere in their opposition to the extension of slavery, still feel and acknowledge, and are ready to be controlled by the obligations of the Constitution of our country; while on the other side of it stand those who are prepared to disregard or to break down all barriers in their pursuit of this one object.
Everybody knows that the men who constitute the Union party here, always have looked upon slavery as a dreadful evil; but that it is an evil over which we of Massachusetts have no control, and for which no remedy is suggested, except poisoned taunts and criminations, which have had no other effect that to rivet fetters that were ready to be unbound, so that they may not be broken for years.
Whoever, therefore, whatever his purpose may be, deliberately declares that the party, which you to-day represent, is composed of ‘pro-slavery men,’ in any legitimate acceptation of the term, is either a monomaniac, or he means to deceive.
John Bell, of Tennessee, an exponent of pro-slavery!
His record, which is open without a blot on it, puts to shame the allegation.
It is plain that Maryland and Virginia, and probably Kentucky, would have been rejoicing to-day as free States in this Union, had it not been for the cruel taunts and upbraidings and unjust denunciations which have formed the web and woof of Northern abolitionism, and which have been mistaken at the South for expressions of Northern sentiment.
I would as soon taunt a Northern man for the crime of his father, which he could not have been accessory to, or for the backsliding of his son, over which he was shedding bitter tears as he offered up his prayers to God for his reformation, as I would taunt a Southern fellow-citizen on account of the existence of slavery in the communities in which his lot has been cast.
I would as soon jeer a Northern man for a personal deformity, for which Heaven has vouchsafed no remedy, as I would a Southern man for the doom that is on him of a great social evil, for which no remedy has been devised.
But Northern abolitionists have, by their jeers and taunts, interfered with the gradual operation of beneficent causes in the States which I have mentioned, and it in the present existence of slavery there be a sin against humanity and against God, that sin lies mainly at the doors of pseudo-philanthropists, and ought to be a weight upon their hearts.
Akin to these taunts and denunciations by individuals, and calculated to produce the same effect, is the passage by partisan legislatures of such laws as that known here by the name of the Personal Liberty Bill.
That law ignores the fact that our civil freedom is secured by a system, double but not complicated, of two distinct governments, each supreme in its own sphere, each limited in its powers by a written constitution. It ignores the fact that each inhabitant of Massachusetts, possesses rights, and is liable to duties, as one of the people of the United States, and that the allegiance which each of us owes to the government of the country in its sphere, is just as complete and just as obligatory as that which he owes to the government of the State in its sphere.
The dome of the Capitol does not rest upon the pillars of the States. Its foundation is in the will and the loyalty of the people, irrespective of the States in which they live.
The State has no more right to limit your allegiance to the general government, than any foreign power has to do the same thing. The people of Massachusetts are not nullifiers. Yet this law makes full allegiance to the United States, on the part of the individual, a crime in Massachusetts.
Every Republican has duties to be performed, as well as rights to be enjoyed, and one of the highest of those duties is to facilitate the enforcement of the laws: yet this statute threatens an infamous punishment to the citizen's support of the laws of the land.
Tell it not in Gath! Publish it not in the streets of Askelon! that here, where Otis, and Quincy, and Hancock, and Adams were ready to devote their mighty energies for the establishment of this Union and the support of this Constitution, men should be found, with the same names perhaps, but moved by widely different spirit, to put upon our statute book a law, the only purpose of which is to nullify the one, and the only effect of which is to loosen the bonds of the other.
What would John Adams have said, had any one told him in 1793 that a generation would not have passed over his honored grave, before the statutes of his own State would declare it to be a felony to aid in the execution of a law Congress enacted to carry out a plain provision of the Constitution of the country?
He would have cried out: ‘Cease from your insane ravings! I know the men of Massachusetts, and her women, too; and they are not capable of bearing a progeny to do so base a thing as that.’ And be would have said it in tones which would have petrified the bold prophet, as he stood before him, predicting only the realities of to-day.
What would John Hancock have done if such a vote had been sent into the Council chamber for his approval?
He would have returned it to the House in which it originated, with this message: ‘I withhold my approval from this bill, because I should be a traitor if I signed it.’
The only difference between liberty and anarchy consist the enforcement of Law; and yet the candidate of the Republican party, whose chief duty, if elected, would be to enforce the laws—whose title would be ‘Chief Executive Magistrate,’ and who would not be permitted to enter upon his duties until he had held up his hand, and sworn before the people and his God that he will faithfully execute the laws, tells us in a speech, which he made after his nomination to those whose votes he made after his nomination to those whose votes he hopes to receive, that he (going further even than the giddy senator) especially objects to our doctrine that the laws ought to be enforced, and denounces that doctrine as a heresy in a Republic, and as worthy only of the rule of despots and tyrants.
<c02>
Let the people of Massachusetts ponder on such declarations as these, and run them out to their legitimate and inevitable results, and they would no more vote to make a Governor of Mr. John A. Andrew than they would vote for a distinct proposition so to alter our frame of Government that we should have a government of men, instead of a government of laws.

SELECTIONS.
J. THOMAS STEVENSON.
We have read, with the utmost awe, and with a sad sense of our own wickedness, the doings of a Bell-Everett Convention, of the State description, held in Worcester, Massachusetts, on Wednesday last, the prime purpose of which appears to have been the conversion, by judicious severity, of the whole country to piety and patriotism. The weather was nasty; but when such good men are bent upon working the salvation of their erring brethren, by the wholesome chastisement of excommunication, you may open all the windows of heaven, but you cannot thus extinguish the mingled fires of wrath and pity. For a work of wide and wholesale virtue, there were the chosen laborers—these men who, according to the Hon. Thomas Colt, of Pittsfield, were 'respectable' and 'enthusiastic,'‘ without caring for ‘office’ or 'distinction'—these men who, if we may credit the Hon. Osmyn Baker, of Northampton, ‘stand on the firm ground of settled principles.’ Upon this momentous occasion, a ticket was nominated which few people will vote for; an address voted which few people will read; and the Hon. John H. Clifford telegraphed in a great trepidation, to entreat the Convention not to nominate him for Governor, which it kindly refrained from doing, Mr. Amos A. Lawrence being subsequently captured and compelled to stand. So much for the work of the Convention. Its diversion was to listen to a speech by the gentleman whose name adorns the beginning of this article. Mr. J. Thomas Stevenson, in eulogizing the party to which he happens at present to belong, felt obliged to say several of his sharpest things of that party to which we have the misery to be attached. And here, in the agony of our chastisement, may we be permitted, by way of modest extenuation, to suggest that it is not our fault if the Everett-Bellmen have made a lucky hit in the market, and have bought up all the integrity. The supply of virtue in this world is limited; and in order that J. Thomas Stevenson, Esq., may be the perfect character that he is, at least five hundred Republicans must consent to be considered totally depraved. With or without that consent, Mr. J. Thomas Stevenson has no better opinion of them, but regards them as ‘-senseless wranglers over pure abstractions’-as ‘steering by a weathercock, not by the fixed stars’—as ‘wantonly inflicting wounds which are to fester into hate’—as ‘mad-cap extremists'—as mere movers of ‘civil discord.’ Mr. Charles Sumner, in the opinion of J. Thomas, is ‘a giddy Senator.’ Mr. John A. Andrew will not administer the government according to ‘the laws.’ The Republicans are rascals; J. Thomas is not That is the net purport of J. Thomas’s speech. Mr. Sumner’s Senatorial chair ‘would be more useful, as well as eloquent, if empty,’ and John A. Andrew, when swearing to support the Constitution, will do so with a mental reservation. Having thus finished Messrs. Sumner and Andrew, those disreputable and degraded characters, Mr. J. Thomas Stevenson annihilated the Massachusetts Legislature at a blow or by a breath. He plainly said that there were too many 'time-servers' there, that the Legislature was deficient in ‘lawyers, doctors, and ministers,’ and that, in consequence of this, ‘the statutes are not based on investigation and reflection.’ In truth, no unlettered, unreasoning, and half-crazy man-owner of South Carolina, ready in his cups to slay any infidel denying the Almighty to be a Pro Slavery Deity; hating the Bay State, her churches, her schools, her commerce, as good men hate irreligion and insolvency, could speak of her half so bitterly as does this her recreant son, to whom she has extended opportunities, which, judging by his head and his heart, he has utterly neglected. There is something painful in the pertinacity with which a few men in Massachusetts, whenever any contest may arise to which she is a party, instantly take the side of her opponent, and deal blows, which would be parricidal if they were but effective, at the bosom which nurtured them. Such men as this Stevenson, in their bigotry, or their wounded self-love, do not see into what dangerous dilemmas their crudely-conceived and carelessly-uttered diatribes lead them. They arraign the intelligence and the morality of Massachusetts before the world. Mr. J. Thomas Stevenson says substantially in this very speech:—'Our religion is a failure. Our School-system is a failure. We breed in this State only knaves and fools. We are incapable of maintaining a respectable State Government. We are incapable of voting intelligibly and honestly for a President. We are incapable of electing a Senator fit to show himself in his seat. Two-thirds of the people of Massachusetts are insane or dishonest. So much for Massachusetts!’ Mr. Stevenson might just as well have said all this in so many words; and, if he had done so, nobody would have doubted his sincerity. He is a disingenuous bird, after all. If instinct drives him to foul his own nest, he should frankly own his infirmity, and consent, for the public good and comfort, at once to emigrate. 
But without the grace to do this, what does he do? Massachusetts and South Carolina have their differences; and in the adjustment or attempted adjustment of these, this Mr. Stevenson, with ineffable generosity, lends his valuable support to South Carolina. He forgets all insults. He forgives all injuries. He merely rolls his eyes meekly upward similes sadly but sweetly, and softly whispers, as he turns the other cheek: ‘Hit me again! One more slap, for the sake of the blessed Union! Don’t spare me, but save the Constitution!’ And this too, while South Carolina has upon her Statute-Book a law aimed at the personal liberty of Massachusetts citizens, which her own Courts, as well as those of the United States, have pronounced unconstitutional, and which she has only defended by illegally ordering Mr. Samuel Hoar to hurry from Charleston, if he would escape the indignities prepared for him. This is all as it should be. Nobody in Massachusetts has a right to be angry. The Southern gentlemen plunder the mails. ' Hit us again! They half murder a senator. ‘Hit us again!’ They invade the soil of Massachusetts, They invade the soil of Massachusetts, and, under cover of a sham-legal process, which, when pleaded, the Courts laugh at, attempt to kidnap a citizen. ‘Hit us again!’ Don’t get angry, friends!’ cries Mr. S., putting on his Quaker hat; ‘there is nothing like the other cheek;’ and when people do get angry, in spite of his pacific preaching, he be-gins to cry, and to talk about ‘alienating’ the dear South, and ‘wantonly inflicting wounds which are to fester into hate.' If Mr. Stevenson has an unappeasable appetite for grass, and can go no way so pleasantly as upon his belly, other men have dif
<c03>
ferent tastes, for which they must submit, we suppose, to Mr. Stevenson's indignant hisses.
But, as we are told for the ten thousand time, ‘the existence of a great party in the North with no adherents in the South is dangerous.’ So is the lightning; so are the sea-storms; so are many natural powers and influences. If Mr. J. Thomas Stevenson would wash open his eyes, and take one honest look at the condition of public affairs, he would see that public exigencies create, and are not created by, parties. If there had been no bad legislation, there would have been no Republican party; and Mr. Stevenson knows as well as we do, and upon more than one occasion has said, that there has been bad legislation; and at the first Whig State Convention held in Massachusetts after the passage of the Nebraska bill, Mr. Stevenson, if we are not mistaken, was as indignant as anybody, Nay, if our memory honestly serves us, he has been indignant in resolutions and speeches upon many occasions. As an active member of the Whig party, no man in the State did more than he to form that very public opinion which he now deplores. It is very ridiculous for an old Whig to talk as he does, as if people had no memories, as if public bodies kept no records, as if Massachusetts Legislatures, of which Mr. Stevenson was a member, never passed warm resolutions, as if he was not himself as thoroughly Anti-Slavery in speech and action as any Republican of the present time, until in a moment of miserable aspiration, Mr. Webster made a bad bargain, and threw Mr. Stevenson in as a make-weight. Now it appears that the people were in earnest, and meant what they said, while Mr. Edward Everett was pouring out insincere and hollow professions of regard, not for those who are now Republicans, but for Mr. William Lloyd Garrison, for Dr. Charles Follen, for the other chiefs of the ultra Abolition party; while Mr. J. Thomas Stevenson was lamenting the insults offered to John Quincy Adams in Washington; and while no Whig Convention, for State, District, or County, met without recording resolutions, good, solid, Whig resolutions, favorable to Freedom and hostile to Slavery. Speeches were well enough; resolutions did no harm; but honest action scares men of the Stevenson stamp into such folly as we have been considering. ’The existence of a great party in the North with no adherents in the South is dangerous,’ quoth J. Thomas. What does he think of the existence of a great party in the South with no adherents in the North? Or with none that it cares for? He says that his party ‘hate Slavery.’ Then the South, he may be assured, does not love it, and will not act with it. If the Northern Constitutional Unionites ‘hate Slavery, they pass at once into the category of ‘sectionalism.’ Mr. Stevenson's avowal was a slight mistake, and if he would not, nolens volens, be regarded as ‘sectional,’ we advise him not to repeat it.—New York Tribune.

THE LABOR QUESTION IN JAMAICA.
No. II. 
To the Editors of the Leeds Mercury:
GENTLEMEN,—In the letter I had the honor of addressing you a few days ago, I attempted to show that the unwillingness of free negroes to work on plantations was not the chief cause of the depressed state of the island of Jamaica. I propose to-day to consider the present condition of the island, in order that the public may more fully understand the difficulties connected with any attempt to restore its former prosperity, and to show that the cost of labor in this colony is not so high as to prevent a profitable cultivation of the soil. 
Many American and other travellers landing at Kingston have found the means of communication so bad, and a journey through the island so difficult, that they have contented themselves with forming their opinion of Jamaica from that town and the country immediately adjacent. I need not say, that the ‘glory is departed’ from Kingston, and the population is about the worst in the island. All the most idle and depraved are congregated there, and to judge of the free negro race from a stroll through the filthy streets and alleys of Kingston, would be as fair as to describe London after a half hour's ramble through Spitalfields or St. Giles’.
The estates immediately around Kingston are amongst the most unfortunate in the colony. Some should never have been tried as cane-land, and others have been abandoned from causes already mentioned. It is an undoubted fact, which must at once be acknowledged, that a very large part of the sugar-land in Jamaica is fast returning to ‘bush.’ I have attempted to account for this, and at a future time may point out the possibility of bringing it once more into cultivation. 
But there still remains a considerable number of estates producing sugar. Some of these are slowly but steadily sinking into decay and ruin. The boiling house is dilapidated; the laborers are irregular in their work; the land is badly cleared and poorly manured, yielding small crops and returning nothing to the owners. The roads are out of repair, thus increasing the cost of transport, and the properties too small to support a proper managing establishment. It is a point not sufficiently known or appreciated in England, that small properties are often called to bear an expense of £630 per annum for management, £500 of which would be saved by a resident proprietor. Such an expense can easily be borne on large properties, but becomes a crushing, incumbrance on small ones. 
Whilst we may therefore expect to hear that Jamaica proprietors are forced to sell or abandon more land, we may hope to find a new race of planters, who will enter on the cultivation of sugar with the same energy and success, with the same prudence and economy, that distinguish the Anglo-Saxon race in every quarter of the globe. Some such there are already in Jamaica. It would be invidious to mention names, though any one connected with the island would at once acknowledge that such exist. In St. Ann's, which is chiefly a grazing country, and where you may see cattle that would do honor to the finest farms in England, I could point out some sugar estates in a highly flourishing condition; where I was told by the managers that they could readily obtain a supply of labor at reasonable wages, though doubtless at certain seasons, especially during the pimento picking, they would be glad of more hands.
An estate in that neighborhood, which had gradually been sinking under the combined influence of debt and bad management, when placed under the direction of a competent and active attorney, immediately changed its aspect, and is now not only returning something to its proprietors in England, but is nearly free from debt, amounting about five years ago to more than £10,000.
In Westmorland, in Trelawney, and St. Thomas-in-the-East, large and flourishing estates are yielding handsome incomes to their owners. On an estate in St. James’, I found that from the same acreage they were producing more sugar than in the days of slavery, and the negroes, so far from refusing to work, were earning (during sugar-boiling) from 2s. 6d. to 4s. a day, by working overtime; and the manager, a colored man, assured me he never as yet had reason to complain of an insufficient supply of labor. Such examples as these seem to me to
<c04>
prove incontestably that under proper management, and with adequate capital, estates may continue to flourish in this ‘unfortunate island.’
On inquiry of several planters and other gentlemen well acquainted with the resources of Jamaica, whether they thought money wisely invested would return reasonable profits, they unanimously replied, that from 10 to 20 per cent, might be counted upon. 
Why, then, (it may be asked,) do not men embark their capital in so hopeful a field? This may be accounted for by two opposite facts, —the one, that a false impression exists in England as to the real capabilities of the island in its present condition, produced by the depressed feeling of many residents, who, accustomed in years gone by to see a profusion of wealth, are so disheartened by the poverty and ruin around them as to discourage all hope of amending the fallen fortunes of the colony, unless the Home Government will either reimpose protective duties, or encourage so vast an immigration as will more than supply the labor market. The other, that real difficulties, of no ordinary kind, do exist to the bringing back into cultivation tracts of land which already for some time have relapsed into the original state of ‘bush.’
As I mentioned in my last letter, in such districts, a real ‘want of labor’ is felt. The negroes have left the valleys or sea coast where they were before located, and are either squatting or have purchased land on the hills. 
I will briefly describe the condition of the negro families which have left the cane-fields, and are now settled in the interior of the island. It is impossible in a few lines to give a fair and thorough description of their condition; but there are several works on the subject, to which your readers may refer. Some of these free negro villages are far from presenting a pleasing picture. Their huts are dirty and badly built, the inhabitants degraded and vicious, falling back into some of the worst superstitions of Africa. The vices of slavery have not been removed by freedom, as they have received but little instruction, and the example of the few Europeans in their neighborhood has not improved their moral sensibility. They are idle and wretched, and the rate of mortality is high amongst them. Marriage, as in the time of slavery, is but lightly regarded. 
These I believe might be tempted by good cottages, regular wages, and kind treatment, to return to the cane-fields; but it would require good management and a judicious and forbearing manner. If left for many years without European influence, they will, I fear, fall into as low a position as some of the worst tribes of Africa. 
But a far larger number of hill villagers are the very reverse. Where a good and earnest clergyman or missionary has been working amongst them, where schools have been established and the European influence has been moral, these negro villages may compare for cleanliness and a general air of comfort with our English hamlets. The cottages, constantly the property of the occupier, are well built, with three or four rooms, the sitting room neatly furnished, and not unfrequently pictures adorn the walls. The richer and more industrious possess land of their own, and often employ several laborers. They grow provisions, yams, and other bread kinds, which are sold at the neighboring market, and are often carried considerable distances to supply those who are working in the cane fields or at some sea-port. Others grow Indian corn. One negro family, consisting of a mother and two sons, (the mother had been a slave,) had just realized at the time of my visit £140 for the produce of their fields, worked by their own hands and two hired laborers. A great number cultivate the sugar cane, but the rude manner of preparing it both diminishes the quantity and lowers the quality of the sugar; but I have seen very fair sugar for exportation, raised on land in the hills near Maroon Town; and in that district one man, who had been born a slave, raised on his own land no less than one hundred barrels of sugar in the year. 
I think there is hardly a more pleasing sight to be found out of England than one of these villages on a Sunday morning,—the pretty white cottages, nestled in their groves of palm and cocoa nut, with their gardens of plantains and banana, fragrant with the most beautiful tropical flowers, sanding forth a crowd of well-dressed, orderly, and happy people, quietly wending their way to the chapel, (built at their own expense,) on the neighboring bill. To see a congregation of 800 or 1,000 attentive and intelligent listeners, and to see the affection with which they regard the European minister, whom in some cases they, though poor, entirely support.
When it is remembered that these men and women were either themselves slaves, or are the children of slaves, who during slavery hardly ever attended a place of worship, and were even punished for so doing, one feels almost a righteous indignation on hearing emancipation pronounced a failure, and the condition of Jamaica held up as a disgrace to England. I venture to say that the most degraded of the free negroes are morally and socially in a better position now than they were as slaves, and that the great proportion of the black population in Jamaica are both happier and far more enlightened than negro slaves have ever been in any part of the world. 
I remain, Gentlemen, yours obediently, 
ERNEST NOEL.
November 27th, 1859. 

TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
HON. JAMES BUCHANAN,
President of the United States.
SIR,—There are times when the humblest citizen may and should approach the Chief Magistrate with his cause. Such is the present; and I address you, not seeking any office, nor interfering with the ordinary questions which are thrust upon your attention. I write as a member, a minister, an officer of the Methodist Episcopal Church. 
You, sir, are a ‘public functionary,’ charged with the highest responsibilities and the weightiest duties. The matters I design to lay before Your Excellency affect the life, the liberty, the property of our people. They affect their rights in the new States and Territories; they affect the destinies of this country; for they must lead to the practical solution of this question,—Are the rights of the citizens, under the Constitution, to be protected, or are they held at the pleasure of the mob? 
The history of the ‘people called Methodists’ is not unfamiliar to you, for it in part of the history of the country. We have been among the pioneers of civilization and Christianity. Our clergy have been among the first in the wilderness. They have not waited until roads were made, bridges built, houses erected, and disabilities removed. They have gone with the woodsman, they have camped with the hunter, searched out the cabin of the squatter, followed the hardy miners of the Pacific into their gulches, and gone after the lumbermen into the inexhaustible pineries. Sir, we have won the right of existence, and come to you to-day demanding protection in the exercise of our vested rights. 
I regret, sir, that I must write this communication now, while the political excitement unavoidably 
<c05>
connected with the Presidential election is upon us, but there is no alternative. It is a question of life and death. 
I will state,—
I. The ground we occupy. 
1. The Methodist Episcopal Church is no political organization. Its functions are spiritual and ecclesiastical. Men of all political shades are in its ministry, its officiary, and its membership. Its papers lend no influence to either political party, as such, nor display the names of any candidates at the head of their columns. Thus far, our people have been consolidated into one political organization, for no denominational interest has demanded it. 
2. We have been a loyal people. We have bowed to the majesty of law, both Federal and State. We have counseled no resistance to unjust laws. There is nothing in our doctrines or discipline calculated to stir up strife or sedition. 
3. These things being so, we claim the right to go, under the Constitution of our country, into any part of our domain. We claim the right of free speech and free printing. We claim—mark, Mr. President, I do not say we ask, we solicit; no, sir, we demand—equal rights and privileges with other denominations. If our people violate any law, let them be fairly tried, condemned and punished. Give them an impartial jury, an unbribed judge, and competent counsel. 
4. It cannot have escaped your attention, sir, that Methodism was early remarkably successful in the Southern States, but possibly you may not have observed that it was thus successful as a decided and uncompromising anti-slavery church. The present anti-slavery tone of our Discipline and literature is no new utterance. Our fathers spoke warmer words than we, and the warmest came from slave Territory. You will be struck, sir, with the remarkable agreement of their words with those of Washington, Jefferson, Madison, and Franklin, and, if I mistake not, your own earlier spoken or written sentiments. It was know everywhere that John Wesley abhorred slavery; that he denounced the slave trade as the ‘sum of all villanies,’ and slavery as a ‘complicated crime;’ and yet Southern conferences were organized under his direct supervision. In 1780, a conference held, not in Boston or even New York, but in Baltimore, on slave soil, said: ‘Slavery is contrary to the law of man and nature, and hurtful to society—contrary to the dictates of conscience and pure religion.’ You will be told that our church has become abolitionized. Open our Discipline, and read it. It says nothing stronger than was said by that Southern conference in 1780. In 1784, Baltimore again spoke, saying: ’We view it (slavery) as contrary to he golden law of God,... the inalienable rights of mankind, AS WELL AS EVERY PRINCIPLE OF THE REVOLUTION,' &c
These are mere specimen quotations, but they express the early sentiment of Methodism. Slavery was wrong, and by religious agencies was to be extirpated. Holding these views, they spread everywhere through the South. They encouraged no insurrections, they stirred up no violence, they made no interference with State laws. We stand upon the same platform, and hold similar views. 
It so happens, sir, that I am able to give you the views of our church in Maryland at a somewhat later period. In 1818, a minister preached a sermon in Washington county, in which were some allusions to the relations of slavery, and was indicted for attempting to promote insurrection and sedition among the slaves. By a change of venue, the trial was held in Frederick, in March, 1819. The senior counsel for the accused was Roger B. Taney, now Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. One of the attorneys read from the Discipline of the Church the law bearing on slavery, which may be thus condensed: (1.) A strong declaration of the great evil of slavery. (2.) A requisition upon such as unite with the church to emancipate their slaves. (3.) Forbidding any slaveholder to be a travelling preacher. (4.) Forbidding the sales of slaves, or their purchase, except for purposes of emancipation. (5.) Admonishing slaves to obedience and industry. 
These were read in a Maryland court, to a Maryland jury, in the presence of a Maryland judge, and the position boldly argued, that there was nothing in them contrary to the peace and safety of the State. The accused was acquitted. Mr. Taney said of the Methodists living under these rules, that they equalled any other people in ‘their moral deportment, and in their habits of obedience to the laws.’ He also said:-
No man can be prosecuted for preaching the articles of his religious creed, unless, indeed, his doctrine is immoral, and calculated to disturb the peace and order of society; and subjects of national policy may at all times be freely and fully discussed in the pulpit or elsewhere, without limitation or restraint.... It is well known that the gradual and peaceful abolition of slavery in these States is one of the objects which the Methodist society have steadily in view.... There is no law that forbids us to speak of slavery as we think of it. Any man has a right to publish his opinions on that subject whenever he pleases. It is a subject of national concern, and may be freely discussed. Mr. Gruber (the defendant) did quote the language of our great act of national independence, and insisted on the principles contained in that venerated instrument. He did rebuke those masters who, in the exercise of power, are deaf to the calls of humanity; and he warned them of the evils they might bring upon themselves. He did speak with abhorrence of those reptiles who live by trading in human flesh, and enrich themselves by tearing the husband from the wife, the infant from the bosom of the mother. Shall I content myself with saying he had a right to say this, and that there is no law to punish him?. We are prepared to maintain the same principles, and to use, if necessary, the same language in the temple of justice. A hard necessity indeed compels us to endure the evils of slavery for a time. It was imposed upon us by another nation while we were in a state of colonial vassalage. It cannot be easily or suddenly removed. Yet, while it continues, it is a blot upon our national character, and every real lover of freedom confidently hopes that it will be effectually, though it must be gradually, wiped away, and earnestly looks for the means by which this necessary attained. And, until it shall be accomplished, until the time shall come, and we can point without a blush to the language held in the Declaration of Independence, every friend of humanity will seek to lighten the galling chain of slavery, and better, to the utmost in his power, the wretched condition of the slave.’
Perhaps, Mr. President, the above paragraphs have a more decided rhetoric than the distinguished author of the Dred Scott decision would now employ, but they are truthful, and our people will endorse them. 
5. There are many persons residing in the slave States who prefer our discipline and ministry to those of the Methodist Episcopal Church South. They do so, (1.) Because they have a constitutional right for such preference; (2.) Because they think our discipline accords with holy Scripture, with our 
<c06>
early testimony, and the recorded sentiments of our purest statesmen; (3.) Because ours the church of their childhood and youth; (4.) Because it is not a sectional church, emblazoned as such on the very title page of its official publications. 
These are good reasons, and we have felt it our duty to supply them with the ministry and institutions of their preference. We have invaded no civil rights, have incited no revolt, stirred no sedition. We claim for them the right to prefer us—we claim the right to supply them. 
II. What treatment have we received? 
Sir, the civilized world has been shocked by the story of the abominations perpetrated by the Druses upon the nominal Christians in Syria, and the cruel edicts which have disgraced the government of Rome, with its clerical head. I am not sure but a chapter of history almost as shocking and barbarous must be written by the historian of Methodism. Our people are under a reign of terror in some portions of the Southeast and Southwest, From different quarters in Virginia, Maryland and Delaware, they have received threats of violence, to be inflicted unless there shall be a withdrawal from our church. The mail matter of our members is opened—postmasters claim the authority to break the seals, and degrade themselves into pro-slavery spies! Mr. Buchanan, have you or your Cabinet demanded or sanctioned this far-reaching system of government espionage? Is your Postmaster-General simply or principally the chief of a vast detective force? We of the North support the postal service, and we wish to know something of its character. 
The most high-handed outrages have been perpetrated in the Southwest. There violence has been repeatedly employed, and our people basely murdered. In Missouri, bands of ruffians have interfered with our services, have committed outrages upon our ministers, which hurried them to the grave, while the red hand of murder drenched with blood the grey locks of a venerable man, loved by all who knew him, whose crime was a warm attachment to the Methodist Episcopal Church. 
The high-handed enormities inflicted upon the ministry and membership of our church in Kansas need not be re-stated—they have passed into history. 
In Texas, Bishop Janes was holding a session of conference. No man’s rights had been invaded; no insurrection had been preached; no slave had been incited to revolt. In that conference, there were, no doubt, some who voted for James Buchanan as President of the United States. Yet, sir, those men, with their wives, and children, and friends, were surrounded on God's holy day, while in the house of worship, by an armed mob, who demanded an instant and unconditional abandonment of their position! Mr. President, that outrage was perpetrated since you have been our chief executive! What harm had they done? Had they lost the character of American citizens, or is the nation which can resent the outrages of Greytown or Paragua powerless before those of pro-slavery mobs? 
Later still has come the word that in Northern Texas, a panic similar to that of Harper's Ferry has been created. Mobocracy has triumphed over law. Men suspected, have been seized and executed. 
Among the victims of reckless slaughter we read the name of Bewley. I knew that man. He was a cautious, deliberate man, born, I believe, in Tennessee. He was no abolitionist, though an anti-slavery man of the Washington and Jefferson school. Modest and peaceful, he never asserted all the rights mentioned by the author of the Dred Scott decision, quoted above, nor was he accustomed to speak such words as Mr. Taney announced himself prepared to utter in the old court-house in Frederick. He was twice chosen a delegate to our highest ecclesiastical council, and was esteemed for his unobtrusive but genuine piety. 
A large family, one of which was a blind girl, was dependent upon him. Yet, without a fair trial, without a sworn jury, without council, without forms of law, this brave man, this good gray-haired man is murdered by a mob! Tell not this country that American citizenship is a prouder boast than Roman! We of the Methodist Episcopal Church, who refuse a sectional affix, are almost compelled to say it is a cheat, a sham, something we pay dearly for, but which brings us no protection. Have we, the million of Methodists in this country, no rights which Southern slave-breeders and slave-drivers are bound to respect? 
III. What we demand of our country. 
1. We insist upon protection in the exercise of our constitutional rights— liberty of conscience, speech and press. 
2. We insist upon it that our recorded sentiments on the subject of slavery shall not work a practical forfeiture of our citizenship. Why this singling out of the Methodist Episcopal Church? Others have borne a strong testimony against the evil-why this war upon us? 
3. We demand the protection of the courts. If any of our people offend the majesty of the law, let there be a full, fair and impartial trial, and we will be content. We bow to the laws. If unjust and oppressive, we will attempt in all lawful ways to secure their repeal. It becomes, sir, a question just now of deep interest—Does membership in the Methodist Episcopal Church expose to death at the hands of an unlicensed mob? Are we to be hunted like wild beasts? Is our blood to be shed like water to appease the insatiable Moloch of slavery? 
I must add, sir, that at this time the question. Can our brethren be protected? is assuming a grave importance. We are in the midst of the excitement preceding the presidential election, intensified by the character of the questions at issue. Heretofore we have been divided in our votes. Our clergy have been of different parties, and so have been our laity. The church periodicals, with a circulation told by hundreds of thousands, have been silent when the questions of platforms and candidates have been argued. Thus should it be. God forbid that the day shall come when our leading religious denominations shall stand as integers in the computation of political parties! 
But, sir, ‘oppression maketh a wise man mad.’ The murder of Bewley has startled us, and the question begins to run through our million of membership. Can an Administration be found which will protect the rights of conscience and the freedom of worship? I deprecate the existence of such a state of things, but we are not responsible. We love our brethren, and cannot consent to see them slaughtered by gangs of desperadoes without feeling, without determining solemnly on our knees, and at the holy communion, that they shall be protected. A few more such murders as that of Bewley, and our people will ask who will give us an Administration strong enough to uphold the rights dearest of all others, and for that man, be <illegible> whom he may, they will east their united suffrage. 
Sir, I have written plainly and honestly, and now close this letter, praying that the evening of your days may be calm and cloudless, and when you go hence, may it be in sure and certain hope of a blissful immortality. 
Yours, respectfully,
T. M. EDDY.
Chicago, Sept. 7, 1860. 
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is ‘a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.’—WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
CASSIUS M. CLAY AND WM. S. BAILEY. 
Fromï¿½ The Free South,ï¿½ of the August 20th.
newport. Ky.. June 18th, 1860. 
To the Editor of the Cleveland Herald:
dear sir.ï¿½I have just received a paragraph that a friend of mine in Weymouth, Ohio, says was cut from your paper, beading the card of C. M. Clay, in which be recalls his recommendations of me toï¿½the friends of liberal opinion,ï¿½ &c., thus:ï¿½
ï¿½The following card from Mr. Clay explains itself. So far as the Herald is concerned, we were, two or three years since, led to distrust the moral character of Mr. Bailey, and therefore have refrained from commending him or his paper.ï¿½
Now, sir, why you consider that theï¿½card from Mr. Clay explains itself,ï¿½ I do not know, nor do I know why youï¿½were, two or three years Since, led to distrust the moral character of Mr. Bailey.ï¿½ Your article seems to show a desire to coincide with Mr. Clay at all hazards, as though he could create by his smile, or destroy by his frown, and that the Herald was subject to his power. I trust it may never be my misfortune to direct say pen (in the dark) against any one laboring in the common cause of human freedom, or in any other good cause.
I did not unite with Mr. Clay in denouncing the Free State men of Berea asï¿½radical Abolitionistsï¿½ to save myself from harm, or him from expulsion. Would you consider me immoral for this? If they were radical, they had a right to express their radical sentiments, and be protected in those rights. They asked nothing moreï¿½they transgressed no law. 
I could notï¿½back downï¿½ from my Free State platform, as Mr. Clay desired; although many did so, outwardly, for the sake of remaining in the State; others left, rather than sacrifice their principles; but scores of Free State men yet remain, as out-spoken as myself, determined to advocate the freedom of Kentucky and the downfall of slavery. 
I hope yet to learn that your caption was a hasty dash of the pen, as it must have been with Mr. Clay; for I cannot think be would, thoughtfully, aim to destroy a free press, which he himself was not able to maintain upon Kentucky soil.
The mob destroyed about $3,000 worth of my type, machinery, &c., and I am now crushed and needy; but, if health is spared me, I shall rise from this stroke of despotism, and again publish the Free South in Newport, Kentucky. I speak not only for my own freedom and elevation, but for thousands of my fellow-citizens, who are equally poor and downcast with myself, and upon whom the tongue of slan-der seldom rests, or the plottings of an overbearing oligarchy ceases to torment. We only ask for the same freedom here that you and yours enjoy upon the Erie shore of free Ohioï¿½shall we not have it? Must we, the poor laboring men of Kentucky, not contend for what you claim to be just and right in Ohio? I think you will say yea! And, trusting you will suffer me to be heard through the Herald, while the heel of despotism is yet upon me, I subscribe myself your friend and co-advocate of freedom, WM. S. BAILEY.
J. G. Hansonï¿½s Reply to Cassius M. Clayï¿½s Appeal.ï¿½I told Mr. Clay, as he has stated in hisï¿½Appeal,ï¿½ that I did not blame him for differing with me politically. Neither do I blame him or any one else who declines to stand by me, if by that he means to use his powers not to aid in the propaga-tion of any creed or theory I may hold.
But I do blame Mr. Clay for his willingness to surrender in my person God-given rights and con-stitutional liberty. Mr. Clay boasts that he stands on the Constitution and the Laws. The Constitution says,ï¿½No person shall be deprived of life, liberty or property without due process of law.ï¿½ In my case, Mr. Clay did not call for the enforcement of this Constitutional provision ï¿½ but told me to leave my native State and business, and go into exile, that be and his friends might not be disturbed.
In my hour of greatest peril, when be should have been a father, friend and counsellor to me in my youth, he left his home, twenty miles distant. and came to my neighborsï¿½for whose benefit I had left a higher civilization that I might do them and their children good, and at whose entreaties I had prolonged my stay week after weekï¿½and told these, my friends, not to stand by me.
In thinking of this conduct on the part of him who has been calledï¿½The gallant Kentuckian,ï¿½I cannot but exclaim, Oh! horrid cruelty!
How different this from the conduct of citizens in Jackson County, as shown by the following letter:
ï¿½McKEE, Jackson Co., Ky., March 29th. 1860.
ï¿½Mr. John Hanson:ï¿½Dear Sir,ï¿½We cordially invite you to come to Jackson County, and bring your mill fixtures, and we pledge our lives, our property, and our sacred honor to stand by and defend you in your constitutional right against all lawless mobs.ï¿½
But I blame Mr. Clay for being, what be shows himself to be,ï¿½one of the worst enemies of true liberty.ï¿½ For he says,ï¿½I regard him as the worst enemy of true liberty, who acquiesces in any usurpation, on the part of any man or set of men, of the sovereign power of the State.ï¿½ In the same circular he says,ï¿½I told G. W. Maupin, who was one of the revolutionary Committee, that I (Clay) should not interfere with their action, if they confined them-selves to the expulsion of the Radicalsï¿½ï¿½thus ac-quiescing in our expulsion, and thus, according to his own showing, proving himself to beï¿½one of the worst enemies of true liberty.ï¿½
J. G. HANSON.
Republicans Banished From Madison County.ï¿½ Cassius M. Clay has made repeated boasts that he would stand by and protect Republicans, but that he would give no aid or comfort to the radical Abolition-ists. If Madison County is really such a dangerous place as has been represented, we hope no Republican will feel emboldened by this promise of protection to go there, and avow Republican principles.
Of the ninety-seven who have been driven out of Madison County, only two pretended to hold to the doctrine of the radical Abolitionistsï¿½all the rest were Republicans, and nothing else. And notwithstanding the much vaunted boast of Mr. Clay that HE would protect Republicans, we have not yet heard of his making common cause with any one of this party who had been ordered to leave.ï¿½ World We Live In.
The mobbites here, after having destroyed our of-, fice, on hearing that C. M. Clay had been forced toï¿½back downï¿½ from his former position to retain his residence in Madison, swore thatï¿½the Boys of Campbell had as good pluck as the Madison Boys,ï¿½ and thatï¿½by Gï¿½d we should leave the State, or do the same thing,ï¿½ (ï¿½back down.ï¿½) After which, much additional ferocity was displayed by the mob-bites here against us, and threats were made that we should leave the State,ï¿½dead or alive.ï¿½ Twice we were shot at through our window in the night, the balls passing near us but without effect, rendering it necessary to make additional preparation for self-defence, which was done at much cost. Prowling rowdies were about our house weekly in the night time for months, but failed to accomplish any serious act of violence, save to harass and torment.
    The Cincinnati Gazette, in speaking of the Newport mob, says:ï¿½
ï¿½If these gentlemen (the mobbites) expect to put down newspapers which donï¿½t happen to suit them in this way, they will find they have undertaken a contract whose magnitude will increase from year to year. If theï¿½peculiar institutionï¿½ canï¿½t stand the legitimateï¿½liberty of the press,ï¿½ then they may as well set it down as aï¿½ï¿½ foregone conclusionï¿½ that theï¿½peculiar institutionï¿½ must give way. The day is past when freedom of opinion and expression can be long kept down by a mob, however respectable. It is a disgraceful affair to all engaged in it, and the citizens of Newport who do not countenance it should relieve themselves of the stigma thus cast upon their city, by a public repudiation of all responsibility for, or sympathy with, the par-ticipaton in this high-handed outrage.ï¿½
charles stricker.ï¿½This gentleman was one of theï¿½prominent menï¿½ engaged with the mob in destroying our office, and on Monday, 5th inst., he was a candidate for the office of Sheriff of Campbell County against Mr. James Rardin. who, though an inexperienced man in any official matters, beat him over five hundred votes, even by viva voce voting
It is reported that Mr. Strieker stated, some time after the mob, that, if any one would furnish him a rope, be would put it round our neck, drag us to the river, and throw us in. This, in connection with the mobbing, does not seem to have added any strength to his popularity, but (considering his former vote) lost bun from one thousand to fifteen hun-dred friends.
We are glad to see that the citizens of Campbell prefer a Sheriff who would sustain the laws and preserve order, to one who would unite with a mob in disregard of both.

<c02>
To the Friends of Freedom in the SOUTHï¿½-IN the northï¿½every where.ï¿½Do you sanction our position and firmness in the great cause of American freedom? Is notï¿½eternal vigilance the price of libertyï¿½? If all FREE STATE men run away at the bidding of Slaveholding propagators, or crouch in silence at their feet, what will become of Kentucky? 
Would not her rulers become ashamed of their man-ner of ruling? Vice President Breckinridge could boast no more in FREE OHIO about Kentuckians tol-erating a FREE STATE press in Newport. And when asked by what right be, as a politician from a tar and feather State, expected the privilege of speaking in Ohio as a pro-slavery man, he could not respond and say that Kentuckians and citizens of Ohio were permitted to advocate Free State sentiments in Ken- tucky, and that hence the opposite sentiment might to be tolerated in Ohio. If Mr. Breckinridge consider-ed it an honor to tolerate the freedom of speech, may not the citizens of Newport also and the State at large?
Then, if we are right in maintaining the freedom of speech and the liberty of the press upon Southern toil, let the friends of liberty step forward and help to sustain us. Our cause is the cause of the people of Americaï¿½the perpetuation of a free representa-tive government, and the Union of the States.
Will the lovers of freedom let us know that they are with us in this expensive and fearful struggle,
and will they help us to give vent to a mobbed-down,smothered and suppressed sentiment?
Commendation.ï¿½It will be seen that two hundred and thirty odd citizens of Newport have given their names to express publicly their sentiments with regard to ourself, and the action of the mob that de-stroyed our type and presses last fall. Such an ex-pression of sentiment against mobs does honor to the good people of Newport at home and abroad. And should our citizens call a public meeting, as the Cin-cinnati Gazette advised, soon after the outrage, it would do still more to rid Newport of the odium cast upon her by that overbearing act.ï¿½ï¿½The Free South,ï¿½ of August 20th.
THE EPISCOPALIANS AND THE SLAVE TRADE.
We print in another part of this morningï¿½s paper the sound, forcible, and modest speech which Mr. John Jay was at length enabled to make before the Episcopal Convention on Thursday evening. Com- pelled in the morning by the enforcement of a point of order to forego the statement of reasons which impelled him to bring the subject of the Foreign Slave Trade before the Convention, he availed him-self in the evening of the ruling of the Chair to present those reasons at length. The action asked for by him was little more than a declaration on the part of the Convention that the Church regarded the Slave Trade as a crime. There was certainly nothing unreasonable in such a proposition, and it was urged on the ground that the Slave Trade had been illegally revived within the jurisdiction of the Convention, and that its permanent re-establishment was advocated under the plea of Christian benevo-lence, and was claimed to be sanctioned by the doc-trines of the Bishops and Clergy of the South; that the Church from the time of St. Cyprian down to the Christian Council of London in 1102, had con-demned the trade: that the last Council had abolished the traffic in England by a brief mandate; and that a reaffirmation of that canon by the Church here would put the Church in her true position, would purify public opinion, and leave the Slave Trade in its naked infamy, a thing to be execrated by every honest man. A request so moderate as this, respectfully and earnestly made on behalf of the hundreds of thousands of the poor victims of this trade, was received in a manner unworthy of any body of Christian men. Instead of recognizing the gravity of the question, and listening composedly to the arguments to be advanced, they resented this attack upon the Slave Trade, as if the members had a personal interest in keeping silence upon the sub-ject. The most absurd points of order were put forth with learned assumption, but without the slightest regard to Parliamentary rules, constitu-tional rights, or Parliamentary courtesy. Reverend gentlemen sprang to their feet, and, with fierce ges-ticulation and excited speech, attempted to silence the gentleman who had the floor. Insolent attempts of even gray-haired men were made to bully the Chair into a reversal of his decision; and the speak-er was again and again interrupted when declared by the Bishop to be in order. And when these attempts to get rid of the subject failed, they were succeeded by a stampede of angry men from the Church, shuffling down the aisles of what they pro-fess to consider a holy place with intentional tumult ï¿½young and old, Clergy and Laity, uniting to turn what the Prayer-Book callsï¿½the Council of the Church here assembled in Godï¿½s name and presenceï¿½ 
into a disorderly meeting, by conduct more befitting an excited political caucus than a religious assembly.The gentle presence of the Bishop, exercising a mild but firm and impartial authority, feeling evidently profound mortification at the disgraceful behavior of his flock, and urging them by look and voice to silence and decency, and the dignity of the speaker himself, were the only redeeming features of thismelancholy spectacle.
The Convention has adjourned, and if the diocesan Slave Trade shall flourish under its protecting silence this year, as it did last, the members who, to shield the trade from rebuke, voted down every proposition to condemn it, may see the result of their labors in the reports of the daily journals. On the very day that the Episcopal Church of this diocese refused to utter a condemnation of this unhallowed trade, it is announced that two New York slavers had been seized, with 1,500 slaves on board, in foreign waters.
We know on what plea these gentleman half de-ceive themselves into the belief that it is not their business to condemn the trade; but they cannot long delude themselves in the face of facts with so groundless an excuse. To stop the trade, to strength-en the palsied hands of the Federal authorities, to purify public opinion, to make the Church, as it ought to be, the standard of truth and the shield of the oppressed, they had only to speak the word. Then their consciences would have been clear. They have permitted the opportunity to escape them.But when these honorable and reverend men awaken, as they some time will, from their delusion, they will realize the awful responsibility they have assumed. The time may come when they will remem-ber with regret their cowardly and criminal silence, and will shrink from contemplating their work. The voice of conscience may then sternly declare to each of them, in tones to which they must listen,ï¿½Thou art the man.ï¿½ï¿½N. Y. Tribune, Sept. 29th.
The following is the resolution offered by. John Jay, Esq. to the Episcopal Diocesan Convention at
New York:ï¿½
Whereas, The Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States have, through their Board of Foreign 
Missions, established various missions on the coast of Africa, and this Convention feels a strong interest in the success of the said Mission as the means for the conversion of Africa to the principles and practices ofChristianity. And whereas, it has been made to ap-pear to this Convention that a class of persons resid-ing in the diocese of New York are engaged in sending Teasels to the Western Coast of Africa with the view of kidnapping and seducing to slavery large numbers of the said people; and it is publicly pre-tended and asserted that the doctrine of Christianity
justifies and approves of the enslaving of men, women and children, and reducing them to the condition of chattels; and there is good reason to believe that the said trade will interfere materially with the said Mis-sion, and that a belief on the part of the Africans thatï¿½those who engage in the African Slave Trade areï¿½ Christians may indispose the Africans so believing to embrace Christianity, and lead them to reject with scorn and indignation the teachings of our missiona-ries. Therefore,
Resolved, That this Convention, in order to prevent all misapprehension in regard to the position of the Church in this Diocese on the subject of the Slave Trade, do hereby declare and announce that the Con-vention do utterly reject the doctrine that men may be lawfully kidnapped and held in slavery by any other person, and do utterly condemn the said practice as a great sin against God and man. And do adopt, in regard thereto, the words of St. Cyprian, in writing to the Bishop of Numidia:ï¿½Both religion and humanity make it a duty for us to work for the deliverance of the captive. * * It is Jesus Christ,himself; of whom we ought to consider in our captive brother. It is Him whom we should deliver from captivityï¿½Him who hath delivered us from death.ï¿½
During the delivery of his dispassionate but cogent speech. Mr. Jay was frequently interrupted by the raising of points of order, which the Bishop uniformly decided in Mr. Jayï¿½s favor. Rev. Dr. Vinton appealed to Mr. Jay to withdraw his resolution! This Mr. Jay distinctly declined to do. Rev. Mr. Leonard then

<c03>
moved that the resolution be laid upon the table. The vote, by orders, bring called for, stood:ï¿½
Clergyï¿½Yeas. 54 Laityï¿½Yeas, 54 Nays, 6 Nays, 6
Whereupon the Convention adjourned. On the next day-
Mr. J. B. silkman, of Somers, said he had a resolu tion be wished to offer without delaying the Con-vention by any further prefatory remarks than that its importance and absolute necessity were shown in the preamble. He proceeded to read as follows:ï¿½
Whereas, The action of the late Convention of this Diocese, in refusing to refer a petition there presented, praying an inquiry intoï¿½the duty of the Convention touching the prosecution of the African Slave Trade from the port of New York, within the limits and jurisdiction of the diocese,ï¿½ has excited much remark home and abroad; and the London Christian Ob-server has remarked thereon in these words:ï¿½. 
ï¿½Even the Episcopal Convention there is quite pre-pared not merely to justifyï¿½men-stealers,ï¿½ but to add the weight of its authority to their hideous cause.ï¿½And, Whereas, Such an interpretation of the action of the said Convention, from so respectable a source, is calculated, if uncontradicted by this body, not simply to bring reproach and odium on the Protestant Epis-copal Church in the United States, and to give a great impulse to immorality and infidelity, but also to en-courage and strengthen the African Slave Trade, as prosecuted from the port of New York, and embolden the prosecutors thereof to defy the laws of their coun-try and of God, and to prosecute with impunity the said trade in their fellow-creatures. Therefore,
Resolved, That this Convention, for the purpose of preventing all such misapprehension and evil conse-quences, doth hereby unanimously declare that, so far from approving or tolerating the said trade, or regard-ing it as one that may be innocently prosecuted under any circumstances whatsoever, doth reprobate and condemn the buying and selling of human beings, or the holding of them in slavery after they have been so bought and sold, as contrary to the doctrines of the Church and to the Word of God, and as constituting a very fearful and wicked crime. And this Conven-ion doth call upon all members of the Church in this diocese, by the authority of the Church and in the name of God, to set their face against all traffic in hu-man beingsï¿½to remember that the victims of said trade, and all human beings whatsoever, are equally with themselves, the children of Our Father who is in Heaven, and that if they fail to do unto these, their brethren, as they would be done by, and continue to make merchandise of the sons of God, they may just-ly fear His wrath, which of old He visited on those who, in the words of Scripture, dealt inï¿½slaves and the souls of men.ï¿½
Mr. silkman had not proceeded far when he was called to order by Mr. weaver, of Fordham. Mr. Weaver said this was not the place and time to legislate upon slavery; it was their duty to consider matters of the Church. (!!)
A delegate from his left also called Mr. silkman to order, and the ground was that this subject had been considered and already acted upon by the present Convention, and that by one of the resolutions of order, it could not be reproduced.
Mr. silkman was about proceeding with the reading, but Mr. Weaver insisted on his point of order. Calls ofï¿½orderï¿½ came from nearly all parts of the Church.
The chair (temporarily occupied by Dr. (CREIGH TON) was undecided and hesitated, during which Mr. silkman again read on, but was, in consequence of repeated calls for order and confusion, interrupted by the chair. The chairman still hesitated, and said he was not prepared to say Mr. silkman was out of order.
Dr. VINTONï¿½S point of order, which was quite energetically stated, represented that it was not necessary, in offering a resolution, to read what the London Christian Observer had said or written.
The chair here decided Mr. SILKMAN to be in order.
Mr.  appealed from the decision of the chair.
Mr. SILKMAN hoped the gentlemen would hear the resolution read before voting as to its merits.
A vote was taken, and the majority seemed to go with the chair, in favor of allowing the resolution to be read.
Mr. SILKMAN presuming that the CHAIR had pronounced in his favor as to the majority, again resumed the reading of the resolution.
A division was called for, but the CHAIRMAN requested the vote to be repeated, which was done. Division was again called for. The CHAIRMAN, however, decided that he was not sustained, and Mr. SILKMAN was therefore compelled to sit down.ï¿½
A division on this last vote was now called for by several gentlemen of the other side, while (some sayingï¿½adjourn till evening,ï¿½ and others sayingï¿½the subject will then come up again,ï¿½ï¿½better adjourn sine die,ï¿½)
Dr. VINTON at the same time (Bishop Potter here took the chair) moved that the Convention adjourn sine die, after the reading of the minutes and the usual religious exercises.
This motion was seconded by three or four, and carried by a large majority.
Mr. SILKMAN said he would move a reconsider tion of this vote for the purpose ofï¿½
Dr. VINTON turning to Mr. S., said, did you vote in the affirmative? Mr. S. replied he did. The motion to reconsider was seconded by several persons but was lost.
THE LIBERATOR.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, OCTOBER 5, 1860.
A NEW METHOD OF ABOLISHING SLAVE BY, BYï¿½INORGANIC FORCESï¿½!
We have received a pamphlet, entitledï¿½INORGANIC FORCES ORDAINED TO SUPERSEDE HUMAN SLAVERY By Thomas Ewbank, Author ofï¿½Hydraulics and Mechanics,ï¿½ï¿½The World a Workshop,ï¿½ï¿½Thought on Matter and Force.ï¿½&c. New York: William Everdell S Cons, 104 Fulton street. 1860.ï¿½
This essay,ï¿½originally read before the America! Ethnological Society,ï¿½consists of
I.Thoughts on Slavery, irrespective of its politics and moral relations; and 
II. On the plenitude of the earthï¿½s store of cheap inorganic forces for superseding it, and meeting at every stage of progressive civilization fresh demand for agricultural and mechanical motors.
To treat of Slaveryï¿½irrespective of its political and moral relations,ï¿½ is to treat of the body without the soul; for when these are ignored, Slavery is simply a part of the physical or mechanical phenomena of the world, subject only to the laws which govern these phenomena. Hence, we are not surprised to find in this essay,ï¿½which contains some valuable suggestions forcibly and tersely expressed,ï¿½a method f reasoning which indicates a confusion of ideal thus, the radical anti-slavery sentiment is expressed thatï¿½no system can be a right one that does not recognize and treat the negroes as Men, however low in the scale of humanity masses of them may beï¿½;yet this is preceded by the assertion, thatï¿½natural justice teaches us that negro slavery, if just and beneficent anywhere, can only be so in climes congenial to negro constitutions,ï¿½ï¿½a supposition not admissable
byï¿½natural justiceï¿½ for one moment, and an absurdity if negroesï¿½should be recognized and treated as
men.ï¿½ Then, the doctrine is laid down, thatï¿½humanvassalage is ascribable to a deeper agency than
manï¿½s,ï¿½ which, of course, takes it out of the category of human responsibility! This effected, we are next complacently told,ï¿½that it is intended to accomplish a wise and beneficent purpose, and to be mutually advantageous to enslavers and enslaved, cannot be questionedï¿½! Why, then, should there be any controversy with it? And why this essay to show thatï¿½inorganic forces are ordained to supersede human
slaveryï¿½?
With such a shuffling morality, the author natural ly intimates that he hasï¿½no faith in the extinction of slavery by moral suasion or penal statutes.ï¿½ Of course not!ï¿½Then are moral diseases,ï¿½ he say which yield only to physical remedies. By overlook ing this fact, vast amounts of philanthropy are a pended to little purpose. The trade ha ardent spirit ales, wine, tobacco, opium, and all kindred thing has not been diminished by temperance crusades

<Col 4>
The grand panacea for human evils is to be found In inorganic forces'ï¿½such as,ï¿½ the simple expansion of aqueous vapor,' and the inexhaustible coal beds of the earth! Consequently, the essayï¿½ suggests to the friends of the negro the formation of Societies for promoting the application of inanimate forces to the raising and reaping staple products of tropical and semi-tropical regions'! The proclamation of the truth, appeals to conscience and reason, the assertion of the inalienable rights of man,ï¿½all these are superfluous, or at least worthless! To the statement,' says the essayist,ï¿½ that, before be planters will give up slave labor, they must be provided with another, abolitionists reply, that it is not sought to take the slave from his work, but simply to make him a free workman. Be it so. That may be of partially carried out It cannot become general, till the moral organs everywhere preponderate over the animal ones(!) We think not then, were even that: to come to pass.' This is a most ridiculous assumption, unwarranted by the facts of human nature, unsupported by any historical evidence. The abolitionists, in proposing to substitute free labor for slave labor or by the emancipation of those in bondage, are: guided by the law of physical productiveness as much as by a sound moral philosophy. They overlook nothing organic or inorganicï¿½and are as invincible in the arena of political economy as they are in the sphere of ethical science. The results of West India emancipation (so wickedly falsified) prove that if eight hundred thousand slaves may be liberated to advantage, so may four millions in the United States, Nothing can justify their enslavement for an hour, Human rights are not to be determined by the quantity of steam that can be generated, or of coal that can be excavated for mechanical uses; and though we do not doubt that the forces of nature will in time subvert every system of oppressionï¿½i. e., we do not doubt that every such system contains within itself the elements of final destruction, whether directly assailed or not by the friends of universal freedomï¿½still, we hold it to be a moral duty when we see injustice to plead for equity, when we behold tyranny to demand its immediate abandonment. In. spite of the materialistic theory of redemption pro-pounded in this essay, we still believe in the superior efficacy of thefoolishness of preaching,' and are persuaded that the labors of prophets, apostles, martyrs and patriots have had much to do with human regeneration. Nor would we undervalue the agency of physical science in promoting the welfare of mankind: as an auxiliary, it possesses great potency. But it is the power of mind, nourished by freedom, which alone gives to physical science its real importance by discovering its uses, and the laws whereby it is governed. 
Of negro slavery, our essayist saysï¿½' Neither it, nor its worst features, can be suppressed till other agents of labor are ready to take its place'ï¿½meaning the substitution of machinery for human muscles. But this assertion is disproved by the abolition of slavery in all the British, French, and Danish Colonies, and by its abolition in various States of this Union, Without a resolute, persistent, unconquerable moral resistance to the system, on the ground of its inherent cruelty and sinfulness, it would have continued to this day. The attempt to decry such resistance, and to exaltï¿½ the simple expansion of aqueous vapor' or some other mechanical force above it, it seems to us, indicates moral stultification. Slavery needs no new discovery ofï¿½ peat, turf, coal, wood, and other fuels' or of the boundless capacity of steam and electricityï¿½to effect its overthrow. Take away from it all religious sanction, and it would soon ignominiously perish; for, in the language of Dr. Albert Barnes, 1 it could not exist one hour outside of the Church, if it were not sustained by the Church.' Take away, from it all Northern complicity, and it would instantly receive its death-wound. Let but free speech and a free press be tolerated in the South, and its doom would speedily be sealed. This she clearly under-' stands, and therefore suppresses them by the terrors of lynch law. But when has she been thrown into anyï¿½ paroxysms of fear and desperation by the progress of mechanical discovery? To what does she owe her tenacity to her slave system so much as to the invention of the cotton gin? What effect have the marvellous inventions of the North, for the last thirty years, had upon her slave policy? Has she not been more rampant than ever in defence of herï¿½ peculiar institution'? And what has caused this state of mind but the conviction that slavery cannot long withstand the assaults of Northern Abolitionism? Therefore it is she instinctively and passionately demands its suppression as essential to the security of that terrible system. It is the exposure of her unparalleled guilt ï¿½the horror of an indignant worldï¿½the consciousness that she is without excuseï¿½that fills her breast with torment, and foreshadows her inevitable doom. 
 THE FREE SOUTH.' 
In the Liberator, last week, we alluded to the heroic and martyr-like stand maintained by WILLIAM S. BAILET, Esq., in the cause of impartial liberty, as the editor ofï¿½ The Free South.' His printing materials were thrown into the river by a pro-slavery mob. How he contrived to issue another number of his paper, dated August 20th, he tells the public in the following paragraph:ï¿½ 
 We hope our friends will not suffer us to issue another paper upon the old, second hand type that this number is printed upon. It has been with the greatest difficulty we could even procure this. It had been thrown into a box intended for the furnace to melt over again, and we have to return as many pounds of old type to the foundry when we gel the new. The labor upon this old type has cost more than new type, but not having the means to buy the new, we had to do the best we could; and indeed are glad to have a little talk with our patrons as it is.' 
Surely, such untiring perseverance and indomitable courage deserve not only high praise, but generous assistance. Mr. Bailey is still in the vicinity of Boston, endeavoring to the obtain the means necessary to procure new type. Though, in consequence of the exhausting pecuniary drain growing out of the Presidential election, it is a very unfavorable time to raise money for any other purpose, we are glad to learn he is meeting with encouraging success.
PORTRAITS 0F CHARLES SUMMER AND WENDELL 
PHILLIPS. 
A life-size crayon portrait of Mr. Stunner has just been finished by Thomas M. Johnston, who received an order for the picture from Thaddeus Hyatt. All who have seen it pronounce it the very best, and only good likeness ever made of Mr. Sumner. It gives not only a faithful representation of the features of the original, but the very semblance of his moral and intellectual character. It will be on public exhibition in a few days. 
Mr. Johnston has received a commission from C. H. Brainard to execute a life-size head of WENDELL PHILLIPS in the same style as that of Mr. Sunnier. The work will be commenced immediately, and we predict that the result will be the most satisfactory likeness yet made of our faithful and eloquent coadjutor. Mr. Johnston is the young artist who drew the beautiful picture, entitledï¿½ The Light of Our Home,' which has been noticed in our columns, and which is one of the finest portraits of a child we have ever seen. 
The portraits of Stunner and Phillips will be published by Mr. Brainard, and furnished to subscribers at one $1 per copy. 
LETTER OF HON.. DANIEL E. SOMES. The Letter of this gentleman, In another column, addressed to Gerrit Smith, is written in a friendly spirit, and we have no doubt with an anti-slavery purpose; but it assumes for the Republican party what the party will certainly nil to endorse. Perhaps Mr. Smith will choose to reply to it, and we therefore refrain from criticising it. 

<c05>
REV. MR. MANNING AT THE MUSIC
HALL.
On Sunday, Sept. 30th, an excellent sermon war preached before the 28th Congregational Society of Boston, which it noteworthy as containing some menu hardly to be expected from a minister of the Old South, and a colleague of its pro-slavery senior Pastor, Dr. Blagden.
Mr. Manningï¿½s subject was the inquiry whether there is a law, by which every intelligent being ought to regulate his activity? What an the grounds for believing that then is such a law? And, if there be one, what are its characteristics, and what its requirements?
After showing the very strong presumption in favor of the existence of such a law from the analogy of the material world, of the human body, and of the human mind, all of which an subject to laws of uniform operationï¿½ and showing how this presumption is corroborated by the immortality of the soul, and by the existence of an Infinite Godï¿½he proceeded to show what were the necessary characteristics of the rule which seemed thus indispensable for the due regulation of the voluntary will.
It must be suited to free agents; and their freedom to violate the law imposes the necessity of establishing rewards for obedience and punishments for disobedience, which must, at any cost, be made effectual. It must be a unit, applying alike to all moral beings and more or less distinctly recognized by all.
It must be unending in its operation, like the soul for which it exists.
It must have its application everywhere throughout the universe, to God, man, and all spiritual beings.
Finally, it must not proceed from the capricious appointment of any being, but must have an independent existence, and a basis in the nature of things.
The preacher knew of but one law that combined all these characteristicsï¿½the Law of Love; and this is the universally obligatory law. Its claims an self-evident. Jesus of Nazareth only re-affirmed it.
What is required of usï¿½of each of usï¿½by this Law of Love?
It should be active; bearing fruit in the daily life, and entering into every department of the intercourse of human beings with each other.
It should be progressive; seeking constantly wider and more numerous opportunities to manifest itself.
It should be universal; causing each to seek the welfare of every other, and overlooking all those accidental and incidental circumstances which an commonly suffered to interfere with friendly sympathy and co-operation. Heresy or no heresy, those who have this feeling in their hearts will bid each other God speed.
What lessons are taught by this subject?
To me it teaches the need of a personal Savior, I have wandered. I need to be restored. Who shall restore me? Christ meets this want. I am no bibliolater. But I need the book that tells me the history of this Saviour and his method of salvation.
Lastly, I have hen an ample basis for assaulting all forms of iniquity, and for advocating all forms of philanthropy. The Law of Love not only warrants but requires me to oppose slavery and all other forms of injustice and oppression, and to help all, of every class, kind and condition, who are in need of help. We follow Christ. He has gone before us in this work.
The glory and excellence of this Law of Love consist in the thoroughness of its application to work, to life, to daily duty. I will not agree to the infamous doctrine proclaimed in this city not many years ago, that religion is to be separated from common life, that the Sunday is to be separated from the week, and that a sinner may find rest and peace in his pew on that day without thinking, or being led by his minister to think, of the transgressions that have filled up the six previous days.
The energetic emphasis of Mr. Manning, in uttering this last sentence, seemed to show his satisfaction in getting into an atmosphere free enough for the utterance of such a truth. A hundred orthodox ministers were said to have been present at that festival in honor of Dr. South-side Adams, when Rufus Choate paid him the equivocal compliment alluded to; when that unscrupulous lawyer had the assurance, not only to praise his pastor for having invariably led him among green pastures and still waters,ï¿½for having given him (even him!) perfect rest and peace in his pew, and for having never in a single instance, either by prayer, psalm or sermon, reminded him of the sins of the previous weekï¿½but to lecture the Reverend gentlemen around him on the expediency of following that infamous example. And those gentlemen not only took the lecture meekly, without uttering any protest then or since, but their whole demeanor towards South-side Adams himself, ever since the publication of his notorious book, has seemed intended to defend and honor him, and to oppose the idea that a man is to be deemed any less Christian for actively upholding slavery.
It will be remembered that Mr. Manning spoke nobly (in connection with Messrs. Andrew, Phillips, Emerson and others,) at the meeting held in Tremont Temple, to sympathize with the bereaved family of John Brown.
To his infiuence also, (aided by the humanity and liberality of George Homer, Esq., a member of the Standing Committee of the Old South Society,) is probably owing the recent enlargement and improvement of an enterprise commenced some years since by that Society on a narrower basis.
This enterprise originally proposed only gratuitous preaching and Sabbath School instruction for the poor of the western part of the city. But in April last it was voted that the plan be enlarged, by adding to it some of the methods and instrumentalities which have long been in use in the Warren Street Chapel, under the superintendence of Mr. Barnard, and in July the work was actually commenced. Besides the religious instruction to which the plan was originally confined, they now have evening schools for instruction in the ordinary branches of an English education, a library, provision of clothing for the destitute, and a more commodious and satisfactory building than before, and they have held, during the past summer, a vacation school, at which seventy-five or eighty children have daily attended.ï¿½c. x. w.
BEAUTIES OF REPUBLICANISM.
The Independent saysï¿½Sept. 27thï¿½ï¿½Even so enlightened and liberal a statesman as Mr. Seward argues that this great country is for chits men; and a Republican address issued in Baltimore claims that the Republican party is formed to secure for white men the great inheritance of the national domain. Such a doctrine would brand Republicanism with infamy.ï¿½
The Independent may as well say that this doctrine does brand Republicanism with infamy. For itsï¿½Special Contributor,ï¿½ Horace Greeley, a competent judge of what Republicanism is, declares respecting it, in that very paper, thatï¿½
ï¿½It contemplates PRIMARILY the interest of Free White Labor, for which it struggles to secure the unoccupied territory of the Union.ï¿½
Horace Greeley knows, a well as anybody, the detestablenese of that cant which puts forward prayer as a substitute for work; he knows, as well aa anybody, that the truly religious man works for the very things for which he prays, and works most energetically for the very things far which he prays most heartily. Being not aï¿½professorï¿½ of religion, but a genuine believer in the efficacy of working for the accomplishment of the things that he really wants done, he heartily works against the extension of slavery and exhorts others to work for it, saying nothing about prayer; but when the abolition of slavery is in question, (a thing for which the Republicans make it a point not to work, and which Mr. Greeley here touches upon only in the attempt to evade a wall-

<c06>
founded objection to his party,) he says, in this very article-falling into the dialect of the paper in which he writesï¿½
ï¿½We pray God. in His own good time, to make an end of it everywhere, and would gladly, gratefully, have that time come in our day.ï¿½
And he further says, by way of excuse for not working to this end-
ï¿½We, citizens of New York or New England, have no power over the laws of Virginia or Alabams.
And he takes care not to remind them of the Possibility of vorking for the deliverance of the slaves of those States, by numerous other means besides the attempt at a formal repeal of those wicked laws. He actively helps forwardï¿½Godï¿½s good timeï¿½ for the non-extension of slavery; as to its abolition, he leaves God to take care of it alone.- C.K.W.
HISTORICAL PICTURES RETOUCHED: A Volume of Miscellanies. In Two Parts. Part I. Studies Part II. Fancies By Mrs. DALL, Author ofï¿½Womanï¿½s Right to Labor.ï¿½ Boston: Walker, Was and Company. London: Edward S. Whitfield 1860.ï¿½pp. 402.
A second edition, and a tolerably wide circulation, ofï¿½Womanï¿½s Right to Labor,ï¿½ and hearty recognition of the great merits of that little book in the periodical publication. most competent to judge of true merit, have prepared a considerable portion of the public to welcome another work by the same author. This also is designed, and well suited, to promote the best interests of woman.
Recognizing the fact that until women are wholly free, until man leaves open to them all that permits, it is inevitable that they should do a great deal of poor work-and recognizing the duty of each woman to the present crisis in human interests, of giving proof of her capacity by deligence and faithfulness in that work, of whatever kind to which necessity or attraction has called her- Mrs. Dall has strives to make her department of labor conductive beat welfare of her sisters, (and thus of society) and to do this work well. It is due to her say that she has succeeded in both purposes.
Part 1.,ï¿½Studies,ï¿½ occupies by far the larger portion of the book. It contains, 1.ï¿½Aspasis; may truly be sail for her rather than what has been said against herï¿½:-2.ï¿½Hypatia; a sketch and view: the historical fact, and a protest against fictitious aspersionsï¿½:-3.ï¿½The Countess Matildaï¿½:-4.ï¿½Cassandra Fedeleï¿½:-5.ï¿½The Women of the House of Montfeltro:- 6.ï¿½The Woemn of Bologna:ï¿½ sketches of seventeen women who were act only distinguished but eminent in literature, art or scienee, in that city, so renowned for its high scholarship and intellectual culture:-7ï¿½The contributions of women to Medical Scienceï¿½; statements more or less minute respecting thirty-eight women of ancient and modern times, who have rendered important services to their own times in this branch of knowledge:ï¿½8ï¿½The duties and influence of womenï¿½; giving many distinguished examples of the mark made by women, for good or evil, upon the age in which they lived:ï¿½9.ï¿½Marie Cunitz, the Mathematicianï¿½; 10.ï¿½Madame de Stael:ï¿½11.ï¿½MargaretFullerï¿½:ï¿½12.ï¿½The Great Lawsuit; Mary Astell; Marry Wollstonecraft; Margaret Fuller.
Part II.ï¿½Fancies,ï¿½ containsï¿½1.ï¿½Long Lane:-2.ï¿½Pepperell Houseï¿½:ï¿½3.ï¿½How to make Children happyï¿½:ï¿½4.ï¿½A Sketch from real life:-ï¿½A Country Parishï¿½:ï¿½6.ï¿½Autumn leavesï¿½.
The book ends with a tribute of hearty affection and reference, entitledï¿½ï¿½ Dr. Lowell and his Ministry.ï¿½
The ordinary reader of this bookï¿½and its interest, as well as its value, must attract many readers-will not recognize the great amount of labor required by Mrs. Dallï¿½s recognition of the duty of doing her work faithfully. Long time and hard work, as well as wide previous culture, are needed to ascend to the original sources of information, to seek out, amidat ancient or mediaeval literature, the fragments, often scanty, which give the whole remaining record of some valuable life, and to weigh, intelligently and justly, the comparative values of accounts that differ from each other. Especially is wise faithfulness required in distinguishing between what was thought by contemporary judgment, and what should have been thought; between the verdict of popular prejudice or professional jealousy in an unenlightened age, and the decision of intelligent justice, viewing causes, relations and results as well as isolated facts. This work, let it be repeated, Mrs. Dall as one well.
The book is printed in the customary beautiful style of John Wilson and Son.ï¿½c. k. w.
BAPTISM OF SLAVES. During the last meeting of the  Union Presbytery, which convened at Strawberry Plains church, Jefferson county, on the 31st of Aug-four young negroes were received into that church on a profession of their faith. The rite of baptism was administered to them by Dr. Minnis. who explained the meaning of the ordinance, and exhorted them to a faithful discharge of their Christian duties. He began by saying he would make one remark for the benefit of Christian masters present, in reference to the duty of promoting the spiritual interests of their servants. He and the pastor of that church had spend a night some time previously at the house of a slaveholder in the neighborhood, who had his servants brought in, and the ministers conversed and prayed with them. Out of that company, four were new present to make a profession of religion, and be received into the church. In view of this interesting and encouraging fact, he would urge masters to afford opportunity to ministers of the Gospel to hold conversation and religious exercise with their slaves-Cen. Presbyterian Witness.
The foregoing, clipped from the department ofï¿½Religious Intelligenceï¿½ in the Independent, shows the practical influence of the discrimination so <illegible> made by that paperï¿½in opposition to Dr. Cheever and the Abolitionists-between the condemnation nation ofï¿½slaveholdingï¿½ and of treating human beings as property.ï¿½ To condemnï¿½slaveholdingï¿½ as an-christian would be a condemnation of the Rev. Dr. Minnis, and of the oppressors whom he publicly complimented asï¿½ Christian masters,ï¿½ and of the Strawberry Plains Church, to which those oppressors belong, and of the Union Presbytery, a conglomeration of slaveholding Churches in Tennessse. and of the Central Prebyterian Witness, and intensely pro-slaveryï¿½religiousï¿½ newspaper; all of whom the Independent is determined to retain on its list of Christians.
Moreover, to retain the honor profit of being rated on that list, it is not even necessary for these parties to increse their list of lies by declaring that they do not holdï¿½ as propertyï¿½ the slaves whom they bought last week in the market, and whom they may, if they choose, sell next week. Nobody asks them the question! And, until it is asked, and negatively answered, the Independent charitably takes for granted that all members of pro-slavery churches in the South buy and sell, hold and work, flog and breed slaves in some other way thanï¿½as propertyï¿½:- C.K.W.
NEW GYMNASIUM. Dr. Lewisï¿½s new Gymnasium in Essex Street, nearly opposite Harrison Avenue, was inaugurated on Tuesday evening last, by a very pleasing and satisfactory display of gymnastic exercises. A class of fifty ladies and gentleman, belonging to West Newton, all in appropriate costume, gave an exhibition of Dr. L.ï¿½s system, which was highly applauded by a select and highly respectable audience. Complimentary and encouraging speeches were made by Rev. Dr. Kirk. Rev, Edward Hale, Rev. Jacob Manning, Rev. James Freeman Clarke, Dr. J.V.C. Smith. John D. Philbrick, Esq., Superintendent of the Boston Public Schools, and others. Launched under such favorable suspices this new enterprise (so deserving of patronage) isï¿½bound to succeedï¿½, We heartily commend it.
We cannot keep pace with the favors of correspondents. A letter from George Sunter, in reply to T. W. Higginson, next week.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LETTER FROM HON. DANIEL E. SOMES TO HON. GERRIT SMITH.
BIDDEFORD, (Maine,) Aug. 27, 1860.
DEAR SIR;
In your letter of the 13th ultimo, you deplore the defeat of Mr. Birney, the Abolition candidate for the Presidency in 1844, and infer that the Anti-Slavery sentiment has declined, because the radical Abolition party does not number so many votes as it did at that time.
With the highest regard for your moral and intellectual powers, I beg leave to point out a few facts which you seem to have overlooked.
It is true that sixty thousand men cast their votes for Mr. Birney in 1844, and did so from a sense of duty growing out of the conviction that slavery was wrong in the abstract, and it was therefore right to adopt measures for its abolition, as well as to prevent its extension by opposing the admission of Texas. But while they all agreed upon the two facts, the wrong of slavery and the right of abolition, they did not agree upon any general plan of operations. Some contended for immediate emancipation by Congressional enactments, some proposed disunion, and others insurrection. As these means were at war with the principles of our institutions and the spirit of a Christian civilization, the Clay Whigs, who were mainly opposed to the extension of slavery, clung to their organization, and hoped for the best, while the Democratic party, pretending that Texas would be an outlet for the slavery in the old States, and thereby become a means of its final extinction, triumphed, and added another link to its chain. The Whigs, smarting under their defeat, charged the Birney men with having caused it, while the Slave Power, still in the garb of Democracy, grew bold and defant.
In arrogance and aggressions have gradually opened the eyes of the people in the Free States, and they are now ready to adopt any Constitutional measures to break its force; but they are as both to accept any which are illegal or impracticable as they were in 1844, and more so, for they now see more clearly the necessity of prompt and effective action. Those of the sixty thousand who are not co-operating with you may be found in the Republican party, doing good service. They have been engaged for many years in scattering the seeds of truth among the masses, until a plurality, if not a majority, of the voters in the Free States are fired with the true spirit of freedom, and animated by a fixed purpose, not only to prevent the further growth of the Slave Power, but to beard the lion in his den.
How can this be done, it may be asked, without interfering with State rights? I answer, by placing Mr. Lincoln in the Presidential chair, and holding his administration to the letter of the Constitution and the Republican platform. In other words, it may be done by placing the government in the hands of men who will have the courage to ‘defend the freedom of speech and of the press’ in the Slave States. Let this Constitutional right be defined by the Executive, and slavery would soon be on the wane. Agitation, which is another name for Free Speech, is all the friends of liberty can rely on for success. It is the pioneer’s axe, which hews down ignorance and prejudice, and opens the way for the entrance of truth, and the exercise of those powers which God has given His children for the working out of their own salvation; while laws are but mile-stones by the way side, showing how far the race has advanced toward self-government. 
Every political party since the Revolution has professed, during some period of its history, to be opposed to the extension of slavery, and yet this monster has been stealthily fastening its fangs on new territory, poisoning the soil, and blighting every green thing with its hellish breath. The reason is very obvious. It is because the South, by its adroit manoeuvering, has diverted the North from its Constitutional rights to meet new issues yearly put forth to divide the Free, and consolidate the Slave States. 
It is absurd to think of staying the march of this demon, by resorting to unconstitutional means, or by carrying on a guerrilla war in the outskirts of the country, or even by attempting to smother it by fencing it in. It will either contract or continue to expand. It will never cease to be aggressive until it is forced into a defensive position. Shall we continue to waste our breath by chasing false lights? Must we be satisfied with capturing, now and then, one of the picket-guard, or a stray mule? Is it wise to let the army that has won a victory in every contest remain quietly entrenched behind its bulwark of booty, ready to make fresh attacks on the rights of the people the first opportunity that offers? Or shall we send the American flag, with Free Speech and a Free Press emblazoned on every fold, into their camp, accompanied with a proclamation by the President, that it ‘must and shall be maintained '? should the latter course be pursued, we should hear no more about Congressional slave codes, or of Popular Sovereignty in the Territories, for the oligarchy; would have no time to attend to these outside arrangements, but would be busy in defending the 'divine me institution' at home. 
But, suppose the Republican party gets control of the government, what then? 
Have we any evidence that these Constitutional rights will be defended? In order to answer this question correctly, we must first examine the platform, and then analyze the sentiment of the party, We shall then he able to ascertain what its predominant idea is. Platforms do not always represent the men who control the party. They are too often used as means to an end—a stage on which men of various shades of opinions and degrees of influence play the parts assigned them during a Presidential campaign but when the performance is over, and the President inaugurated, the managers take control of him, while the people are left to see that the scenery and costume are taken care of for future use.
First, then, what are the principles embodied in the platform? Second, what is the prevailing idea of the party? Do they harmonize? 
The following resolution of the Chicago Platform contains the principles of the party. The rest relate to measures and generalities:—
'2d, That the maintenance of the principles promulgated in the Declaration of Independence, and embodied in the Federal Constitution, is essential to the preservation of our Republican institutions, and that the Federal Constitution, the rights of the States, and the Union of the States, must and shall be preserved.' 
In the Declaration of Independence, to which the above resolution refers, we find the following:—
'We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. That to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed; that whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new government, laying its foundations on such principles, and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness.' 
Now, what says the Constitution? 
'Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances.’
Again it says:—
'This Constitution, and the laws of the United States which shall be made in pursuance thereof; and all treaties made, or which shall be made, under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land; and the judges in every State shall be bound thereby, anything to the contrary notwithstanding. 
The Senators and Representatives before mentioned, and the members of the several State Legislature, 
<c02>
and all executive and judicial officers, both of the United States and of the several States, shall be bound by oath or affirmation to support this Constitution.' 
Again:
‘The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States.’ 
Here are rights so clearly set forth that they can be understood by all, without an interpretation from the Supreme Court.
If Mr. Garrison desires to publish an anti-slavery paper in Richmond, the President is bound by his oath of office to defend him against mobs or State laws. Should Wendell Phillips take it into his head to stump the South, he must be protected, if necessary, by the army and navy. 
It seems to me that this platform is broad enough to hold all who regard slavery as an evil, and yet high enough in its tone to satisfy the most radical anti-slavery men who desire to see slavery abolished in the most speedy and at the same time Constitutional manner: and the only question is, will the Republican party come up to the standard which it has itself erected? Why should it not? The government will be in the hands of men who regard slavery as a curse and a crime, and they will have the means necessary to accomplish their purpose. The leading idea of the fathers was Liberty, and they agitated the subject until the people were ready to revolutionize the government, and to lay down their lives to attain their ends.
Jefferson went to the verge of Constitutional power to break down Federalism, and build up Republicanism.
The controlling idea of Jackson was individual equality against a moneyed monopoly, and, in order to throttle the United States Bank, he trampled the Constitution as construed by the Supreme Court, under his feet. 
Since his Administration, the powers of the government have been wielded to sustain,! consolidate and extend a moneyed monopoly based on human flesh, amounting to two thousand millions of dollars; and, to accomplish this masterpiece of despotism, the Constitution has been misinterpreted and grossly violated.
The Republican party is made up of Northern men with Northern sentiments, and we have a right to infer that the controlling influence of the Lincoln administration will be in favor of Liberty and Equality, founded on natural and Constitutional rights, and to secure these rights to every individual, they will have to employ such means as the Constitution has placed in their hands, and which, if used, will lead to the following results:—
1st. The prohibition of the employment of slaves in the dockyards and Executive Departments.
2d. The abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia.
3d. Ultimate emancipation in the Slave States by the introduction of Free Speech and a Free Press.
4th. The exclusion of slavery from the Territories by the same agencies, or by Congressional intervention as the last resort. 
This is the Republican Platform when stripped to its naked framework, and is in harmony with the leading sentiment of the party. Why, then, cannot you vote as cheerfully for Mr. Lincoln as you did for Mr. Birney? Why should not you and your party, and Mr. Garrison and his associates, join the only organization that can lift the yoke from the necks of the down-trodden and oppressed? We do not need your votes to secure the election of Mr. Lincoln, for I suppose it is regarded, if not conceded by all intelligent politicians, that he is to be the next President. But you would add strength to the positive men of the party, and assist in inaugurating the new civilization in the South, while we in turn would smooth your little army of brave men, who are now bristling with Sharp’s rifles, John Brown pikes and Disunion, into a Constitutional and Christian warfare. 
You have fought a good fight, and have fulfilled your mission. You struck out in the night of our history, and pushed forward through the dark wilderness of bigotry and prejudice, and with your engineering implements cleared the way for the great army of progress, and now, instead of sharing in the victory, you stand hacking away at the old stumps, and is censuring the friends of human rights because they are not armed with the kind of weapons which you expected them to carry.
DANIEL E. SOMES.
Hon. GERRIT SMITH. 

THE DEMOCRACY OF 1849 AND OF 1860. 
The Moral Power of a Party whose Object is Majority rather than Principle.
WEST GOLDSBORO’, (Me.,) Sept. 15, 1860. 
DEAR GARRISON,—In June, 1849, the Democratic State Convention, consisting of six hundred delegates, was held in Portland. The most emphatic resolutions in favor of freedom, and against slavery and its extension into free territory, were adopted by that Convention in the name of the Democracy of Maine, and the Democracy of Maine endorsed the decisions of the Convention on the subject of slavery and its extension by electing the ticket for State officers presented by it.
Before me is a list of the names of all the delegates composing that Convention; and among them are the names of those who have led the Democracy of Maine in the recent struggle, whether under Douglas or Breckinridge. 
The following are the resolutions:—
'Resolved, That the institution of human slavery is at variance with the theory of our government, abhorrent to the common sentiment of mankind, and fraught with danger to all who come within the sphere of its influence; that the Federal Government possesses adequate power to inhibit its existence in the territories of the Union; that the constitutionality of this power has been settled by judicial construction, by contemporaneous expositions, and by repeated acts of legislation; and that we enjoin upon our Senators and Representatives in Congress to make every exertion and employ all their influence to procure the passage of a law forever excluding slavery from the territories of California and New Mexico. 
Resolved, That while we most cheerfully concede to our Southern brethren the right on all occasions to speak and act with entire freedom on questions connected with slavery in the territories, we claim the exercise of the same right for ourselves; and any attempt, from any quarter, to stigmatize us or our Representatives for advocating or defending the opinions of our people upon this subject, will be repelled as an unwarrantable act of aggression upon the rights of the citizens of this State.’
These resolutions were adopted with but one dissenting voice—BION BRADBURY, of Eastport.
The Democracy thus declared ‘slavery to be at variance with the theory of our government, abhorrent to the common sentiment of mankind, and fraught with danger to all who come within the sphere of its influence.’ 
An address to the people of Maine was put forth by that Convention, entitled, ‘The Duty of the Democracy of Maine.’ It says,’ The true Democracy should everywhere unite in opposition to the extension of slavery into territory now free; that ‘we owe it to ourselves to give no countenance to slavery propagandism; and unless the people of California and New Mexico shall form State governments inhibiting slavery, the Democracy of Maine will consider it the imperative duty of Congress to extend over those territories the provisions of the ordinance of 1787'— i. e., if the territories would not inhibit slavery, it is ‘the imperative duty of Congress’ to inhibit it for them. 
The address says, ' A great majority of the people of these United States, we are confident, will stand by this doctrine. In the attempt to extend the blight of slavery over the free lands of the nation, the sturdy Republicans of Maine, [Democrats called themselves sturdy Republicans in 1849,] in common with the patriotic of the whole nation, will demand a halt. IN THIS WE DEMAND NOTHING SECTIONAL.’
<c03>
The name of EPHRAIM K.SMART, the Douglas candidate for Governor in last Monday’s election, is affixed to this address. 
John Hubbard, the nominee for Governor of that Convention, and the successful candidate, in his letter of acceptance says:—
'1st. I believe Congress to have entire constitutional jurisdiction over the whole subject of slavery in the territories of the United States. 
2d. I am opposed to slavery in all its bearings, moral, social and political, 
and especially am I opposed to its extension. 
3d. I would adopt all constitutional and equitable means to prevent the extension of slavery into territories now free.’ 
Thus spoke the Democracy of Maine, in behalf of the entire Democracy of the nation, in 1849, denouncing slavery as' at variance with the theory of our government,’ ‘abhorrent to the common sentiment of mankind,’ 'and fraught with danger to all who come within the sphere of its influence;’' and declaring it to be ' the imperative duty of Congress’ to inhibit slavery in all the territories, if the people therein do not themselves inhibit it.
Ten years have passed. The Anti-Slavery movement, as inaugurated by Wm. Lloyd Garrison, has dashed in pieces and consumed forever the great Democratic party, as it did the great Whig party. That shattered old slave-trading Democratic ship is being gathered together by fragments—one party under the leadership of Douglas, one of Breckinridge, and one of Bell-Everett. I love to give the whole cognomen of the latter, for the name of Everett, as applied to Edward Everett, is fit, now, only to stand thus connected—at the tail-end of the name of a slave-breeder and a slave-trader.
Where now stands the Democracy of Maine and of the nation? The fragment that rallies under Douglas declare in their platform, adopted June 23, 1860:
'That, inasmuch as differences of opinion exist in the Democratic party, as to the nature and extent of the powers of a Territorial Legislature, and as to the powers and duties of Congress, under the Constitution of the United States, over the institution of slavery in the territories, therefore-
Resolved, That the Democratic party will abide by the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States over the institution of slavery within the territories.’
This simply means that the Douglas fragment of the Democracy is pledged to’ carry slavery and to protect it, in every State and Territory where the Constitution holds jurisdiction; for that fragment knew that the Supreme Court had so decided, before it adopted this resolution. 
The fragment of the wrecked Democracy that rallies under Breckinridge declare in their platform, adopted June 23d, 1860-
'That all the citizens of the United States have an equal right to settle, with their property, in the territories, without their rights, either of person or property, being destroyed or injured by Congressional or Territorial legislation. 
That it is the duty of the Federal Government, in all its departments, to protect the rights of persons and property in the territories, and wherever else its constitutional authority extends. 
That any new State ought to be admitted into the federal Union, whether its constitution prohibits or recognizes the institution of slavery. 
That the Democratic party is in favor of the acquisition of the island of Cuba. 
That all efforts of State Legislatures to defeat the faithful execution of the Fugitive Slave Law are hostile in character, subversive of the Constitution, and revolutionary in their effects.'
All this simply means that slavery has a constitutional right to go into any territory or State, and be protected there; that it is the duty of the Federal Government to protect the slave-trade in all the territories, between the States, and on the high seas—i.e., the African slave-trade; to acquire and annex Cuba as a slave State, and to put down all enactments of Northern Legislatures designed to protect the citizens if Northern States against Southern kidnappers and slave-hunters. 
MARK!! One item in the platform of this fragment of Democracy is worthy of special attention of all Republicans—i. e., ' It is the duty of the Federal Government to protect the rights of persons and property,' &c Slaves are 'persons,' in the language of the Constitution. The Breckinridge fragment of Democracy declare that the Federal Government is bound to protect the ' rights of persons,' without regard to color or condition.
The Bell-Everett fragment of the Democracy, so far as their platform is concerned, is for letting slavery and slaveholders go on as they have been going ever since the government was formed—i. e., making ' the preservation, propagation, and perpetuation of slavery ' the animating spirit of the Federal Government; allowing slavery to go into all the territories and States, and be protected there; the African slave-trade to be revived and protected; citizens of Northern States to be kidnapped and dragged into Southern slavery; and ' all the laborers of the nation to be enslaved and owned by the capitalists,' as the candidate of the Douglas fragment asserts. All this the Bell-Everett fragment is pledged to allow slaveholders to do, without rebuke and without opposition. Their practical party watchword is, The will of the slaveholder the supreme law of the land. 
To such an end has the Democracy come, which, in 1849, adopted the above resolutions and issued the above address against slavery and its extension. This same Democracy, also,—which now thus comes before the nation under Douglas, Breckinridge and Bell-Everett,—in 1849, in the Legislature of Maine, adopted the following resolutions, in the Senate unanimously, and in the House by only two nays:—
'Resolved, That we hereby declare for ourselves, and in behalf of the people of this State, our uncompromising opposition to the extension of slavery into any territory of the United States which is now free. 
Resolved, That in organizing governments for New Mexico and California, the introduction and existence of slavery in those territories should be positively prohibited by an act of Congress. 
Resolved, That our Senators in Congress are hereby instructed, and our Representatives requested, to vote against any act establishing governments for said territories that do not contain an express prohibition of slavery.'
The names of all who voted for these resolutions are before me. Among them are many who now labor, most zealously, to have all the National Territories and all the States opened for the admission and protection of slavery, under sanction of the Federal Government. 
Do party politics necessarily lead to moral corruption? Must all political parties necessarily sacrifice principle to availability? Can they do otherwise, if principle stands in the way of majority? All political parties are based, not on the supremacy of principle, but solely on the supremacy of majority. They care not, and have no need to care, what are the principles of their adherents on any subject; they care only for their votes; and if they can get them, they have got all they need of them. The triumph of numbers, not of principle, is the one essential element of existence to all political parties. Life, liberty, justice and truth can never be sustained and perpetuated by a party whose sole and single end of existence is majority of numbers; for it must inevitably result to such a party, that majority will become paramount to life, liberty, justice and truth. All questions of morals, of justice, of mercy, and of humanity, must necessarily become secondary to the one great question of MAJORITY. The history of every political party, since the formation of this government, but illustrates the truth of this position. 
How absurd, then, for abolitionists to attempt to abolish slavery through a political party whose sole object of existence is a majority of numbers! Slavery can be abolished only by abolitionizing the ideas, the conscience, and the moral and social nature of the people. Abolitionists are shorn of their power when, in connexion with a political party, they begin to strive for a MAJORITY OFNUMBERS. HENRY C. WRIGHT.
<c04>
P. S. I am in one of the most striking and interesting sea-shore sceneries between the Bay of Fundy and the Gulf of Mexico, spending a few days in the family of Barney S. Hill. From my chamber window, where I now sit. Frenchman's Bay, with the lofty mountain range of Mount Desert Island in the distance, some ten miles off, is all open before me, with its islands and many capes and points of land. I have never seen a sea coast more worthy a visit— even at much expense. But I am here to lecture in this place, and in Steuben, some ten miles further east.
There is a beautiful lawn of green meadow sloping down to the shore of the bay—a great place for clams and clam chowders. I wish you and your family could visit this beautiful and health-giving coast. 
Mr. Barney S. Hill, in whose family I am, with his three sons, was devoted to Democracy, in 1849, when it meant anti-slavery to the extent set forth in the above resolutions and address, from which I have quoted. When Democracy came to mean, openly and avowedly, slaveholding, slave-hunting, slavery-extension into all the States and territories, and the revival of the foreign slave trade—in a word, when Democracy came to be avowedly identical with ' the sum of all villany!' they came into the Republican party, where they find the same principles embodied that the Democratic party put forth in 1849. Very many of the Democrats of 1849 are with the Republicans of 1860. Whether they will do any more for freedom and against slavery, than the poor wretched Democrats have done, time will show. 
Party politics have swept over the State like a desolating tornado, leaving on one side hurrahs and hallelujahs, and on the other, weepings, wailings and gnashings. Seven weeks more the conflict must last. Query—How much Humanity will remain, when the sun of November 8th shall set? Will the sun of Hope that shall arise in the heart of the slave, November 9th, shine any brighter? If salvation to the slave can come from this Nazareth of Republicanism, let it come. Otherwise, Republicanism must go where Democracy and Whiggery have gone—TO ITS OWN PLACE.
H. C. W.

CHARLES SUMNER'S TRIBUTE TO THEODORE PARKER.
On Monday evening last, the third course of lectures before the 'Fraternity' connected with the Music Hall Religious Society was opened at Tremont Temple by Hon. Charles Sumner. The hall was densely packed by a most intelligent audience, many towns in the vicinity of Boston being represented on the occasion. Mr. Sumner was received in a very enthusiastic manner; and in his exordium, he paid the following tribute to the memory of Theodore Parker:—
In opening this course of lectures, devoted to Human Improvement, I cannot forget that noble spirit, especially dear to many of you as a pastor, whom we had hoped to welcome at this time in restored health, instead of mourning dead in a distant land. I knew him well, and never came within his influence without confessing his many-sided powers, his marvellous acquirements, his rare eloquence, his soul touched to so many generous sympathies, and his heart beating warm for his fellow-man. To the cause of Human Improvement in every form, his life was given. For this he labored; for this he died.
It was my fortune to see him during several days in Paris, sometime after he had parted from you. He had recently arrived from the West Indies. I feel that I cannot err in offering a slight reminiscence of that meeting. I found him the same in purpose and aspiration as I had always known him — earnest, thoughtful, and intent on all that helped the good of man, with the same completeness of intelligence, and the same large, loving heart. We visited together ancient byways and historic scenes of that wonderful metropolis, which no person was more forward to appreciate and to enjoy; but, turning from these fascinating objects, his conversation took the wings of the morning, and, traversing the Atlantic, rested on our own country; on friends at home, on his relations to his parishioners, on his unfinished labors, and on that great cause of Liberty which contains all other causes, as the greatest contains the less; for where liberty is not, what is man, whether slave or master? Observing him carefully, with the fellow-feeling of a convalescent, I was glad and surprised to find in him so many signs of health. At the time, he was stronger than I was; but he has been taken, and I have been spared. Indeed, it was only in the husky whisper of his voice that he seemed weak. I envied him much his active step and his power to walk. But he had measured his forces, and he calmly revealed to me his doubt whether he should live to see home again, if this was permitted, he did not expect to resume his old activities, but thought that in some quiet retreat, away from paved streets, surrounded by his books, he might perhaps have strength to continue some of his labors, to bind up some of his sheaves, and occasionally to speak with his pen. But it was ordered otherwise. Not even this moderate anticipation was gratified. The fatal disease had fastened too surely upon him, and was slowly mastering all resistance. The devotion of friends, travel, change of scene, the charms of Switzerland, the classic breath of Italy— all were in vain. It was his wish that he should be buried where he fell; and this child of New England, the well-ripened product of her peculiar life, now sleeps in Tuscan earth, on the banks of the Arno, near the sepulchres of Michael Angelo and Galileo. But I know not if even this historic association can make us content to renounce the pious privilege of laying him in one of our own tombs, among the people that he loved so well.
Pardon me for thus renewing your grief. But I felt that I could not address you on any other subject until I had mingled my feelings with yours, and our hearts had met in sympathy for our great bereavement.
It was by an easy transition, Mr. Sumner said, that he turned to another who had done much for human improvement and the cause of liberty—LAPAYETTE. He then proceeded to give a most interesting biographical sketch of this world-honored patriot, showing him to have been, from youth to old age, the consistent and unswerving champion of universal freedom, without regard to race or color.
Miss SALLY HOLLY. Blessed are the ears that hear this eloquent advocate of the down-trodden slave; for wherever she speaks, she wins the hearts of all honest and loving souls. She spoke at Parker's Hall in this place last Thursday evening, and her simple and thrilling eloquence touched all who have hearts to feel for God's oppressed and suffering four millions. She also spoke in Centreville on Sunday last, at Liberty Hall. A crowded house of interested hearers of the Gospel of human freedom were present, and heard the word with joy. The meeting-house, though unoccupied during the day, (the pastor being absent,) COULD NOT BE OBTAINED! This fact is sadly significant of the moral condition of the church in that place, which can close its doors against Anti-Slavery lecturers in this day of the nineteenth century!—Hyannis Messenger.
WALKER, THE FILIBUSTER, SHOT.—We have definite information of the execution of Walker on the 12th ult. Ten shots were fired at him amid the cheers of the natives, who afterward refused to take any part in his burial. He was buried by foreigners. Col. Rudler had been sentenced to four years imprisonment. The remnant of Walker's force has reached New Orleans on the British war steamer Gladiator.
Mr. Ralph Farnham, the last survivor of the Battle of Bunker Hill, has accepted an invitation from Gov. Banks and other gentlemen of Boston, to visit that city on the 8th of October. He will be entertained at the Revere House. On the 9th he will have a reception at the Music Hall. The Ancient and Honorable Artillery will do escort duty, and Edward Everett and others have been invited to speak on the occasion. Mr. Farnham is 104 years old, and we hope they will not use him up, but we regard this as the last exhibition of the last Bunker Hill soldier.
<c05>
MASSACHSETTS A. S. SOCIETY.
RECEIPTS. 
Ree'd from Hiram Brown, Jr., to redeem pledge, $5 00
D. F. Goddard, to redeem pledge, 1 00 
Collections by & E. H. Heywood, 
Harwich, Mass., $17 21; Great Falls, N. H., 
2 58; A. Folsom. Dover, N. H., 3; A. 
A. Higgins, West Milan, do., 50e. 
Collections by C. C. Burleigh. 
Littleville, Mass., 35c; Norwich Hill 25c; 
Chester Factories, N. Y., $2 72; Knightsville, do., 39c; Canaan Four Corners, do., 8c; Austerlitx, do., 1 91; Bed Bock, (Canaan,) do. 93c; Spencertown, do,, 15c; New Concord, do., 1 37c; Canterbury, Ct., 1 45; Moosup, do., 83c; Sterling, do.. 68c; N. Society. (Conterbury.) do., 49c; Westminster, do., 1 68; Wauregan, do., 3 28; Central Village, 6 11; Holyoke, Mass., 1 75; Georgetown, Mass., 9 00. 
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer. 
Boston, Oct. 1, 1860. 
A CARD—The subscriber, a practical Chemist and Manufacturer of Chemical Preparations, French Cosmetics, Fine Perfumes, &c., for the past seventeen years, now offers (free of charge) to all who desire it, the Recipe and directions for making a simple Vegetable Balm, that will, in from two to eight days, remove Pimples, Blotches, Tan, Freckles, Sal-lowness, and all impurities and roughness of the Skin, leaving the same—as Nature intended it should be— soft, clear, smooth and beautiful. This is no humbug or catch-penny affair, and those who think it such will please not notice the advertisement. Those desiring the Recipe, with full instructions, directions and advice, will please call on or address (with return postage).
JAS. S. MARSHALL,
Practical Chemist,
No. 32 City Buildings, New York.
New York, June 6. 3m 

STATE CONVENTION. 
The Fourth Annual Meeting of the Vermont Anti-Slavery Convention will be held at BRADFORD, on Wednesday and Thursday, the 17th and 18th of October next.
The enslavement of four millions in our land, the indescribable wrongs done to the oppressed, the continued refusal of political parties and of many religious sects to demand the abolition of slavery, the increase of the slave trade, the strength and daring attempts of the Slave Power in the Federal Government, and the new reign of terror in the South, as well as the persecuting spirit manifested in the North, all call for a large and enthusiastic assemblage of the friends of freedom without distinction. 
Seeking the emancipation of the enslaved, and the highest good of our common country, let the earnest friends of human right, in obedience to the voice of God, of humanity and of patriotism, come together for a full and free discussion of the great questions now before the people. 
The friends of freedom in other States are invited to attend, and join in the deliberations of the Convention. 
CHARLES LENOX REMOND of Salem, Mass., E. H. HEYWOOD of Boston, and H. FORD DOUGLASS of Chicago, Ill., eloquent champions of freedom, besides others in our own State, will address the meeting. 
The sessions of the Convention will open on Wednesday, at 10 o'clock, and continue through the two days and evenings. 
In behalf of the State Committee, 
J. M. COBURN, 
JEHIEL CLAFLIN, 
JAS. HUTCHINSON, JR., 
N. R. JOHNSTON. 
CHARLES L. REMOND H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak in Vermont as follows:—
Newbury, Friday, Oct. 19. 
Mclndoes Falls, Saturday and Sunday, 20 and 21. 
St. Johnsbury, Monday, Oct. 22. 
Peacham, Tuesday, Oct. 23. 
Ryegate, Wednesday, Oct. 24. 
Topsham. Thursday, Oct. 25. 
Washington, Friday, Oct. 26. 
West Brookfield, Saturday, Sat. and Sun., 27, 23. 
The friends in the several towns where Messrs. Remond and Douglass will speak are requested to make the requisite arrangements for the meetings. 
MARLBORO’.—WM. WELLS BROWN will deliver an address commemorative of the First Anniversary of the surrender of Harper's Ferry to Capt. John Brown, at the Town Hall, in Marlboro', on Tuesday evening, Oct. 16th, to commence at 7 o'clock. Subject—The Heroes of Insurrection. 
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak at 
Milford, Mass., Sunday afternoon and evening, Oct. 14.
L. REMOND and E. H. HEYWOOD will speak at Topsham, Vt., Tuesday evening, Oct. 16. 
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture in Ellsworth, and other places in Maine, during September, and the first three Sundays in October. 
Address—Care BELA MARSH, Boston, Mass.
EMPLOYMENT WANTED ON A SEWING MACHINE.—A young lady, skilled in the use of Grover & Baker's sewing machines, wishes employment either at her residence, No. 9 Columbia street, or in families in the city or vicinity where the machine is used, or taking her own with her, if desired. 
LITTLE CHILDREN can be furnished with board and kindly cared for at No.1 Newland (out of Dedham) street, by Mrs. J. M. SPEAR. 
MARRIED—In this city, Sept. 30. at St. Paul's Church, by Rev. W. R. Nicholson, Mr. LEONARD L. HODQES of Birmingham, Eng., to Miss A. MARIA, daughter of R. W. Henshaw, of Boston. 

LADIES' MEDICAL ACADEMY. 
274 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON.
THE Second Annual Course of Lectures will commence on Thursday, Nov. 8, 1860. 
LECTURERS. 
WALTER BURN HAM, M. D., on Practice of Medicine and Surgery.
SUSAN R. CAPBN, M. D., Obstetrics and Diseases of Women. 
WM, SYMINGTON BROWN, M. D., Surgical Anatomy, Physiology, and Materia Medica. 
SARAH W. SALISBURY, M. D., Anatomy and Hygiene. 
Intending students will apply to Dr. W. S. BROWN, 15 Congress Street, Boston.
Oct. 5. 4wis 

ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE AND BOOK DEPOSITORY. 
AN Office, for the sale of Anti-Slavery, Temperance. Woman's Rights, Anti-Capital Punishment, Peace, Spiritual and other Publications, has been established at 15 Steuben street, near the Delevan House, Albany, N. Y. A general assortment of stationery will be kept on hand, for sale on the most favorable terms. 
Subscriptions for the Liberator, National Anti-Slavery Standard, (Ohio) Anti-Slavery Bugle, London Anti-Slavery Advocate, and Herald of Progress, will be received. 
Donations, orders for Books, Tracts, and communications relative to Anti-Slavery and other Reform meetings in different parts of the State, should be addressed to the General Agent, LYDIA MOTT, Albany, N.Y.
S. J. MAT, P. H. JONES, 
S. B. ANTHONY, M. C. WRIGHT, 
G. E. BAKER, E. C. STANTON, 
A. M. POWELL, L. MOTT, 
Committee. 

TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION. 
JUST published, a full Report of the proceedings of the TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION, held in the city of New York, May 10th and 11th, 1860, 100 pp. large octavo. This pamphlet contains the addresses and speeches of Mrs. E. CAST STANTON, Mrs. E. L. ROSE, Rev. Mrs. ANTOINETTE BROWN BLACKWELL, Mrs. J. ELIZABETH JONES, WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Rev. SAMUEL LONGFELLOW, WIIXIAM LLOYD GARRISON, Rev. BERIAH GREEN, and others, with the resolutions, &c, making an exceedingly interesting and valuable document. Bat a limited number of copies have been printed, many of which have been disposed of in advance of publication. ‘A word to the wise,’ &c. 
Price, 26 cents: by mail, 30 cents. 
Address ROBERT F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington street. 
Boston, July 13th, 1860. 
<c06>
IT IS NOT A DYE!
MRS. S.A. ALLEN’S WORLD'S 
HAIR RESTORER, 
The only preparation that has a 
EUROPEAN REPUTATION. 
Warranted not to contain deleterious substances. 
This pleasant and valuable preparation has been used for many yean by hundreds of the moat distinguished and wealthy persons, who have previously tried all the nostrums of the day without success, Some even injuring their hair and health. This is entirely different from all others. 

‘IS THERE ANY VIRTUE IN’
Mrs. S. A Allen's Hair Restorative? 
We can answer this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived benefit from it. 
'Persons personally known to us have come voluntarily, and told us of good results to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it became known in St. Louis.' 
St. Louis Presbyterian. 
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S HAIR RESTORATIVE has given universal satisfaction, wherever it has been used. It can be used with perfect safety, and its perfect freeness from all soiling, readers it a very desirable article for the toilet.' 
Ch'n Witness and Ch. Advocate, Boston, Mass. 
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is worthy of confidence.' Philadelphia Christian Chronicle. 
Incomparably the best preparation we have ever used.' 
V. T. Evangelist. 
‘All are compelled to acknowledge MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S as the Hair Restorer.' 
N. Y. Independent. 
'MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIS RESTORER has taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind.' Michigan Christian Herald. 
Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.' 
Knoxville Presbyterian Witness. 
There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair, published in the Advocate, which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that of Mrs. S. A. ALLEN’S.' 
Buffalo Christian Advocate 
Another objection to dyes is the unlife-like color and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way to have grey hair assume its NATURAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will be effectual and yet not a dye—Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER will do this.' U. S. Journal. 
In these times, when every cosmetic is warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day, it is refreshing to come across that which is what it PRETENDS to be. A really excellent article is Mrs. S A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. AS an assistant to nature, it is of great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Its properties are perfectly harmless, it being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilitate the natural growth of hair.' 
Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston, 
Those of our readers whose hair is turning grey or losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will find in Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER a preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any heretofore pro-educed for restoring and beautifying the hair, POSSESSING NONE OF THE BURNING QUALITIES OF A DYE. 
Philadelphia Mercury. 
There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A. ALLENS WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. Why is this? Simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and most extensive, and we begin to think that it is denominated moat appropriately the ' World's Hair Restorer.' 
Newark Register. 
We have reason to be assured that ' Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER ' is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrate that its efficacy is generally appreciated.' Rahway Register. 
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. The most successful remedy of the day. We know of instances where its good effects have been remarkable.' 
Weekly Visitor, Franklin N. Y. 
‘From individual cases that have come under our own observation, we are satisfied that ' Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' performs all that it promises, and that instead (as is the case with other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless waste of time and money, it is just what it is represented to be, and will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform. We therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character. 
St. Louis Ledger. 
'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.—As we were travelling in Massachusetts a short time since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. After some conversation she spoke of her hair, informing us that two yean ago, at least one half of it was grey, and that she had feared that before then the whole would have turned or fallen off. But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair, and at length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen's Restorer. She did so, and applied it according to directions, and before a year had passed, she assured us that she bad as luxurious, even and beautiful head of hair, as when she was but sixteen years old. Her statement was confirmed by other members of the family, while we were informed that in the same neighborhood there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produced by applying Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer.' 
Providence Daily Tribune. 
‘We are satisfied that the statements made in advertisement of MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER are correct.' Boston Olive Branch. 
'Its remarkable success is satisfactory evidence.'
Norfolk Argus. 
'Among the very few preparations that we deem deserving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit 'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.' It has bean thoroughly tested, and found to be all its inventor claims for it; and to deny its excellence would be to deny the assertions made in its favor by scores and hundreds of the most respectable persons.' Rahway Advocate and Register. 
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S AIR RESTORER is the best preparation extant for the various diseases incident to the hair and scarp, and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers, however grey, to their natural color. It having been before the public for many years, and its efficacy in restoring, invigorating, and beautifying the hair fully established, by hosts of persona throughout the country, has led to the manufacture of many worthless imitations, which have been successfully palmed off in numerous instances, upon the public as genuine.' 
Brooklyn Morning Journal. 
'This preparation is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair. It poetesses none of the burning, cauterizing powers of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glossy appearance almost instantaneously. The Restorer is easily applied, and will not stain the finest linen. The effect is sure in every instance, if applied according to the directions.' Mercury, Philadelphia. 
‘Those unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success.' 
Boston Transcript. 
It is just what it purports to be.' Cleve. Leader.
We might avail this list, bat if not convinced. TRY IT. 
We export these preparations to Europe even, and they are superseding all others there as well as in the United States. 
It does not soil or stain. Sold by all the principal wholesale and retail merchants in the U.S., Cuba, or Canada. 
DEPOT 355 BROOME STREET. N. Y. 
where address all letters and inquiries. 
Some dealers try to sell articles instead of this, on which they make more profit. Write to Depot for circular, terms and information. Genuine is signed, Mrs. S. A. Allen, written in ink. Beware of counterfeits. 
See next issue of this Paper for more information or send to Depot for Circulars. 
FOR SALE EVERY WHERE.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
Dear Bell, so near in thought, your loving kiss
Thrills through my soul, and yet so far away,
I needs must tell you where I am: homesick 
At home, with longing for the homes far off
In loving human hearts. No, I mistake;
‘Tis health, ‘tis heavenly happiness; these tears
Are tears of joy:-I see the far-off stars:
What glorious things they tell of the eternal time!
Wondrous bright these flowers are, here and now!
Oh yes! we had a grand time, Bell: you want
A picture of one brilliant day-that vast,
Glorious sky above-the bewildering
Beauty of that summer morn, the rainbow
Coloring of that sunset sky-the soft shadow
Of that moon-lit eve-with all the power
And awful grandeur of the thundering waters:
No! I cannot, Bell! I have it somewhere,
For a great joy, but ‘tis where I cannot
Give it you;-perhaps I may hereafter.
Oh for an angel’s power, to show you,
Now, another memory, that lives
Within my soul-a burning light-a far
Intenser joy than all Niagara’s glory—
The sublimest work of the great God-
A human soul divinely luminous—
A true woman, Bell! The world is full 
Of slaves and toys: oh, what a glory
Will it one day wear, when men want more
Than playthings!
A mighty revolution
We have made since yester eve; but I have been 
So busy, by the way, that never once 
I thought to heed the grand performance, or 
Take note of the amazing speed at which 
We journey-till I find myself round here 
In the same spot again, thinking of you; 
And your words that came this morn have brought you 
Nearer still. God keep you, darling, in your heaven 
Of love! I see it all; the picture suits me well:
Most beautiful it is to look upon! 
It does me good, Bell!-let no time efface 
Its coloring! God fashioned it to grow 
Richer, deeper, and more beautiful forever. 
Exquisite thought! how grand is life with Him! 
Is not a glimpse of its exceeding wealth 
Enough to make us haste to brush away 
All rude defects, caused by our ignorance 
And short-sightedness!
It is a calm, beautiful night. 
Do you see the stars, Bell? No moon to hide 
Their wondrous splendor-let me fold my arms 
About you; it ‘s too glorious for words—
The soul stands still with God. 
KATE.

From the Atlantic Monthly for October.
THE SUMMONS. BY JOHN G. WHITTIER. 
My ear is full of summer sounds, 
With summer sights my languid eye;
Beyond the dusty village bounds
I loiter in my daily rounds,
And in the noontime shadows lie.
The wild bee winds his drowsy horn, 
The bird swings on the ripened wheat,
The long, green lances of the corn
Are tilting in the winds of morn, 
The locust shrills his song of heat.
Another sound my spirit hears,
A deeper sound that drowns them all,—
A voice of pleading choked with tears, 
The call of human hopes and fears, 
The Macedonian cry to Paul!
The storm-bell rings, the trumpet blows;
I know the word and countersign; 
Wherever Freedom’s vanguard goes. 
Where stand or fall her friends or foes,
I know the place that should be mine.
Shame be the hands that idly fold,
And lips that woo the reed’s accord, 
When laggard Time the hour has tolled 
For true with false, and new with old,
To fight the battles of the Lord!
O! brothers! blest by partial Fate
With power to match the will and deed, 
To him your summons comes too late, 
Who sinks beneath his armor’s weight,
And has no answer but God-speed!

KIND HEARTS.
Let but the heart be beautiful,
And I care not for the face;
I heed not that the form may want 
Pride, dignity, or grace;
Let the mind be filled with glowing thoughts,
And the soul with sympathy, 
And I care not if the cheek be pale,
Or the eye lack brilliancy.
What though the cheek be beautiful,
It soon must lose its bloom; 
The eye’s bright lustre soon will fade
In the dark and silent tomb; 
But the glory of the mind will live
Though the joyous life depart, 
And the magic charm can never die,
Of a true and noble heart.
The lips that utter gentle words
Have a beauty all their own,
And more I prize a kindly voice
Than music’s sweetest tone;
And though its sounds are harsh or shrill,
If the heart within beats free.
And echoes back each glad impulse,
‘Tis all the world to me!

BOTH SIDES.
A man in his carriage was riding along,
A gaily dressed wife by his side;
In satin and laces, she looked like a queen,
And he like a king in his pride.
A wood-sawyer stood on the street as they passed,
The carriage and couple he eyed.
And said, as he worked with his saw on a log,
‘I wish I was rich, and could ride.’
The man in the carriage remarked to his wife—
‘One thing I would give, if I could—
I would give all my wealth for the strength and the health 
Of the man who saweth the wood.’
A pretty young maid, with a bundle of work.
Whose face as the morning was fair, 
Went tripping along with a smile of delight,
While humming a love-breathing air.
She looked on the carriage-the lady she saw,
Arrayed in apparel so fine, 
And said in a whisper, ‘I wish from my heart
Those satins and laces were mine.’
The lady looked out on the maid with her work,
So fair in her calico dress, 
And said, ‘I’d relinquish possession and wealth
Her beauty and youth to possess.’
‘Tis thus in this world, whatever our lot,
Our minds and our time we employ, 
In longing and sighing for what we have not,’
Ungrateful for what we enjoy.
We welcome the pleasure for which we have sighed,
The heart has a void in it still. 
Growing deeper and wider the longer we live,
That nothing but heaven can fill.
<c02>
THE LIBEBATOR.
‘SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE.' 
DEAR MR. GARRISON: It seems to me that the pamphlet with the above title (noticed in the Liberator of the 14th ult.) is a well conceived, well executed and highly valuable work. Yet I think its usefulness might be greatly increased by one prefatory explanation by the compiler.
Of the commendatory ‘Notices by the Press,’ printed on the second page of the cover of this pamphlet (third edition.) one says-‘It is the Bible subverting itself;’ another declares that it shows the contents of the Bible to be ‘a stupendous compound of contradiction and error.’
It seems to me that these ideas are not less erroneous than the popular superstitions respecting the Bible which have caused this work to be prepared and printed. It seems to me, on the other hand, that your notice of the work in the Liberator, (above referred to,)-calling it ‘an exhibition of the utter absurdity of the dogma of plenary inspiration’-is a correct expression of its meaning ,and its true value. It subverts, not the Bible, but the false and absurd theory, manufactured and perpetuated by the clergy, respecting the authorship and authority of the Bible. 
Next to the blind acceptance of their professional dogma of the absolute Inspiration of the Bible, nothing pleases the clergy better than a rushing into the opposite extreme, and calling the book evil, and its influence pernicious. Nay, they have set this trap, for their opponents, by proclaiming and giving currency to the equally absurd dogma, that the Bible must be accepted as a whole, or rejected as a whole; accepted entire, as the work of perfect and infallible wisdom, or rejected entire, as a compound of contradiction and error. They seek to persuade the people that there is no middle course, but that one or the other of these alternatives must be taken. Our wisdom is to follow the excellent counsel given by Paul of Tarsus-to prove (or try) all things, but hold fast only that which is good-and thus to sift out the truth, in regard, both to the book itself, and to the pretensions of the clergy respecting it.
If-as the pamphlet before us most clearly proves-the volume called The Bible contains some erroneous statements, some statements irreconcilably contradictory to each other, and some false and pernicious ideas, it is not less true that it contains valuable historical facts, noble and glorious truths, and precepts of the highest practical value, suited to refine and improve those who give heed to them, and to elevate the community of which such individuals form a part. 
How comes it that one volume contains such widely differing materials? The answer to this question will not only clear up this difficulty, but will show the falsehood and folly of the two clerical assumptions above referred to.
It would be a great piece of folly to answer either ‘Yes’ or ‘ No’ to the question-‘Do you believe the statements and ideas contained in the library of Harvard University?’ Yet the same folly is committed by the person who answers either ‘Yes or ‘No’ to the question-‘Do you believe the Bible?’
The clergy have accustomed this community to think and speak of the Bible as one book, and of its contents as unitary and homogeneous. Both these ideas are absolutely incorrect.
The Bible is a combination in one volume of two collections of books, the historical records and miscellaneous literature of two religions.
These two religions, coincident in some of their ideas, were widely different, and even opposite, in others.
The constituent parts of each of these two collections were written and published separately, without the slightest idea on the part of their numerous authors that they would ever be brought together in one volume, or represented as proceeding from one source.
Several hundred years before Jesus of Nazareth, some Jews, we know not whom, selected from the mass of Jewish writings then extant, those which they thought best suited to perpetuate the civil and religious history of their nation, and kept them separate from others, as works of special interest and value. This collection comprised thirty-nine books, written by thirty or more persons, on various subjects, at intervals extending over a period of many hundred years.
In process of time, the Jews were taught to look upon these books as sacred books. They use them, to this day, in their worship; and the volume containing them is called, among Christians, The Old Testament. 
Some centuries after the death of Jesus of Nazareth, some of his followers, we know not whom, selected, from the mass of Christian writings then extant, those which they thought best suited to perpetuate the history of Jesus and of the religious system which he taught. These books were twenty-seven in number. They had been written by twelve or fifteen persons, at various places, and at various imperfectly known intervals of time. The clergy of that period taught the Christians to regard them as sacred books. They have ever since been thus represented by the clergy, and we now have them under the name of the New Testament. They are frequently bound in one volume with the Jewish collection previously spoken of, and the two collections together are called The Bible.
These histories, the earliest extant of the Jewish and Christian religions, are of course highly valuable, worthy of preservation and of careful study. 
The claims made by two religions not only diverse, but in some respects opposite to each other, will of course give rise to conflicting statements. If the records of these two religions are bound together in one volume, that volume will contain conflicting statements. What then?
If the writings of forty or fifty men, belonging not only to different religions, but to different nations and ages of the world, are brought together in one volume, that volume may be expected, of course, to contain statements and ideas discordant with one another. Such discrepancy is inevitable. What then? 
Such are the diverse things brought together under the name of The Bible.
When discrepancies, contradictions, obvious errors of fact, and obvious errors of doctrine are there before our eyes, is it reasonable to tell us, as the clergy do, that every portion of it must be received and believed as the Word of God?
When glorious and precious truths, elevating sentiments, and admirable precepts are equally there before our eyes, is it reasonable to tell us, as the clergy do, that unless we accept the whole, we must reject the whole?
The existence of such discrepancies and inequalities, in a book so formed, bears not at all against the credit or the value of the Bible, however it may bear, with crushing weight, against the clerical hypothesis of its Divine Inspiration.
The right course seems to be, with this as with all other books, to exercise the just discrimination recommended by Paul: to use, for the improvement of our characters and lives, such things in this library of Jewish and Christian writings as we find to be just and true; and to mark for avoidance, as errors, those things in them which we find to be erroneous. It is utterly absurd to say that there is to a necessity for accepting all, or else rejecting all.
There are some people who seem to hate the Bible; who call it ‘a stupendous compound of contradiction and error’; and who represent its tendency as pernicious. Such sentiments seem to me as erroneous as that undiscriminating reverence for all its contents, against which I have been contending.
Since the ‘Self-contradictions of the Bible’ appear in this pamphlet ‘without comment,’ I know not whether the compiler shares the feeling mention-
<c03>
ed in the last paragraph. If not, I think he may make future editions of this valuable work much more effective by a preface making some such discrimination as I have attempted to make here; and by making it clear that his efforts are directed, not against that important and most valuable collection of Jewish and Christian writings, The Bible, but against the absurd clerical hypothesis of miraculous inspiration in 
those writings.-C. K.W.

MINISTERS ‘OF THE GOSPEL.'
The ‘Massachusetts General Conference’ has just held its first meeting in Springfield.
This is a new Society, composed of orthodox ministers and church-members, whose object is to hold annual meeting, and compare notes, and make mutual suggestions, for the more successful propagation of their theological system. The exercises of this Conference are to be prayers, sermons, reports of committees, essays and discussions, ending with the celebration of ‘the Lord’s supper.’ Its Constitution of twenty articles, and its thirteen By-Laws, (unanimously adopted,) make no provision for the forwarding of any practical reform, not even for cleansing their own pulpits, and churches, and ecclesiastical meetings, from complicity with slavery.
Rev. Dr. Sweetser, of Worcester, was chosen Moderator, and Rev. Mr. Wellman, of Newton, Recording Secretary. The Report of the meeting (which I find occupying two columns of the Boston Recorder of the 20th inst.) includes an abstract of a remarkable essay, read by Rev. Mr. Thurston, of Waltham, on ‘The Christian Uses of Property.'
This Report informs us that Rev. Mr. Thurston gave a comprehensive and exhaustive view of the whole subject, in which the following, among other points, was ‘ happily amplified and illustrated.'
After enumerating ‘the legitimate uses of property,’ among which were mentioned ‘investments,’ ‘with the accumulation of wealth as an object’-the speaker deprecated the common practice of the pulpit in the depreciation of the world, its wealth and its enjoyments, and added—
‘It is a great and noble thing to acquire property, and to use this world as not abusing it.'
It was of course impossible for the speaker to proceed in this strain without thinking, and causing his clerical hearers to think, of the precisely opposite directions of that Jesus whom they pretend to follow, namely:-
‘Lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth!'
‘Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on!'
‘Take no thought for the morrow! for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself! Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof!'
‘Labor not for the meat that perisheth!’
‘Why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field! they toil not, they spin not! If God so clothe the grass of the field, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith?’
‘Your Heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things.’
‘Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and His righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you.'
Here was an awkward gap to be stopped, and the speaker proceeded to stop it, laying down the following concise, yet comprehensive rule for squeezing through tight places in Scripture:—
‘Religious instructors must not set at defiance the laws of political economy, and the texts that seem to do this we are compelled to interpret so as to agree with common sense. Preaching in abuse of wealth and enterprise in its acquisition has no good effect; the hearer says to himself that the preacher knows not what he is talking about, and if all men should follow his maxims, the preacher himself would not obtain the means of living.'
The Report further informs us that remarks in approval of the doctrines of the essay, and in further application of them, were made by Rev. Mr. Grattan of Millbury, Rev. Mr. Angier, Rev. Dr. Sweetser of Worcester, and others.
Query.-Will these Reverend gentlemen, and the other ministers of the Conference, henceforth agree with the Universalists, when they ‘interpret’ the texts speaking of hell in such a manner as to declare that there is 
no hell—‘so as to agree with common sense’? Or is this appeal to common sense to reverse the meaning of Scripture only to be used in cases where a more honest interpretation would deprive ‘the preacher himself’ of ‘the means of living'?—C. K. W.

FREE INQUIRY AT ELLENVILLE, N. Y.
A Convention of Free Inquiry in matters of Religion and Reform was held at this place,-Ellenville, Ulster Co., N. Y.,-beginning on Friday evening, September 7th, and continuing through the following Saturday and Sunday.
The meetings, which were large and spirited, were attended by a number of prominent agitators and reform champions from abroad, among whom were Parker Pillsbury, Aaron M. Powell, Mrs. Colman, and Susan B. Anthony.
The following out-spoken testimonials on slavery were adopted after earnest discussion:—
Resolved, That American slavery, in the language of Senator Sumner of Massachusetts, is a ‘Five-headed barbarism,'’ and, being such, its upholders and abettors are five-fold barbarians.
Resolved, That a governmental Union with such barbarians, under the name of Democracy, which enables half the States to live by plundering slaves of the avails of their toil, and binds the other half to assist in the plunder, and to catch and return the robbed victims, should they escape to or towards Canada, must ever be a sin and crime against high Heaven, of too atrocious a character to be long endured, however strongly its supporters may seek to fortify themselves against a deserved destruction.
Resolved, That the governments of the Slave States are but organized bands of robbers, living by plundering the enslaved of the avails of their, most unpitied toil.
Resolved, therefore, That it is the solemn and imperative duty of the Senators and Representatives of the non-slaveholding States, instead of again assembling as a Congress at Washington, to call a Convention to take measures for the formation of a new Northern Republic that shall be indeed free-an asylum for the oppressed of all nations-uupolluted and uncursed by the tread of slaveholders, and untainted by the blood of slaves.
Resolved, That the grand cause of the continuance of slavery in our country is the subjecting of individual conscience to the authority of institutions and laws, foreign to and outside of itself, making that right and respectable which States enact and sanction, and the recognized Religion accepts and sanctifies; be it the gallows or the guillotine, or war with its murders, or slavery with its nameless crimes and numberless cruelties.
Resolved, That the great want of the present hour, not only for the overthrow of Slavery, but for resisting every other evil, is a class of men and women, who, comprehending in themselves the great laws of Life, Liberty and Love, and daring to assert the individual sovereignty of the soul over all human authority, will plant themselves serenely but sternly on the great principles and laws of that sovereignty, and never more ask leave to be, to do, or to suffer, of any State or Church, party or priest, book or creed, or husband or wife, or any human authority whatsoever. 
Resolved, That the American Church is engaged in prostituting and demoralizing the religious sentiment of the community, by apologizing for, and supporting and defending, directly and indirectly, that ‘sum of all villanies,' American slavery.
A discussion was also had on the following resolutions, although no definite action was taken upon them:—
Resolved, That the rights of woman, like those of man, have their origin, definition and limitation in 
<c04>
her construction, organization and powers as woman; that these rights are co-extensive with her being, and are bounded only by her capacity; and that the full, free and ample exercise of her rights so defined, is essential to her growth and development, and to the progress and perfection of human society. 
Resolved, That in the name of womanhood long cramped and trammeled by false and depressing notions of dependence and inferiority, we call upon our sisters throughout the country to cultivate in themselves a firmer self-reliance, and a bold practical assertion of their right to an equal voice with man in the making and executing of all the laws, and to engage in any and every useful vocation, to which they are demonstratively adapted.
Resolved, That in meeting together, from year to year, under the style and title of an Annual Convention of Free Inquiry in matters of Religion and Reform, freely uttering and faithfully recording our stringent testimonies against various forms of wrong, we wholly disclaim all purpose to add another to the already too long list of sectarian denominations; and we here and now declare our present meeting a distinct individual and independent fact, responsible only for its own opinions and proceedings, and that it is neither bound by the past, nor presumes to make its proceedings a criterion for future meetings.
Resolved, That first among the prevailing evils of our country and the world, against which this Convention of the friends of Progress and Reform would register its earnest and solemn protest, is that malign and selfish spirit at the bottom of all our religious organizations, by which a peculiar type of religious opinion is made to override and blot out the great; principle of Human Brotherhood, making opinion superior to character, and thus offering a bounty to hypocrisy, and a bribe to conformity.
A Convention of a similar character was held at Ellenville one year previously. It encountered strong opposition from the sectarian press and pulpit, and the same influences were brought to bear against this Convention. The only suitable public hall in the village, being owned by a member of the Methodist Church, was applied for in behalf of the Convention, but the application was denied, although the hall has heretofore been opened to all manner of lectures, concerts, political meetings, &c. Against this glaring outrage upon the right of Free Speech, the Convention unanimously adopted a strong resolution of protest. This Convention is now among the institutions of the place. It will be held here next year, we doubt not, under yet more encouraging auspices. Radical ideas are gaining ground in this region, and. may their spread be universal, until all victims of civil, social and spiritual despotism shall be permitted to rejoice in ‘ the freedom wherewith the truth maketh free’! 
J. A. B.
Ellenville, Sept. 18, 1860.

POLITICAL ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
An adjourned meeting of the Political Anti-Slavery Convention, which met in Boston, May 29th, was commenced in Worcester, Sept. 19th, at Wash-burn Hall. The object of the Convention was to ‘consider the propriety of organizing a political party upon the basis of an anti-slavery interpretation of the United States Constitution, with the avowed purpose of abolishing slavery in the States, as well as in the Territories of the Union.’ The meeting was called to order at 10 o’clock by Mr. Stephen S. Foster of Worcester. Mr. Wm. Coe of Worcester was chosen President pro tem., and A. P. Brown, Secretary. Mr. Foster read the call for the Convention. He was followed by Mr. Frederick Douglass of Rochester, N. Y., who addressed the Convention on the necessity of a return to the radical anti-slavery ideas for which the originators of the Anti-Slavery movement in this country contended, and their advancement by political means. 
Mr. Foster reviewed the position of the American A. S. Society at some length. Mr. Douglass, and Mr. E. T. Hutchins of Killingly, Conn., and Mr. Locke of Athol, followed in remarks upon the principles to be adopted by the new Society; the last in defence of the American Anti-Slavery Society. The meeting then adjourned for dinner.
At the commencement of the afternoon session, Mr. Foster again spoke, in continuation of his remarks in the forenoon. He concluded by offering the following series of resolutions, as embodying the principles and platform on which it is proposed to organize the new party:—
Resolved, That we, the friends of freedom, assembled in Convention, in the city of Worcester, on the 20th day of September, 1860, do hereby organize ourselves into a political association, to be known as the Union Democratic Party of the United States of America, upon the following basis and platform of principles:—
1. All men, irrespective of color, condition, sex, or nationality, have a natural and indefeasible right to themselves, and no government, association, or combination of men on earth, can, by any possibility, give to one man any right of property in the person or labor of another, except by his own voluntary consent.
2. It is the right and duty of all men to defend their own liberty by the most potent means which God and nature have placed in their power, at whatever cost to their oppressors. ‘Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God, in black as well as white-in bond as well as free.
3. It is the imperative duty of our National Government to protect, impartially, all the inhabitants of the country in the full enjoyment of all their natural rights; and any administration which, under any pretext whatever, seeks to evade this duty, is false to the fundamental principles of democracy, false to the Constitution, false to every principle of moral obligation which binds us together as a civil community, a dishonor to the country, and utterly unworthy of the confidence and support of any genuine friend of freedom.
4. The people of the United States, and not the Supreme Court, are the ultimate arbiter in all questions involving the interpretation of the Constitution. By our theory of government, the people are the only rightful rulers of the country; the courts, as well as the legislature and the executive, being mere agents entrusted with authority to execute the popular will; and hence, it is their right and duty to review, and for sufficient reasons to reverse the decisions of their courts; and any court which should refuse to obey the clearly expressed will of a popular majority would be an intolerable despotism which should be at once abolished.
5. The United States Constitution, fairly interpreted, is entirely and unequivocally on the side of freedom. It prohibits the existence of slavery in the States, and invests the Federal Government with ample powers for its overthrow, wherever found, whether under territorial or State legislation; and the friends of freedom ought everywhere to insist upon the immediate application of those powers to the removal of an evil which has already made our country a reproach to the cause of freedom throughout the civilized world.
6. As justice is impartial, and all men are by nature equal, all laws, to secure our respect and support, must be based upon general principles, operating equally upon all classes of society, securing to each an equal share in all the natural gifts of a common Creator.
7. Slavery is organized piracy, with many features of barbarism and infamy unknown to any system of piracy ever practised upon the high seas; and any Administration, by whatever name it may be called, which sanctions or tolerates it, in any of the States or territories of the Union, is not only guilty of all the crimes inherent in the slave system, but is also guilty of treason to the Constitution which it has sworn to support. Consequently, we shall recognize no such Administration as the legitimate government of the Republic; we shall not act with it; nor shall we recognize any of its acts as having any legal or binding force other than that which traitors can give to the statutes which they enact; and as all the powers of the government are dependent upon the purse, we shall consent to no appropriations from the national treasury till it shall become in fact what its founders designed it should be, and what they made it in form, the impartial protector of all from whom it required allegiance or submission.
<c05>
8. Any act, which, if done by a private individual, would be a crime against natural justice, when done by an officer of government is equally criminal, and doubly dangerous. It is, therefore, the duty of all good citizens to resist, in all suitable ways, the execution of the infamous fugitive enactment of 1850, and all other legislation intended to subvert the rights of individuals, whether black or white, for the benefit of a favored few. 
Finally: Recognizing in woman the same capacity for government which we find in man, and the same necessity for its protecting care, we invoke her aid and co-operation in this sublime moral effort to transform, by peaceful political means, a slaveholding despotism into a model of republican liberty, justice, and equality.
Mr. F. spoke at some length, in explanation and defence of these resolutions, taking the ground that the United States Constitution is eminently an anti-slavery instrument, which, if carried out in its letter and spirit, as it should be, would set at liberty every slave in the land.
Dr. Calvin Cutter of Warren thought it not so clear that the Constitution was anti-slavery; if it was so, there were some features in it which might possibly be construed otherwise. He thought it might be well, to amend the Constitution in some respect, to set the matter at rest beyond all peradventure.
The Chairman, Mr. Foster, and Mr. Douglass, thought the Constitution well enough as it was; it was in letter and spirit thoroughly anti-slavery, if strictly carried out. Mr. Douglass made an eloquent speech in defence of the principle of organizing a political party on the basis of an anti-slavery interpretation of the Constitution.
In the evening, (Dr. Mann in the chair,) Mr. Foster offered the following resolutions:-
Resolved, That it is neither consistent nor possible for a people who depend upon government for the protection of their liberty and rights, to abolish the institution of slavery, and defend the liberty and rights of its victims, by moral power alone; and hence, any scheme of emancipation which either ignores political action altogether, or depends upon pro-slavery political parties to do its work, is radically defective in principle, and must inevitably end in failure and bitter disappointment.
Resolved, That the great want of our country, at the present time, is a National Political Education Society, whose object shall be to educate the people, the rulers of the country, in a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles of democratic government, and of their duty to defend and enforce those principles in every part of the Union, for the impartial protection of its inhabitants, irrespective of color, condition, sex or nationality.
Resolved, That a Committee of five be appointed by this Convention to correspond with prominent friends of freedom in different sections of the country upon this subject, with power to call a Convention for the purpose of organizing such an association at such time and place as they may deem expedient.
Resolved, That in this sublime moral effort to arrest the downward tendency of our government, and transform a slaveholding despotism into a model of justice, simplicity and equality, by the only means which afford any rational hope of success, viz., the education of the people in the science; of government, we invoke the aid of all classes of our fellow-citizens, but especially do we solicit the co-operation of those manufacturers of public sentiment, the clergy and the conductors of our periodical press, without whose ultimate sanction and aid no work of national reform can ever succeed.
Lucy Stone made a short speech in defence of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and contended that the U. S. Constitution is not anti-slavery, and thought it should be so amended before action under it, that it could not be construed in favor of slavery.
Mr. Foster defended his position. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, Sept. 20.
Met at 10 o’clock. The Committee on Nominations reported the name of Dr. Daniel Mann of Ohio for President, and Wm. A. Wilson for Secretary.
Lucy Stone, A. P. Brown, and Dr. Calvin Cutter were added to the Business Committee.
Dr. Mann spoke in favor of the new party movement.
Mr. Higginson was opposed to the whole movement, believing it to be uncalled for and unpractical.
Messrs. Douglass and Foster spoke in answer to Mr. H.
In the afternoon, after the reading of the various resolutions before the Convention, Mr. E. D. Draper, of Hopedale, made a speech, opposed to Mr. Foster’s position, and in defence of the American Anti-Slavery Society. He criticised Mr. Foster’s position as a non-resistant, believing Mr. Foster’s theory to be inconsistent with his practice.
Mr. J. A. Howland spoke in defence of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and against the anti-slavery construction of the U. S. Constitution.
Messrs. Douglass and Foster spoke in answer to Mr. H., Mr. Foster defending his position as a non-resistant.
In the evening, on motion of Mr. Foster, the resolutions in favor of an Anti-Slavery Educational Society were adopted. Mr. Foster moved the adoption of the platform, and the formation of an Executive Committee to make nominations, and call another Convention, if they shall see fit.
Mr. Foster and Mr. Douglass made addresses in favor of the motion. After Mr. Howland had criticised their remarks, Mr. Foster’s motion was adopted.
The chairman of the Nominating Committee reported:-
For the Anti-Slavery Educational Society's Committee-S. S. Foster, J. H. Stephenson of Boston, A. P. Brown, Frederick Douglass, J. H. Fowler.
For Executive Committee-S. S. Foster, of Worcester; J. H. Stephenson, of Boston; A. P. Brown, of Worcester; Frederick Douglass, of Rochester, N. Y.; J. H. Fowler, of Cambridge; Ernestine L. Rose, of New York; Elizabeth C. Stanton, John Pierpont.
The report was accepted, and the nominees elected
On motion of Mr. Douglass, the following resolution was adopted:-
Resolved, That the members of this Convention, called to consider the proposition to form a sound Abolition Political Party, extend their earnest sympathy and their hearty God-speed to the little band of faithful Abolitionists which has nominated Gerrit Smith as their candidate to be supported for the Presidency in the coming election.
After remarks by Mr. Douglass and Mr. Foster, the Convention adjourned, subject to the call of the Executive Committee.
DANIEL MANN, President.
WM. A. WILSON, Secretary.

From the Boston Traveller
LETTER FROM JAMES REDPATH.
INTERVIEW WITH THE PRESIDENT-THE JOHN BROWN
BUST-MADAME GEFFRARD.
PORT, AU PRINCE, August 18, 1860.
[The following extracts are from a private letter received in this city by the ‘Sarah Burton']:-
I arrived here safely and in good health Friday before last; on the following Tuesday, I had an interview with the President. I went up to the palace with Mr. Ackermann, at whose wife’s house I stay (for he being a white man can hold no real estate), and arriving there, we sent in our cards. We were invited into the Coronation Room (of which you may possibly remember that I spoke in my letters), and had not waited long before the President entered. He is a slightly built man, a little taller than I am, nearly black, although he has one-quarter white blood. He was dressed with good taste, and wore on his head a blue velvet smoking cap richly decorated with gilt embroidery. He recognized me at once, and came forward and shook hands with great cordiality. He Ha asked if I had received the letter in which the Government offered me an asylum 
in Hayti, in case I should be obliged to leave the United States for a time. I thanked him for that honor, at the same time intimating that the ban of the Senate had been removed. He cordially welcomed me to Hayti. I told him my double ob-
<c06>
ject in visiting the country at this time: to present the portrait of John Brown, and to gain accurate 
information, and perhaps offer propositions, in relation to the exploration of the Isles of Hayti. He gave 
us directions how to proceed with respect to the last object, personally charging himself with the duty of seeing my propositions entertained. We had not been there ten minutes before an officer entered, and said that some one was waiting for an interview the President replied that he would be engaged for an hour or two. I expected, therefore, that this would be the length of the interview; but it lasted from 3 P. M. till 9 or 10. We repeatedly offered to leave, not wishing to occupy so much of his time; but, with that politeness of phrase which only Frenchmen and Haytiens possess, he insisted that we should stay. After talking an hour or two, I told him I had two favors to ask of him: first, to see that the proper officers acknowledged the receipt of the bust of John Brown, that Mrs. Stearns had sent to him; and second, to offer to Mrs. Leary (the wife of the colored man who fell at Harper’s Ferry) a special invitation to make her home in Hayti. I said that I hardly knew her, but thought it would be rendering a deserved honor to the memory of Mr. Leary to make the offer to his wife. His tour in the North, he said, had only prevented the acknowledgement of the bust of John Brown, which he highly prized, and had placed in his private saloon (parlor); for the second, he would be happy to recognize, by such an invitation, his appreciation of the devotion to the cause of liberty which led Mr. Leary to an untimely end. I don't pretend to give his exact phrases, but the substance only; for he speaks very fast, and I only understand French when slowly pronounced. Talking about emigration, the prejudice of color (not only in the United States but Hayti), the condition of the country the Fetichism of the rural population, the difficulties which beset the work of reform here, his own history, the state of affairs in America, the policy of the Republican party, as to whether it would recognize the independence of Hayti, and other topics, it was soon time for supper. He asked us to dine with him. We went into the main body of the palace, passed through the ‘Hall of the Generals' (where the portraits of the eminent soldiers of Hayti are), and then entered the private saloon. Under a great mirror, on a marble slab, was Brackett’s bust of John Brown, crowned with a laurel wreath. It was one of the wreaths brought by the girls attending the public schools when they came to felicitate him on his return from the North; it had been put on the head of the bust, he said, ‘in honor of the martyr.’ The dining-room adjoins the parlor. He introduced us to Madame Geffrard, who is a colored woman, but so white that no one would suspect that she has African blood in her veins; she looks like an English woman in her build. She did not dine with us; this is one of the peculiarities of Haytien society. Two of the aides de camp, dressed in handsome military costumes, sat at table, making five of us in all. We remained till about nine. Geffrard has fine conversational powers, and delights in the company of intelligent foreigners. The President is very anxious to promote and educated emancipation from the Northern States, and his ministers are about to initiate vigorous measures to inform the colored people of America of the advantages of Hayti as a home for the African race. I had an interview with Lamathe and Plaiscance, Secretaries of State, and both of them, also, spoke with interest on the same subject. I drew up a programme for them, of measures necessary to be adopted, and pledges and guarantees to be given, and they will carry it out.
They have raised about $4,000 (American) in Port au Prince for the John Brown fund but it will be impossible to discover how much has been raised in the Republic for a week or two. The portrait of John Brown, sent by Mr. Hyatt, has charmed every one; it is placed in the palace, and the President has expressed his intention of having portraits of Oge and Chevanne, the first martyrs of Hayti, painted in a corresponding style. I am in danger of being lionized here: I hear it is proposed to offer me a public dinner in honor of the John Brown American Committee. But they will have to send out some other representative, for I shall not accept any honor until I think I have deserved it.

PROUTY & MEARS’S 
CELEBRATED
HOT-AIR FURNACES,
PARLOR GRATES in great variety, embracing more than sixty different patterns, varying in prices from 
three to sixty-five dollars.
PARLOR STOVES of superior designs, including the PORTABLE HOT-AIR RADIATING PARLOR GRATE, the most elegant heating apparatus for drawing-rooms and parlors ever invented.
COOKING-STOVES of the latest and most approved patterns, including the ‘Clipper Improved, ‘Mount Vernon,' and ‘Gold Medal.'
DINING-ROOM STOVES, with ovens, including the ‘Beauty,’ of new and chaste design, and in its operation entirely superior to any cast iron ‘Parlor Oven Stove’ ever introduced into this market.
-ALSO-
A large assortment of Office and Shop Stoves; Castings for the PROUTY & MEARS’S Stoves and Furnaces, &c., &c.
AT
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
BY
ALLEN S. WEEKS.
23, 25 and 27 New Friend Street,
(Between Union and Hanover Streets.)
BOSTON
June 1-eoptf

CARPETING.
‘All the Year Round’
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.,
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285, WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderministers, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton 
and Cocoa Mattings.
-ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept 16 tf

SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR prepositions, theological, moral, historical, and speculative, each proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture, without comment; embodying most of the palpable and striking self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Third edition. Price 15 cents, post-paid. Eight for a dollar. 
A. J. DAVIS & CO., 
Oct. 5-6m. 274 Canal street, New York.

THE ERRORS OF THE BIBLE
DEMONSTRATED by the Truths of Nature; or, Man’s only Infallible Rule of Faith and Practice. By Henry C. Wright. [(Prove all things; hold fast that which is good.-PAUL] Price 25 cts.
For sale by BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield street.
August 24. 3teop.
