THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS–Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 33.BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 15, 1862.WHOLE NO. 1645.
Refuge of oppression.
<c01>
WENDELL PHILLIPS SPOUTING FOUL TREASON.
At the anniversary celebration of the emancipation of the slaves of the West Indies, held at Abington, Mass, Wendell Phillips, the coryphaeus of the abolition faction delivered a speech which, in treason and sedition, has outstripped anything he has yet uttered. It seems as if this bold bad man was waxing more audacious under the impunity he experiences. He threatens the President with deposition from the chair of chief magistracy; and if Mr. Lincoln dose not haul him up with a short turn, it is possible he may carry his threat into execution. He says, “The government fights to preserve slavery;” and again. “As long as you keep the present turtle at the head of the government, you make a pit with one hand, and fill it with the other." Here is, first, a falsehood that the President is fighting for slavery, and second, there is an inflammatory appeal to the people to overthrow the government and depose Mr. Lincoln, whom the orator describes as" a turtle. Next, he calls the President a more convenience," and lastly, “a broom- stick.” He caps the climax of his treason by saying, “Better the South should go to-day, than lose another life to prolong the war upon the present detestable policy.” Let this Union be dissolved, in God’s name. England ought to recognize the Southern Confederacy."
Such are the atrocious sentiments of the chief representative man of the abolition party-its organ in common with the Tribune, the Post and the Independent. Surely, if any man can commit treason by words spoken or written, this is of the blackest hue, and if any man ought to have been arrested since the ginning of this war, Wendell Phillips is that man. He impudently proclaims that the President “has no backbone,” and therefore it is that he calculates upon impunity. If the President would adopt the most effectual way of contracting his foul calumny, by sending him to fort Warren, the act would be worth one hundred thousand armed men to the Union cause.
This foul-mouthed traitor does not stop here. He sows the seeds of distrust in the army by saying that “McClellan’s balls are not in tended to do much damage to the rebels; he could not have done more to help them than he has done. The people need not fear for Richmond; McClellan would not take it., He (Phillips) looked upon the present war, conducted without a reasonable object, as a total loss of blood and treasure. Men well acquainted from positive experience with the Army of the Potomac affirm that Richmond could have been taken five different times, had the do-nothing at the head of it permitted; but he preferred to dig dirt in the Chickahominy swamps, and then leave that locality and its dirt-heaps ignominiously. President Lincoln, through coward fear of the border States, keeps this man in the position he holds?
Such is the language of Phillips. There are two kinds of treason and two classes of traitors. The traitors South we are bringing immense armies into the field to put down, and expending vast sums of money in the enterprise; and yet, here at the North, there are traitors banded together to impede the progress of the Union arms; by maligning and misrepresenting the government and ridiculing the chief generals in the field, and by calling for a dissolution of the Union. The traitors of the North are completely in the power of the government, and its ought to strike at them boldly at once. The traitors of the South will never be overthrown while the traitors of the North are thus permitted to give them aid and comfort. The arch-traitor is Wendell Phillips, who confesses that for fifteen years he has then a disunions. Why is he permitted to be at large? It is the faction that he leads which has been the cause of the rebellion. It first furnished the pretext to the secessionists to throw off the yoke, and now it does its utmost to encourage them, and discourage the government, and the army pouring out- its blood for the Union. In the ginning of the war, Greeley said the Union ought to be dissolved if the South desired it, and that the action of the secessionists was justified by the principles of the Revolution. Secession, therefore, is but the stem and the branches of the tree of treason. The root that first caused the up as to germinate, and has ever since given it vitality and support, is the revolutionary abolition faction, Which openly proclaims its determination to overthrow the Constitution as ‘a covenant with death and an agreement with hell.’ Let the axe be laid to the root, and the poison -tree will fall.–New York Herald.
DISCOURAGING ENLISTMENTS. Secretary Stan-ton has issued an order, ordering the marshals and police officers to arrest and imprison, any one who, by act, speech, or writing, discourages volunteer enlistments, or in any way gives aid and comfort to the enemy.
General Wadsworth, a day or two ago, arrested the editor of a two penny paper in Harrisburg, which merely printed a bogus placard stating that Gen. Lane was in town, and would speak, and raise two colored regiments. Wendell Phillips devoted his whole speech at Abington, the other day, to discouraging enlistments. Nothing was too reckless for his ribald tongue to utter, and the climax was all that our blood and treasure is wasted, and that it was better for the South to go than lose another life. Secretary Stanton’s order is just and timely, It should be applied fearlessly.-N. Y. World.
Phillips, Pillsbury, Foster, and all that set, who have been open- mouthed and incessant in seeking to prevent enlistments, the editors of the Tribune and the Evening Post, and all others who have insisted that the war could only be successfully carried on by breaking down the Constitution and laws, and have thus given, the principal aid and comfort to the enemy, and who have prevented, according to the Tribune, 900,000 emancipationists, who disliked the Constitutional policy of the Government, from enlisting, will be immediately looked after, we presume, by Marshals and Chiefs of Police, under Secretary Stanton's order. Boston Courier.

INDIANA DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION.
The Cincinnati papers of Thursday contain re-ports of the proceedings of the Indiana Democratic Convention at Indiana polis on Wednesday, from which we compile, says the Express, the following After the organization of the Convention, Hon. Charles A. Wickliffe, of Kentucky, made a speech, of the which the following are the salient points:-
In July, 1861, both Houses of Congress, by a concurrent resolution, resolved that the war was brought about by a sectional party South without justifiable cause; that we waged it on our part to maintain the Constitution, to preserve the Union, to restore peace, and to protect each State. That declaration was adopted immediately after our reverse at Bull Run.
<c02>
We appealed to the patriotism of the people of the United States to carry out their resolutions, and that as soon as the Union was restored and the laws enforced, the war was to cease. Was not that held out to you? (Yes, yes!) Did any man dare tell you then that this war should never close until slavery was extinguished, and every slave emancipated? (No, no!) Now we have it as the cry of the Abolition party. The Abolition party have swallowed the Republican party neck and heels. The conservative portion of the Republican party have not kept the faith. I put them to the record, that when we who were called conservative men, Democrats and Whigs of the old school, came to the rescue as conservative men, they came like little Bo-Peep's sheep. “We couldn’t find them.”
What was the cause of this war? (A Voice “Abolitionism.”) You must have been told that, Sand you are not far from right. Slavery was just as much the cause of the war as the tea that was thrown out in Boston harbor was the cause of that war. The cause of the war was the unhallowed ambition of the representative men of the South, who saw their sceptre departing, and the Abolitionists of the North. They concocted the scheme between them, and I have the proof before me.
We have two things to do; first, to put down the rebellion, and next to punish the leaders. You must throw the Abolitionists over, if you want to save the Union. A leopard is known by his spots, and if you want to know an Abolitionist, look at the record of Congress. I will tell you what caused the rebellion. It was a contest for power. The South wanted a government for itself, and the East one separate for the nigger. It would have been no difficult task for the Union, conservative men to have conquered a peace, had they united. If twenty millions of freemen cannot put down six millions, without arming the niggers, let them get out of the way, and we conservative Democrats, old line Whigs, and some Republicans, will do it. Your Love joys, Phillipses, and Greeleys, say they can’t fight this war any longer, unless you” will arm the niggers. Will you ever consent to this? (Cries of “No! Never!")
I have already said that slavery was not the cause of the rebellion. Now I am not here to defend that institution. I have been practising for forty years, and all that I have made has been spent in clothing and feeding my niggers. One would suppose, to year Lovejoy talk, that the Constitution was made for the express benefit of the negro framers race, and not for the white man. If the framers of the Constitution had intended that the niggers should stand equal with the white men, and enjoy the same rights and privileges, they would have said so. It was the white men that engaged their attention and deliberation. Away with such trash! Tell Lovejoy, when he talks such stuff, to talk it to the nigger if he pleases, but to let the white man alone.
I call upon Colonel Richardson to tell you which had the greatest regard and concern, and which occupied the attention of the late Congress most, the government or the nigger. Nine-tenths of the time of the session was occupied in reference to the interests of the negro race. Even the President and Secretary Chase have gone into the business of working negroes. They have forty-one agents-treasury rats, I call them-some call them overseers, who are superintending the raising of cotton at Port Royal.
If we are not able to maintain the authority of the government, we are unworthy of being called citizens of the United States. If we could get Abolitionism out of the Congress and out of the army, in less than six months the Union could be restored, and peace preserved. That is what you have got to do," and it must be done through the ballot-box. I will lay down my life and give all my niggers to see this Union restored, but I will not, under the high obligations of my nature, ever consent to violate the Constitution. What right has the general government to interfere with slavery in Kentucky or Virginia? I will not read what our President said about that in his inaugural, for it is familiar to you all. But our country having become involved in a war by the Secessionists and Abolitionists, that in made the pretext for saying that slavery is the cause of the war, and therefore they have a right to take my slaves, and to say that this war shall not cease until slavery is abolished. If they violate the Constitution so far as to take my property without due process of law, how long will it be before other provisions of the Constitution will be ignored to serve their ends? The Constitution, with its prohibitions, its guarantees, has been no more regarded by the party now in power than you do a last year’s almanac.
The President has now proclaimed the confiscation of property in eleven States, and some were disposed to insist that the proceeds should be applied to pay the debts due North, by the South. That idea has, however, been abandoned, the proposers of it becoming ashamed. Are you for a war that is going to take the property in slaves and confiscate it? Are you willing that your million slaves shall be set free? Are you, I ask, for such a war? Do you want these negroes to come on, and compete with your white labor? No, no! I am for a white man's war against the Abolitionist. What is to become of these negroes when they are set free? How many! do you suppose are now fed and supported by the army? Not less than 30,000. I say, the day I left Washington, two hundred and fifty negro women and babies, captured by General McDowell, were brought into the city. This was the result of six weeks’ operations of McDowell’s army of 60,000 men, only thirty-five miles from Richmond. The policy of the Government and our Generals has thrown us back one year in putting down this rebel-lion. It has compelled the necessity of the President calling for 300,000 more men. He got them under his former calls for upholding the Constitution. I hope he will get them now. In conclusion, let me say one word. Lay aside in this struggle that party strife heretofore demanded, and? unite upon the ground that this Union and Constitution must be preserved and maintained, and let the negro take care of himself; and if you want that, done, don’t send any more Abolition members to Congress. When the war is over and peace is restored, 1 hope we will have a Fort Warren then in which to incarcerate the leaders both North and South. God bless Kentucky and Indiana! "United we stand, divided we fall."
SPEECH OF HON. J. S. CARLILE.
Hon. J.S. Carlile then addressed the Convention. We give the following extracts from his speech:-
No other war than such as was recognized in the resolutions of the extra session a year ago could be justified by the civilization and Christianity of the age-a war not for conquest or subjugation, but for restoration and peace. The instant we divert it from such ends, then we place ourselves side by side with the rebels. He had felt no alarm for the safety of the country until the last session of Congress, when he saw the controlling party in that today enforcing the radical measures of Phillips and Garrison on the country. At a time when the whole country is one vast hospital, they from their places
<c03>
declare the object of the war shall be diverted—the people south of the Potomac-exterminated, and the negroes set free. The policy inaugurated by them will continue the war forever, “and bring you under a military despotism.” Congress spent nine-tenths of its time in freeing and elevating the negro, and nine-tenths of its propositions looked to his liberation, if that is liberation which frees a man from one master to make him the slave of all. Mr. Carlile insisted that Giddings, Phillips and Greeley were representative Republicans, and read a foolish letter of Giddings's, in which he proposes that the contrabands in South Carolina proceed to reorganize the State Government, and elect loyal men to Congress.
The subjugation or extermination of the South was impossible. A year ago, a large Union element was there; now there was a solid sentiment for permanent dissolution; and why? Because Congress by its legislation diverts war into an unholy and gigantic crusade against the institutions of the South. He declared the man who said slavery and the government were incompatible, virtually pronounced the government a failure, libelled the wisdom of its founders, and was a traitor to it. The Republican party, now in power, and now waging the war, had so pronounced through its hostile legislation to the Constitution. If slavery and the rights of States must go down; if, at the dictation of these men, you surrender a constitutional right, and deny or take from a State the right to hold slaves, “how soon may you be called upon to surrender others?” They make negroes competent witnesses now in the District. How soon will they demand that it be done in Indiana? If you again give these men your confidence, and return them to Congress, you will all be made the slaves of a centralized government, and no one will pity or sympathize with you. Mr. Carlile said the interests of the Western States were with the South. There was their grain market “you have a Northern market, the same as ever: but your corn is rotting in your granaries, and you walk” on the ruins of your prosperity. The wicked men of the North and South have deprived you of your market, and these Northern men want to wage a war that will forever deprive you of it.” Freeing negroes won't make one. Free the niggers, exterminate the whites, and give, the land to the Yankee Norway rats, and you’d never have a market there. Indiana was more interested than slave owners themselves in perpetuating slavery in the South. To free four million blacks will be to keep up taxation, increase debt, ruin property, degrade our children, and make this country a second Mexico.
SPEECH OF HON. WM. A. RICHARDSON.
Hon. Wm. A. Richardson, Representative, from Illinois, followed in the same strain, charging the Re-publicans as being thoroughly Abolitionized, and their Congressional representatives as one-idea nigger men, incapable of administering the affairs of the government, and utterly without statesmanship. There were no conservatives among them; all were for diverting the war into abolition, for arming slaves, and were not only traitors to the Constitution, but cowards, never intending to go into the army. If the Republican party is retained in power, the government is gone forever. Only in conservative men is there any safety. He denounced the President’s emancipation scheme, as calculated to enslave the white, while freeing the black, and insisted that New England was making all the money, holding all the contracts, and escaping with fewer soldiers in the field and lighter burdens of taxation than the West. “We are made their hewers of wood and drawers of water, while they run the nigger exclusively for money."

A SECESSION SYMPATHIZER RUNNING FOR CONGRESS.
Doctor Edson B. Olds is the Democratic candidate for Congress in the Twelfth district of Ohio. He has taken the stump, and insists, with Governor Wickliffe, that “Abolitionists are deserving of death, and that the President is in their counsel.” On Saturday, July 26th, Olds made a speech at Berne, in Fair field county, in which he declared that although the South had struck the first blow, it was because the wrongs inflicted by the North had forced them to strike. He added these specimens of secession talk, but was not arrested:—
“In God’s name, have we not had enough blood! Our opponents forced this war upon us, and they now call on us to help them out; but I tell you, Mr. Lincoln, that when you strike down constitutions, trample laws under foot, and then call on Democrats to help you, you will not get them. Now, is not this war a war for these purposes? I tell you, fellow-Democrats, there is no honor, no gain, no profit, no glory, in this war. It is all loss. It is my brother you strike-down. No Democrat will enlist in this war until the Administration changes its policy and war-cry.
MR. LINCOLN A TYRANT AND PERJURER.
“On the 4th of March, 1861, Mr. Lincoln stood I upon the eastern portico of the Capitol, and swore to support the Constitution. Did he do it? No, his every act has been a violation of it from that day to this.
“I denounce Lincoln as a tyrant. He has perjured his soul. He may imprison me, but I will still cry tyrant. I denounce these acts of oppression as foul acts of perjury against the Constitution.
DOCTOR OLDS SEES A VISION OF BLOOD.
“And now, my fellow-Democrats, I am going to have a vision, which, if it were not a vision, might be treason, but what I now say is in sleep, and 1 am not, therefore, responsible.
"I see blood at the ballot-box this fall. The President has issued his proclamation for three hundred thousand more troops, and Congress has passed a law authorizing him to draft them. He will have to draft them if he gets them, because these cowardly Abolitionists will not enlist. There is an election this fall, and they want to carry it. They want to draft Democrats; they will draft them to prevent their voting. They have the power, and can so arrange it. You will not be cheated. I tell you will not submit to these wrongs. You will see blood. If they attempt to arrest us, and take us from our families to support an Administration in its violations of the Constitution, we will resist even to blood. If the Democrats don’t succeed at the ballot-box, they will succeed at the point of the bayonet.”
JUDGE RANNEY.
Here Dr. Olds addressed himself to Judge Ranney, and denounced him as an Abolitionist for having said in a war speech, in Lancaster, on Wednesday evening, July 23d:“My opinion is now, as it always has been, that as long as there is a man in arms against the laws, that man must be put down by arms.” This language he considered “evidence of Abolitionism.” Ranney was-not sound, and could not be trusted. He endorsed and applauded the editor of the Eagle for striking his name from the ticket, and said that it should never go back with his consent, and that Judge Ranney should be bleached seven times in ley strong enough to make soap before he would vote for him.
<c04>
Selections.
DEMOCRATIC INVITATION TO COME IN AND BE KILLED.
A democratic journal, the Albany Argus, asks—“May we not all now stand on the platform of the Constitution and the Union? Will not those who have been so persistent in urging a Negro Emancipation crusade, consent to unite heartily with their fellow-citizens in restoring the Union as it was, and vindicating the authority of the Constitution as it is, and postponing, till after-, the rebellion is crushed, their favorite theories of Emancipation? How much would the power of the Federal Government be strengthen by such co-operation of opinion and action! May it not be had?" “This has a plausible sound, but it does not meet the case that is now before the country for decision. Suppose that the advocates of emancipation were to avow that they were not desirous of pushing the matter, but would give up. their opinions in the hope of inducing the South to return into the Union, would the war be brought one day nearer to a close than it would by their adherence to those opinions? It would not, as every sensible man well knows. If declarations against emancipation would be so useful to restore peace, why were they not useful in preventing war? The Republican party did all that men could do to cause the South to see that it had no idea of interfering with slavery in the States. Republican conventions, Republican journals, and Republican speakers stated, over and over and over again, that their party had no such end as emancipation in view; and they stated what every one knew to be the truth; and yet the leaders of the South affected not to believe them, and persisted in declaring that Mr. Lincoln’s election would be an act of war against Southern rights, they having broken up the democratic party in order to make Mr. Lincoln’s election something about which there could be no doubt. As the declaration of their purpose by the Republicans, to respect the local institutions of the Southern States, could not prevent the Southern revolt, it is not at all probable that the renewal of those declarations would have any effect in inducing the secessionists to lay down their arms. But might it not tend to the strengthening of government, through the process of strengthening the Union cause in all the States, by satisfying those secession sympathizers in the North who ardently desire the success of the rebels? Perhaps so, if those sympathizers are concerned only for slavery, and not for slaveholders. There is another point to be considered, and that is, that slavery is the source of nearly all the power that the rebels now have, and not to strike at it is to leave the enemy to the undisturbed possession of their resources. That would be a very unwarlike way of making war, much the same as it would be to refrain from blockading their ports and coasts. We ought, indeed, to put an end to the blockade, if there be any force in the arguments of men who care as much" for slavery as they do for the Union. The blockade greatly lessens the value of slave labor, and if it be wrong to seize slaves for the purpose of freeing them, it must be equally wrong to pursue any course that tends to render their labor unproductive. The blockade, by breaking up the export system of the South, which has always depended upon that system’s success for its subsistence, has for the time rendered slaves a description of property that is well nigh worthless, and which must become entirely so if the war should last long. Hence, the same reasons that could be given for the refusal even to talk about emancipation, could be adduced in support of allowing the seceded States to proceed on their course without molestation. If we have no right to emancipate the slaves, we have no right to make war upon the slaveholders; and to suppose that we could emancipate extensively without first being successful in war, is to suppose something as absurd as ever entered the human mind. We must succeed in the field before we can disturb the plantation; but we might notify the workers on plantations of our purpose, and then every victory that we should win would be doubly fruitful as well as doubly glorious. There may be much truth in what is said, that most of the slaves know nothing of freedom, and desire it not; but the history of slavery shows us that if there be one or two discontented, intelligent slaves in a “gang,” they never experience any difficulty in bringing their ignorant and contented associates over to their way of thinking. In one sense, the more ignorant the masses of the slaves, the more likely are they to become active “rebels” when their minds are wrought upon by clever men of their own race. With them, as with their owners, it is not the dull many who rule, but the crafty few. We see how often free white people are gulled and guided by cunning fellows, and why should we suppose that ignorant blacks are smarter than educated white men? Emancipation is a mode of warfare, and a potent one it would be in the hands of able and single-minded men, men who should have nothing in contemplation but the conquest of the Confederacy, which should be the sole end proposed by all our leaders, as it is the sole end of the people. It can be so mismanaged as to be fruitless, as we have seen everything else prove on our side, because we have had no men in high places who have not lacked either the ability or the will to employ the means of fighting, that have been so abundantly placed at their disposal. Employ emancipation wisely, and it would pay well; but half-way measures always fail, and our rulers have not got even up to them.
Those democrats who are so anxious to keep the slaves enslaved, and to whom emancipation is so abhorrent, are governed, by the idea, that a restoration of the old Union is a possibility; and, that effected, they would expect to regain possession of the general government, and have a twenty years’ feast on spoils that should be six times as great as ever were the spoils of former times. They are mistaken in their opinions as to the possibilities of the contest. To restore the old Union would be as difficult a piece of work as it would be to restore to France the old monarchy. Even if North and South were to become one nation again, they would not unite under the old conditions; and the Constitution would have to be so revised and changed, that Washington and Franklin would not be able to recognize their work in it if the instrument were to be submitted to their inspection. We are reduced now to the choice of abandoning the contest, or of prosecuting it for the purpose of conquering the South thoroughly. The time was when we might have fought for restoration, but that time has gone by, and never more can be known, thanks to the pursuit of a feeble course on our part, under which the rebels were enabled to increase to the power, if not to the position of a nation.—Boston Traveller.
When a fling is needed at Secretary Stanton or the administration, then “only reverses and disasters have occurred before Richmond." When McClellan is to be glorified, then there has been nothing but “victories and strategical successes”!
<c05>
SIMON, THE CYRENIAN.
BY MRS. HARRIET BEECHER STOWE.
“They laid hold on one Simon, a Cyrenian, and on him they laid the cross, that he might bear it after Jesus."-LUKE xxiii. 26.
It has been ingeniously remarked by a certain commentator, that all the three great portions of the then known world had a representative hand in the death of Christ.
Asia accused and delivered him, in the person of the Jews; Europe judged and sentenced him, in the person of the Roman governor; and Africa came after him bearing his cross, in the person of Simon, the Cyrenian.
There is something significant in the very form of the narrative. “And they laid hold on one Simon, a Cyrenian, and on him they laid the cross.” As if one should say, Here is a fellow without rights, without business-a stray chattel, to be caught and impressed into any service among his betters that may happen to want him. He is good enough to bear the cross-that will just do for him. And so on him they laid the cross, that he might bear it after Jesus.
And so ever since, as ages have rolled on, Africa has been following after, wearily carrying that cross. 
We talked once with a slave woman-a woman of noble figure and proportions, and of a soul grand and sweet as ever lived in a womanly frame.
She had in girlhood formed the resolution of celibacy, that she might not be a mother of slaves. Her master had forced her to marry, that she might bring forth children for him to sell. And she had borne eighteen boys and girls, and had seen them sold, one after another.
“Ah, ma’am,” she said, “I have borne this heavy cross many, many years.” But there was in this great soul, with a full consciousness of her wrongs, no revenge, no resentment. She bore the cross silently, in the very spirit of him who went before her.
There came a black man to our house a few days ago, who had spent five years at hard labor in a Maryland penitentiary for the crime of having a copy of Uncle Tom’s Cabin in his house. He had been sentenced for ten years, but on his promise to leave the State and go to Canada, was magnanimously pardoned out. Everybody cheated him of the little property he had. A man for whom he bad cut sixty cords of wood, paid him two dollars for the whole job-another found a pretext to seize on his little house; and so he left Maryland without any acquisition, except an infirmity of the limbs, which he had caught from prison labor. All this was this his portion of the cross; and he took it meekly, without comment, only asking that as they did not allow him to finish reading the book, we would give him a copy of Uncle Tom's Cabin-which we did.
Who can speak the multitude, the variety, of woes and agonies which have gone to make up that cross? God is reminding us now, by our own experiences, what some of these woes may be like. Thousands of homes now have eyes that fail in looking for sons that shall return no more. Thousands of wasted, dismantled houses-thousands of untilled and desert farms-thousands of riven and shattered homesteads make us a little aware in our own hearts what the dark man has been suffering for ages.
For that silent Sufferer who walked before the Cyrenian is one who never forgets-whose day of vengeance is the year of his redeemed.
He was the God, the King, the Sacrifice, both of the Jewish priests, the Roman governor, and the despised African; and the time is coming when they that have suffered, must also reign with him.
Silently he sits above, and calmly looks down on the turbulent crowd of senators, politicians, generals, soldiers-all surging to and fro in their blind and passionate endeavors, and every one of them in turn repudiating their black brother.
“I do not care for the negro-but I care for the whites,” is now the very advance cry of those who take the side of Simon, the Cyrenian. “At least, let him have the privilege of digging our trenches where white men cannot work.”
“Ah, now, you have philanthropic views toward him,” shout the opposite party. “Look there, now, these men actually are getting philanthropic."
“Not a bit of it,” is the rejoinder;" only twenty thousand white men died in the trenches before Richmond, and I had rather it had been twenty thousand niggers-that's all."
But high above all sits the King who wore the crown of thorns. Let us tremble at the vision of him which the Apocalypse opens: “And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and he that sat upon him was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he doth judge and make war. His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns; and he had a name written that no man knew but he himself. And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood: and his name is called the Word of God. And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean. And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the nations: and he shall rule them with a rod of iron: and he treadeth the wine-press of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God. And he nation his vesture and on his thigh a name written, KING OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS."
That awful wine-press of the wrath of Almighty God: what is it? who can measure it?
Who can measure the wrath of pure love, of sensitive tenderness-the wrath of a father or a mother heart that has seen its children crushed, scattered, wronged, cheated, torn with scourges, pining with hunger, wasted with pain, through the slow coming of ages?
Fathers and mothers of this country! God loves the poor despised African as you loved those sons whose sufferings-sick, wounded, mangled prisoners, dying-you mourn.
"The sons of the lonely slave-mother, torn from her to die in Carolina rice-swamps, are precious in her eyes as your sons that died in, the trenches before Richmond. And to that nation, despised and cast out, reviled, abhorred of all, God says, “Since thou hast been precious in my sight, thou hast been honorable, and I have loved thee: therefore will I give men for thee, and people for thy life."
How long must this people wait in their hardness and impenitence with this great arrear of crime and injustice unrighted? The time has come when the nation has A RIGHT to demand, and the. President of the United States a right to decree, their freedom; and there should go up petitions from all the land that he should do it. How many plagues must come on us before we will hear the evident voice,“ Let this people go, that they may serve me"?
Must we wait for the tenth and last? Must we wait till there be not a house where there is not one dead? New York Independent.
REBEL "FREEDOM." The Richmond Examiner Publishes an order of the rebel Johnston, prohibiting all the soldiers, officers as well as privates, from asking he names of towns and places through which the troops march, under penalty of imprisonment.
<c06>
SPEECH OF GEN. LEW. WALLACE.
A great war meeting was held in the Fifth street market space, Cincinnati, on the 31st lt. The popular enthusiasm was at a high pitch. Among the speakers were Gov. Morton and Gen. Lew. Wallace. On being introduced by Ex-Mayor Bishop, General Wallace was greeted with long continued cheering, In the course of his speech, he said:—
Another mistake was, that we could conquer the rebellion by conciliation. Sir, the President desired his Generals and the soldiers when they marched into a rebel State, to be careful of the rights of the citizens, and to protect their property, irrespective of opinion. He made a mistake, and a great mistake it was; and now we wake up, after fifteen months, to see that conciliation is impossible. Nothing but war, war, war, can ever put down this rebellion.
Another mistake was-and begged pardon for alluding to it, but he spoke as a soldier, and not as boar a politician-and he could say that he despised the negro race, couldn’t help it, and never looked upon one without feeling that there stalks the cause of this war. Shall I go on? [Cries of” Yes? yes:” “Go on."] Well, I don’t talk about this as a politician. I will fight, before the negro is put on an equality with the white man. Am I understood? Will any man here misconstrue my meaning?
[Cries of “We understand you"; ”Go on."]
Well, then, we made a mistake in supposing the negro an element of weakness in the South., Now we find him an element of strength.
“How?” inquired a voice.
How-how? I will tell you how, and the general proceeded to illustrate it. You are called upon to enlist. You stop and think;: you say that you are a poor man, a mechanic, or a farmer; that you have a wife and family; that if you go, they will starve, and your farm or work-shop go to ruin. And it is a good reason, and one that touches his heart nearly. Now change the picture. Suppose me, what it is al-most impossible for me to suppose, a recruiting officer down South. I go to a strong, able-bodied man, who looks fierce and ready to bite, and say, we have established a new Government, and the Yankees are coming down to destroy it, and put it down. Will you enlist to sustain it? He says, just as you do, that he’s got a wife and family; that his cotton is planted, and his corn ripening. He says I can go and leave my wife and family, because my negroes will take care of them, and if the Yankees come along, they'll not have them. I can leave my crops, because my negroes will pick and bale my cotton, and gather my corn. And there are about four millions of that kind of labor to take care of the families and industry of the rebels. Now, suppose I should go to Jeff. Davis with a proposition that he should leave four millions of the white laboring men. of the North undisturbed, and provide for their families. Would he do it? No, he’d treat the proposition with scorn. You are the men he wants to get at. Now, if he won’t let four millions of your laboring men stay at home to pursue their usual avocations, why in God's name should we allow his four millions to go on undisturbed? (Cheers, and cries of “That’s the talk," “That’s right.”) And I hold it to be our duty in the field to do all we can to weaken the enemy, and if in so doing we can strengthen ourselves, in the name of God, why not do it? If slavery is the base of the rebellion, why not knock away the foundation?
If I take the property of the rebel-his fat cattle, his horses, his grain-for the use of my soldiers, you say that is right, but if I take his nigger, there's a hullabaloo about it. The General proceeded next to show the advantage to be derived from such a policy. There are 22 teams to a regiment, and 22 teamsters, of course generally doubled, making the number 44. They are detailed" for the time. In the eleven regiments forming my division, there are, therefore, 444 men detailed for this duty-almost a regiment. Our regiments are broke in numbers now. Can we afford to assign them to that duty? and if we can find any body, not soldiers, to perform that duty, what shall we do? 
A Voice” Take the nigger, General."
I see you get my idea. Take the nigger, of course, and if I am permitted, I will do it. (Great cheering, and “You are right.")
Well, when on the march, I’ve seen weary soldiers halt for the night, doff their knapsacks and stack their guns, and take up the spade and ditches and throw up breast-works, to be prepared against the enemy in the morning. Now supposing to each brigade there was a regiment of negroes, whose duty it was to dig and not to fight, wouldn't the boys, wearied with their long march, doff their clothed knapsacks, stack their guns, roll themselves up in their blankets, have a good sleep, and be fresh for the enemy in the morning? very well, now if by taking the nigger we weaken the enemy and strengthen ourselves, what shall we do? Many Voices” Take the nigger,” and cheers.)
Now let me go a little further. I don’t mean to say that white men are not equal to the emergency of this war. They can fight and put down this rebellion, and no thanks to England, or France, or Ethiopia, either. I would not have the nigger put on an equality with the white soldier, never! The prejudices of the soldier must be respected; a greased cartridge caused the rebellion in India; but if driven to the river's edge, behind the last battery, the music of a rifle, even in a negro's hands, will be sweet music to the ears of our boys. I’d use him to fight only then, and in such a great emergency. Now I am rid of the negro, and am glad of it, and if the Southern rebels were rid of theirs, too, I shouldn't be sorry.
Returning to Jacksonport, during our few days halt here, I was informed by General Curtis that our communications northward were about closing, and the army would strike for the boats in a day or two. I learned also more about Pool, the obstinate Secessionist, who was a prisoner in our hands. Last year, a man named Davis was brought up be-fore a Vigilance Committee, at Jacksonport, on some trumped-up charge as a pretext, but really his crime Consisted in being a Northern man. He was ordered to leave town the same day. Being a poor man he tied up his things, and taking his wife, both embarked in a “dug-out,” on a voyage down the White river. Pool hearing that Davis had gone, immediately sent three hired assassins after him, having around then below town. The men disappeared in the woods in that direction, when shortly the sharp reports of three rifles were heard by the gentleman who made an affidavit of these facts. The man Host were seen coming into town with a heavy trunk, which they left at Mr. Cullough's house. A week afterwards, the deponent testified that he went down the White river, and saw the body of a man near Clarendon, hanging by the foot to a limb near shore, which he identified as being that of Davis. The woman in the “dug-out” was never heard of after the tragedy occurred. Correspondence of the Missouri Democrat.
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institution, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”–J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LETTER FROM SENATOR WILSON.
We find the following letter from Senator Wilson, of Massachusetts, in the New York Herald of the 8th instant:-
NATICK, Mass., Aug. 6, 1862.
James Gordon Bennett, Esq.
SIR: A few days before the close of Congress, my attention was called to an article in your journal, in which it was stated that I had declared that we had one hundred and fifty thousand more men than we needed, and that I must be held personally responsible for the present want of men. Conscious that I had ever been swift to obey the wishes of the government and of our generals in the field-conscious, too, that the nation had not a single battalion the less through any word or act of mine-I could not but feel deeply the cruel injustice of this attempt to hold me now responsible for a want of men, caused by events no one foresaw.
I could not fail to see, sir, that this pointed reference to me, and sharp denunciation of my remark, would, under the changed condition of affairs, convey an untruth to all your readers, who understood not the precise circumstances under which I spoke. Your readers were not told that the remark which you now condemn was made nearly four months before, when victories by land and sea were flashing upon the country, making us all hopeful, and, perhaps, too confident of the future; nor were they told that they were based upon the report of Secretary Cameron, the assurances of Paymaster General Larnard, the estimates of Quartermaster General Meigs, that we had from seven hundred to eight hundred regiments and seven hundred thousand men. Your readers were not told that when the remark was made, we had more than one hundred partially organized regiments, scattered over the country, more than five hundred recruiting officers and hundreds of recruiting stations, all supported at enormous cost, though doing little effective service nor were they told that when the remark was made, a plan was pending before Congress, prepared by General Stoneman, Chief of Cavalry, endorsed by Secretaries Cameron and Stanton, and endorsed, too, by General McClellan, to reduce and consolidate the seventy-seven regiments of cavalry-nearly half of which were unmounted-into fifty regiments, thus discharging nearly a thousand officers and several thousand men. Your readers were not told that on the same page of the Globe from which my remark was quoted are these words of that cautious and conservative, clear-headed and pure-hearted statesman, William Pitt Fessenden:
“We so legislated that the number of volunteers to be raised should be limited to five hundred thousand but although Congress in its language expressed the idea, and it was stated so over and over again, it accidentally gave a power which extended to a million, or was so construed as to extend to a million, and under that our army has been swollen up to over seven hundred thousand men. At this day I do not think a man can be found anywhere who will say that half a million are not all that we can possibly need or use; and yet we have this, number of troops in the service, though not actually in the field. There are regiments in my own State today that have been raised, staying there-who have been staying there for months-paid by the Government, efficient men, the choice men of our State, waiting and begging to be called into the field, and not to be left there doing nothing: not armed: ready to do everything, anxious to be in service: and the answer is, “We have no occasion for you; we have got so many men here-more than we know what to do with;’ men who make a most elegant appearance on days of review, and who undoubtedly would fight well if they could only get a chance. There are more men than the Government knows what to do with here on the Potomac to-day. What occasion is there to send for others? So it is in every State in the Union: there are men who are paid from month to month, and who have been paid for months, not armed, not called into the field, absolutely for the reason that the Government has no occasion to use them. And yet no step is taken to disband these men. Why not disband them if they are not wanted? Because we have seven hundred and fifty thousand, if that is the number-two hundred and fifty thousand more than we ever intended to have.”
Your readers were not told that when these words of Mr. Fessenden were uttered, they were hailed and applauded by the public voice as the utterances of the vigilant chairman of the Committee of Finance, who is ever watchful of the interests of the treasury, and that when I made the remark you now so sharply criticise, the sentiments of Congress, of the public press, and of the people, were for consolidating incomplete and scattered regiments, reducing needless expenses, correcting abuses, and introducing more order, system and economy into the service; nor were your readers told that few, very few, were enlisted in the Free States for some weeks before recruiting was temporarily suspended; that the object in closing the recruiting stations was not so much to stop enlistments, as to consolidate and bring into action the scattered forces, fill up the meagre ranks of the regular army, diminish expenses, and substitute a less costly system of recruiting, and that few recruits were lost during the brief suspension of volunteer recruiting. Your readers were not told that on gathering up scattered forces, and obtaining more full and complete returns, it was found that the number of men had been overestimated; that instead of seven hundred thousand, we had from five hundred thousand to five hundred and fifty thousand-one hundred and fifty thousand less than the government had claimed, and one hundred and fifty thousand less than Mr. Fessenden, myself and other Senators had assumed to be the actual force.
I found, sir, on my returning home, that the remark that we had one hundred and fifty thousand too many men had been most industriously circulated, and was misapprehended by many, who were made to believe that it was based, not upon the government claim of seven hundred thousand men, but upon the five hundred and twenty thousand men we actually had. In April, 1861, I had advised the Secretary of War to call out a quarter of a million of men. In July, 1861, when the administration asked for four hundred thousand men, I gave it half a million. I had maintained that the government required five hundred and twenty thousand-the number we afterward ascertained the government actually had in March. This idea, that my remark applied to five hundred thousand men, the number intended to be authorized by law, and near the actual number ascertained to be on hand in March, instead of seven hundred thousand, was false in fact, and unjust to me. To correct this misapprehension, I explained very briefly in two or three war meetings my position. The Herald seized upon a very brief and imperfect report of my remarks at Newton, and assumed to deny the truthfulness of what I said. I am accused of attempting to disown my recorded words. I did not deny, disown, modify, qualify, or retract the words uttered by me on the 28th of March. No, sir, I did not deny nor attempt to deny it, and the imputations you have cast upon me on the assumption that I had done so, are wholly unauthorized by any word ever uttered by me. Why, sir, I had referred to that declaration more than once in the Senate, and my words were recorded. On the 7th of May, in response to Mr. Grimes, the indefatigable Senator from Iowa. I had stated that the government “estimated that we had six hundred and sixty thousand men”-“that it was so reported to Congress”-that in view of that statement, I had said some time ago that I thought we had one hundred and fifty thousand too many men; that we had about five hundred and twenty thousand effective men, and “I had thought half a million of men, or five hundred and twenty thousand, as many as we could use to advantage.” Here was a statement made months ago in the Senate to the effect that I had, in view of the claim of nearly seven hundred thousand men, thought we had more men than we needed, but that we had only about five hundred and twenty thousand, and that number we required. Without denouncing the Herald, any paper or person at Newton, I simply denied that I had ever said, thought or dreamed that the five hundred and twenty thousand men in the service when I made the declaration were more than we needed; that there was not the shadow of a foundation for the charge; that I had always been in favor, not “of more men,” but of five hundred thousand or more effective men; that my remark applied to the seven hundred thousand men claimed by the government; and that every Senator knew that this was my position, and would bear witness that I was ever ready to respond promptly to the wants of the government for men. The brief explanation I made at Newton is in perfect harmony with my record and with truth.
I am, sir, willing that my motives, words and acts shall be known fully to the people; but I confess it is painful amid these passing events to be misrepresented by enemies or misunderstood by friends. Since this rebellion broke out in civil war, I have toiled with unflagging zeal, and at my own expense, to raise men and to help on the cause, and to aid its defenders; but I now find the Herald denouncing not only my acts, bat my motives also. The accusa-
<c02>
tion, that I was actuated by partisan or personal feeling in regard to enlisting men, has not the shadow of truth, justice or fairness in it. Every member of the Senate will, I am sure, bear witness that I have ever been prompt to press into action the military forces of the nation; every member, too, of the Administration, will bear witness that I have ever pressed upon it the vital importance of giving our commanders the forces needed to crush out this foul treason. But it is my duty to care for the condition of the Treasury as well as of the army; it is especially the duty of Mr. Fessenden, Chairman of the Committee on Finance, to do so. Four months ago, the military forces of the country appeared to be immense; regiments were scattered around unemployed, tens of thousands of men were off on furloughs, thousands were sick that ought to have been discharged. Looseness and extravagance seemed to prevail in the War Department, and the condition of our finances was a source of solicitude to all. Senators were actuated by the sole desire of protecting the Treasury without impairing the effectiveness of the army. They have erred in judgment-they certainly were mistaken in relying on the estimated force in the service-but nothing can be more untrue, nothing can be more unjust than those accusations that Senators were actuated by partisan feelings and personal objects in their efforts to correct mistakes and abuses, increase the efficiency and promote the economy of the War Department. The records of the republic will bear witness that they were ever prompt in voting men and money, and these accusations, which have not the elements of truth, justice or fairness in them, may give a moment's pain, but they must share the fate of false accusations. HENRY WILSON.

The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 15, 1862.
“PHILLIPS SPOUTING FOUL TREASON.”
Such is the allegation of Bennett’s New York Herald,-a paper that has never yet had one throb of sympathy for Northern rights and interests, for free labor or free institutions; that has always been the spaniel of the Southern slave oligarchy, and the watchdog of their rebellious slave system; that has done more to stimulate them to the overthrow of the government, the dissolution of the Union, and the formation of an independent slave-confederacy, than any other journal in the land; and that is still in sympathy and design with them, under a mask of loyalty which it was forcibly made to assume, last year, in order to escape impending popular retribution. It is the old device of the thief who is fleeing from the pursuing constable, crying out “Stop thief!” to divert attention from himself, and thus avoid arrest and punishment. Here-for example-is
A REBEL NOTICE OF ONE OF THE EDITORS OF THE NEW YORK HERALD. The Richmond Whig, in commenting upon articles in the National Intelligencer, Baltimore American, and New York Herald, gives the following account of Wallace, of the New York Herald:
“Wallace is a Virginian. Poor devil! he sold himself, body and soul, to Bennett years ago, and must do his master’s bidding. But, unprincipled Swiss as he is, Wallace’s heart has all along been with the South. His editorials show this.
In his worst diatribes against the rebels, there must be detected an under-current of sarcasm, a devilish jeering at the North, and a dropping of inuendoes and suggestions well calculated to unsettle public opinion. His panegyrics upon Lincoln are rich in irony. His assaults upon the Abolitionists are evidently sincere. He knows they brought on the war, and he has seen from the beginning how that war will end. He is steadily working up the fiendish spirit of the mob against the authors of the war.
Alas! what a day that will be when the infuriate mob is turned loose upon the Greeleys, the Bryants, the Raymonds, the Sumners, Wades and Wilsons! Bennett approves these machinations of Wallace, for Bennett always keeps an eye to the windward. He knows that the day of retribution will surely come, and is preparing for it. At least one newspaper office in New York will not be levelled.
It is Wallace, we think, who writes those Baltimore letters, in which such appalling statistics of the rebel armies are given. Would to God we had the force in the field that Wallace gives us; not many months would elapse before we would give him a chance to hang out his Confederate flag. Wallace has done the best he could for us, and we pass him by.”
In all probability, it was this “poor devil,” Wallace, who wrote the scurrilous diatribe against Mr. Phillips, which we have placed in the “Refuge of Oppression.” No doubt, the Richmond Whig has accurately drawn his portraiture as one who is “steadily working up the fiendish spirit of the mob,” whose heart, “unprincipled Swiss as he is, has all along been with the South,” and who has done his best to “unsettle public opinion” at the North respecting the real cause of the war, and thus to “give aid and comfort” to the Southern traitors. Think of such a dissembler impeaching the patriotism and loyalty of Wendell Phillips!
Here is what the Missouri Democrat (a paper whose loyalty will not be questioned) says of the Herald:-
THE HERALD'S TREASON. The New York Herald, which is the most desperate and unflinching friend of the rebels, in its number of the 4th ult., suggest revolution in the North. It calls for a “Committee of Public Safety” to “watch over the country in the perilous crisis in which it now finds itself placed.” It demands “a reformation in Congress, and an overhauling of the Cabinet;” and says that Congress must be “superseded;” and in the spirit of the man who cried out to a mob, “Don’t nail the poor gentleman’s ears to the walls,” confident that the suggestion was only needed to have it done, this traitorous sheet urges the necessity of taking measures “to retain the faith and the support of our Border Slave States still in the Union.” If it had dared speak openly, it would have said to the Secessionists in the Border Slave States, “Now is your time to rise against the government.”
And this is the paper that is lustily bawling for the incarceration of Wendell Phillips at Fort Warren, as a traitor in the service of Jeff. Davis! Of course, it garbles and utterly perverts what Mr. Phillips said in his speech at Abington, as follows:-“Let this Union be dissolved, in God’s name! England ought to recognize the Southern Confederacy.” This is wilful misrepresentation. The whole object of Mr. Phillips’s criticisms was to stimulate the Government to take more decisive measures for the suppression of the rebellion, and to warn the people of the North that, if the past infatuated policy be pursued, there is no hope of success, and the independence of the Southern Confederacy is only a question of time. “Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.”
POSTPONED. A few weeks since, we announced in the Liberator that our tried friend and co-laborer, HENRY C. WRIGHT, contemplated making a visit to England sometime in August; but, on further consideration, and in accordance with the judgment of many of his friends here, he has concluded to postpone his visit indefinitely. Among the reasons for this change of purpose is, the delicate relations now subsisting between this country and England in regard to the war, which may ultimately lead to a rupture in case of the recognition of the Southern Confederacy by the latter; and the pressing demands of the Anti-Slavery cause at home, at this critical juncture. Those who have forwarded letters or parcels to Mr. Wright, in trust, will please signify to him in what manner they may be disposed of.
The Transcript points out as significant, that the order of Gov. Andrew, directing a new enrolment of the militia of Massachusetts, declares that “all able-bodied male citizens, between the ages of eighteen and forty-five, will be included.” This sets aside the old custom of invidious exclusion of colored citizens from the duty and honor of defending their country. The authority upon which the Governor calls for this enrolment is derived from the act of Congress, approved July 17, entitled an act to amend the act of 1795. The law of July last provides that "the enrolment of the militia shall, in all cases, include all able-bodied male citizens between the ages of 18 and 45,” the word white not occurring in the law of Congress.
<c03>
THE SECRET OF SUCCESS.
The editor of the Courier has so far overcome the impediment of a conspicuous natural modesty as to communicate to his readers some particulars of his own belief respecting himself. He informs them that he is in the open path of duty, “with a clear conscience,” devoting all his energies to the pursuit of truth, and in the constant receipt of “packages” of commendatory letters. As he does not restrict this intelligence by marking it confidential-but, on the contrary, wishes it widely diffused, “for the purpose of reassuring” certain of his friends, who might, could, would or should doubt either the clear conscience, or the incessant stream of packages of commendation-we gratuitously aid its circulation. 
Far from being impatient with the slowness of the unbelieving Thomases in question, the indulgent editor, in the very next paragraph, points out to them the secret of his success, and the method by which they, too, if they will, may obtain constant packages of commendatory letters. Here is the solution:-“Great is truth, and it will prevail.”
Of course, every general rule has its exceptions. The Honorable Caleb Cushing, no doubt, has as clear a conscience as our other Honorable friend, and has devoted his energies as assiduously to the pursuit of truth; his packages, thus far, have been strangely delayed. Still, as a general rule, no doubt virtue is always rewarded with praise and profit.
The editor of the Courier, kind even to the unappreciative Abolitionists, quotes for their advantage, from the New York World, the philosophical reason why the slaves are not yet free, and cannot at present be made free. This particular scintillation of truth occurs in a criticism upon the address recently delivered by G. W. Curtis, Esq., to the students of Dartmouth college. It says of that gentleman, and of the radicals who, with him, favor freedom and oppose slavery-“They forget that liberty is the daughter of the skies, that she dwells only with virtue, faith and love, that freedom where these do not exist is only a mocking name.”
Poor slaves! If liberty is unattainable either by them or for them, until they attain distinguished proficiency in virtue, faith and love, their prospect is a dark one. It is as true that “evil communications corrupt good manners” as that “virtue is always rewarded.” Those who touch pitch must be defiled. And these slaves, for half a century back, have been holding the closest relations of contiguity with those wicked secessionists whom the Courier is constantly holding up to detestation. It is to be feared that Floyd’s slaves would not scruple to steal, nor Jeff. Davis’s to lie, if occasion offered. It is to be feared that the slaves of Southern men generally are but little better than their masters. If they can reach freedom only in proportion as they attain virtue, faith and love, their case is indeed well-nigh hopeless.-C. K. W.

THE UPS AND DOWNS OF PUBLIC LIFE.
A few days after the above was written, there appeared in the Courier an editorial notice, signed GEORGE LUNT, offering for sale his interest, being the principal one, in that paper, and intimating his belief that “the remainder of the concern, if desired, may be purchased at the same time.” By way of inducement to some possible purchaser, the editor aforesaid volunteers his opinion that it would be easy to make the Courier lucrative, “under favorable circumstances.”
It seems probable from the above, that the commendation heretofore boasted of by the Courier was not accompanied by cash, and that pro-slavery, however thorough, is not a paying article at present in Boston. It is to be hoped that the editor’s hint about favorable circumstances will be taken, and that whoever shall make the experiment, of paying anything for the Courier’s subscription list will make the further experiment of advocating justice and humanity in its columns.-C. K. W.
THE NEW GYMNASTICS FOR MEN, WOMEN, AND CHILDREN. With a Translation of Prof. Kloss’s Dumb-Bell Instructor, and Prof. Schreber’s Pangymnastikon. By DIO LEWIS, M. D., Proprietor of the Essex Street Gymnasium, Boston. With Three Hundred Illustrations. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 1862.
The author of this equally attractive and valuable work very appropriately dedicates it “to the girls and boys of America, whose physical welfare has been the study of his life.” They will assuredly hail him as their friend and benefactor, as fast as they become practically acquainted with his novel but admirable mode of gymnastics. Unquestionably, a new system of physical training has long been greatly needed; and this seems to be as comprehensive and varied as the wants of the human body. It has been introduced into various schools and seminaries with entire success and complete satisfaction. Efforts are making to disseminate a practical knowledge of it. A college has been incorporated-the BOSTON NORMAL INSTITUTE FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION-from which persons of either sex, after a full training, are graduated, with the honors of a legal diploma. The exercises are arranged to music, and when performed by a class are found to possess a charm superior to that of dancing and other social amusements, while the interest increases with the skill of the performers. The adoption of them will enable many drooping invalids to “throw physic to the dogs,” and literally leap for joy:
“O, who can speak the vigorous joys of health?
Unclogged the body, unobscured the mind;
The morning rises gay, with pleasing stealth,
The temperate evening falls serene and kind.”
Whether it is true or not, as Cicero says, that “by no other way can men approach nearer to the gods than by conferring health on men,” it is certainly true that next to a good conscience is a good physical development; and he who exerts himself wisely to promote it deserves to stand high among the benefactors of the human race. “The New Gymnastics” is emphatically a book for every family, as all ages are interested in its instructions. Persons, sending $1.00 to Dr. Dio Lewis, Box 12, Boston, will receive a copy postpaid. It is a volume of nearly 300 pages. 
THE REBELLION RECORD: A Diary of American Events, 1860-‘62. Edited by Frank Moore, Author of “Diary of the American Revolution.” In three Divisions, viz.:-I. Diary of Verified Occurrences. II. Documents, Narratives, &c. III. Poetry, Anecdotes, and Incidents. New York: G. P. Putnam, 532 Broadway. Charles T. Evans, General Agent.
Part XX. of the Monthly Illustrated Edition is just published. It contains portraits of Major-General David Hunter and Henry A. Wise, and chronicles the events of the war to February. The entire work is one of great historic importance and value. No other war was ever so promptly or so accurately recorded in its details and incidents.
WORTHY OF LIBERAL PATRONAGE. On Monday evening, we had the pleasure of witnessing the opening exhibition of Stanley & Conant’s POLEMORAMA, or Gigantic Illustrations of the War. In point of artistic skill and arrangement, it is deserving high praise-the various representations being of a most graphic and life-like character, and each one of them worth the price of admission. As almost every one has a direct personal interest, through consanguinity, in the dreadful struggle now going on in the land, it would seem as if these reliable “Illustrations of the War” could not fail to draw crowded audiences wherever exhibited. They transport the beholder to the very localities where the most striking incidents have occurred, and these are delineated with wonderful fidelity. The POLEMORAMA is another remarkable exemplification of American enterprise and talent.
In the letter of Mr. May, published last week, in reply to Mr. Howland’s, one or two verbal omissions escaped oar notice. The sentence, “I have rendered such aid as proper,” should read, “such aid as I thought proper.”
<c04>
CELEBRATION OF THE FIRST OF AUGUST.
At Island Grove, Abington, Mass.
[CONCLUDED FROM THE FOURTH PAGE.]
SPEECH OF REV. DANIEL FOSTER. 
I stand before the last Massachusetts audience, perhaps, that I shall have the pleasure of addressing for a good while to come. I expect next Sunday to commence my duties as chaplain of the thirty-third Regiment, and to address some fifteen hundred soldiers in camp at Lynnfield, and to go with that Regiment to the seat of war; and, God helping me, as a son of New England, whether in obedience to the orders of the General or the President, or in disobedience to those orders, to fight as far as I have opportunity against slavery. If that leads me to prison or to death, so be it. May my right hand wither, and my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth, if I ever strike a blow to return a fugitive slave, or fail to strike a blow to give him his freedom! (Applause.)
The Governor of Iowa has just had an interview with the President, in which he has informed Abraham Lincoln that some of the officers of the Iowa regiments are at this moment under arrest, for disobeying that infamous order, issued by Gen. Halleck, shutting out from our lines every loyal man at the South; for the blacks are loyal to the North, so far as the North represents the idea of freedom; and so far as the Union represents that idea, it is perfect folly to talk about a loyal slaveholder. There is no name given under heaven by which this Union can be saved, except the name of Universal Emancipation. The man who does not see this is stone blind. You might as well talk about a Christian devil as to talk about a loyal slaveholder.
What a spectacle do we see now! The “golden hour” came, when Abraham Lincoln had only to say the word, and four million men, set free, became our allies and friends all over the South, and this rebellion fell powerless to the ground. That hour is passing away. The President of the United States has come forward, and exercised his individual responsibility and his personal authority only against the men who have put forth an anti-slavery policy. First, against General Fremont-the noblest man that ever wore shoulder-straps in this country, (applause,) and, in my humble opinion, the ablest man we have had in the field; the only man who has a real genius for war, as Napoleon had, and who would cut red tape anywhere, and finish this war by striking down the slave system, as Napeleon struck down Austrian supremacy upon the field of Marengo. Then the orders of Gen. Hunter and Gen. Phelps, and of everybody else who has proclaimed an anti-slavery policy, have been revoked; but Gen. Halleck, who issued that infamous Order No. 3, has not been interfered with. The President of the United States has, in this particular, prostituted his power and his office to the service of the rebellion, by the adoption of a policy which prolongs the war, wastes the lives of the people and the treasure of the North, and must bring upon it, at no distant day, the most fearful struggle in which any nation was ever called to engage.
In view of such circumstances as these, in view of the exigencies of the hour in which we are called upon to act, I feel bound to do all I can against American slavery. I make opposition to that the one thing which animates my heart, that nerves my arm, that directs every blow that I strike. Now, ladies and gentlemen, you have all heard something about the struggle in Kansas. Let me tell you that the one thing which made us invincible upon those broad prairies against the forces of Franklin Pierce and James Buchanan, and the border-ruffian hordes that were poured in upon us, was the fact, that the leaders in that struggle, at least, were animated by radical abolition ideas. Gen. Lane himself, who came to Kansas from Indiana a proslavery Democrat, was converted to the anti-slavery faith there; and whatever may be said about that man, I will testify, that since he proclaimed the fact that he had adopted the anti-slavery doctrines, he has been consistent with that profession, and there is no doubt that he would be glad to have permission to raise a brigade of colored men in Kansas, and lead them against the Southern foe. So Mr. Conway, the member of Congress, a native of the South, and others whom I could name, have been actuated by an undying devotion to liberty, by an unquenchable hatred of American slavery, and by a determination that that institution should not be planted on the soil of Kansas.
Something has been said here to-day about General Fremont; and everywhere I go, I hear criticisms made of his military capacity. It is said that he has not accomplished anything, that he has not shown himself an able commander. Every man who, in the history of our world, has worked out great results as a military commander, has done it, in the first place, by cutting tape, and throwing himself upon the genius that existed in his own soul, and by the exercise of that genius kindling in the hearts of his soldiers an undying devotion to himself, and to the ideas which he represented. It was thus with Napoleon. There were abler tactitians in Europe than Napoleon; but he had what they did not have-foresight, a magnetic power over men, the ability to grasp some great central idea, by which he could inspire the men under him, so that they would go to the death at his command. The whole history of Fremont shows that he possesses that power. He led his men across the deserts of the West and over the Rocky Mountains, and won for our nation the golden State of California, by inspiring in his men an enthusiasm and devotion such as no other man in this country has shown himself capable of calling forth. I know that he found the State of Missouri in confusion, and was organizing victory. I know that the measures which he inaugurated, those who succeeded him have been obliged to adopt, though they scouted them at first. I know that, after the fall of Fort Donalson, Commodore Foote wrote him, thanking him for the foresight that gave us that victory, and brought the first gleam of light on the cause of the nation; and when the story of that campaign in the Shenandoah valley is written out, it will be found that Gen. Fremont, with his small army, badly armed and poorly furnished-purposely neglected by the Government, because they did not want him to accomplish anything-in crossing the mountains, and in the battle of Cross-Keys, carried on the most glorious campaign, considering his disadvantage and the numbers pitted against him, that this war has revealed.
But, passing that point, there is no man who has such firm hold of the hearts of the people, there is no man who could so soon call to the battle-field a million of young men, as John Charles Fremont. If word could be given to-day, that Fremont had been appointed Commander-in-Chief, instead of Halleck, there is not a man living on the American continent who would not know that that appointment heralded the overthrow of slavery, and the reconstruction of a free Union. (Applause.) The reason why the effort is made to throw doubt on his military ability is, first, that he is anti-slavery; and, second, that he is able to command and wield large bodies of men, and gain a victory that shall cover the whole continent with freedom and renown.
I want to impress upon you this one thought: This, after all, is the people’s question. Abraham Lincoln has in reality no more to do with this war than you and I have. It belongs to us, as citizens of Massachusetts, as men who love freedom, as men who entered into this warfare years ago, and have continued it at the sacrifice of popularity and position in the world; and it is our duty to stand firm by the everlasting truth, and to let the Cabinet and the Generals all understand that the people are fighting this war, and that they are determined to fight it for the overthrow of slavery. We will not consent that the Union shall be reconstructed-supposing it to be possible, which it is not-as it was under Franklin Pierce and James Buchanan; a Union that takes such men as Daniel Webster, and offers them up to the Moloch of slavery; that makes it the condition of all promotion and all political honor that they shall bow
<c05>
down and worship this despotism that has ruined our nation.
A good deal has been said to-day about the dark aspects of the hour. In many respects, the hour is dark, and yet, there is much that is hopeful. In the first place, we must hope, and I do hope, because that Infinite Providence, that has watched over humanity from the earliest moment down to this time, that has called these noble apostles and prophets into the field, and sustained them against a nation combined to put them down during the last thirty years-that Infinite Providence is still over all, and is on our side, and has promised that the seed of truth, scattered over the soil of the world, shall never fail. Therefore, if we do our duty, keep our faith in God, and keep our hands free from all complicity with slavery, we may bid defiance to all the powers of darkness, set aside every law that commands us to help enslave our fellow-men, and go forward, firmly, calmly, confidently, in the hope that God will bless these labors, and, in his own time and way, if we do our duty, reconstruct this Union, and give us, or our children after us, at least, a united and a free fatherland, upon which the blessing of God may be invoked by all loyal and loving and believing hearts, with the assurance that the prayer of patriotism and hope will be answered. (Loud applause.)
SPEECH OF JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,-The day that we have assembled here to celebrate has been made sacred in the world’s calendar. Twenty-four years ago, the friends of freedom in Great Britain and in her Colonies held grand jubilees, and thanked God and their rulers that 800,000 human chattels were that day transformed into men, and that the slave could never again clank his chains on British soil.
The British Government has, by this act, set us an example which I think hundreds within the sound of my voice would rejoice to see imitated by the United States. (Applause.) What our President means to do in this direction, God only knows. I do not pretend to be able to discern the probable results of this war better than he can, but I think I can see as far into the millstone as the man who picks it; and if I do not know all about the white man, I have learned something of the black,-enough at least to say that you have made a mistake by spurning valuable friends, who have stood ready to help you. I have never doubted but that the President was on the side of freedom and humanity, but I confess I do not understand how it is, that when the national life has been assailed, he has not availed himself of all the powers given him; and, more especially, why he has not broken every yoke, and let the oppressed go free. There may be many reasons why he should do as he has done; but I am puzzled to know why he, as a constitutional man and a patriot, has delayed enforcing laws recently enacted for the overthrow of rebellion. We all know that emancipation, if early proclaimed, would not only have saved many precious lives, but the nation itself. Why then delay, when delays are dangerous, and may prove fatal?
I believe the only salvation to be obtained for this country must be through the hearty cooperation of the oppressed, bond and free.
It is indeed humiliating to the civilization and Christianity of the nineteenth century that to-day, in one of the most, if not the most enlightened nation on the globe, there exists a “peculiar” and popular “institution,” which robs men not only of their earnings, but of themselves and their families; abolishes the marriage relation, ignores chastity, and makes woman the hapless victim of the most depraved wretches, and inflicts upon all who resist its progress tortures which the most barbarous savages of the most barbarous age would have scorned to have inflicted upon their bitterest enemies.
Our enemies argue that West India Emancipation has failed. So have the despots of Europle always said that democratical institutions are a failure. (Hear.) We know that Democracy is now undergoing a terrible trial; but who is there who has lost confidence in the people, and is willing to yield to the “divine right of kings”? If this Government fails now, it will not be because we have reposed too much confidence in the people, but because we have relied too much on the few, who will have proved themselves unworthy of our confidence. (Applause.)
What are the facts about British Emancipation? Did the freed men become idle, disorderly, or bad citizens, after they were emancipated? Not at all. They have been good citizens, and industrious to a remarkable degree, considering the climate and its resources, and the low wages paid for labor. It is true that many of the poor planters were left to suffer. Poor things, they had taken no thought for the morrow, but depended solely upon having their pockets filled by gold wrung from the sweat and life-blood of the unpaid laborer. There was no chance for them to steal: they were too proud to beg, and too lazy to work. (Applause.) How could they help suffering? Many who were wealthy were ruined. I will tell you how this was done. They attempted to crush freed men by refusing to employ them. Many of those who did employ them, gave them so little that they were unable to provide for their necessities. This aroused the freed men, and many of those who had saved up something during the four years’ apprenticeship immediately preceding emancipation, bought small parcels of land, and, instead of working for the planters, they became small proprietors and worked for themselves. This effort on the part of the planters to crush out free laborers was not without its good effects. It taught the blacks the necessity of self-reliance, and the planter that the laborer was worthy of his hire. The exports, as a matter of course, were less, because, instead of cultivating cotton and sugar, the freed men were obliged to turn their attention to cultivating the necessaries of life. This enabled them to throw away the coarse and unhealthy food that they were formerly obliged to eat, and live on better diet. Their new relation created new wants. Many things which had been denied them in slavery they were able to get when free, and the surplus of their gardens or fields, instead of being exported, were exchanged in many instances for the luxuries of a higher state, and by this means their labor was turned into a new channel. The reason why it was impossible for Jamaica to export so much as formerly was because the planters failed to encourage labor, and the people consumed more than before of that which was produced. You will please bear in mind that a large proportion of the exports from the British West Indies is now produced upon the estates of men once held as slaves. (Applause.)
The English Government, instead of setting the planters to work to compensate the slaves for what they had plundered from them, paid the planters with British gold, the price of their blood to which they had not the shadow of a right, neither by the laws of God nor of nature. (Applause.) Robbed of everything but their liberty, and without any assistance, the new creatures sprang into a new life, and have nobly vindicated their capacity to enjoy and appreciate their freedom. Why talk about compensating masters? Compensate them for what? What do you owe them? What does the slaves owe them? What does society owe them? Compensate the master? No, never. (Applause.) It is the slave who ought to be compensated. The property of the South is by right the property of the slave. You talk of compensating the master who has stolen enough to sink ten generations, and yet you do not propose to restore even a part of that which has been plundered. This is rewarding the thief. Have you forgotten that the wealth of the South is the property of the slave? Will you keep back the price of his blood, which is upon you and upon your children? Restore to him the wealth of the South, and he will engage to continue to take care of the master well, as he has always been obliged to do, and make a good speculation by the transaction. (Applause.) This you owe to the slave; and if you do your duty, posterity will give to you the honor of being the first nation that dared to deal justly by the oppressed.
<c06>
Freedom in the West Indies is a success. It is a success everywhere, whether gained peaceably or by the sword. (Applause.) We learn by the last census that there is in the Island of Jamaica one hundred and eighty-two churches, exclusive of the Church of England, and that the average attendance on the day schools is 33,521; that crime has diminished, and that the moral character of the whole people is greatly improved. Jamaica-has at present some colored men that any country could well afford to be proud of; comprising artists, mechanics, manufacturers, merchants, physicians, professors, advocates, judges and legislators, each honorably filling his station, and proving that the colored man is capable of the highest refinement and culture. Many of these men, you remember, were once slaves. What has been done in Jamaica may be done in the United States. (Applause.)
Our Government has recognized the Governments of Liberia and Hayti. What sort of logic is it that regards the blacks in America as creatures having no rights, but the moment they emigrate to Hayti or Liberia, they are entitled to consideration? Why are we now standing still? Why is it that emancipation is not declared? Can it be possible that we fear Jeff. Davis will “bag us” all, (laughter,) and wish to <illegible> our conduct so that we can say to him, “Have we not been good and faithful servants? Are we not entitled to your favors?” Why such pandering to the pro-slavery, or rather secession, element in our midst! Why this Northern servility? I have been told that it is the natural repugnance of the races; that the whites will always have their prejudices, and on this account it would not do to emancipate the blacks, for it would be impossible for the two races to exist together as equals. You may believe this, but I do not believe it. That there are many ignorant white people who believe all they have heard against u, I do not pretend to deny; but I do deny that the masses of the intelligent whites are prejudiced against us. The most bitter pro slavery man in this State, who would send me to the mountains of the moon tomorrow, would insult my daughter, if I had one, the moment my back was turned. This is the character of the negro-haters of this country. (Laughter.) I never saw a pro-slavery man or a colonizationist who was not, when he had a chance, an amalgamationist (Laughter and applause.) Though often men in high position, they are generally men with low moral ideas, who seek by words to conceal their real motives. They are opposed to emancipation because that will carry certain legal rights with it, and will elevate the moral standard. The design is to keep the race ignorant and degraded, and without legal or moral rights, that it may be at the mercy of the depraved. I do not think the whites have much prejudice, when I see them preferring the society of the most degraded blacks to that of cultivated <illegible> (hear, hear); and in this I am confirmed by the fact that there is no prejudice against black men or black women, so long as they remain slaves. This prejudice is not natural. The white child cries after the black wet-nurse, and refuses to be comforted by its mother (laughter and applause); and the <illegible> child is dandled on the knee of its white father and he gets “hard up,” then he sells it. (Applause.)
Emancipation will entirely revolutionize society. This system of free love must be abolished. This will be no child’s play. (Laughter.) When the government has been brought to the saving knowledge of emancipation, then the anti-slavery work will have but <illegible> commenced. I hope our friends will not stop now and think their work is done. The slaves have <illegible> for you for more than two centuries. It is but right that you should do something for them. (Applause.) They have a heavy claim against you-a long <illegible> logue of outrage and oppression. You must not <illegible> them now. The slaves are to be educated for a higher civilization, they need your friendship, and we ask you to cooperate with us, and help clear the way. <illegible> for the black man is an unobstructed road and a <illegible> chance. (Applause.)
The present position of the colored man is a <illegible> one; trying because the whole nation seems to <illegible> entered into a conspiracy to crush him. But few <illegible> to comprehend our position in the free States. In masses seem to think that we are oppressed only in the South. This is a mistake; we are oppressed everywhere in this slavery-cursed land. Massachusetts has a great name, and deserves much credit <illegible> what she has done, but the position of the colored people in Massachusetts is far from being an enviable one. While colored men have many rights, they have <illegible> few privileges here. To be sure, we are seldom insulted by the vulgar passers by, we have the rights of suffrage, the free schools and colleges are opened <illegible> our children, and from them have come forth young men capable of filling any post of profit or home. But there is no field for these young men. Their education aggravates their suffering. The more highly educated the colored man is, the more keenly in suffers. The educated colored man meets, on the <illegible> hand, the embittered prejudices of the whites, and on other the jealousies of his own race. The colored man who educates his son, educates him to suffer. The more ignorant the colored man, the more happy he must be. If we are never to derive the benefits of an education, it would be a misfortune for us to see inside of a school-house. You can hardly imagine the humiliation and contempt a colored lad must feel <illegible> graduating the first in his class, and then being rejected everywhere else because of his color. To the credit of the nineteenth century, be it said, the United States is the only civilized country mean enough to make this invidious distinction. No where in the United States is the colored man of talent appreciated. Even in Boston, which has a great reputation for being anti-slavery, he has no field for his talent. Some persons think that, because we have the right of <illegible> frage, and enjoy the privilege of riding in the <illegible> there is less prejudice here than there is farther South. In some respects this is true, and in others it is not true. We are colonized in Boston. It is five times as difficult to get a house in a good location in Boston as it is in Philadelphia, and it is ten times more difficult for a colored mechanic to get employment than in Charleston. Colored men in business in Massachusetts receive more respect, and less patronage than in any place that I know of. In Boston we are proscribed in some of the eating-houses, many of the hotels, and all the theatres but one. Boston, thought anti-slavery and progressive, supports, in addition to these places, two places of amusement, the sole object of which is to caricature us, and to perpetuate the existing prejudices against us. I now ask you, is Boston anti-slavery? Are not the very places that prescribe us sustained by anti-slavery Patronage? Do not our liberal anti-slavery politicians dine at the <illegible> House, sup at the Parker House, and take their cream and jellies at Copeland’s?
The friends of slavery are everywhere with drawing their patronage from us, and trying to starve us out by refusing to employ us even as menials. When <illegible> laboring men go to them for work, as heretofore, they reply, “Go to the Abolitionists and Republicans, who have turned the country upside down”! The laboring men who could once be found all along the <illegible> of Boston, can now be found only about Central <illegible> with scarcely encouragement enough to keep soul and body together. You know that the colored man is proscribed in some of the churches, and that this prescription is carried even to the grave-yards. This is Boston-by far the best, or at least the most liberal large city in the United States.
Now, while our enemies are endeavoring to crush us, and are closing the avenues from which we have wrung out our humble subsistence, is there anything higher opened to us? Who is taking our boys into their stores at a low salary, and giving them a chance to rise? Who is admitting them into their workshops, or into their counting-room? Or who is encouraging those who are engaged in trade or business. With the exception of a handful of Abolitionists and Republicans, there are none. This is the kind of friendship that we need. It is not unpopular now to be and slavery, and there are many who speak kindly
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
of us when their hearts are far from us. True friends are few, or, as Shakespeare has it,
“Words are easy as the wind,
Faithful friends are hard to find.”
This, I think, is the experience of most men. Many of us have learned to appreciate the Spanish proverb -“He’s my friend who grinds at my mill.” In New England, colored mechanics get but little patronage. Indeed, a trade is of but little use to any of us, unless we can, like the tailor of Campillo, afford to work for nothing, and find thread.
Friends, I ask you to look into this matter. You can assists the colored man, but you cannot elevate him; this must be done by his own exceptions. Every colored man who succeeds is an unanswerable argument in favor of emancipation. The encouragement of one colored man stimulates others. Now, we have nothing to simulate our youth. They see many of us struggling against fearful odds, without friends or even kind words, and they became discouraged. The success of such a man as Frederick Douglass is worth more to the race than a pile of resolutions and speeches high as Bunker Hill monument. Had it not been for the Abolitionists, the brilliant genius of Mr. Douglass would probably have died with him. All honor to those noble men and women, who had the courage to do what they did! His success is our success, is the success of a great cause. (Applause.)
It is in this way that we ask our friends to help open to us those thoroughfares, through which all others are encouraged to pass, and in this manner breathe into the anti-slavery movement the breath of life. Then we will become educated and wealthy; and then the roughest locking colored man that you ever saw, or ever will see, will be pleasanter than the harmonies of Orpheus; and black will be a very pretty color. (Laughter and applause.) It will make our jargon, wit; our words, oracles; flattery will then take the place of slander, and you will find no prejudice in the Yankee whatever. (Laughter.)
We desire to take part in this contest, and when our Government shall see the necessity of using the loyal blacks of the free Status, I hope it will have the courage to recognize their manhood. It certainly will not be mean enough to force us to fight for your liberty, (after having Burned our offers)—and then leave us when we go home to our respective States to be told that we cannot ride in the cars, that our children cannot not go to the public, schools, that we cannot vote; and if we don’t like that state of things, there is an appropriation to colonize us. We ask for our rights. Hardships and dangers are household words with us. We are not afraid to dig or to fight. A few black acclimated regiments would shake the Old Dominion. When will there be light enough in the Cabinet to see this? (Applause.)
SPEECH OF HENRY C. WRIGHT.
“Give me liberty, or give me death!" This has been the battle cry of my anti-slavery life for thirty years; and while I exist, in or out of the body, this sentiment must instigate and guide my plans, my words and actions, in all my efforts to elevate and perfect the nature I bear. If this nation ever emerges from its present peril, intact and glorious, it must come out of the bloody conflict instigated and guided by this sentiment. The man who would not rather die a man than live a slave is not worthy to live at all. A nation that had rather live the cowering, abject tool and bloodhound of slavery, than die in a struggle for liberty, is fit only to be wiped out. Annihilation is its “own place,” and the quicker it goes to it, the better for mankind. “Cease to talk of liberty and slavery,” said one “talk of cotton, commerce, the Constitution and the Union." “Talk not of liberty and slavery,” said another, “but talk of the Church, the Sabbath, the Creed, the Bible.” No; talk of liberty for ourselves and all of human kind, and of nothing else. Sacredly reverence, cherish and protect liberty and life, and mere incidents will take care of themselves. Social, political, religious, commercial and literary institutions and regulations are of no account whatever, except as they conduce to the liberty, life, elevation and happiness of man.
Liberty before Property! Talk not of liberty-and slavery, but of cotton, sugar, tobacco, rice, shoes, merchandise, banks and commerce. Such has been the nation's cry for seventy years. Yield up liberty and sustain slavery, rather than invade the dominion of the almighty dollar. Postpone liberty to property! give up reason, conscience, God, self-respect, liberty and manhood for gain. Such have been the nation's spirit and watchword. Verily, the nation, stripped of its manhood, is now having its reward.
Liberty before the Constitution and Union!-Do the Union and Constitution no harm. No matter how much you harm liberty and life. Be tender of the constitutional rights and privileges of kidnappers, who are seeking to make the Constitution a nullity, and the Union a by-word, no matter what becomes of the liberty and lives of the loyal States and citizens who seek to sustain it. Constitutions and Unions are cheats and shams, are but injustice and villany, are but “covenants with death and agreements with hell,” when they exist at the expense of liberty and life.
Liberty before Government! The Federal Government is null and void, wholly without authority, and unworthy any respect, except as the deadly foe of slavery, and the active, energetic, fearless friend of liberty. It is our sacred duty, owed to God and man, to seek the overthrow–by such means as each thinks right-of all governments that exist by enslaving the humblest and poorest of their subjects.
Liberty before Churches, Creeds, Bibles and Religions!-Away with all religions that sustain, even by silence, the enslavement of a single human being! Man before religion! Justice before churches and creeds! Liberty before the Bible! Let all perish and pass away that cannot exist without turning man into a chattel and a brute!
Liberty before Life! Death before Slavery! Inscribe these words on every banner of Freedom! Bear them aloft over every battle-field! Give us liberty, though property, constitutions, governments, Bibles, and all religions perish! Down with slavery, up with liberty, though country and government be blotted from the map of the world! Talk no more of bayonets, bullets, bombs and battles, to defend the Constitution and Union: but let this be our animating cry as we muster to meet the tyrant, whether in a battle of ideas or a battle of bullets" Resistance to slaveholders is obedience to God!" “Give me liberty, or give me death!"
The Slogan of the slaveholder is, “Down with every thing and every person that opposes slavery and sustains liberty!" Be this ours: “Down with every thing and every person that opposes liberty and sustains slavery!” Down with the Constitution, the Union, the Government, the Church, the Sabbath, the Bible, and all religions that cannot exist without enslaving men. Let slavery be damned, and liberty saved, whatever becomes of institutions. Let man be sacred, though constitutions and governments, Bibles and religions, all go down to death.
The four million slaves must be animated by this spirit, and guided by this motto, before the nation can be saved. There is no name given under heaven among men whereby, as a nation, we can be saved, but THE NEGRO. The despised and outraged Negro is a savor of life unto life or of death unto death to the nation. The poor, lashed, abused Negro slave is on the judgment-seat. The God of the oppressed and of justice is now summoning the nation before the Negro to be judged. Are you for liberty or for slavery? Are you pro-slavery or anti-slavery? As is your answer, so will be your doom for the slave will render a righteous judgment. The crushed and crucified Negro has become the sole arbiter of the nation’s destiny.
So far as the North is waging war to restore the Union as it was, with its slave compromises, four millions of slaves are your adversaries; and in this war for a slaveholding Union, “there is not an attribute of the Almighty that can take sides with us." ”Agree, then, with thine adversary (the Negro) quickly, while 
<c02>
thou art in the way with him,” lest he cast thee into hell, as a nation, and thou shalt not escape till the utmost farthing is paid! Call the Negro slave to your side. Teach him to make this his watch-word: Liberty or Death! Breathe this breath of life into him. Make him a living soul, and he will speedily deliver into your hands your bloody and barbarous enemies, and say to the distracted nation, “Peace! be still!” and there will be a calm.
This war will never end till we avow before heaven and earth that we fight for liberty, and not for mere institutions. All for liberty nothing for institutions. Property and life for freedom, and for the abolition of slavery. Not a dollar, not a drop of blood merely for the Constitution and Government, except as that Constitution and Government can be proved to be essential to the support and perpetuity of liberty, and to the abolition of slavery.
SPEECH OF REV. MR. AMES, OF ILLINOIS.
I think the great lesson of the events of our time at last comes to this faith in the perfect God, whose love is over us, in spite of us all, and whose way is always good, in spite of our bad ways. It is a pleasant thing to come to that conclusion by afternoon. In the morning, it was cloudy, and my spirits were cloudy, and the speakers talked despondingly; but now the sun has come out, and I feel cheered, comforted, hopeful and trustful; and I find an interpretation this afternoon for my friend Conway's old fable of the world and the tortoise, which hardly occurred to him, perhaps. It seems to me that the slowest being is not Abe Lincoln, but the great and perfect Being, who is never in a hurry, and whose way is so very slow that He does not begin to keep up with our haste and impatience. The “Golden Hour” with God is not kept by Mr. Conway’s watch! The “Golden Hour“ lasts a long time with Him, to whom the ages are but as yesterday, when it is past. The processes which we call destructive, we find at last to have been creative. As there were stages in the old geological periods, of which we find the record by digging up the stones of the valley, so there must be stages in the periods of humanity, and we are now in the lizard period, and we are the lizards. Let us not expect too much of the lizards! I am content or at least, I rest under the slow progress of events of which I have spoken. We see lizards all around. Great theological lizards, great military lizards, (or snails, shall I call them?) and great philanthropic lizards, who are here to-day. (Laughter.) It is very imperfect work that must come from such imperfect creatures as we are. I think God is leading us forward to a better age. I trust not only in the government of the universe, but I trust that the government of the universe does represent itself in the government of the United States. That is to say, I trust in the government of the United States because it is part of the agency of Providence. Ditto the government at Richmond. I have no fear but that at last all wrong will die.
I am ashamed of my State. I have to confess the sins of my people and bewail them, and to ask myself if I am to any extent responsible-for them. It is cold comfort to think you would do just the same in Massachusetts, if the naked question were presented to you to-day by your politicians. Am I wrong? [VOICES-"Yes"-“No."] I am sorry to hear you say “No.” I was born in Massachusetts, and I declare to you that I am ashamed of it for the first time in my life. Well, just such political material as you have to deal with here in Massachusetts, we have to deal with in the West only more so. (Laughter.) Our population is largely made up of emigrants from Kentucky, Virginia, and the Border States generally, and from Indiana, and the consequence is, we are continually exposed to be played upon by a variety of class feelings and sentiments, and that malignant prejudice of which you have, to a much greater extent, got the better here. Republicanism has never risen so high in Illinois as to dare to repeal, when it had the power, the law on the statute-book excluding negroes, which was just like the clause in the new Constitution. It must be remembered that this clause, although it received a great many votes, has not been adopted, because the whole Constitution was rejected, and this clause fell with it. I am glad to say that we are a good deal better than our laws. Negroes do come to Illinois, and stay for years. There has been one instance, I believe, in which that law has been carried out, and a man’s labor sold as a punishment for coming into the State. What can you expect of Abe Lincoln, who was born where all these prejudices were active?. I have more confidence in him than some of the speakers who have addressed us; more confidence in his persistent earnestness in putting slavery on the down-hill road. It is very easy to criticise a policy which it is not easy to comprehend. He is perfectly honest, from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot if I may take such a large scale of measure. (Laughter.) Let us frankly recognize the difficulties with which he is called to deal. Doubtless he reasoned in this way: “If I avow an anti-slavery policy, I can get Mr. Garrison and Mr. Phillips into the army, perhaps; if I dodge that question, I can get regiments. I must have the regiments."
I think that what we desire is coming the “Golden Hour“ by God’s own watch; that complete triumph of freedom on this continent for which we have so long prayed, and for which some of you have given the bloom of your lives, which is more than martyrdom. Let us rejoice that we may hail it at a distance, and that we may celebrate here, by anticipation, the triumph that liberates, not only four million of black men, but the millions of white men also. I do not think we shall see a clear sky for many years, perhaps; but behind the stormy waves of war, I see the promised land of peace, bathed and glorified in the light of liberty. To us is given a great work, and we shall prove ourselves greater than our fathers, if we take counsel of the better spirit within us, and trust the consequences to Heaven. (Applause.)
I have a resolution here which I desire to read, as expressing my own feelings, not intending to ask a vote upon it:—
Whereas, the triumph of the Government over the present rebellion makes the ultimate extinction of slavery certain; and, whereas, the failure of the Government involves the probable perpetuity of slavery, and the overthrow of our whole American civilization—therefore,
Resolved, That our first duty, as patriots and friends of the slave, is to strengthen the hands of the Government by every proper means in our power, even though we may not wholly approve the details of its policy.
I have adopted that resolution, unanimously. (Laughter and applause.) 
SPEECH OF REV. JAMES N. GLOUCESTER, OF BROOKLYN, N. Y.
I am the last person in the world to be called upon to make an impromptu speech, although, on an occasion like this, my heart beats in unison with all who are patriotic and right on the great question of humanity. This is the first time that I have had the pleasure of standing upon the soil of your State on this jubilee day, and I have heard much that has interested me in regard to the cause that I love, and have loved all my life. I have been wedded to true anti-slaveryism; I have loved, it and have watched its progress with interest, and love it to-day more ardently than ever before in all my life. I love to see strong men, and hear their burning speeches, and I have had that great pleasure to-day. Sir, we live in glorious times when the great question must be settled, whether God or man shall be obeyed. In the good old times of our revolutionary fathers, when men carried their rifles to the house of God, and when the dear old farmer in Massachusetts prayed, “Lord, do thou bless those thy servants, my brethren in arms, and do thou, in blessing them, help them to keep their powder dry,” they settled it, very speedily, whether God or man should be obeyed. But that happy time has passed way, and now we behold the servility of both priests and people. But, thank God, these days will pass away. We are now, with our
<c03>
history as a nation, upon the broad ocean of the world; and if we would only cast overboard from our ship of State this relentless and bloody tyrant, slavery, we should find peace and safety, and our flag become the emblem of one mighty and undivided people. (Applause.)
SPEECH OF REV. SAMUEL GREEN.
My friends, I esteem it a distinguished privilege and blessing to be here to-day. I have been truly gratified in hearing what has been said in regard to the evil of slavery, and the terrible consequences thereof, which now convulse the nation. I have realized much of the evil and suffering of which you have heard. Five years ago, I was arrested in Maryland, and imprisoned in the Penitentiary. The circumstances were these. My son had worked for a hard task-master seven years, and one day he asked him for some money, and he gave him ten cents. He came to me, and said, “Father, I must fly for freedom;” and he found his way to Canada. I was suspected of helping him off, and other slaves, who ran away about the same time, and my house was searched, and a copy of “Uncle Tom's Cabin,” a map of the county, and a picture of a hotel at Niagara Falls were found. I was convicted and sent to the Penitentiary for ten years. A strong petition was got up, and sent to Governor Hicks, praying for my pardon. The question was asked what he was going to do about it. He replied, “I know Green. So far as moral character goes, he is an honest man; but if I pardon him, I shall be called an abolitionist and mobbed.” Governor Bradford released me, after I had been in prison five years.
Mr. Green then referred to the state of feeling which existed in Maryland in regard to the colored people, which was illustrated by the remark of one individual, that he would rather go to hell and be damned, than go to heaven with a “nigger.” He said he did not believe that the efforts of the abolitionists had been an injury to the colored people, bond or free, but rather a benefit; and he attributed his own release to their exertions. It had pleased God, he said, to reveal Himself more powerfully to him in his affliction than at any other time. He realized that it was good to be afflicted; and he would say, that whatever might be our position, so long as we trusted in God, He would support and finally deliver us.
At the conclusion of Mr. Green's remarks, a handsome collection was taken up for his benefit, he having been despoiled of all his goods by the Egyptians down in Maryland.
SPEECH OF GEORGE W. STACY.
How slow our nation has ever been to appreciate the great event of which this day is the anniversary! But, pleasant as it may be to dwell upon the grandeur of that event, hardly a moment has been devoted to it to-day, because we have all been looking to the momentous struggle which is now convulsing our own country. We have been told here to-day that Abraham Lincoln is an honest man. The poet says, "This phrase absurd to call a villain great.” I think, if Mr. Lincoln is an honest man, he has a very singular way of manifesting that honesty. It would seem that if Mr. Lincoln had a particle of honesty, slow though he may be, he would now speak that magic word that would at once give peace and freedom to the country, and declare universal, unconditional emancipation. I can hardly conceive, then, that it is right to apply that epithet to him.
I feel impressed to say that this is a dark hour for our country, and in order to make it brighter, we should work upon the individual conscience. I tell you there is a latent feeling of intense hatred among the people toward the Abolitionist and the negro-
“For whom we injure, him we also hate."
I was reading yesterday a passage in Theodore Parker's "Experience as a Minister,” which I will read to you. They were, when writen, words of prediction; they are now words of history:-
“In this age, I think the people do not make war against the peaceful people of another land; hay, in New England, the most democratic country, we have too much neglected the military art, I fear, a mistake we may bitterly regret in that strife between the Southern Habit of Despotism and the Northern Principle of Democracy, which any day may take the form of civil war, and one day must. For America will not always attempt to carry a pitcher of poison on her left shoulder, and one of pure water on her right; one or the other must soon go to the ground."
Is it not time, beyond a doubt, that either slavery or liberty must prevail? It is chains for all, or liberty for all; or, in the beautiful language of Lamartine, “No sooner do we put the chain around the ankle of our brother, than the other end reaches our own neck.” We are in danger; and it is because we have been mean and craven, because we have trampled on all the rights dear to the colored race, that God has unsheathed the sword of his eternal justice, and calls us to this hour of sad retribution. Let us not, then, ask that this cup may pass from us, unless we are ready to say, also, “Nevertheless, not our will, but thine, O Lord, be done.” It is true that God’s will must be accomplished, and that will bring the issue we desire. Before we separate from this pleasant meeting, let us solemnly promise, before God, that we will not give sleep to our eyes nor slumber to our eyelids, but work day by day in this cause of universal emancipation. It will bring hatred and persecution, I know, it may bring even death; but, my friends, what is life or property worth, what are any of the endearments of domestic life worth to you or me, if we cannot look upon a country that is free from this accursed system of slavery? There is work to be done, and we must carry on that work so faithfully that Abraham Lincoln shall feel he does not desire to be called “honest,” if he does not come up to the help of the Lord against the mighty host of slavery.
Friends, we shall soon separate. The pleasant sun that hangs over us, in its last rays, we shall leave. And where are we going? To our happy homes. One to the right, and the other to the left. But let us remember that, wherever we go, God demands of us, that we must serve well our brother, or all our professions will be vain. We may build churches, we may make our loud professions of love to God, but in our last trying day, the question will be asked, “Where is your brother?" And if we have been unfaithful in this, we shall find ourselves wanting in all else.
“‘Who shall avenge the slave?’ I stood and cried;'
‘The earth! the earth!’ the echoing sea replied.
I turned me to the ocean, but each wave 
Declined to be the avenger of the slave.
‘Who shall avenge the slave?’ my species cry;
‘The winds, the flood, the lightning of the sky.’
I turned to these, from these one echo ran-
‘The right avenger of the slave is man.’
Man was my fellow; in his sight I stood,
Wept and besought him by the voice of blood;
Sternly he looked, as proud on earth he trod,
Then said, ‘The avenger of the slave is God!’
I looked in prayer toward heaven-awhile' ‘twas still-
And then me thought God’s voice replied—I WILL!”
SPEECH OF WILLIAM WELLS BROWN.
During the last Presidential canvas, the Democrats got up, among other caricatures, a picture of a boat full of Americans, and among them a black man. The boat was sinking, and the picture represented the black man on top, and these words were put into his mouth-“No matter where the boat goes, this nigger is on top.” Little did they dream, at that time, that they had been cooperating with and encouraging the South to such an extent, that those words would become literally true that no matter how they might flounder, or what became of their political boat, the colored man would come out on top. Everything, Mr. President, looks bright for us, while everything is dark for the Republic. I think there has never been an hour when the prospect for saving the Republic looked so dark as now; Everything seems to have been done just as the South would desire to have it, to crush the Republic. But the prospects of the black man are bright to-day. If the rebellion had been crushed, as was intended by the President and his Cabinet, and the Union as it was restored, the black man would have been left just where he was ten, fifteen or twenty years ago; but the war has gone on until there seems
<c04>
not to be a possibility of putting down the rebellion without giving the black man his freedom. I do not think the Government possesses the power to put down the rebellion, without proclaiming universal emancipation. I asked a slave from the South, a few days ago, how the black men were feeling, and I said, “We wonder you have not had an insurrection.” He replied “We have no need of it. The white people are killing each other off; we have nothing to do but sit still, and wait until the good time comes. The Jeff. Davis men and the Lincoln men are killing each other off, and the time will be for us by and by; and when that time comes, the black man will be all right. If either party will give us our freedom, we will take it; if they will not, we will wait until they have done all they can to injure each other, and then will come the time for the black man to strike for his liberty.” I feel that the future looks bright for the negro, although it looks dark for the nation; and if the Republic is saved at all, it will be only by means of emancipation.
Now, a single word as regards the day. I know that those who have spoken of West India Emancipation have always looked at it as it regarded dollars and cents. They looked at the black man’s liberty as a matter involving so many hogsheads of sugar and so many bales of cotton. If there were not so many bales of cotton produced, they felt that liberty had been proclaimed to no purpose; if the amount of sugar produced fell short of their calculations, emancipation was, in their view, a failure. They have never taken into account the moral, social and intellectual condition of the former slaves of the West Indies. They have never regarded the minds and immortal souls of those slaves as worth anything at all. Now, in a report made to the British Parliament, three years ago, it was distinctly stated, that since emancipation in the West Indies, the condition of both the whites and blacks had been improved, and that the islands exported and imported a great deal more than at any time during the existence of slavery; and in that report, a very significant fact was stated, which I wish every opponent of emancipation in this country might know. Speaking of the condition of the freedmen in an educational and religious point of view, it was said that the former slaves in the island of Jamaica had built 220 churches since emancipation; that there were 53,000 communicants connected with those churches; that the average attendance was 91,000 about one-third of the population; that one-third of the children namely, 22,000 were in schools; that the “blacks voluntarily contributed annually, in Jamaica, $110,000 towards the support of religious institutions; that they annually contributed $80,000 towards the support of their schools; that their landed property amounts to something over five millions; and that these people were never in a better condition, never in a better spirit, and that there was never a better state of feeling between the blacks and the whites than there is in Jamaica at the present time. Although the same prejudice existed in Jamaica that exists here, growing out of the institution of slavery, and although it was said that the blacks and whites could not live together on terms of equality, and that a war of extermination would spring up as soon as slavery was done away with, the report says that the blacks and whites in Jamaica do live upon terms of perfect equality; that in the Assembly, white men and black men sit together and make the laws; that in the religious societies, white and black unite in worshipping God; that in the schools, where blacks were never permitted in the days of slavery, white and black sit together, and there is perfect impartiality in that island, as regards the whites and the blacks. And what is true in that island is true in them all.
Now, I say, let us hope that Emancipation will be the word written upon the banner of those contending with the South. Among no class of people is a greater interest felt in regard to the termination of this war than among the colored people of the North; but they are all looking and hoping for freedom; and I believe that, if Emancipation is proclaimed as the policy of the Government, there will be no further need of offering bounties of $100, $150, or $200, but that the ranks will be filled up at once; and if the Government will only discard the idea of having only white men to fight its battles, proclaim freedom, and declare that it will receive any who shall come forward and offer to do battle for liberty, I believe that black men will rush from the North, and black men, formerly slaves, will rush from Canada, and, more numerous than all these, there will rise up in the Southern States black men with strong arms, who will be far better to garrison the forts of the South, and do more to cause the slaveholders to leave the Southern army, and go back to their plantations to look after their wives and children, and attend to their own affairs, than any set of men who can be sent from the North. There are thousands and tens of thousands of black men at the South, with strong arms and willing hearts, ready to strike for freedom, and lay down their lives, if need be, for freedom, if you will give them the opportunity. From the time you do so, I believe success will attend your arms. (Applause.)

SELLING THE SERVANTS OF UNION OFFICERS INTO SLAVERY!
The following correspondence between John S. Rock, Esq., and Wm. H. Page, M. D., who was especially detailed by Governor Andrew to go out to the Army of the Potomac to assist in the care of the sick and wounded Massachusetts soldiers, and who was taken prisoner at the recent battles before Richmond, is another proof of the rascality of the Confederate authorities:-
BOSTON, Aug. 11th, 1862.
WM. H. PAGE, M. D.:—Dear Sir, I have been requested to ask you if it is true that when colored servants to the Union officers are taken prisoners by the rebels, they are sold into slavery? and also if it is true that John A. Emery, a colored boy from Salem, and servant to Lieut. Col. Devereaux of the 19th Massachusetts Regiment, was taken with you a prisoner at the recent battles before Richmond, and sold into slavery? An early reply will greatly oblige
Your obedient servant,
JOHN S. ROCK.
BOSTON, August 11, 1862.
JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.: Dear Sir, You note of this date has just come to hand. In answer to your questions, I have to say that a colored boy of 17 years, named John A. Emery, servant to Lieut. Col. Devereaux, of the 19th Mass. Regiment, was left sick with fever (from which he is now well) at Savage Station Hospital, on the retreat of our army to James River; that I attempted to bring him away as my servant; but when we arrived at Richmond, he was immediately taken from me in accordance with a recent order of the Confederate Government, which commands the seizure of all persons of color found among prisoners taken from us, and the selling of them into slavery. I was told of this order by numerous Confederate officers who called at our hospital, and I; tried to get him to go with one of them as a servant, who promised me to use him well; but he preferred to take his chances of getting away with us. I was also told by Confederate officers that another order had also been issued, commanding all persons of color taken with arms in their hands to be shot. His mother, Elizabeth Emery, lives 108 Essex street, Salem, whom you will please inform of the facts of her son. 
Yours, &c., WM. H. PAGE.
There is no atrocity that the traitorous men-stealers of the South are not capable of perpetrating.
CELEBRATION. The colored people of our city, to the number of two or three hundred, held a celebration yesterday, which was the anniversary of the West "India Emancipation, in the beautiful grove on the Topeka road, where the Fourth of July celebration was held this year. A fine stage was prepared for the speakers, an abundance of seats for the spectators, and an elegant and bountiful dinner for all. WM. YATES was elected Chairman, and the invited orator of the day not being able to attend, loud calls were made for Hon. GEO. H. FAIRCHILD, who responded in a short and effective speech, after which, in answer to repeated calls, Messrs. JONES, of Hiawatha, and SHEARER, of our city, addressed the people.
Our colored citizens were neatly and tastily dressed, and their horses and carriages, as well as the grounds, were decorated with numerous flags of various sizes. Everything passed off in the most orderly manner, and the utmost satisfaction was expressed by those who attended. Atchison (Kansas) Freedom's Champion.
<c05>
THE PRESIDENT AND COLORED SOLDIERS.
The President has declared that he will not accept any regiment of colored men as soldiers. They must all be accepted as laborers. There have been several declarations made in the course of this our war which it has been found expedient to revise or to forget, and this declaration of war against the black man may soon be found to belong to the list. The President may do his best and his worst to uphold and maintain a wretched prejudice, but it will be all in vain. The war that is directed against the colored race is neither more nor less than a war in behalf of the rebels, and all that is done adversely to them is so much done in support of traitors. Their services are scornfully rejected by persons who have been unable to do much for their country. The President is a Republican, and how his conduct contrasts with that of the gallant and patriotic Governor Sprague, of Rhode Island, who is a conservative, and who has called for the formation of a regiment of colored men, which will rank as the 6th Rhode Island regiment! Governor Sprague, it will be recollected, was the candidate of the conservatives and democrats, in 1860, for the office of Governor of his State, and he drove the Republican candidate out of the field; and he would have been the conservative candidate for the Vice President’s office but that he had not reached the constitutional age. No one can say that he is a “fanatic,” or an “abolitionist,” but we all know that he is a man of mind, and that he is capable of seeing that the time has come when we should conquer our prejudices, as the first step toward an early and a complete conquest of the enemy. As respects the President's decision, it ought in justice to him to be stated, that he is afraid that Kentucky would secede if black soldiers should be employed! It is none of Kentucky's business of what kind of men our armies are or shall be composed, but the President may deem it right to regard her prejudices in the existing state of things, rather than add to the chances of the rebel's strength being increased. But what a roaring from the democracy the world would hear, if Massachusetts were to intimate that she would not furnish any more men until the services of black soldiers should be accepted! And yet such conduct on the part of Massachusetts would be noble in comparison with that which, it is asserted, would be pursued by Kentucky should colored men be made soldiers. It would be an error in behalf of the right, whereas Kentucky will rebel if we shall not persist in doing wrong! Our past history is against Kentucky's position, for we have repeatedly employed black soldiers, and in one instance at least, goodly numbers of them belonged to an army that was in part composed of Kentuckians. Boston Traveller.
ANOTHER BLOODY CONFLICT.
Gen. Pope and Stonewall Jackson have met at last, and a fierce battle has been fought, apparently without any decided advantage on either side, save that our side held its ground, which, considering the position, is equivalent to a victory. On Friday, Gen. Mc. Dowell's cavalry had the extreme advance, near the Rapidan river, and were engaged in skirmishes all day, taking some prisoners, and ending with slight loss. On Saturday morning, while a large rebel force was endeavoring to surround and cut him off, Gen. Banks came up with four regiments of cavalry, and delayed the rebel advance. In the afternoon, he attacked their advance force of 15,000, under Jackson and Ewell, at a place about six miles south of Culpepper Court-House. At first the contest was almost entirely by artillery, but at 6 o'clock the infantry became engaged, and a determined" fight began. The rebels were in the woods our men in open fields. Gen. Banks right, under Gen. Williams, suffered severely. At this time the rebels attacked in full force. At 7 1/2 o’clock P. M. Gen. Pope arrived on the field accompanied by Gen. McDowell and a part of his corps. The battle was then substantially over, Gen. Banks holding his original ground. The artillery on both sides continued till nearly 12 o’clock, the night being very clear, with bright moonlight. Both Gens. Pope and Banks were greatly exposed at one time, and a sudden charge of rebel cavalry was made to take them, but failed. The fire of the rebel batteries was afterwards silenced. The troops were under arms and in position all night. Gen. Banks is highly praised, both for personal gallantry, and the management of his troops. He was rather severely hurt by a trooper who rode against him, but he kept the field, and was on duty next morning. Gen. Geary lost an arm, Gen. Augur (?) was wounded severely. Major Pelerge is wounded seriously, Col. Knight, 46th Penn., dangerously; Lieut-Colonel Selfridge, severely; Major Mathews lost an arm, Adjutant Boyd wounded severely, all of the same regiment. Col. Donnelly fatally wounded, Lieut-Col. Brown arm lost; Major Cook killed, all of the 28th N. Y. The 5th Conn. lost Col. Chapman wounded and captured, Lieut-Col. Stone killed, Major Blake wounded and taken. Of the 2nd Mass. Major Savage probably dead, Captain Abbot killed, Captains Williams and Goodwin missing,. Captain Quincy prisoner, Surgeon Leland wounded, Lieut. Okey, serious wound. Lieutenants Austin and Buckman of the 1st N. J. Cavalry were wounded. Lieut. Hopkins, 7th Ohio, wounded. Two of Gen. Pope's body-guard were killed. The 2d Massachusetts, 5th Connecticut, 27th Indiana, and 46th Pennsylvania suffered severely. The rebel Gen. Winder was wounded. Total loss estimated at 2,000 to 3,000 killed, wounded, and missing on each side. Jackson and Ewell were both in the battle, and Gen. A. P. Hill came up with 18,000 to re-enforce them, on Saturday night, about the time our men arrived. There was some skirmishing on Sunday morning, but the weather was hot, and the troops so much exhausted that no general engagement was expected.
THE FIRST SOUTH CAROLINA NEGRO REGIMENT. This regiment, organized at Hilton Head by General Hunter, has been placed under the command of Capt. Fessenden, who is to act as its Colonel. He is a young man, and son of Senator Fessenden of Maine. The regiment originally numbered a little upward of seven hundred. After they had been drilled for a month, they were sifted; some three hundred were discharged and sent home; some on account of physical disability, others on account of their unwillingness to remain in the service, and others for various disqualifying causes. The corps now numbers about four hundred and fifty, divided into seven companies. These companies are officered by non-commissioned officers detailed (with their own consent) from various regiments in the department. The office of First or Orderly Sergeant is filled in the same manner, but the other Sergeants and the Corporals are blacks.
The Rebel navy is again demolished. The famous ram Arkansas, which played such havoc with our fleet at Vicksburg, is no more A despatch from the Rebel General, Van Dorn, states that on Monday last, the ram left Vicksburg to cooperate in a contemplated attack on Baton Rouge. While passing Bayou Sara, her machinery became disabled, and before it could be repaired, the Union gunboats pitched into her. After some resistance, she was abandoned and blown up, her officers and crew escaping to the shore. If this news is true, and it is on rebel authority, goodbye to Merrimac No. 2. Now for the Savannah monster.
CHICAGO, Aug. 12. The following note explains itself:—
It appears in the newspapers that Mr. Wendell Phillips stated at a public meeting in Boston, that the “management” of the Illinois Central Railroad had said to him that Gen. McClellan could not say, “No.” Indirectly similar remarks are attributed to us in relation also to the President. We, the undersigned, Directors of the Illinois Central Company, declare that we do not know Wendell Phillips, have never exchanged a word with him, have never had any communication with him, in fact, have never seen him.
W. H. OSBORN, President.
J. M. DOUGLAS, Resident Director.
W. R. ARTHUR, General Superintendent.
This disclaimer is wholly superfluous-Mr. Phillips made no mention of the Illinois Central Railroad. His language was, “I said to the bankers and the directors of railroads in Chicago,' ‘Is McClellan a man who can say no?'" &c.
LOSS OF THE GOLDEN GATE.-FEARFUL DESTRUCTION OF LIFE.
SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 6. The steamship Golden Gate, Hudson, commander, sailed hence for Panama on the 21st ult., having 95 cabin passengers, 147 in the second cabin and steerage, and a crew of 95 men. She had also $1,400,000 in treasure, of which Kirby, Byrne & Co., had $10,000, and Meader, Loler & Co., $10,000.
On the 27th ult., at 4 45 P. M., when 15 miles North of Manzanilla, while the passengers were dining, an alarm of fire was heard. The steamer was promptly headed for the shore, 3½ miles distant, the flames meanwhile making fearful headway. At a quarter after 5, the upper deck fell. Soon after, the steamer struck the beach, and those of the passengers and crew who had not got into the boats jumped overboard, and endeavored to swim ashore. About 100, including 5 children, swam or were washed ashore alive.
The ship burned to the water's edge, and soon disappeared. The passengers who reached the shore made their way to near Manzanilla, where they arrived on the 28th, just as the steamer St. Louis arrived up from Panama.
Some few others escaped to Manzanilla in boats. One boat with thirty persons on board has not been heard from, but it has probably made the shore south of Manzanilla.
The St. Louis arrived here to-night, bringing 78 of the Golden Gate's passengers all that are known to be saved and a portion of the crew. Capt. Hudson and a portion of the crew remained at Manzanilla to look after the missing passengers.
<c06>
OBITUARY.
DIED at Greenfield, Kilgobbin, county of Dublin, on Wednesday, 16th July, HANNAH WEBB, the beloved wife of Richard D. Webb, aged 52 years and 7 months. Her death was occasioned by an attack of rheumatic fever, which became complicated with an affection of the heart, and was attended with difficulty of breathing and extreme prostration.
As she was warmly interested in the anti-slavery cause, and was widely known and beloved by its friends on both sides of the Atlantic, a brief tribute to her memory may not be inappropriate in a periodical which has always been greatly indebted to her supervision and nice powers of discrimination.
It is difficult to speak of her in terms which to those not acquainted with her will not appear extravagant, yet it is but the simple truth to say that a kinder and more guileless heart, a sweeter temper, greater forgetfulness of self, a tongue more innocent of pain to others, a soul more full of sympathy for the sufferings of her fellow-creatures, are possessed by few. So innate was her spirit of self-abnegation, that the only pain she caused to others arose from her neglecting to take that care on her own behalf, which till the last day of her life was anxiously extended to those around her. She afforded a striking proof that a highly endowed intellect, and great powers of literary application, are consistent in woman with the most prompt and scrupulous exercise of all the duties of domestic life. The minutest details of her household, the claims of the needy and the suffering, and the duties she owed to her immediate family and her distant friends, were never neglected.
Having a very retentive memory and a strong love for poetry, her mind was stored with an inexhaustible treasure of apt quotations from favorite authors, with which she was wont to illustrate any subject that came before her rendering her conversation singularly easy and fascinating.
Her faith was supreme that God disposes all things for the ultimate benefit of all; her hope was lively that the right will finally be triumphant on earth; hear charity was bounded neither by race, creed, nor condition.
The following eloquent tribute, by Mr. John Stuart Mill, to the memory of his deceased wife, strongly impressed the present writer, many years ago, as being entirely applicable to the subject of this notice:—“While she was the light, life, and grace of very society in which she took part, the foundation of her character was a deep seriousness, resulting from the combination of the strongest and most sensitive feelings with the highest principles. All that excites admiration when found separately in others seemed brought together in her: a conscience at once healthy and tender; a generosity, bounded only by a sense of justice which often forgot its own claims, but never those of others; a heart so large and loving, that whoever was capable of making the smallest return of sympathy always I received tenfold; and in the intellectual department, a vigor and truth of imagination, a delicacy of perception, an accuracy and nicety of observation, only equalled by her profundity of speculative thought, and by a practical judgment and discernment next to infallible-London.” Anti-Slavery Advocate, August 1.
To all the praises bestowed upon the memory and character of this noble woman, by the Advocate, we heartily respond; for we held her, while living, in the very highest estimation, knowing personally her rare worth, and prizing her friendship at a high rate. In completeness of character, she had few equals, in any land; and her loss; will be felt and lamented by numerous friends and admirers on both sides of the Atlantic. Our beloved friend, Richard D. Webb, will need no assurance from us, that we deeply sympathize with him and his children, in view of the great bereavement which they have been called to suffer.—[Ed. Lib.
DIED In Philadelphia, on Friday, the 8th instant, HENRY GREW, aged 80 years.
For thirty years, our revered friend was the uncompromising advocate of “the cause of all such as are appointed to destruction” in our land, and both with his voice and pen vindicated the safety and duty of immediate and unconditional emancipation. He was of a deeply religions nature, eminently conscientious and upright in all his ways, warm in his sympathies for suffering humanity in its various phases, generous in the distribution of his charities, and a truly good man, whose constant aim it was to glorify God and bless his fellow-men. In all theological matters he was an independent thinker, true to his convictions, however unpopular they might be, anxious only to know and cherish the truth, and a preacher of practical righteousness. He was widely known, revered and beloved.–[Ed. Lib.
ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.A mass Anti-Slavery Convention will be held at ELLENVILLE, (Ulster Co., N. Y.,) in Warren's Hall, to commence on Thursday evening, Aug. 28, and continue through Friday and Saturday, the 29th and 30th.
Rally, friends of justice and impartial liberty! in large numbers, for the redemption of the slave and the salvation of the nation.
Able and eloquent speakers will address the Convention, among whom will be Parker Pillsbury, Ernestine L. Rose, Susan B. Anthony, Aaron M. Powell, James M. De Garm o and others.
PLYMOUTH COUNTY MASS MEETING ON THE WAR!—At the special request of several persons, citizens of Abington, Hanover, Hanson and Pembroke, Parker Pillsbury will deliver two addresses on The War and its Meanings, in the Universalist Church at Hanson, on Sunday next, 17th inst., at 10 and 2 o'clock.
The place of meeting being so central to a large and intelligent population, and the momentous interests awaiting the decision of the present hour, inspire the hope and expectation that this will be one of the most important gatherings of the season. R. Y.
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Mass. Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at HYANNLS on Sunday next, August 17th, on The War and Slavery.
Also, on the same subject, at the following places, as the way may open:
Centreville, Tuesday, August 19.
Osterville, Wednesday, August 20.
Cotuit Port, Thursday, August 21.
AARON M. POWELL will speak at New Concord, N. Y., Sunday, August 17. Subject Emancipation.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will speak on Slavery and the War in Lawrence Church at FELTONVILLE, on Sunday next, at half-past 10 o’clock, A. M.;, and also in Union Hall, at 5 o’clock, P. M.
LECTURES BY PARKER PILLSBURY. In Walpole, on Monday evening, Aug. 18.
In Sheldonville, on Tuesday, 19th. Both to common, at half-past seven o'clock.
An Anti-Slavery Convention will he held at the Free Church in Cummington, on Saturday and Sunday, August 23d and 24th, commencing on Saturday, at 2 o’clock, P. M. Parker Pillsbury and E. R. Brown, will be present as speakers.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References. Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.

Hopedale Home School.
THIS Institution, after a suspension of some months, will be re-opened to well-disposed pupils of good habits, on Wednesday, Sept. 3, for a term of fifteen weeks. 
For particulars, address
WM. S. HEYWOOD, A. B. HEYWOOD, Principals.
Hopedale, Mass., Aug 6. 4t
BRISTOL BOARDING-SCHOOL FOR GIRLS.
THIS School is located in the borough of Bristol, Pa., on the Delaware River, twenty miles above Philadelphia. It will open its fall session. on 2d day, Ninth month, 1st.
Terms $75 per session of five months.
For circular, address
RUTH ANNA PEIRCE, PRINCIPAL.
REFERENCES.
JAMES MOTT, Philadelphia.
ANNE CHURCHMAN, 908 Franklin street, Philadelphia,
C. N. PEIRCE, 501 N. Seventh street, Philadelphia.
HENRY W. RIDGWAY, Crosswicks, N. Y.
DAVID. L. GRISCOM, Woodbury, N. J,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Boston.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
THE INQUIRY.
“Art thou he that should come, or do we look for another?"-MATT. 11:3.
Harken to the roaring cannon! 
Listen to the rolling drum! 
Lord of love and wisdom, tell us, 
Art thou be that was to come?
See! the men that once were brothers
Have in dreadful conflict met! 
Lord, hast thou no power to help us?
Look we for another yet?
Are we, after all the conquests?
Of thy ever blessed Word, 
Left without a stronger weapon 
Than the rifle or the sword?
Did the angels, in their joy-song,
Sing of Peace o’er Bethlehem far, 
And to-day shall all our music
Be the horrid tramp of war?
Shall the hopes the world has cherished
Through a thousand bitter years, 
All be turned to dust?—its praises
All be turned to bitter tears?
Tell us, for our ears are aching
With the battle's dreadful hum, 
In the name of God and Freedom,
Art thou he that was to come?
Listen! from the hills of Judah, 
From the fairer heights of heaven,
There his ransomed ones are singing 
Sweetest songs of the forgiven.
There comes the sweetest, saddest voice
The world has ever known; 
God that would warm our hearts of ice,
Would melt our hearts of stone:-
“Shame on such efforts as ye make
To bring my kingdom in! 
Ye would drive heaven and hell abreast,
And harness; God to Sin.
Things are not changed; the angel bands
Still sing their ancient hymn; 
But shall the Father work for you,
Unless you work for him?
Your songs of joy shall echo from
The mountains to the sea, 
If ye will break the bondman's chain,
And set his people free.
Why carp ye at the truth I taught,
And doubt its triumph hour? 
Ye dare not work its lessons out-
Ye fear to trust its power!
He that should come I am, and ye
Need not another seek; 
Go, preach glad tidings to the poor,
My gospel to the meek.
On Calvary's mournful eminence
I perished for the right; 
I drew no lines: I died for all,
For black as well as white.
Upon the misty mountain tops
Bid Freedom's angel hail; 
O, write her name upon your flag,
And then you cannot fail!!” J. W, C.

For the Liberator.
LIBERTY'S CRUSADE.
KESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED TO GEN. JAMES H. LANE.
Nothing but War’s red banner,
Heavy, and dripping with blood; 
Ruin, and black desolation,
Where homes of beauty once stood!
The groans of the wounded and dying,
The awful thunder of war, 
And the slave, long waiting and hoping,
Crushed under the Juggernaut car!
But once, though but for a moment,
A vision of beauty blest, 
Gleamed, like a rainbow of promise,
On the sky of the far Southwest:
And the eyes of the waiting millions
Brightened with joy to see 
The hope of a glorious future-
A future never to be!
For they deemed that the old romances
Of the ages long passed away, 
The tales of the brave Crusaders,
Should be a fact of to-day-
That those golden and fairy-like legends,
Which enchanted our early youth, 
Should no more be a myth of the poet,
But a living and glorious truth.
How we turned the eyes of the spirit 
To the land of the rose and the vine,
Where the orange-that child of the tropic-
Grows fair in the glad sunshine!
And we thought that our brave young heroes
Afar to that land should ride, 
Each on his dauntless charger,
Each with his squire by his side;
And we looked to see them returning,
Covered and crowned with glory; 
From righting the wrongs of the helpless,
Like knights in some ancient story:
For we knew they'd be true to freedom,
Led on by their chieftain brave, 
That they'd strike to the heart of the tyrant,
But strike off the chains of the slave!
Thou God, who headrest the ravens, 
Who notest the sparrows that fall,
We hope, for we know that thou watchest 
With fatherly care over all.
And we know that the tower of Oppression,
Though mighty, is built on the sand; 
And the armies that fight against Heaven
Shall be scattered like chaff by Thy band!
Wisconsin, July, 1862. C. L. M.

From the Worcester Spy.
RECOMPENSE.
In earlier times of strife and wrong, 
God sent his vengeance from on high,
Upon the plague-wind blowing long, 
Or lightning flashing through the sky.
The first-born, in a single night, 
Died silently a great land through,
Like grain-fields' neath a sudden blight 
That softlier falls than evening dew.
How wept the Rachels on that morn!
The shackles fell, the bond went free; 
Exulting Israel raised its horn
Safely beyond the parted sea.
Ye spoilers of the latter days
God’s judgments fall not from the skies!
No poison have the mid-day rays, 
The stars beam not with fatal eyes.
Yet thrills the earth with inward pains;
The steel horizon nearer draws; 
They rend the chains on bloody plains,
And reassert the trampled laws.
And who shall chide the tardy hours,
The cloudy curtain still undrawn? 
God works with grand but silent powers,
His smile shall brighten into dawn.
ALBERT SUTLIFFE.

GOD’S DAY IS NOT YET DONE,
‘No mighty birth 
But comes by throes of mortal agony;
No man-child among nations of the earth 
But findeth baptism in a stormy sea.
O, countrymen! God’s day is not yet done!
He leaveth not his people utterly!
Count it a covenant that He leads us on
Beneath the cloud, and through the crimson sea!"
<c02>
The Liberator.
CELEBRATION OF THE FTRST OF AUGUST.
At Island Grove, Abington, Mass
SPEECH OF REV. J. SELLA MARTIN.
Mr. CHAIRMAN AND LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,—I shall not say much this morning, if anything, about the abolition of slavery in the British West Indies: a subject of greater importance demands our investigations and meditations. What I shall say will have reference to the darkness of this hour, and the revelations made amidst this national darkness. In the day time, men see but two great and overwhelming objects of sense. They look up into the firmament, and see only the sun; the stars of that firmament are hid by the garish light of the single luminary that controls and domineers over the day. And if they look below them, they see what the sun reveals-the whole earth. Well, this nation has had a day, eighty hours long; and in that day, it has seen nothing but the sun of success in its national firmament; and all those glorious truths that shone out in the Declaration of Independence have been hidden behind the garish light of national success. But as, in the darkness of the night, we may look upward, and behold the stars in the firmament, so in the hour of national darkness, we are permitted to look up and see those stars that have been concealed from us heretofore; and to-day, as of old, the first star that cheers our gaze starts from the East. The Jews of old, careful about preserving the forms of religion, had so far for gotten the sacred truth of religion, piety of heart and practice of hand, that God made a revelation to the Eastern Magi, that His Son was coming to the world,. to make known a glorious Gospel; and so, as that star came forward, it not only led the heathen from another country, but went on and stood over Jerusalem, making Herod and all Jerusalem with him afraid. So, three or four years ago, the star of Emancipation rose in the East, in St. Petersburg, and it has been coming on and on, until to day it stands over the national capital; and although our political Herod has been troubled, and all Jerusalem with him, even to the extent of sending forth and slaying all those babes of freedom, the fugitive slaves of Washington, let us hope that some of those very slaves who were driven away from that capital by that terrible edict, the Fugitive Slave Law, and the terrible persecutions of fugitive slave hounds, are strengthening their bodies and ripening their intellects in the land of Egypt, for the purpose of coming forth and redeeming God’s Israel; so that it may be true nationally, as it was theologically, that God has called his son out of Egypt. Another star hangs over the broad prairies, lighting the free homes of their hardy children, and promising protection to all who love liberty,-,—giving welcome to the liberty-loving man, and threatening death to the border-ruffian. Then, looking to the horizon, we see, not another star, but a comet, the fiery tail of which will, in its sublime sweep, blast the pro-slavery part of the Constitution-I mean the rising planet of Emancipation. (Applause.)
Now, we have good reason to look back, and see why these things have been hid from us. The first reason why they have been hid from us is because we have been the makers of States, and the destroyers of men. Promise the nation that it should have another star to dot its flag, and it would drag that flag through the mire of oppression and injustice to secure the additional star. Out of our treasury, we took the money to buy to Louisiana, only that she might become a gigantic thief, and steal all the money there was left in the treasury. In our anxiety to preserve Florida, we plunged the nation into a war to put down a few Indians, only that that State might become the greatest and most intolerable murderer in the whole confederacy. We juggled Texas into the Union, only that she, by a trick of national political legerdermain, might juggle herself out again. We violated sacred compacts in order to bring Missouri into the Union, only that she might violate the compacts of the national Constitution to get out. It seems that all we have been anxious about has been to get States into the Union. And what has been the consequence? In this darkness, we are likely to think, perhaps, as Job did, after his afflictions, that we are the most insignificant things in the universe. But Job was mistaken; he was then the most important object in the universe, because he was a subject of controversy between God and the devil. God took away all he had, that Job might do what? Nothing but look at himself. After his camels, and his oxen, and his sons were gone, then he turned his eyes within, and learned the lesson which it was necessary for him to learn. Floyd fell upon our oxen and took them away, the fire of Fort Sumter consumed our sheep, and at last the whirlwind of battle has destroyed our children, and we begin to see and feel, perhaps, as did Job. Said one of the papers the other day, "We have not got a single nation to stand by us in all Europe. "No, we have not. Job did not have a single friend to stand by him in all the land; but Job was brought to look at himself, and became a friend to himself, and he was the best friend he could have. So we are brought to look at ourselves, having nothing else to look at, and in order that we may be our own best friend. Let us, therefore, be careful that we make a proper account of our present condition, and look within ourselves. God has not forsaken us. He has only intended that we should get rid of the pride that has lifted us up, and cease bowing down to the idols that the nation has set up, and bow down only to the true God.
I said that we had been the makers of States and the destroyers of men. We ought not to forget that we have been the makers, not the creators, of States. The devil could not create man, but he could make a sinner of him. The Southerners could not create a State, but they could transform the States that were made into despotisms. One half the population of the South has been kept in ignorance and disfranchised, and seven-tenths of the remainder have been kept in ignorance, and, if not disfranchised, made the tools of the slaveholder. So we have violated every condition of national existence when we have brought those States into the Union, upon the law of injustice, crime and murder. And we have been the destroyers of men. We have not had the patience to make men, nor the honesty to sustain them if God made honest men, and gave them all ready to our hand. There has been one who promised to be a glorious man; one who had the root, the branches, and the foliage, and all he wanted was the glorious fruit of liberty; and we went right to work and hackled down the tree. Daniel Webster dared not be a man, because he felt that, if he was, he could never be President. If we found a man in the Southern States with principles and feelings leading him towards the North, we always told him that he need not trouble himself about our opinions, but be careful to support the ideas of the South. We have not had the justice to reward those who have advocated our professed principles. Look at that man, standing to-day an insignificant unit in the Cabinet! At one time, he was the leader of the anti-slavery party in New York; at one time, the high priest of anti-slavery feeling in political circles in the nation. Look at him!-— the man who, many years ago could stand up in the face of a mob, and declare with manly feeling that he would defend the negro, though there should be no other man in New York to do it. (Applause.) When the time came to put a man forward as the leader of the anti-slavery sentiment, the people were afraid of him, and threw him overboard. Unfortunately, he has destroyed himself. It is a bad thing for society to say that a man is wicked; but if he is not, he may bear up, and, after a while prove himself the best man in the community; but if a man believes he is wicked, he is thoroughly so. That has been the trouble with our politicians.
Well, we have done the nation the most good, while it has undertaken to do us all the harm possible. I could not but realize the glory of this fact as I stood
<c03>
in a foreign country. I saw one night at a great meeting-larger and more enthusiastic than I ever attended anywhere else-a noble man, of commanding presence, rise on the platform, and he commenced his oration somewhat in this manner: “When Christ was on the earth, they brought to him a piece of money, and he said-' Whose superscription is this?’ They said-‘Caesar’s.’ ‘Render then unto Caesar the things which are Caesar’s.’ Then," said the speaker, "here is a black man; whose superscription is this? It is God's Then render unto God the things which are God's." Then he went on, taking this as a text, and argued in support of the American Government and in favor of the continuance of the war, against the sentiment of the whole British people, from the highest to the very lowest, almost. That man was GEORGE THOMPSON, (loud applause,) who was ignominiously driven away from Boston and from the United States. And then I saw a tall, fine-looking black man come to the platform, and he too defended the American Government. It was WILLIAM CRAFT-the man who had found no place in the city of Boston for the sole of his foot; and yet, in that foreign clime, he was pleading the cause of the American nation, fighting against interference and the, breaking of the blockade. These facts show that we are the best friends of this Government, because we have been anxious to see this Government pure. And what has been the consequence of it? Why, we have been mobbed everywhere. Having driven us off the platform, they have said, "There is an end of them";” but the first thing they knew, we turned up in the Cabinet chamber. They kept Garrison from advocating emancipation only to stumble upon Lincoln engaged in the same work. The nation has proved itself an abolitionist, whether it acknowledges the fact or not. It has proved itself in favor of the abolition doctrine, without taking from it one jot or tittle, because, in the first place, the slaves in the District of Columbia were set free immediately, and in the second place;, they were set free unconditionally.
I have said that the nation has been the persecutor of its best friends; it has also been the dupe of its enemies. They have told us, “All you have got to do is to make a State, and then you will have plenty of men; therefore there is no need of making any men; But what has been the fact? Why, to-day, those States that were bought at such an expense of treasure and blood are going out of the Union. We have a small number of men, who have been made in spite of them. They have said, “Make States, no matter about men "; but God has said, "Make men, no matter about States." The States have gone, the men remain; and all the pro-slavery oligarchs in the world will never have the power to blot out from this nation's firmament those glorious stars that light it to-day. They will never have power to blot out Garrison and Smith as philanthropists, or Wendell Phillips and Frederick Douglass as orators; they will never be able to blot out Mrs. Child or Mrs. Stowe as reformers; they will never be able to blot Mr. Greeley from the press, Mr. Sumner from the Senate, Dr. Cheever from the pulpit, nor John C. Fremont from the field of battle. (Applause.) These people have been your extreme men. Extreme men are the only men of power in the world to-day. Who are the men of power in this land? Charles Sumner on the one hand, and Jeff. Davis on the other. It is an anti slavery purpose that carries on the war on one side, and a pro-slavery purpose that carries it on the other. Extreme men are the only men worth anything in the world; but we have been afraid of extreme men, and the Southerners have duped us into the belief that all extreme men are dangerous men. Thank God, we are going to see David Hunter on the one side, and Stonewall Jackson on the other, prove the power of extreme measures! (Applause.)
We have been careful about success in making money. That we might make money, we have permitted slaveholders to do everything they desired to do, whether it was a social wrong, a commercial cheat, or a political deception. We ought to have known that those men, who would not pay their honest laborers, would not pay their creditors. We ought to have known that the people who would rob the slave of his rights and his liberty, would rob the creditor of what was due to him. Then, we have been careful about success in getting office. We have sacrificed everything for the sake of political success; and yet we might have known that the slaveholder the would never allow us to succeed, unless he was to rule over us: therefore our success has been our ruin, politically. Then, we have been anxious to get in a great number of States, not thinking that a large number are as strong to pull down as to build up. We ought to have known, that the more States, unless they were the right kind of States, the more injurious they would be when the nation came to decide upon any subject. But success has been our idol. We have cared for nothing but success. No matter what justice was trampled down, what righteousness overthrown, what murder perpetrated, what atrocities committed upon humanity, all we wanted was success in money-making, success in filling office, success in getting new States into the Union. We have got our money, but it is melting away; we have got our new States, but they have left us, robbing and murdering us as they went. It reminds me of that circumstance in the life of our Saviour, when he went over among the Gadarenes. Those Gadarenes had sacrificed God and conscience for the sake of raising has swine, against the law of God, and against the conscience of humanity, because against the law of God. And when they had got two thousand of them, the Saviour drove the devil out of the young man, who was worthy to be saved, into the swine that ought to be destroyed, and the whole herd "ran violently down a steep place into the sea."(Applause.) Well, in this nation, we have sacrificed God and conscience and humanity for the sake of getting new States, and when we had got a large number into the Union, God has come forth to drive out from the Government, that ought to be preserved with an anti-slavery purpose, the devil of slavery, to perish in the waters of destruction. God grant we may never hear any more of those States, while they are slaveholding! (Applause.)
The negro has been despised by us as a laborer, and, what has God done? Made him the most powerful laborer against us. He is digging the trenches of the rebels and supplying them with food while they are fighting us. We have refused to acknowledge him as a man and a member of society, and to-day he has become our greatest enemy on the battle-field, as well as in the field of labor. The poor whites we have treated in the same way. What did we care about them, so long as we had the privilege of bowing down to 350,000 slaveholders? And to-day these poor whites are the men who are filling up the ranks of the pies Southern army, and they are the subjects of the conscription that makes it necessary for McClellan to hide himself in another swamp. Why is there any rebellion for us to put down? Why any war for us to engage in? Because we have been going on year after year sowing the seeds of war, and because we have sent our army down there ready to be sacrificed to the bloody purposes of those men, without any purpose of going to the root of the rebellion.
 Now, let us look forward. This is the second delivery of the law of the nation. You know the circumstances attending that. Moses delivered the law the second time, and went up into the mountain and died, because he was not capable of leading the children of Israel over the river. He did not believe in anything but the law. But Joshua believed in something besides the law. He believed in leadership; he believed in the glorious principles of the gospel which shone out under the law, and Joshua was the one designed to lead the children of Israel over the river into the promised land which it was not intended Moses should enter. Well, we have come to the second delivery of the law, and our political Moses has gone just as far as he could go. He has brought every thing to submit to the law—the law of the Constitution, the law of the land, the law of Congress. He has brought us to the verge of Jordan; we cannot go
<c04>
over into the promised land, because our Moses is bound to the law. Well, you know what will happen, Either Moses personally will be set aside, or his spirit will be set aside, and our Joshua and Caleb-Fremont and Hunter—will lead the nation into the land of liberty. (Applause.) They have gone over into the promised land, as did Joshua and Caleb, and General Hunter has found a great cluster of black " grapes," and they are the best proof in the world that it is a goodly land, and capable of doing all that we expect of it.
Let us learn the signs of the times, and be guided by them. In this second delivery of the law, we learn that a commentary is needed. And what kind of a commentary is needed? We have had a commentary at Bull Run, which makes us understand that the law is a law of punishment—it is the infliction of God’s terrible penalties for our sins. When we have seen the atrocities committed by those Southern slaveholders, we have cried out, "Horror! horror!" But why should we be astonished? Mr. Garrison has been telling us for thirty years that these slaveholders were murderers and barbarians, who, if they could not have negroes for slaves, would enslave white men. We ought to have known that the spirit of slavery is barbarous and murderous. Then Hunter and Fremont have given another commentary, and although for a time we have considered Gen. Fremont not. orthodox, and to some extent have censured in our action Gen. Hunter, yet, after a while, they will be restored to their proper places in the hearts of the people.
Why has not McClellan moved? I believe it is political influence that has kept him from going on. The pro-slavery politicians said, "Let us keep him where he is awhile, and let us build up a party on his name., Andrew Jackson came out of the war of 1812, and Zachary Taylor came out of the Mexican war, popular candidates for the Presidency, and so may McClellan" I believe they have communicated with him, and advised him to adopt a do-nothing policy, and wait until they could consolidate public sentiment; and McClellan, a young man, has obeyed these old, wise heads, and sat still, not because he did not want to enter Richmond, not because he did not want to defeat the rebels, but because he wants political as well as military fame. The reason why we have had these reverses is because we have had no purpose or policy to put down the rebellion. This lack of a policy on the part of the people has had its effect on the President. He has said, "Here I am, responsible to this nation; come to it in an hour of terrible trial; and if I do anything in opposition to slavery, they will say I broke up the Union" Then, on the other hand, he says, "I want to do everything I can in favor of slavery, so that I may preserve the Union" So you see that, on the one hand, it is hope of being considered the preserver of the Union, that has kept him from going forward.
Now, we need to stop and look this matter in the face, and discover what is absolutely needed. The negro has long been a shadow to this nation—no fault of the negro! Instead of a shadow, following you like a ghost, make him your friend and companion, walking by your side, and keeping step with you to the music of a. Union with no slavery in it! (Applause.) That is just what we need. Talk about sending the negro from this country! You cannot, for there is no possible way in which you can get along without him. Then there is another thing to be learned; that interests, principles and passions live; but policy never lives, a corrupt cause never lives. Get slavery out of the way, and the slaveholder will soon forget that slavery ever existed, in the higher and more glorious promise of freedom. You keep slavery in the way, and the Abolitionist will never forget that his brother is a slave; so that the war of words or bullets will continue in this country until slavery is put down. You hear a great deal of talk about hanging Jeff. Davis and the Abolitionists together. That is all folly! Jeff. Davis is not to blame for breaking up the Union. You might as well blame the man who, when a tree has been hackled at for months, and been nearly cut through, gives it the last few strokes, and it falls. It was not the last strokes that felled it; there were thousands of strokes before. So in this case, Jeff. Davis has not cut down this Union; we have hacked at it until it needed only a blow from Davis to bring it down. Let the men who talk about hanging Jeff. Davis and the Abolitionists together undertake it, and they will find that they are in the minority; for the people are coming to understand that this is an anti-slavery war, and that it is not to be ended until slavery is put down.
Let us follow out the policy of our enemies. We have been wonderfully polite in fighting these Southern slaveholders. We have sent our fathers, brothers, sons, to be murdered, and have said to them, "Don't “hurt the rebels, if you can possibly help it!” We have sacrificed everything ourselves for the sake of putting down the rebellion, and preserving the Government, the blessings of which would rest upon pro-slavery and anti-slavery men alike; and yet we have been careful not to take any of the property of the rebels, because we did not want them to fallout with us! Now, if we want to fall in love with ourselves, let us seize Southern property. If colored men act in the rebel army, let us put colored men upon our side in the army. Let us put colored fighters upon our side against colored fighters on their side; and above all things, let us put away those pro-slavery generals who have been placed at the head of our forces to keep the Southerners from falling out with us!
I know it is a great cross that we are called upon to bear, but shrinking from it will not help us to bear it. There was an old woman who had a very heavy cross, and she prayed very hard that the Lord would relieve her from it. One night she dreamed that her prayer was granted, and that the Lord showed her a great number of crosses, and told her to take any one of them instead of the old cross. So she examined them, and finally came to one that was beautifully jewelled, but it was so heavy that she could not raise? It she looked round among the others, and finally she found one that suited her; but on examining it, it turned out to be the very old cross that she had thought so heavy and grievous to be borne. So if we undertake to get rid of our cross, God may give us a yet heavier one. The best way is, to keep it until we get rid of slavery, when it will drop from our shoulders, and the nation will go forward prospering and to prosper.
One other thing. An old man once said to his boy, "When you do a wrong act, drive a nail into that board." By and by the board was full, and then the old man said, "When you do a wrong act, draw one out" Well, it took a long time to draw them all out,.” but when it was done, the old man said, "You have committed a great many sins, and have destroyed the nails in drawing them out." ."“But I have drawn them out," said the boy. "Yes," said the old man, "but the holes are left" So we may go to work, and draw out what we have been driving in for years; we may do justice, but when we look to the Southern States, I am afraid we shall find that the holes are left; at least, when we look to our own families, we must realize that the holes any are left. But let us thankfully draw out the nails, even though the holes remain. (Applause.)
SPEECH OF A. T. FOSS.
Mr. President,-In the history of nations, there has been no deed of glory and renown that equals the act of the British Parliament, which made 800,000 human chattels free men, twenty-eight years ago this day.
Now, Mr. President, whatever has been the course of England in the past, however wrong she may be now in her relations to human rights, this first day of August is hers: so much is secure. It is "treasure laid up in heaven" Shall we ever have a first of August? Shall we sometime meet in this beautiful grove, and in other places of beauty all over the land, to hold jubilee over the deliverance of our forty hundred thousand slaves? Sir, I believe we shall, and at no very distant day. How this blessed event is to come, I know not. What ruin and desolations are to precede its advent, I know not. But this I do
<c05>
know, come it will, and it will be blessed however it comes. How it ought to come we all know. It should come as an act of duty to that God who has said in all his scriptures, "Break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free" Eminently, it should come as an act of duty to the slave, whom we have so long injured and wronged. It ought to come with national humiliation, with repentance in sackcloth and ashes, Our guilt is great. Our shame is before the eyes of heaven and all men, and common decency requires that there should be some proper expression of our repentance. Coming thus, it would bring with it only blessing to all; to slave and slaveholder. But, if dragged unwillingly to emancipation, we know not the amount of evil that may come as the result of our wicked and foolish resistance. But, sir, will emancipation come as an act of duty and justice? I think not. The religious education of our people has not been adapted to produce any such result. Slavery has not been held to be a crime. Our religious teachers have apologized for it; many have defended it as a righteous, God-ordained institution. Whoever looks upon-the American people to-day, even this day of terrible visitation, sees little else than blindness of mind and hardness of heart, on this matter of slavery. , What else, sir, could come from the kind of teaching we have received? Our blind reverence for a Constitution, which by the interpretation of almost the entire people is, before God and all men, " a covenant with death and an agreement with hell"; an insane love for a Union wet with the blood of millions of our fellow-men; our hunting of fugitive slaves, and hurling them back to bondage, have all worked together to alienate our hearts, and to fill us with hatred and scorn and contempt of our poor victims. If the church and clergy had used their great power to awaken and energise the conscience of the people, in relation to the sin of slavery, then might slavery have been removed by moral means, and the divinest results would have attended this work. But that opportunity is past, and God does not give us our opportunities a second time. I would have been glad to have had emancipation in the better way: I mourn it could not so come. But, sir, I rejoice-I hail with inexpressible delight, the downfall of slavery, even as a military necessity. I, with Frederick Douglass, welcome the bolt that breaks the fetter of the slave, whether it descend from heaven or hell. Sir, I thank God there is a military necessity for the removal of slavery. This war is the death-blow to slavery. I know well, sir, that the Government did not mean this. From the first, it has determined to fight this war without damage to slavery. This has been the avowal of the President and his party. He began his official life by pledging himself to catch fugitive slaves. He avowed his willingness to bind the hands of the Government with new green withes, lest in some moment of excited humanity they should be the raised against slavery. With what sweet and winsome words did he speak of the rebels; of the men who had plundered the treasury, robbed the arsenals, scattered the army and the navy, that they might not be within striking distance, and had raised their bloody hands to spill the life of the Government! He speaks of them as our "dissatisfied fellow-citizens" He did not call them hard names, as we impudent Abolitionists do. "If you want to catch flies, don’t use vinegar" Well, Mr. President, there is no vinegar here. This is the very treacle, sweet and inviting to the palate. But, sir, the general rule that "soft words turn away wrath," fails wholly in its application to the rebuke of slavery. You, sir, have been hated for your burning words of rebuke and condemnation of slavery. But Abraham Lincoln, with his dulcet tones upon the ear of the slaveholder, has awakened in his heart a hatred as bitter as it felt to yourself. And then, sir, he has awakened another feeling which you will never share with him. It is that feeling of utter contempt, which the tyrant always feels for the cowardly sycophant that crawls at his feet.
Sir, our Generals assured "our dissatisfied fellow citizens "fellow citizens” that, in the contest now begun, they need feel no alarm-need have no home guard to keep their slaves in subjection. They were ready, "with an iron hand," to crush the first rising of the slave to strike for his freedom. Sir, when the slaves found us fighting their masters, they naturally enough supposed that the important information which they could give, and the important aid which they could render us, would be acceptable. But, sir, how did our Generals treat these loyal men? Their information was rejected with scorn, and our brave soldiers were pushed blindly upon masked batteries, the position of every one of which these loyal men would have pointed out. By this insane rejection of the very intelligence needed for successful attack, tens of thousands of precious lives have been lost. These loyal men were seized and thrust back to the torturing hands of their enemies and ours. Sir, the time would fail me to tell of the-guarding of rebel property, and the countless acts of politeness, urbanity, and even servility to our enemies, which have characterized this whole war, and by which the Government has hoped to turn away the wrath of the "dissatisfied fellow-citizens."
 But, sir, with all this humility towards the slaveholder, we have borne ourselves very haughtily towards God and the slave. In the same breath, we have denied the authority of God and the manhood of the slave. We will not even call him by the names we give to other men. He is "a person held to service," a chattel," a contraband." But just here, sir, is the controversy between God and the American people. He means we shall acknowledge the divine manhood in the slave. God made him a man, and it is His purpose that we shall acknowledge His work. We don't mean to.
Sir, thirty years ago, God put this question distinctly to the American people-Will you own the slave as your equal brother? I mean nothing miraculous. He spoke through your lips and pen, using, as he always does, the human soul for the expression of his will. Now, Mr. President, what answer has this people returned to God? They have told him to his face, through their Government and their Church, "No! I swear I won't. And God said, "I swear you shall." “When he could swear by none greater, he swear by himself," and the oath of God is immutable.
Just this is the controversy. Now, let us see how matters are getting on. We are determined; so is God. All addresses to our reason and conscience have failed. God sees that we can only be brought to acknowledge the manhood of the negro as the ox is dragged to the slaughter. So he has thrown the strong rope of "military necessity" upon the head of the victim, and his own hand is on the wheel. Big Bethel, Bull Run, Ball Bluff, seven days of bloody slaughter before Richmond, and of inglorious retreat from Richmond, are so many turns of the wheel for bringing the struggling victim, with his limbs bound and ploughing the earth, and with protruding tongue,-, bellowing in his agony, nearer, and still nearer, to the inevitable point of Divine purpose., Mr. President, there are strange sounds upon the ear to-day; such as our ears have never heard before. It is the cry of the pale-faced Saxon-his face paler than usual-calling to the hated, rejected slave, in the language of the man of Macedonia, "Come over and help us" The Generals cry for help, Congress lifts up its voice, the New York Chamber of Commerce, and the combined hunkerdom of that negro-hating city, are sending forth beseeching, agonizing cries to the slave for help. Why, sir, Gen. McClellan, who so scornfully rejected the proffered service of the slave, and made his own soldiers dig their graves in the mud of the Chickahominy; now, to shield himself from the storm of just indignation that is gathering over his head, says, "I employed all I could get" Miserable man! Did he not drive them contemptuously from the lines, deliver them to the cruelties of enraged, merciless masters, threaten them with death by an "iron hand"?”? And now, to shield himself from the indignation of an outraged people, he whines out this excuse: "I employed all I could get." If he had, by his former course, invoked them to his lines, he be might
<c06>
have emptied Richmond and all Virginia of its hardy slaves, and might have had them all within his lines to dig or fight. He might have finished the war in a blaze of glory in a single, almost a bloodless campaign.
Mr. President, I say through you to all the people, God will be victor in this controversy, and the manhood on which God sets a great price we shall have to acknowledge in the person of every slave in the land. Sir, with many, it is a time of great gloom; all faces gather paleness, and even the knees of the mighty tremble. All faith in the government is being lost. Our friends Conway and Phillips, in their excellent and, timely speeches to-day-for, which I heartily thank them-tell us the President is slow, a well-meaning man, but who in motion is a mere tortoise. True, sir, all true; but a tortoise may be made to quicken his pace by patting a coal of fire upon his back: and that our friends have pretty effectually done to-day, and I am greatly deceived if you do not see accelerated motion in the President soon. He may not get up to two forty, but keep the fire all a-glow, and he will make a tolerable trot
 Mr. President, I am not in despair. This call to the slave for help is a hopeful sign. I hail it with joy. Sir, I have set my heart upon living to see the redemption of the slave of this land; and I won't give it up. I mean to do it. I feel a great assurance it will be permitted me.
Mr. President, I invoke from the depths of my being the close of this murderous war. But, sir, and mark me-never! never! never! never! till the Goddess of Liberty sits enthroned the presiding genius of this our loved, our native, our adopted land!

A SLAVE-CATCHING GENERAL
ROME, July 8th, 1862.
To the Editor of the Ashtabula Sentinel:
Enclosed you will find a letter dated June 12th, in Tennessee, received by me from one of John Brown’s men, written since they have been under the slave-returning Brigadier-General Mitchell, which gives a sketch of Mitchell's ill success in this nefarious work.
By letters received since the enclosed, it appears that some fifty slaves are now in the Jayhawkers camp, and not one sent back as yet, although slave hunters are in and about the camp almost daily, Why is it that our men must be abused and degraded by slave-catching Generals, after Congress has declared that it is no part of the business of the soldier to return slaves? F. J. REEVE.
EXTRACTS.
"On the march to this place, we stopped and bought corn for our regiment, of a rich slaveholder and while there, Capt. Hoyt found a secession flag in the house, and we learned that he had worked his slaves on the earthworks at Columbus., Island No. 10 and Fort Do-nelson; but, according to Gen. Mitchell’s orders, he must have pay for his corn, and be treated with civility. After we left, two families of his slaves followed us and came into camp here and the master (Simms) came and got an order from Gen. Mitchell to take them. He got the two men and started, but I saw him, and went and told then to come with me and keep away from him. Simms informed me that he had an order from Gen. Mitchell to take them back, and ordered the darkies to follow him. I exhibited to his excited Vision a navy revolver, with advice that with all the orders in Christendom he could not take a slave from the camp, and that the least interference from his would prove fatal; and that if he succeeded in getting out of the camp alive, he would be in luck." hid the negroes, and circulated the news <illegible> new through camp, and I tell you Jennison's Jayhawkers were aroused! At first, he got Mitchell out in Person: person to help him find them; but the General seeing the state of excitement which prevailed in the Jayhawkers camp, wisely sent Simms off guarded, and in secret manner, doubtless thereby saving his life, a both officers and men in our regiment said <illegible> him." Then Mitchell issued an order that the slaves be turned out of camp. Meanwhile a <illegible> went to inform Lt-Col. Anthony, who was out of camp, of what was occurring, and he came in immediately, and said the negroes need not be hid, <illegible> they might bring them to his table, and let them eat with him-that he was ready for this issues and that no man could take a negro from this camp, and he immediately instructed the guard to <illegible> slave any man whom he might see trying to force a negro from camp, and that he would punish any <illegible> who should neglect to execute this order. So Gen. Mitchell had an opportunity to try to enforce <illegible> order No. 3, or let the Jayhawkers" run the machine," and he has not attempted to enforce the order. "The matter is," that he cannot command enough in his Brigade to take a slave from the Jayhawkers'” camp.
All the troops here, unless it be the 2d Illinois Cavalry, agree with the Jayhawkers, but they look at the Jayhawkers to take the brunt of the thing; and those who do not agree with us., do not want to be called upon to enter our camp to get slaves, as the "Jayhawkers" bear the name of making a success of their undertakings.
A few slaves came into camp last night, and probably will continue to come in, and I want to see the thing tested.
Simms’s negroes have all got employ as cooks.
Gen. Mitchell is one of the lowest of Southern dirt-eaters, and I hear that he said, about the times he took command, that "he had got the Jayhawkers just where he wanted them, and he should keep them there." But I have faith that he has taken too big a contract if he intends to make slave-holders of us."

AN INHUMAN OUTRAGE.
There has been for some days a gentleman stepping at the Buckeye Hotel, in this city, wearing the uniform of a national soldier, and with one leg of above the knee, whose whole appearance gives evidence of suffering and hardship such as is never experienced anywhere save at the hands of the infernal miscreants whom Vallandigham delights to call his brethren. A friend of ours, in conversation with him a day or two ago, elicited his story, which was told in so quiet and yet convincing a manner, and accompanied with so many names of persons and places, as to leave no doubt of its entire truthfulness We propose to lay it before our readers, that they may reflect upon the chances they would run in the war. It appears that the gentleman to whom we refer was in the engagement at Carnifex Ferry. where he received a wound in the fleshy part of his leg, and was taken prisoner. He was sent to a hospital with the rest of the wounded, where, after flying unattended for over a day, his injury was dressed; the wound commenced healing, and he was able in a day or two to walk about a little. One day, three or four rebel surgeons, accompanied by John B. Floyd, entered the room where he was lying on a bed. Floyd, on observing him, made the inquiry,' ‘How is this d–d Yankee getting along!'’ One of the surgeons stepped up to him., tore off the bandage in a brutally rough style, thereby opening the wound afresh, and inflicting torturing pain upon their unfortunate victim. On looking at it, the surgeons declared the leg must be amputated. The man expostulated, saying he was able to walk, and was getting well fast, but to no purpose; out came the instrument, and he was deprived of his leg below the knee, the operation being performed without the slightest regard to his life or sufferings, and consuming nearly an hour. After this was done, he was left to himself for a day or two with his health impaired and constitution broken. At the expiration of two or three days, his tormentors returned again accompanied by Floyd. The dressings of his mutilated limb were again jerked off, and without examination or consultation, it was announced that it must be amputated again this time above the knee. The almost dying man begged of them to kill him, but not again put him to the misery be had undergone before. It was of no avail, however, Surgeons were determined, and the amputation was performed. Floyd endorsed their course, exclaiming "G-d d–n him, cut off both his legs,-that, will put him from fighting again."
They kept him under the second operation as hour and forty minutes, offering him no stimulants nor any of the usual help to sustain him while under their hands. After the Piece this piece of butchery, he was left to live or die as fate willed it, and a strong constitution and previous good health carried him through until he was exchanged. He is now us home a cripple, prematurely old, unable to help himself, and dependent upon others for his support.-Capital City Fact.
