THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVEEY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance. 
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent 
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR 
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:- FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our country is the world, our countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 27. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 5, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1593.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
A SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN (!) APPEAL.
How large an amount of pious cant, shameless effrontery, and unscrupulous mendacity can be compressed in a brief appeal, may be ascertained by reading the following Circular from New Orleans:-
Rooms Young Men's Christian Association, NEW ORLEANS, May 22, 1861.
To the Young Men's Christian Association of North America:
DEAR BROTHERS,-In these times of hostile excitement, we feel constrained by a sense of duty as Christians, to address you in the spirit of Him who said. "Blessed are the peace-makers; for they shall be called the children of God." We do not wish to inquire into the causes which have produced the present lamentable state of public affairs. We are willing to concede to you the same sincerity which actuates us. We wish to appeal to those principles  And sentiments in your bosoms, upon which the religion of our Divine Savior is based, and to enlist your active, earnest exertions in the cause of peace. We wish you to feel with us, that there is a terrible responsibility now resting upon us all as Christians, in this trying time, of our country-that we who profess to be the followers of the Prince of Peace, of him who has said, "All they that take the sword shall perish with the sword," as members of the Young Men's Christian Associations of North America must have a fearful account to render, if we do not zealously practise and enforce the principles we profess. 
A war of brother against brother, of father against son, of father-in-law against son-in-law, is now upon us. Whoever or whatever may have caused it, we believe it to be an unnatural and unrighteous war, and that it is the solemn, imperious duty of every true Christian in the land to throw all the weight of his influence in favor of peace. We in the South are satisfied in our judgments, AND IN OUR HEARTS, that the political severance of the Southern from the Northern States is permanent, and SHOULD BE SATISFACTORY. We believe that reason, history and knowledge of human nature will suggest the folly and futility of a war to re-establish a political union between the severed sections. And we call upon you as Christian brothers to raise your voices, in your own section for the establishment of peace and of Christian fellowship with us of the South. We implore you to believe that we are men and Christians, and that while we are firm and conscientious. In our position, we sincerely desire peace and the restoration of friendly relations. We believe if our Christian Brothers of the North will firmly and in the strength of God say, "There-should be peace between the two confederacies," and will unite with us in prayers and efforts for that purpose, that much good will be done and, that God in his faithfulness and love will incline the hearts of men to peace. Has it not occurred to you, brethren, that the hand of God MAY BE in this political division, that both governments may more effectually work out His designs in the regeneration of the world’? While such a possibility may exist, let His people be careful not to war against his will. it is not pretended that the war is to maintain religious freedom or extend the kingdom of Christ. Then. God's people should be beware how they wage" or encourage it. In the name of Christ and his divine teachings, we protest against the war which the Government at Washington is waging against the territory and people of the Southern States; and, we call upon all the Young men's Christian Associations, in the North, to unite with us in this solemn protest.
Fraternally,
R. K. HOWELL., W. C. RAYMOND, T. BARTLETT, committee.
R. G. LATTING, Sec. 9th Dist.

THE COUNTERMINE OF THE SOUTHERN SLAVEHOLDERS.
We are permitted (says the Buffalo Courier) to publish the following circular, received yesterday by Hon. Millard Fillmore, and bearing the postmark of some office in South Carolina. We bespeak a careful reading:-
"READ, PONDER AND DIGEST.
"It is thought, by many at the North, that we at the South are standing over a magazine of stupendous magnitude, that only wants the application of a match to spread ruin, disaster and death, throughout the whole, length and breadth of the Confederacy. Northern papers of wide spread popularity that may be supposed to reflect public sentiment, to some extent at least, are suggesting, in unmistakable forms, the propriety of applying the match. Men of the North, beware! you who would spare the shedding of oceans of blood, stay your ruthless hands, hold in cheek your envenomed tongues, restrain your satanic press. For, whenever the attempt is made to carry out that fiendish suggestion-a suggestion worthy the lowest, the meanest, the most sneaking, and at the same time blood-thirsty demon, that ever buffeted the billows of hell-in the manner indicated, the combustible materials of which that magazine is composed will be so saturated with blood that all the fires of hell itself could not ignite them. In other words, whenever the slaves in the Border Slave States are incited to escape from their owners by hundreds and thousands, for the purpose of having Sharpe's rifles and Colt's revolvers placed in their hands, and marched back to butcher white men, women and children; whenever the slaves in the Gulf States are incited to servile insurrections, and the prospect bids fair for their being converted into demons incarnate, then the slave owners in the South will be found ready to sacrifice every slave from whom danger may" be apprehended, even through it involve the destruction, by a concerted and simultaneous movement, of every male slave over the age of fifteen years, or even younger than that, if the necessities of the case may seem to require it; and willing hands will be found ready to execute the bloody deed. Before Southern men will suffer themselves, their wives and little ones to be butchered, and their daughters worse than butchered, by fiends in human form, before they will suffer to any considerable extent the horrors of servile insurrections, the Gulf streams will be crimson with the gore and every Southern river choked with festering carcasses of slaves. Men of the North, you hold in your hands the lives of half a million, of slaves: for as sure as there is a God in heaven, if this war continues, and they, through your instrumentality, become dangerous and unmanageable, the last one of them will perish. Attempt, if your dare, to convert a portion of our population into vipers, and before they get ready to strike their envenomed fangs into our vitals, their heads shall be crushed beneath our heels. Never will they be permitted to become instruments in your hands for our attempted subjugation."
<c02>
Selections.
LETTER FROM HARRIET BEECHER STOWE.
To the Editors of the N. Y. Independent:
In our letter last week, we took up the cause of England, so far as her Christian good name was implicated, in the report of her sympathy with a Southern slaveholding coup d' etat. We pleaded ignorance for her-ignorance fostered by the long inaction and apparent imbecility of the free North. There is great cause to stretch both this plea and our patience when steamer after steamer brings in the news of one after another who have wheeled into the train of secession, or stand in an attitude of suspicion and rebuke toward the North. The London Anti-Slavery Reporter out with an article, showing small sympathy with the North: Lord Shaftesbury allowing his sympathies for the South to be awakened by her evident proclivities for monarchical institutions: Exeter Hall silent, or gone by the board, when they think they see the United Republic dismembered, and a slaveholding empire rising on its ruins
Well, as for us, we do not need sympathy, and can very well afford to dispense with it:; and the universal annoyance and soreness with which these demonstrations have been received are evidence, not of our sense of the need of England, but of the disappointment of that growing esteem and friendship which years of kindly intercourse have established. 
Nations, as such, are unsentimental affairs, and exhibit the hard, unadorned, horny selfishness of human nature in all their official acts. But the people of a nation have a thousand unofficial channels of showing sympathies which outflow the cold hesitancies of national organization. Thus the Government was cool toward Kossuth, but the people were warm; the Government was cool toward Italy, but the people were warm,-and when a people are warm, they always find means of showing it.
The fact is, all the Christians of foreign nations who have stood aghast at the complicity of Northern Christians with slavery, fall into exactly the same net the first, time they come into exactly the same position-that is to say, when any of their own pursuits or interests would be injured by opposition to slavery. The French Protestants were ready, with national vivacity, to tear their hair over the disgrace to a mutual Protestantism, occasioned by the silence of American religious bodies on the subject of slavery, and rested not till they had sent over a remonstrance, signed by all the Protestant pastors in France and Switzerland, to the pastors in America. Our pastors were conjured, with right martial French energy, to awake, and not to give place to such a sin and shame-no, not for an hour!-to cry aloud and spare not-to show to the house of Judah their sin, and so on.
At the heels of this trumpet came Dr. Monod to America, to solicit material aid for these very churches; and Dr. Monod immediately made the discovery that the policy of the Tract Society, in keeping silence on slavery, was eminently wise and Christian.
England has poured in remonstrance after remonstrance upon America in every way, shape, and form -always well-meaning, often wanting in tact of expression, but showing, as we Americans well believed , the stout heart of oak of old Clarkson and Willberforce-and so, though it galled us, we said, " Faithful are the wounds of a friend."
But now the cotton crop is touched, and what are Exeter Hall and the Anti-Slavery Reporter about to do? What are they doing? We have heard reports -we hear every steamer-and as yet have heard no cheers along the lines for the free men of the North-and low mutterings and half-suppressed sympathies with the men who have driven down their flag-staff through the heart of the slave. THE PLATFORM THE SOUTHERN CONFEDERACY STAND ON IS THE NECK OF THE NEGRO-and seeing them standing there, England begins, earliest of nations, to raise the question of acknowledgment, and Exeter Hall looks on without a cheer for the free States! 
We mean to verify our words when we say that the flag-staff of the Southern Confederacy IS PLANTED THROUGH THE HEART OF THE SLAVE. They have published their status to the world in language the most salient and unmistakable.
Let us quote the language of Vice President Stephens in February, 1861, in a labored attempt to show to mankind the character and motives of the Seceding Confederacy:-
"Though last, not least, the new Constitution has put at rest for ever all the agitating questions relating to our peculiar institutions-African slavery as it exists among us, the proper status of the negro in our form of civilization. This was the immediate cause of the late rupture, and of the present revolution. Jefferson, in his forecast, had anticipated this as the rock upon which the old Union would split. He was right. What was conjecture with him is now a realized fact. But, whether he fully comprehended the great truth upon which that rock stood, and stands, may be doubted. The prevailing ideas entertained by him, and most of the leading statesmen at the time of the formation of the old Constitution, were that the enslavement of the African race was in violation of the laws of nature; that it was wrong in principle, socially, morally, and politically. It was an evil they knew not well how to deal with; but the general opinion of the men of that day was, that, somehow or other, in the order of Providence, the institution would be evanescent, and pass away. Those ideas, however, were fundamentally wrong. They rested upon the assumption of the equality of races. This was an error. It was a sandy foundation, and the idea of a government built upon it, when the storm came, and wind blew, it fell 
“Our new Government is founded upon exactly the opposite ideas; its foundations are laid, its corner-stone rests, on the general truth that the negro is not equal to the white man; that slavery, subordination to the superior race, is his natural and normal condition. This our new Government is the FIRST in the history of the world, based upon this great physical, philosophical, and moral truth 
"The negro, by nature or the curse of Canaan, is fitted for the condition which he occupies in our system. The architect, in the construction of a building, lays the foundation with the proper material-the granite-then comes the brick or the marble. The substratum of our society is made of the material by nature best fitted for it, and by experience we know it is best, not only for the superior but the inferior race, that it should be so. It is, indeed, in conformity with the Creator. It is not for us to inquire into the wisdom of his ordinances, or to question them.
“The great objects of humanity are best attained when conformed to his laws and decrees in the formation of governments, as well as in all things else. Our Confederacy is founded on principles in strict conformity with these laws. THIS STONE, WHICH WAS REJECTED BY THE BUILDERS, IS BECOME THE CHIEF STONE OF THE CORNER OF OUR NEW EDIFICE."
This language is plain enough. He who runs may read.
Here, then, is their new Jerusalem, with its negro granite foundation; and the right to hold slaves, that stone rejected of the North, is the chief corner-stone.
"It has been apprehended by some," continues Mr. Stephens, "that we shall have arrayed against 
<c03>
us the whole civilized world." And, truly, considering the abolition meetings and anti-slavery protests poured in from England for the last fifty years, they had a right to suppose one nation, at least, would raise a simultaneous shout of horror and reprobation when this black flag of slavery was raised to masthead as a distinctively national banner.
Place two facts in just a position, and let the world look at them:
The Confederate States the first political union built on negro slavery-England the first State to raise the question of recognition. 
We have been waiting for the hot and heavy disclaimers of oppression and robbery wont to come from British hearts; for crowded meetings and earnest resolutions; for words of sympathy and cheer to Northern armies from synods and presbyteries, from churches, from ladies' societies, and all ranks and orders, equivalent to the protest and rebukes and exhortations, which, for years, have admonished our slothfulness in allowing slavery.
These protests and rebukes have formed a part of the very public sentiment which has brought on this crisis, and set in array this battle. It has spurred up our flagging zeal, and backed up our fainting energy, many a time, with the consciousness that all Anglo-Saxondom, with its great lion heart, was pressing on behind us, and cheering the fray. And now that the great battle is set, and the trumpet blowing, and we are sending our very heart's blood out of our homes and from our hearths to do battle against this slaveholding Babylon, where are the voices of our former friends in England? We will not say where -we only ask. 
Are we to think that if this Slaveholding Confederacy could put us down, and bury us and the principles of human equality deep in a thousand graves, that England would meet them in a love-feast above our heads, and Pilate and Herod be made friends over a crucified humanity? 
In all this contest relating to American slavery, hitherto it has been the part of English Christians to talk, and of American Christians to make sacrifices. Now the time has come which brings the question of sacrifice right through the British camp. How do they meet it? 
Our merchants are losing their millions in this war-but steadily saying," Go on, go on-we will spend our last cent;" and those who are losing most by the war are most forward to promote it. O England! England! What! could ye not watch with us one hour? 
But be it so: though all the world deny us-though we stand alone, yet in God's strength we of the free States of the North will fight this battle through to the end. While there is a brick in our chimneys, a tile on our roofs, a drop of blood in our hearts, every man, woman, and child of us are of one mind to give it all to this cause-for it is the cause of God and liberty-the cause of human rights and human equality; and if any have no sympathy with it, so much the worse for them. 
It is our firm belief that the prayers of many generations are hastening to a fulfillment, and that, with or without the help and sympathy of foreign nations, the year of Christ's redeemed has come, and that this war will emancipate the slave. 
If English Christians would follow the triumphal procession when the bridegroom comes, let them, trim their lamps, and put oil in them, now.

CONSIDERATIONS FOR THE ENGLISH PRESS.
BY CHARLES L. BRACE.
I have been a careful reader of the English weekly press since the war with the Slaveholding Confederacy began. It represents the more matured and thoughtful conclusions of the British educated classes. With the single exception of the Spectator, I have scarcely found one journal that seemed to have an intelligent appreciation of our contest. One favorite view of the question is that this is a struggle between opposite parties in political economy; that the South represents the agricultural and free-trade interest, and the North the manufacturing and protective; that the former has been robbed of its legitimate profits for a number of years by the duties put by the General Government on imports consumed by it, and now unable to bear this oppression longer, it rises to demand Free Trade and an independent Government.
From Englishmen personally, it is one of the most common things to hear the words, " We were with you till you passed the Morrill Tariff."
Another ground of objection to our Northern position is, that we are making a terrible war merely for territory-for aggrandizement-to keep under our rule certain legal provinces and populations, who do not desire to be governed by us; and further, that these provinces are disgraced and weakened by a system which has always been the clog on the Union, and which we ought to be only too glad to be rid of. The English writers urge that this is not a war against slavery, otherwise they should be in its favor; but simply a war for our flag and for a vague idea of Nationality and Government, as to which they care nothing. Private letters from diplomatic sources assert that if this were an anti-slavery war, England and all Europe would be enthusiastic in behalf of it. The English press repeats, too, the Southern phrases, that in our theory "all government must depend on the consent of the governed," and that accordingly we can do nothing but accept the logical conclusion from our own premises, and permit the Southern Independence;-all this urged with an evident chuckle, as if they were glad to see Democracy thus taken on the hip! 
De Tocqueville somewhere remarks that he has often wondered what faculty it is in the human mind which always leads the English to believe any position their interest forces them to take as profoundly and morally right. At the present moment, the tone of pity and pious horror and righteous self-complacency employed by the English press toward this country, is something truly edifying; while their sudden and entire blindness to the merits of the case is altogether unexplainable. As we hear such views as those just described, we ask ourselves, "What has the English thinking-mind been doing the last few years, in the consideration of our great problem? Is this all that an educated people can offer in intelligent judgment of a grand question of humanity? Is this all that is known of our Government, of slavery, of the struggle against it? have we got to go over every step in the progress, of American political life and American reform the last fifty years?" Then, again, remember the eloquent words of denunciation which have <illegible> even over the Atlantic, from the ancestral Island, for so many years, at our great public sin; recalling how, while its guilt lay heavy upon us, the English mind chose to consider the nation as one; and now, when our whole people are rising and offering blood and wealth as if they were water, to lessen and restrain this evil, we are told to keep quiet, that the evil belongs to the South, and with them should remain- what can we conclude, as to English sincerity and English opposition to slavery? 
<c04>
Let us recall briefly to our English readers what this war really is. And in the first place, let us have done, once and forever, with the talk about its being a war of rival tariffs.
Protection and Free Trade have nothing to do with it. The Protective System originated with the South. Every tariff has passed by Southern votes. There has been no session in which the South and the (so-called) Free-Trade Democracy of the North could not have controlled the legislation of Congress. More than two-thirds of the Free States are agricultural and commercial, and of course fully as much inclined to low tariffs as the South.
Probably one-half of the Republican party believe that the passage of the Merrill Tariff, at that particular juncture, was a stupendous blunder; though this fact does not diminish our appreciation of that morality whose sympathies for a struggle in behalf of Human Rights rise and fall with the scale of duties on iron ware and woolen goods.
How did this war originate, and what could have prevented it? Six months ago, the people of the Free States need only have said to the slaveholders, "Your slaves are property, in the eye of the Constitution, and you can take them where you wish!" and this whole fearful struggle might have been saved. The Border States were ready to accept this compromise; North Carolina and Arkansas would have probably allowed it; and the few feeble Gulf States, divided among themselves, would have soon yielded and taken-which was all they could desire-unlimited liberty over a whole continent, and through generations yet unborn, to extend human slavery.
Here was the crisis. Here, our English friends must, remember, was the question to be determined. On one side was offered, slavery made national and extended over all that now belongs, or should hereafter belong, to the United States; and on the other, the legal restriction of slavery and the sustaining the will of the people, as manifested in the election of an administration opposed to slavery. Every one saw that the choice was between universal slavery and the awful chance of civil war and rebellion. And to the glory evermore of our Anglo-American race, be it said, we deliberately and quietly chose the latter. Henceforward, there was but one course possible: the putting down the rebellion, sustaining the Government, and holding slavery in with the iron hand. The apparent weakness and vacillation of the Administration was due partly to the consciousness of strength, and partly to the deep conviction at the North that the South would yet return to its allegiance.
To the, question put so often by Englishmen, "Why not let them go? "an American finds it difficult to answer with proper patience.
We certainly believe in "government resting on the consent of the governed," but it is not a necessary corollary that discontent dissolves the Government. The governed, under our Constitution, must change their rule in a legal, constitutional, assigned mode. Our Charter has provided the method of alteration for a dissatisfied minority.
To "let the South go," is utterly impossible; not because we need their cotton, or their territory, or their population, or their civilization, but simply because then we should have to "let everything go." 
New York might "go" from New England; Pennsylvania separate from Wisconsin; Staten Island from New York City, and Five Points secede from the Metropolitan Police District. In other words, it is simply anarchy. Besides, separation is civil war dragged along for generations: war for frontiers, war for territories, for the Mississippi, for the Potomac, for the Tortugas, for Key West, for the Gulf; war for and against slavery. All that now urges to arms, and tenfold more, would be spurring on these two confederacies to incessant hostilities. Still more, slavery would go forth with its piratical flag over all the islands and the new provinces of the Southern hemisphere.
A republic would then rear its arrogant head, confessedly based on human slavery, and whose great design would be to extend over new fields and through unknown centuries the infinite wrongs and cruelties and degradation of American chattel-hood.
Is not war, English friends! civil war, fratricidal war, better than this?
We must, of course, admit that there are difficulties of a most formidable nature, as to the final settlement of this question with the South-such as relate to the peculiar form of our Government and the dangers from military successes. and standing armies. Without discussing these, we can only say here that they are less, by far, than the dangers and difficulties from any peaceable secession-and of these, we are the best judges.-N. Y. Independent.

SLAVERY HAS DONE IT.
Let us not for one moment lose sight of this fact. We go into this war not merely to sustain the government and defend the Constitution. There is a moral principle involved. How came that government in danger? What, has brought this wicked war, with all its evils and horrors, upon us? Whence comes the necessity for this uprising of the people? To these questions, there can be but one answer. SLAVERY HAS DONE IT. That accursed system, which has already cost us so much, has at length culminated in this present ruin and confusion. That system must be put down. The danger must never be suffered to occur again. The evil must be eradicated, cost what it may be. We are for no half-way measures. So long as the slave system kept itself within the limits of the Constitution, we were bound to let it alone, and to respect its legal rights; but when, overleaping those limits, it bids defiance to all law, and lays its vile hands on the sacred altar of liberty and the sacred flag of the country, and would overturn the Constitution itself, thenceforth slavery has no longer any constitutional rights. It is by its own act an outlaw. It can never come back again into the temple, and claim a place by right among the worshippers of truth and liberty. It has ostracised itself, and that forever.
Let us not be told, then, that the matter of slavery does not enter into the present controversy-that it is merely a war to uphold the government, and put down secession. It is not so. So far from this, slavery is the very heart and head of this whole struggle. The conflict is between freedom on the one-hand, maintaining its rights, and slavery on the other, usurping and demanding that to which it has no right. It is a war of principle as well as of self-preservation; and that is but a miserable and shorts sighted policy which looks merely at the danger, and overlooks the cause; which seeks merely to put out the fire, and lets the incendiary go at large, to repeat the experiment at his leisure. We must do both-put out the fire, and put out the incendiary too. We meet the danger effectually only by eradicating the disease.-Erie True American.
This is hitting the nail on the head. "Slavery has done it," and must therefore be abolished.
<c05>
WHAT SHALL BE DONE WITH THE SLAVES EMANCIPATED BY WAR?
The popular instinct, which goes right to the truth of the matter, says, "Slavery made the war; let it take the consequences of war." We expect that nothing more just than that could be proclaimed from Sinai itself. But politicians in office have but little faith either in the popular instinct or in eternal justice. Why should men, who are conscious of their own weakness, have faith in the popular instinct which elevated them to office? Therefore, the question with them is, how to avoid these great, self-evident truths. To this want of faith is added another demoralizing element, in the common political idea that the more that truth and justice are violated, the better our constitutional obligations are fulfilled; and that the sacrifice of the great popular instinct of truth is a patriotic sacrifice to the country.
Heaven help a country where to crush out the instincts of right, and to sacrifice manhood, is set up as patriotism;-that is, nothing but Heaven could save such a country, but it would not be worth saving. How much better would such a people be than those who set up the most hideous reptiles and all manner of beastliness as objects of worship?
Is the Government which we are supporting a legitimate, constitutional and just Government? Then to rebel against it is the greatest crime known to humanity. It is guilt for all the horrors of the war. It is the sum of all iniquity, for it includes all possible crimes. The rebels have forfeited all right to life, liberty and property, and only hold either at the mercy of the Government, after complete submission. This is the natural and universal law of all ages and Governments. They who take up the sword must perish by the sword.
Are we to carry on this war as if it was for a just government against rebellion? Are we justified in using the most efficient means to crush rebellion? Have we even belligerent rights? Or is it only another and a desperate effort to fulfill what, in the slavishness in which the people of the North have wallowed until it has become second nature, is called " our obligations to the South"? We ask this, because so far our attitude in this war seems to indicate this motive. Our citizens are robbed of their dues, property and ships, themselves abused with more than savage ferocity, and hundreds of them murdered-hundreds of millions of Northern investments swept out of existence by Southern rascality, our industry destroyed, the very existence of the government threatened by the rebellion; yet our brave volunteers, who have tendered their lives to save their country, and to show that they have a country worthy of the lives of its citizens, are informed at the outset of the campaign that their first duty is to catch fugitive slaves for rebel masters, and suppress black insurrections for white insurgents. Three great Generals, in command of three great corps of the grand army of the North, have "successively proclaimed this degradation to the nation. And fugitives in the very Capital, flying from masters who had plotted its destruction, to the soldiers of the government for protection, have been stopped by their bayonets, and delivered up to masters who would gladly have assassinated every one of our men with steel or poison.
Is it only an enlarged slave hunt that the North is called to carry on with such generous, patriotic sacrifices? Disgusted with the degrading work which he had assumed, a Democratic General took the responsibility of holding the fugitive slaves of rebels as contraband of war. His report of this course brought a diplomatic, non-committal reply, instructing the General to keep an account of the labor of the fugitives; as if the government would have it understood that it might be held accountable for the fugitive slaves that sought refuge in its camps. And whom would it imply that it might be held responsible to? To their rebel masters, of course; who else would have any claim, upon the government for them?
Now we are told, from day to day, that the Cabinet is in consultation over this question, and has failed, so far, to come to any conclusion. In the meantime, our troops are met at every point by formidable fortifications, thrown up by these very slaves who are held in service solely by the impression which has been spread among them by the fugitives who have been returned by our army, that flight to it will result in return to torture, and to be sold South. From behind these fortifications, mounted by the same labor, with abundance of great guns, robbed from the government, the insurgents slaughter our soldiers, who are thus made to furnish the enemy with, the most effective and deadly means of attacking them.
In every way by which the army can enter Virginia, it is met by these murderous fortifications, provided by the labor over which our troops virtually stand as overseers and slave-drivers. Has our great army entered Virginia for nothing but to furnish aid and comfort to its deadly foes? Has the government any more right to commit treason by furnishing aid and comfort to the enemy, than any of its subjects? How can it take any measures to punish treason, when it sets an example of the most effective and dangerous treason? Under the present strategic campaign, every slave is a more valuable soldier to the insurgents than a white soldier of the average Southern stock. Their muscle and endurance throw up the fortifications which add ten-fold to the power of their troops. Their labor performs all the heavy work of mounting, the great guns, and of forage and transportation, which is so severe on soldiers when added to their other duties.
What right has the government thus to strengthen the rebellion? Are these blacks property? Then it is subject to the fate of all property used for military-purposes in time of war. Even if not used for military purposes, it is subject to the fate of other property. Is it any more sacred than the ships, steamboats and goods of Northern citizens, which the rebels have seized and confiscated, wherever they could lay hands on them? If property, the slaves must be treated as the property of rebels, the most valuable for military purposes. If men, they are the most formidable allies and soldiers of the rebels, and our government would be justified in using all possible means to detach them from the rebel service. When they escape to our army, they are fugitives from the enemy, and no nation can deliver up such without the guilt of treachery.
When they reach our camps, they are men. The government can know them in no other capacity. The government cannot become a slaveholder. It can only know them as men, with all the rights of men, and with the additional claim of having joined the government in a war against rebellion. By what right can we deliver them up, if disposed to do so treacherous an act? By the Fugitive Slave Law? That the seceders have abolished. What seceded or neutral State can claim, anything under Federal obligations? They pretend that their soil is violated by the exercise of any Federal authority upon it. Why should the government force the Fugitive Slave Law on an unwilling and hostile people?
<c06>
The extent of treason and rebellion is exactly defined by slavery. Where there are few or no slaves in the South, a majority of the. people are loyal. No slave insurrections are possible in such districts. So it is not for the loyal people of the South that our army has assumed the office of patrol to suppress negro insurrections.
No negro insurrection is possible, except in the great slaveholding districts; and these are the very hotbeds of rebellion. It is for these that the armies of the North have assumed the office of slave overseer, to keep the, negroes in the ranks of the enemy, or drive them to their agricultural labor, to support their masters in carrying on the war. In the nature of the case, it can only be for the traitors that we have assumed the duties of slave-driver and slave-catcher-a business regarded as degraded by the slaveholders themselves, but which our brave volunteers, who have offered life, fortune and honor in the service of their country, are called upon to carry on for the very men who are fighting against them with all the resorts of the assassin.
The rebels boasted from the outbreak of the rebellion, that they could carry on the war without exhaustion, for their slaves would do the agricultural labor while the whites did the fighting. It is hardly probable that they expected the government to assist them in carrying this out; but our Northern men who have left their fields and shops to defend the government, or who have been cut off from labor by the war, are informed that their first duty is to keep the slaves of the rebels at work, while their masters are carrying on the war. No war can be carried on successfully which begins with a position so demoralizing to the troops. No rebellion, can ever be suppressed which the government first sets up as more sacred than itself; nor ought a rebellion to be conquered by a government which, recognizes it as sacred.
If our government intends to carry on the war, it is high time for it to assume belligerent rights. So far, it has been done as if the Jeff. Davis insurrection had the divine right of government, and we were the rebels. They plunder our citizens, lynch and murder them, and we hasten to turn the other cheek by offering to keep the negro property in subjection. They forbid our men-of-war to enter Pensacola harbor, and the men-of-war meekly take post outside, and for months witness the passage in and out of vessels laden with supplies for the rebel troops. Their privateers steal out of their ports, and capture our merchant vessels, while our ships-of-war have at length become so bold as to turn back vessels laden with supplies for Bragg's troops, and forbid them, to enter. At the last accounts, an United States officer tried hard to induce a rebel captain, who had been stopped with a cargo of lumber, to sell it at an exorbitant price to the government, for the troops on Santa Rosas Island; but he refused, and was turned back with his cargo.
A guerrilla war is waged on our outposts in Virginia, and our sentinels stolen upon in the darkness and shot down. Sometimes the assassin is taken. Then he becomes a prisoner of war, and in due time is exchanged, or discharged on taking the oath of allegiance, to go on shooting our sentinels again.
By the principle of war, every individual of the hostile people is at war, and is responsible in life and property. Modern warfare has, to some extent, ameliorated this by sparing private property, and the persons of these not actually combatant. But this is conceded only on the ground that the hostile inhabitants are peaceable, and do not molest the troops. If they do, they are liable to every penalty of war, both in person and property, and war does not admit of nice discriminations.
The guerrilla assassination of our troops everywhere in Virginia would justify, according to the most humane rules of war, the severest retaliation upon the inhabitants and their property. But the more they shoot our pickets, the more we strive to show our regard for the sanctity of their persons and property; and the severest penalties are inflicted on the soldiers of the government who have exercised a soldier's right to plunder armed enemies.
The result of this course is seen in Virginia and everywhere in the infected districts. Rebellion is the safest business now carried on in the country. Its consequences are a farce-a mere joke-an on to. What can be a richer joke to a Southern rebel than an oath of allegiance? Our army holds no more ground than its bayonets cover. Pickets of the rebels everywhere surround it with impunity, cutting it off from intelligence, building batteries under its very guns, setting ambushes, and amusing themselves by picking off our sentinels. If they are taken, it ends as a joke.
Our President proclaims that rebel privateers will be treated as pirates, and we growl at England because she does not proclaim the same. 'But a rebel privateer is taken, and her crew, instead of being suspended at once to the yard-arm, are brought to New York to take advantage of the law's delay, and the glorious right of trial by jury, with the chance of aid from some judicial traitor, by one of whom the Administration has already been cowed.
From the Atlantic to the Mississippi, supplies are continually transported from the North to the rebel army, and the government resorts to no efficient measures to prevent; but, on the other hand, is quoted by conditional rebels as indorsing a neutrality which is protecting and supplying the rebel army, and doing more to aid it and destroy the government, than could be done by its active hostility
The war has never yet been recognized as an existing fact, by our side. We have endured every act of war as if it was a right which belonged to the rebels. It may be that nothing but some serious disaster to our cause will establish just distinctions, and force us to the exercise of belligerent rights. But if we have not a right to crush this rebellion as a crime, and to hang the ringleaders as traitors, we have no right to resort to force at all. If they have the right to make war upon the government, and are nothing but prisoners of war when taken, then their independent rights are conceded, and we have no right to carry on the war on our part. The present treatment does nothing but strengthen and extend the rebellion. Until our forces treat the rebellion as treason, and resort to every belligerent right to cripple its power and crush it into submission by every penalty of war, we shall make no progress against it -Cincinnati Gazette.
WASHINGTON, June 11th. Three slaves were taken into one; of the camps yesterday. A Mr. Webb, of Virginia, claimed to be their owner, and demanded them. The Colonel refused, deeming them contraband. They were sent over to General Sandford's quarters, upon his order, where Webb again presented himself, and General Sandford sent for a wagon at his own expense, into which the three negroes were placed and sent back to Virginia, to the entire satisfaction of their secession master. This act on General Sandford's part has given rise to much comment to-day, and he gets very little credit in any quarter, save among the rebel slave-owners over the river.
The United States Constitution is "a covenant with death, and an agreement With hell". 
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive, in representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interest of the whole, that any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the record of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened It was introduced into the constitution of the United States by an equivocation- a representation of the property under the name of persons, Little did the members of the convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
SLAVERY UNDER THE WAR POWER.
Professor Theophilus Parsons sends to the Boston Daily Advertiser, by request of the editors of that paper, an abstract of what he recently said to the Law School at Cambridge on the subject of Martial Law. We give below that portion of it which relates to the slavery question.
Many of you have asked of me what would be the law or the legal rights which an army, advancing by order of the President into a State in organized rebellion, would carry with it, as to the slaves. I will endeavor to answer this question.
In the first place, that army must have the rights, and all the rights, of war. Because, if a State puts itself into that position with reference to the United States, the Government of the United States must necessarily accept that position while carrying on the conflict. although the General Government prosecute the war with no desire of subjugation, but only for the purpose of bringing that State back to its original position.
There are four ways in which that army might deal with slaves. One is, to seize and use them in its military labors. That they might do this seems to me as certain as that they might seize horses or oxen to draw their wagons, or shovels to dig their trenches. How far compensation should be made must depend upon circumstances. It is a common opinion, that modern civilization has so far mitigated war, that it is no longer one of the laws of war, that an invading army may seize, use, or destroy private property. This is a mistake, according to all authorities on the law of nations. It is undoubtedly true, however, that the modern usages and proprieties of war-and there are such things-would justify the exercise of this right only on the ground of military necessity.
The second way is to receive and harbor all runaway slaves. And the third is but a step further in the same direction, although it may seem to be a wide step; it is to liberate them, not, as it were, passively, but by proclamation, or other active measures. As matter of law, I have not the least doubt of the right of an invading army to do this. It would, regarded as a mere question of law, stand on the footing of a destruction of private property in an enemy's country. And like that, it would be an unquestionable right; but, if the usages of war were to govern it, it would be a right to be exercised only as a military necessity, and for the purpose of weakening the enemy, and lessening his means of attack or resistance. And the existence of this necessity must be determined by the commanding officer, or by the supreme authority at home, in view of all the circumstances of the case. Should there be a war between two Slave States, say Georgia and South Carolina, and Georgia should invade South Carolina, I have no doubt that the invading forces might and would claim and possess a right to exercise these means of weakening their enemy, if they thought proper.
The fourth way of dealing with slaves would be to put weapons into their hands, and incite them to armed insurrection. If any such right as this can ever exist, it can only spring from the extremist necessity, and from a condition of things which it, would be difficult and painful to imagine. With my understanding of what an armed servile insurrection must be, I may illustrate my view of the law thus: An army which invested a city that was supplied with water by a stream flowing into it, would have a military right to cut off the stream, and so reduce the city to submission. But it would have no right, military or other, to poison the waters. There seems to me, as matter of law, a good test for this. The commander of an invading army might certainly, as a military necessity, liberate the slaves, and make any use of them which he could make of his own soldiers: but nothing more.
Questions of a moral nature, and others of expediency, gather around this topic of the treatment of slaves by an invading force. I have avoided all reference to them, not because I am insensible to their existence or their force. But it is my business here to speak to you. as well as I can, of the taw, and I believe I can speak of it more accurately, if I speak only of the law. 

THE SLAVES TO BE MURDERED.
The occupation of Virginia soil by our troops is throwing the secession journals in a paroxysm of rage. In their blind fury, they are conjuring up specters of the most horrid description. The general reader will have been prepared for the utterance of very considerable amount of falsehood and bombast, sundry rare specimens of which have already appeared in the columns of this paper. But the Mobile Register of last Saturday out-Herod in this respect. After announcing the invasion of Virginia, that journal observes:-
"Servile insurrection is a part of their programme, but they expect no great amount of practical good to result therefrom-consequently, it is contended that it would he a far better course of policy for the Abolitionists to murder the slaves, and thus exterminate slavery. A more monstrous proposition could not emanate from the most incarnate fiend among the damned. But, infamous as it is, it finds an advocate in the Abolition press. The slaves are to be indiscriminately slaughtered, and when the last one is butchered, then it is thought the institution will cease to exist. The soul recoils in horror at the idea of an unscrupulous war upon the innocent and defenceless slave. The Syrian massacre of the Christians and all the crimes of its bloody participants pale before the proposed atrocities of the Black Republicans. Their masters, however, in this as all other instances, will be their protectors and saviors. With this much of their published programme, we must not be surprised at any act or threat as the campaign advances."
It is unnecessary to say that no Northern journal, "Black Republican" or any thing else, has ever recommended any thing of the sort. We let it pass. The extract given above shows the rebel leaders begin to realize clearly the danger of a slave insurrection. A previous paragraph had cracked the whip over the planters' heads, telling them that the "object of the foeman, in addition to that of subjugation, embraces confiscation of property, and the entire annihilation of the institutions of the South." This was very good to begin with, so far as the slaveholder might be concerned. But it was evident that, unlike the fable of the frog, what was sport for him might not be death to the negroes. So, to keep the latter in the traces, they are threatened with extermination. The Abolitionists mean to murder them all!-New York Commercial Advertiser.

OUR BAD EXAMPLE.
The New York. Independent, of last week, contains a letter from Rev. Dr. Cheever, (who still remains abroad, doing good service,) on the opinions in Great Britain concerning the war, in which he says:-
It is impossible to measure the prejudice produced here against the cause of the North by the people reading that Massachusetts regiments are offered to put down slave insurrections, that poor fugitive slaves are thrust back into the hull of slavery by Northern commanders, that the Governor of Rhode Island had returned escaping slaves to their owner from a Rhode Island regiment, that colored persons are not permitted to enlist, that the Governor of Pennsylvania had forbidden colored troops to go from Pennsylvania into Virginia, for fear of a servile war, and that all purpose of liberating the slaves is constantly denied. It is these pro-slavery indications on the part of the North that do more than anything else to make the people here believe that the "war is not at any rate a war against slavery, and therefore they are as ready to sympathize with the South as with the North, if neither party mean to obey God, and set at liberty those that are bound. There are other evil influences. I met recently a colored minister of the Gospel from the United States, who showed me his passport or protection, for passport be could not obtain; the only document he could get from the American Government in February, 1861, being a sheet of paper, setting forth that he was a native of America, but no citizenship certified, nor any protection guaranteed as a citizen of the United States. If the United States would retain the sympathy of Great Britain, or of any country in Europe, such injustice as this must be brought to an end. Let the Republican Administration in our country show that they hate slavery, and they will have the <illegible>-will and fervent sympathy of the people everywhere. If the Government of the United States would have the sympathy of the people of Great Britain, (a thing which is every way most desirable,) let them mate it plain that this conflict against the South is a conflict in behalf of the oppressed, a conflict truly for freedom, the cause of justice and mercy to the oppressed, and therefore the cause of God.
<c02>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 5, 1861.
A FINAL SETTLEMENT.
Extract from a Letter to a, Representative in Congress.
Among the matters marked, in my attentive reading of the speech, delivered in February last, which you had the kindness to send me, were these two ideas.
You think that the action of Congress and of the people should be directed to "restore the ancient fraternal feeling" between North and South, and to "settle forever these questions which disturb our peace." 
As to the "fraternal feeling" of which you speak, I now send you (in three pamphlets) a compilation of very convincing evidence, consisting of words and deeds of Southern men, that that feeling (as for as these people are concerned) is dead, without hope of resurrection.
In saying that the matters copied in these pamphlets from Southern papers are the words and deeds of Southern men, I have greatly understated my case. They are the words and deeds of the dominant party of Southern men; of the people who despotically rule the South, and whose rule is submitted to without remonstrance by the remainder, small or great, of the Southern population. No doubt the class of people exists, at the South, to whom Mr. Helper addressed his admirable book. No doubt hearty and genuine "Republicans" exist there. But since those worthy people dare not appear for what they are-since they dared not vote, last November, for Lincoln, the man of their choice-and since they dare not buy, nor keep in their houses, nor give away, a copy of Helper's book, for fear of immediate Lynching by the dominant party-we must leave them out of the present question. You cannot hold open negotiation with people who sneak in holes and corners, and when they come into the light put on a secession cockade to save their lives. The only South there is now, to hold open intercourse with, is the Rebellious South. And these men (and women too) hate the North with perfect hatred. In regard to any portion of the South which has a voice and a visible existence, we may as well dismiss the fiction of "fraternal feeling." Yet these are the people we have now to deal with. And, as you most justly say, we ought so to deal with them as to "settle forever these questions which disturb our peace." How shall this immensely important work be done?
Can it be done in any other way than by accomplishing the utter annihilation of slavery, as for as the United States, are concerned? Have not all our national troubles sprung from this source? Is there not, indeed, an "irrepressible" conflict between freedom and slavery? Is it not necessarily true that he who holds a slave is himself held-limited-cumbered-restrained, by that very act, of a portion of his own natural liberty? And that he who is allied with the slaveholder, for the purpose (among others) of holding the slave securely, is himself also, to that extent, cumbered, limited, deprived of a portion of his liberty?
We may as well recognize and acknowledge the truth, that our fathers committed a sin and a folly in trying to incorporate slavery with their freedom; and that it is alike our duty and our interest to repair their error without further delay. We have neglected several eminently good opportunities to do this; not to speak of the fact that the constantly increasing evils of slavery were calling upon us every year to abate that horrible nuisance without a moment's delay; but now, when slavery is threatening the very existence of the Government, and compelling the raising of immense armies for the protection of the Capital, is it not suicidal folly to think longer of concession to this Minotaur? Can we, as reasonable beings, think of, plan for, bend our whole energies to the accomplishment of, anything less than its entire destruction?
Individually, (such is my sense of the enormous and increasing evil, as well as wickedness, involved in the toleration of slaveholding,) I should rejoice to let every slave State go, immediately and finally, from this Union, joyfully giving up, for the advantage of their absence, the stolen property which they might carry off. But the United States Government cannot do this. By Abraham Lincoln's election as President, he has been put in charge of the property of the nation, and when it is plundered, he must seize the robbers and recover the property. Neither can he negotiate with rebels who are also robbers. He must first make them lay down their arms and give up their plunder. But it is the business of Congress, wisely regarding the past, the present, and the future, to provide remedies for present evils and securities for future welfare. And, for both these purposes, it seems to me absolutely indispensable that they should take measures to free the United States from slavery. While one particle of this monstrosity remains in actual existence within our boundaries, while one word actually conniving at it remains in our Constitution or our laws, we are constantly exposed to a repetition of all the present evils. A new rebellion would spring up after the overthrow of the present one. We must strike at the root; we must eradicate and extirpate it. This is our "one thing needful"; and, for this thing, now, NOW, NOW is "the accepted time."
In your speech in February last, you spoke of the government of this country as "a system of government which unites the up most capacity of national power and renown, and the most perfect protection of social order, with the highest degree of individual liberty." I hope the events of the succeeding months have taught you that which your own observation and reflection ought, even then, to have made plain to you, namely, that our nation has never displayed, either "the most perfect protection of social order," or "the highest degree of individual liberty"; and, moreover, that a system of government including something so inherently vicious as to have nourished discord up to open rebellion, and something so base as to have kept the finger of scorn pointed at us through the last quarter of a century by every civilized nation, cannot possibly represent "the utmost capacity of national power and renown." Our system has proved itself weak, and vicious, and shameful; and it has manifestly become such through the intermixture of slavery. It is time to begin the experiment of a popular government founded upon freedom; a government of the people, by the people, and for the people, doing the duty of the strong by protecting the weak. If this Congress shall fail to enter vigorously upon this work, if it shall commence no provision for the utter and speedy eradication of slavery from those States which are to call themselves ultimately "United," it will not only have lost one of the noblest and most auspicious of opportunities, but will have violated a manifest duty, and incurred an ineradicable disgrace. That no such guilt and disgrace may rest upon your head is the earnest wish and prayer of your friend, C. K. W.
"The New 'Reign of Terror' in the Slaveholding States for 1859-60."
"A Fresh Catalogue of Southern outrages upon Northern Citizens."
"The Spirit of the South towards Northern Freemen and Soldiers."
We publish two more communications from our Illinois correspondent, B. G. WRIGHT, relative to the right of Southern secession. Our answer again is, that he fails to show any analogy between that secession and the right of rebellion as laid down in the Declaration of Independence; or between it and the ground of Disunion ism as advocated by the Abolitionists. We are surprised that he fails to make a discrimination where the contrast is as great as that between light and darkness; and, failing to do this, he is bringing upon himself unnecessary popular odium. We will make a fresh effort to clear up the mist in a future number.
<c03>
THE PRESENT CRISIS.
A DISCOURSE,
Delivered at the Music Hall, Boston, Sunday, June 30,
BY E. H. HEYWOOD.
Phonographic Report by JAS. M. W. YERRINTON.
It is our good fortune to live in a stirring period, and one exceedingly interesting to look into. Any moment, being the conflux of two eternities, is very worthful, but times like the present seem peculiarly so; perhaps because we touch life at more points, shake ourselves clear, somewhat, from the meshes of society, the cobwebs of politics and ecclesiastics, in which most of us are sucked dry, and bloodless, and range abroad a little. I like such times. All things go on their own merits again. The Spirit of Progress, moving upon the face of society, its foundations are broken up, and those who have clung must swim or sink-either is good for them. Fat officials are unhitched from their bread and butter. Constitutions, codes, creeds, unions, all are solemnly interrogated whether they have any thing inherent or lifeful. If not, down they must go; for, through them, or over them, the world must get forward. At such a period, you look for the Constitution where it is-in the glass-not to huckstering statesmen, playing hide-and-seek among law books. You look for the Church, not at Beecher's, for the Supreme Court, not at the Capital, but under the jauntiest hat you meet on Washington street. One seeks help for himself and in himself. Outside authority doffs its hat to inside authority.
Such moments are the inspired periods of the race-the only ones that history thinks it worth while to remember. The problem of life is to do something, to think and kick; to pass from the material to the ideal; from what is partial, relative, temporary, to the universal, the absolute, the eternal. The organic forms of society-politics, commerce, the schools and the church-are methods of transit; attempts to bridge the chasm. Your social evil-war, slavery, intemperance, woman's wrongs, or the like-is the slough of despond, in which the race sticks by the way. Inspiration, poetry, philosophy, the dreams of lovers, the intuitions of women and children, are prophecies of that perfectness of which we are capable.
-"Through the ages, one increasing purpose runs,
And the thoughts of men are widened with the process of the suns."
Just now, this upward movement is energetic, volcanic; it is the historic feature of the present period. Human nature is insurgent. Titans toss and <illegible> tumble here and there. It is the dawning millennium of "mud-sills." War results. Graduates from "bloody instructions," the people clutch the weapons next their hands, wherewith to strike down the oppressor. They have not yet learned to trust the soul and the truth; they have not yet faith to rise into celestial orbits, into those great circle truths which enfold all nations and all ages, as the sky the earth. Men say, "Your idea is right; the human soul is adequate to its functions; the reign of Reason and Love is the ideal of democratic, Christian civilization; but the world is not ready for it yet." That is, it was rash in Copernicus, on discovering the true theory of astronomy, to transfer the center of observation at once to the sun; he should have stopped a few centuries on the way at Mars. The divine martyrdom of Calvary, the love doctrine of Jesus, was a mistake. He should have enlisted a regiment of Zouaves in Jerusalem, and marched against Pilate and Nero. Your model Christians preach Jesus, and practice Joshua; and in this terrific sweep of unionism, that takes the sturdiest reformers off their feet, I must put most of the "infidels" and "fanatics" into the same category.
Christendom has not yet begun to fathom the ethics of the Cross in respect of humanity. The word "War" sticks like a barbed hook in the throat of every discourse from this desk.
They tell us that the war principle is horrid; its only moral light flashes from the sword; it "repeals all the commandments," casts away all the anchors of religion, to drift darkly before the most irresponsible and, vindictive of the human passions. I believe it; nor am I able to separate the sin from the sinner, the evil from its causes. Viewed from the plane of absolute truth, in the last analysis, (I weigh my words, and mean every letter,) the life-taking doctrine, (the life-giving doctrine is its antipodes,) the war principle, is a horrid immorality;-fashionable, constitutional, orthodox murder. A virtuous war is as impossible as a truthful lie, for the right to life is the basis of all other rights. Where there is no life, there can be no liberty, no law, no humanity, no religion. This theory, however, does not (as Dr. Solger, a few weeks ago, from this desk, ably, though erroneously, argued) make mere animal life ultimate; it makes the human soul ultimate. Instead of marching against Jerusalem and Rome with murderous weapons, it goes to Calvary, and wins the world.
I do not use these words "Cross" and "Calvary," because they are catch-words of conservatism, just now, in Christendom; but because they stand for the highest inspirations of the human soul, yet incarnated upon earth. Their essence is quite as unpopular now as in the days of Jesus; and no man is worthy to take the name of the beloved Nazarene into his lips, who has not a Sinai and Calvary of his own. 
I know it is great cause for distrusting one's own opinion, to differ from our Demosthenes; but I cannot agree with Mr. Phillips when he says, that such a contest as this can be settled only by arms. As I revere his peerless intellect and unrivalled eloquence, his Spartan heroism and divine integrity, I most gravely dissent from that fatal concession. It denies the adequacy of the human reason to apprehend and obey the truth; severs Democracy, not only, but Protestantism, from its only living root; degrades that sublime moral struggle in which this greatest of living orators has borne a preeminent and immortal part, which alone has educated the North into the moral purpose of unifying this Republic in favor of freedom, instead of in favor of slavery, and which yet, under God, is to ride this whirlwind and direct this storm to universal emancipation I know the cloud is heavy upon us, black with ruin but the "Heaven-tipped virtue" of Abolitionism would have cast all its bolts harmless into the earth, if the nation had but obeyed its higher instincts. By the faith of the Nazarene, by the universal consciousness of the race, I never will subscribe to that theory of depravity which despairs of human redemption. The music of the spheres is echoed in the shell under the leaden sea; the sky loves to be mirrored in the most democratic puddle of the streets; so, underneath this burden of social evil, there is always a moral response, which, if trusted, will become the diapason of universal melody.
It is very convenient to say, We are all right, and the South is all wrong. It is not so. The North is responsible for this state of things in the country, as well as the South. It is because we have supported the system of slavery, that it has risen to such gigantic proportions that now it strives to drag down the pillars of heaven. You cannot thus baptize yourselves into an imaginary faith in an imaginary God of Battles. Oh, no! The Christian God was always an abolitionist, always the "Prince of Peace."
The only theory, then, that can explain, or in any reasonable manner justify, this war, is the retribution theory. Retribution upon the North for seventy years complicity with slavery; retribution upon the South for attempting to build a State on immorality, infidelity and atheism. But I do not propose to discuss the abstract question of peace this morning. Men have not the vision or self-poise to weigh its tremendous issues amid the smoke of battle and the roar of cannon. I fear, indeed, that, were I to apply the absolute method to this discussion, which makes this pulpit the Plymouth Rock of a new civilization,-were I to hew to the line, even you would not relish all the chips that might fly in your faces. There are thunderbolts in the quiver of truth for war as well as for slavery; but they will keep. "Time makes, more converts than reason." When Non-Resistance
<c04>
is respectable as well as true, it will be dear as sunlight, and everybody will have always believed in it. My confidence in its present efficiency and ultimate triumph daily gains root and strength; and I know of no higher, braver, more beneficent or practical service to truth and humanity, than now and forever to fight under the celestial flag. But yet, in Irish phrase, I am for a peaceable fight; for every man obeying his highest impulses of duty, and using the best weapons to which his hands are consecrated. Let us have no hypocrites. My issue is not with the leaf, with the twig, but with the root. Not so much with Niagara in the rapids, as at the source. If it is your religious duty to leap from a precipice, and try to stop half way down, I will risk the law of gravitation. You will not break that, but that may break you.
I do not forget, however, that this age believes religiously in bullets; that every existing government and church is founded on force-the sword its ultimate appeal. Then let those agencies be consecrated to the highest moral purpose of which they are capable. If it is a man's religious duty to vote under this government, it is his religious duty now to second his ballot with bullets. These rebel slaveholders are traitors to human nature, as well as to the Union; strike at the liberty of the race, as well as at the heart of the Republic; and Mr. Lincoln, as President, is bound to give them "Hail Columbia." (Applause.) For, honestly President, (it seems odd to have an honest President once, does it not?) religiously believing in the necessity of such a government as this, he is bound to stand by his oath, the honor of his party, and the integrity of the government, or resign and go up to Garrison's position; and if, to do this, he were obliged to send every slaveholder in the land to that safest of all prisons, the grave, the public sentiment of the age would support him. (Applause.) This secession is utterly without excuse, and for the basest of purposes-high treason to justice and liberty, and a damnable insult to the heroes of '76. (Applause.) South Carolina never had a government. The "sovereign State" which is making so much ado, is only piracy in white kids and patent-leather, plus the bloodhound for a constable. Her first government will have the consent of black faces, not of black hearts only. This federal government is not a gingerbread compact, to be toppled by a whim; it is the consolidated popular heart; it is a confederacy of the people, by the people, for the people, and dissolvable only by common consent. Granting your premises, voters, I would assent to every word of Webster in the Hayne debate; for that argument yet remains the Gibraltar of union.
A word upon the pence method. The American Peace Society does not represent it. They are inspired by a noble impulse, but are not anchored in any definite idea or purpose. They "see men as trees walking." They believe in peace, except when there is war. They have not learned of St. James yet, that purity, by repentance and reformation, is the only path to peace. Hence they endorse the establishment, with all popular crimes and respectable iniquity, smother volcanoes, and call that peace. I would not utter a word of discouraging criticism upon humane and generous efforts; but those gentlemen must have the compass of principle, and faith to launch, if they would reach the desired haven. The only possible peace method, in a contest like this, is illustrated in this thirty years' war of abolitionism, as conducted by its eternally belligerent pioneer-the very Achilles of moral fighters. The peace method is not an acquiescent, hat-in-hand, begging policy, but a moral revolt, whose earthquake tread shakes the planet,-a denunciation of oppressors and all their accomplices-"whose every word draws blood." Slavery is not peace. Samuel Hoar, kicked out of Charleston, is not peace. Your court-house in chains is not peace. Sumner bleeding in the Senate is not peace. John Brown "justly hung'' is not peace. Jeff. Davis, President of rebels in rags and rebels in ruffles, commander-in-chief of all the pirates, who did not take Washington, is not peace. (Applause.) Oh, no, Mr. Burritt! This nation has sown the wind, and it must reap the whirlwind. It has sown fire and gunpowder, and it must reap explosion. Peace will come cither by love or blood, by light or lightning. It will come only by the removal of the cause of war. It will come by Northern freemen pouring out their blood in glad atonement for seventy years of injustice to the slave. It will come by confederate armies swept like autumn leaves before the sublime wrath of the North. It will come by Davis, Wigfall, Toombs, Rhett and Wise dropping to hell from the same halter whence John Brown rose to heaven. (Loud applause.) It will come by Garrison "ascending to the right hand of God, with four million broken fetters in his hand," as proof that America had a conscience. Our great pioneer will live to see his anti-slavery purpose accomplished. The world will not come up with his peace principle for some ages yet. But "let the galled jade wince, his withers are unwrung." He has launched and lived his idea; he has solved the riddle, and, like Kepler, he can "afford to wait centuries for a reader, since God has waited six thousand years for an observer."
This war-it is only a cutaneous eruption of the hidden disease of our body politic. We have had peace in the shell, but war in the egg. Causa latet, vis est notissima-The cause is latent, the effect notorious enough. For seventy years, this nation has been organized war upon the black man,-a conspiracy against his rights. When John Adams came home to his wife from the Constitutional Convention, the irrepressible justice of woman's heart exclaimed, "You have asserted your own rights, but you have enslaved the blacks." When Jeff. Davis spoke in Faneuil Hall, and waltzed with the beauty of New England, he was as really a pirate as now, for every thread of his garments was the stolen earnings of the slave. (Applause.) The fault of New England, the fault of the North, is, that they did not know that slavery was piracy just as much when it robbed the black as now, when it robs the white. Hence the negro, for six generations, has been the victim of our civilization. In the temple of Neptune, the tablets of those who were drowned were not hung up. At present, the North, who have been accomplices of the slaveholder against the slave, are in a death-grapple with him, and of course the slave, with his friends, is jubilant. "When rogues fall out, honest men come to their own." This is the reason why this hall shook with enthusiasm when, two months ago, our great orator blew that martial blast with which the empire still rings from side to side. This is why I hope that this roll of federal drums, crossing the continent with the morning light, will yet end in the grand chorus of the negro's redemption. (Applause.)
War, however, has already outgeneralled politics. I do not forget the drastic energy with which moral agitation, through or over politics, (mainly over,) has wrought for this cause. Eighty years ago, the anti-slavery enterprise was Clarkson, a college student riding home from Cambridge on horseback. It has now revolutionized the globe, by the omnipotence of the religious sentiment alone; against the Church, against the government, against the money power, against the popular prejudice. In, this country, it has come up through great tribulation. Thirty years ago, the slave system was entrenched in all the strongholds that command the public mind-the pulpit, the press, the Senate, the seats of learning. Oh, how many years this enterprise went up and down among these steepled tombs, asking aid for the slave, "its head filled with dew, its locks wet with the drops of the night"! It knocked at the door of Bowdoin street church, and the electric brain and bugle lips which God lent the elder Beecher answered-" Too many irons in the fire already: came to Boston to put down Unitarianism." It knocked at the Old South, and the pulpit, still sacred with the foot-prints of Warren, answered, "Away, infidel philanthropy!" It knocked at the church upon the Green, and one who claims to speak in the faith of die sainted Channing, replied, "I would deliver my own mother to the fangs of the slave-hound." But we can afford to forget it all, and, treading reverently back, cover this shameless deformity; for
<c05>
the Old South, again true to its earlier heroism, now always under the eloquence of Manning; tyrants from ocean to ocean cower before the hurtling bolts of Plymouth church; while the greatest of Unitarians, with whom, as that of Rome with Tully, "this eloquent air still breathes and burns," the modern Luther, within sight of the flying legions of Austria, ascends from the banks of the Arno, and Parker is immortal with freedom in Europe and America. (Loud applause.)
In 1836, Governor Everett would have made a meeting like this a penal offence. Now it would take a prison of all out-doors to hold us. The last argument against life-insurance is, that all the North have become Abolitionists, and Abolitionists never die. Governor Everett's successor ascends to the capital over the prostrate forms of Cushings and kidnappers, and first wins a national reputation by the brave sentiment, "John Brown was right" In'37, anti-slavery fell under the deadly aim of pro-slavery hate at Alton. Now, Lovejoy rises in a redeemed West, and sends to the capital the noblest and truest President since Washington. (Applause.)
Neither do I forget the indirect agency of politics in a reform like this. It was at the vision of the rail-splitter-" Birnam wood to Dunsinane "-approaching the capital, that South Carolina leapt from the federal battlements into the flaming lake of disunion. It was brave Free-Soilers in Massachusetts that gave us the Personal Liberty Bill. It was John A. Andrew, using Caleb Cushing for a block, who chopped off the head of Judge Loring. (Applause.)
Grant all this indirect service, still, politics, as such, has been an utter failure in this cause. You commenced with Washington, as President, six hundred thousand slaves, and the national domain dedicated to freedom; you fell to Buchanan, the Dred Scott decision, four million of slaves, and, as Mr. Seward concedes, the federal eagle going forth every where bearing chains, and not the olive branch, in his talons. The Republican party fought its way to the capital on the Free Soil doctrine. Its first act, on arriving there, was to organize the territories without the guarantee of freedom, so that Mr. Wilmot entered one door of Congress just in season to see his proviso flying from the other. If Mr. Lincoln had been allowed to carry on this government, he would now be returning fugitives, putting down insurrections, and hanging John Browns. He promised to do it, and he is a man of his word.
Now let war try its hand. Since last November, we have lived a century. The man who was the South-side candidate for Governor of this State, Gen. Butler, is now chief conductor on the under-ground railroad. (Applause.) Massachusetts soldiers in Fortress Monroe hymn the praises of "old John Brown." The American Anti-Slavery Society, temporarily reclining upon its shield, witnesses the grand spectacle of 250,000 freemen in one embattled emancipation Society, marching Southward. It is "all up" with the Bell-Everetts; for every body is a "Wide-awake" now (applause); while booming cannon bring to the surface of our sea the dead carcasses of Halletts, Winthrops, Cushings, Everetts, mission boards, tract societies, and doctors of divinity, to protest that they "still live," and out-Garrison Garrison in execrating slaveholders. Surely, it is a blessed gain to see this rotten politics, and a church "dead in trespasses and sins," hurled against the bastile of the South. Before mitre, give us nitre; before St. Peter, saltpetre. They said the Abolitionists did not pray, were not devotional. Well, they have been helping the Lord answer the prayers of the church, and have they not done admirably?
But do not let these hallelujahs take you off your feet. We are not yet out of the woods. The Government still clings to the shade of the old Union. The Tribune, the most courageous and powerful of our partisan press, the Napoleon of this gigantic struggle, still adheres to its policy of forgetting the negro, and daily assures posterity that we shall not be guilty of a disinterested motive in this matter. Mr. Seward, hat in hand, "with bated breath and whispered humbleness," begs Miss Secession to return to more tender federal embraces. Strange to say, the hope of freedom is yet in slavery-in the madness of the South. The maxim of the ancients yet holds true-"Evil is good in the making"; and South Carolina continues to be the most efficient agent the Anti-Slavery Society ever employed. Still, "there is a divinity that shapes our ends, rough hew them how we will." A higher prescience presides at this checker-board. This thirty years' struggle marshals the nation now first into those who think slavery an evil to be girdled with non-extension-represented by the Republican party, and the framers of the government; secondly, those who think slavery a benefit, the corner-stone and capital of republican liberty-fathered by Mr. Calhoun, the Aristotle of slave philosophy, the Richelieu of the South, whose dead hand clutched those cotton stars from the federal firmament; thirdly, those who think slavery a sin and a crime, to be immediately put away,-represented by the slaves, and all whose hearts are bound with them. Three parties-the tolerationists, the extensionists, and the extinctionists. The first vanishing into the second and third, now necessitates the final classification of slavery every where, or slavery no where. Fortunately, the government, with all the rallying words of conservatism, "Union," "Constitution," " the supremacy of the laws," ranging on the side of the latter-the extinctionists,-now fronts the enemies of the Republic. Of these, there are two classes. First, the slaves; naturally, chronic rebels against all constitutional and unconstitutional servitude-in the Roman maxim, "As many slaves, so many enemies"; secondly, the slaveholders, now in defiant revolt. The government can subdue these only by emancipating the former from their chains, and the latter from their insolence and tyranny, or, by the adoption of the prophetic '42 doctrine of John Quincy Adams, settle this question by the war power under the Constitution, in removing the cause of the disturbance, slavery.
Mark one thing! At this point, by all constitutional law, not less than by the justice of nature and history, to the government, there are no slaves to-day in the insurgent States. They have trodden the Constitution under foot, with its pro-slavery compromises; and if the administration proceeds to receive them on the basis of the old Union, it will not only be bargaining with rebels and pirates, but with newly constituted slaveholders. Now, holding the government by virtue of the non-extension doctrine, how will yon, Republicans, account to the conscience of the North, if you receive this new batch of slave States into the Union? If you are not degenerate sons, you will seize this opportunity, and let the same spirit-property or no property-that dumped the British tea in yonder harbor, now bury slavery so deep that no trump of resurrection shall ever reach it. (Applause.)
If, however, this war should terminate now, these results are irreversible: First, the Slave Power is broken. Jeff. Davis can never go from the Rogues' Gallery in New York to his seat in the Senate, whether his head secedes from his shoulders or not. Second, slavery stands revealed. Thirty years ago, from that garret in Congress street, Garrison labeled it PIRACY; the North now responds, "Amen." Third, the North is emancipated from "complimentary flunkeyism." No more slave hound Masons on Bunker Hill! (Applause.) No more pirates in Faneuil Hall! (Applause.) No more Anthony Burns carried down State street through federal bayonets! (Applause.) No more John Browns "justly hung"! (Applause.) Why, Dr. Spring now will be able to repeat the Lord's Prayer without choking, and Dr. Dewey will return to his first love of his mother. There will result, also, a deeper and wider sympathy with the bondmen, a chronic, deadly hatred of slavery everywhere, and a fixed determination: with all parties to rebuild the republic on the only enduring basis of "No Union with Slaveholders." Certainly, that is gain enough for one six months. 
Yet the most hopeful aspect of this cause now is in
<c06>
its unmanageableness. It has gone beyond the control of sects and parties. Once flouted as an abstraction, it is now an earthquake under the capital. As in the French Revolution, the magnates of Church and State, failing utterly to fathom the issue, now stand appalled before its gigantic and darkening proportions. But "man's extremity is God's opportunity." "Announce of mother is worth a pound of clergy," says the English maxim. Men fail, mankind triumph. Nature now tries her hand. These statesmen, theologians, scholars, in silk stockings and velvet slips, strut their hour, till some farmer, printer, cobbler, or rail-splitter comes up, and by the very wind of his stroke, sweeps the board. Behold your cause now carried from mission-boards and Supreme Courts up to the eternal moral sense of the people. Abolitionists were "disorganizes," " fanatics"; but the hour is at hand, its dawn already whitens dome and spire and hill-top, when the dullest conservative will see that his own rights  are bound indissolubly with those claimed for the slave; that the black babe born into chains in the Carolinas, last night, imperils the safety of every <illegible> street cradle; when the Courier will go down on its knees in gratitude to the Liberator, and Caleb Cushing and Richard S. Fay, "clothed in their right minds," will joyfully sit at the feet of Wendell Phillips.(Applause.).
The only party that can succeed in this matter is the one that plants itself on human nature, and stands for liberty to the black man. As in the Persian poet, a single sigh may overturn the world; as in the philosophy of the New Testament God always incarnates himself in the "little ones" and the despised, to redeem the ago, we have trampled on the negro, and he has ruled us. The proscribed rules the proscribing class. It is the negro who has sundered churches and tract societies., raised and ruined parties, made and unmade Presidents, worked and wrecked the government. He marshals these opposing armies, cabinets, confederacies. Why, Garrison, after all, is only the negro's Secretary of State, and Phillips is his orator laureate. The reason Everett and Winthrop have dropped out of sight is because the negro has forgotten them. Every successful politician lives, moves, and has his being in the negro. Amidst your pride of statesmanship. of oratory, of letters, amidst your Websters, Clays, Everetts, Sewards, the negro has stood and ruled, because he alone stood for justice and liberty. The black shine of his countenance alone reflected the smile of Heaven. "Pharaoh sits upon the throne, but Joseph is governor overall of Egypt." (Applause.)
This Union has not succeeded, because it has undertaken to countervail justice: and I warn you not to expect Mr. Lincoln to succeed, unless he changes his policy. It is an effort to unite Paradise and Perdition. You know Satan tried that, and, according to Milton, the last we heard of him he seceded, neck and heels, over the battlements of Heaven down to South Carolina. (Applause.) Well, he is trying it once more, and I don't think he will succeed, even if he has Mr. Seward to help him.
This Union has dwarfed and demoralized all your ablest men. Seward upon the prairies was a Titan; under the low roof of the Senate, he was Tom Thumb. One large-hearted Pillsbury, planting moral earthquakes all over the West, is worth acres of politicians, whose goal is political distinction at the capital. If you want to take the crooks out of an awkward man, let him walk under a high ceiling. Treat politicians in the same way.
Take Mr. Seward. You remember his speech in January. We expected great things. It was a great man, on a great occasion. Treason springing its mines at his very feet; one-half the States bristling with rebellion; the "columns of the Republic falling in every direction"; thirty millions of people waiting for his word. It was the occasion of a century. What did we see? We looked for the renowned champion of the "higher law"; we looked for the man at whose word, in the Nebraska fight, the Republican party leapt from a million of Northern hearts; we locked for the Lord High Admiral of nil the fleets of Liberty, in the "irrepressible conflict"; when, lo! a <illegible> carrier, bringing in a new load of the untempered mortar of compromise, wherewith to plaster the opening seams of this "glorious Union"! For what did he propose to betray the honor of his party and the rights of the North? For the Union? That was already broken. It was for thirty pieces of the Union. Do you think he intended to return fugitive slaves, to put down insurrections, to hang John Browns? I will not believe it. I do not think he is base enough. He would sink the continent first. But there are his promises. Say not I am harsh. In Junius' phrase, "I have not called his lordship a lair only proved him one." 
Take another case-the man who incarnates <illegible> heart of the Republican party; with a moral purpose moveless as the Alps: with a soul white as an angel's wing,-Charles Sumner. (Applause.) He proved by an argument impregnable as Gibraltar, that slavery is five-fold barbarism; and then admitted, in a subsequent speech, that the Slave Oligarchy is recognized by the Constitution, and that it can remain in the Government as long as it chooses. So he stood there in the Senate with Garrison in one hand, and South Carolina in the other, trying to make them love each other. He might as well attempt to wed Patmos to Babylon, Gabriel to Jezebel. It was the experiment of a bachelor, who does not understand political match-making. (Laughter.) It is no joke. The satire of the picture is in its truth. I do not stoops to ridicule. I would not use it upon the purest man that ever represented New England in Congress, upon the heaviest brain of the Empire State. You essay an impossibility; for, assuredly, where the intellect of Webster, the eloquence of Clay, the statesmanship of Seward, the scholarship of Evertt, and the conscience of Sumner could not succeed, the gods themselves must fail. (Applause.) If you mean those <illegible>, quit compromise, and either ascend to the heaven-<illegible> of Garrison, and allow slavery, whelmed under its-own falling ruins, to drop to the pit, or, religiously believing in the popular method, carry Bunker Hill to the Gulf of Mexico. (Applause.) 
There are many other things to crowd to the lips of an occasion like this, to get themselves spoken but yonder hand nears the zenith. We will only <illegible> however. Many of you will assemble at Framingham on Thursday. Others, with Harvard College, the Courier, and Mayor Wightman-all now zealous agents of the Anti-Slavery Society, will continue the meeting here. Meanwhile, and ever more, you will posses your souls in patience. This is not anarchy; it is not retrogression. Never was Liberty so loveable, <illegible> fixed and defiant. Never was Slavery so hated and <illegible> desperate. Upon this opening of the sixth seal, upon this apocalypse of our history, breaks the <illegible> glory of impartial liberty, yea, of reason and the affections, which even now greets me with jocund foot upon the misty tops of distant centuries, when justice shall be one with gravitation, love with light, and truth with <illegible> God. (Loud applause.)
The Atlas and Bee, of Monday, contains <illegible> following complimentary notice of Mr. Heywood's <illegible> address at Music Hall, as reported above:-
ADDRESS ON "THE PRESENT CRISIS." E. H. Heywood, a young man of marked talent as an <illegible> addressed the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society yesterday forenoon at Music Hall, on "The <illegible> Crisis." It was a keen, effective and original <illegible>, and called forth repeated demonstrations of applause. Mr. Hey wood speaks without notes, and a very fluent.
The special session of Congress convened <illegible> Washington yesterday. It will probably to up <illegible> work in the course of a fortnight. It will doubtless evoke some latent treason, in the shape of "peaceful pro-slavery overtures and compromises,-a thousand times more to be dreaded and detested than the must flagrant acts of the Southern traitors in arms. <illegible> such manifestations be jealously watched, and <illegible> who shall give them any countenance be help up <illegible> public reprobation. Foremost in this work of treason, under the guise of "peace," is the New York Journal of Commerce.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
SOUTHERN SECESSION AND NORTHERN DISUNION.
dear sir.-With your permission, I will make a few extracts from "Disunion Abolitionists," and than add a few comments.
Mr. Phillips, in a speech before the Massachusetts Legislature in 1859, said:-
"In the first place, gentlemen, I shall step behind the U.S. Constitution. I remember that you, -Massachusetts,-were a sovereignty before the United States existed. Massachusetts is not to me a mere bob to the kite of the Constitution of 1789. Massachusetts is no private corporation, under the great national organization. I claim more for you than that. You were a government in 1630; of that living thread I take hold. God planted you a civil society. Our fathers came here to set up a government. They did so; and you exist as its representatives. We do not address you, -the Legislature of Massachusetts,-as a subordinate Committee of the U. S. Government We address you as the civil society of Massachusetts, panted by the children of the Mayflower and the Arabella, and existing here to-day a civil government. As such, as a civil government, we remind You of your obligation before God to execute justice between won and man. No matter that one man calls another man his property and, pointing to a parchment,' claims your aid in holding him as a brute; we remind you of your own words, 'All men are born free,' and that the sovereignty which claims submission fakes justice, see Mass. Constitution] owes protection. You toll us in reply to that claim, ' We have fettered our broad sovereignty by agreeing to the Constitution of the- United States.' We deny your right. You tell us,' The unlimited sovereignty of the Old Colony, bound to execute justice between man and man, we have put a way by the so-called slave clause.' We deny your capacity to do it. We assert that you sit here as the, legislators of a sovereign State. If any body, either by you or before you, has agreed to limit that sovereignty by an unholy compact, it is not binding, and you have no right to regard it. Civil government, it is stated in the preamble to our Constitution, is a voluntary association, a social compact. So it is; but compacts, when they become civil governments, have a peculiar character.
This girdle of earth which you call Massachusetts can have but one such association in it. There may be a thousand banks in Massachusetts; they may make their own by-laws, and establish their own fundamental principles; but civil government is necessarily exclusive-there can be but one within a certain space of land. I appeal to you, therefore, as the civil society which our fathers planted, which has never yet ceased to exist, which the labors and trials of half a dozen generations perfected in this Common wealth; I claim of you, as legislators, by virtue of that civilization, that you set your foot upon the unholy compact, which is not binding upon the conscience, and cannot rightfully fetter the action of any thing that undertakes to exist as a sovereign State under God's government."
This is a most triumphant vindication of the sovereignty of Massachusetts, and, taken in connection with her constitutional oath binding her citizens to "bear true faith and allegiance to the State," is an unanswerable argument in proof of her sovereignty, the basis upon which the whole controversy about the right of "secession" rests. Unless the terms, "sovereign" and "sovereignty" have some technical meaning not given by our best lexicographers, there can, by no possibility, be any human tribunal above an independent sovereign member of this confederacy, and, consequently, there can be no earthly tribunal rightfully endowed with the power to call in question her sovereign will, as exhibited in her political acts.
In the Liberator of September 21, I860, reviewing the "Address of the Free Constitutionalists," you say-" It may be convenient, and it is certainly very easy, to ignore all the historical facts pertaining to the formation and adoption of the Constitution-such as the various hostile interests of freedom and slavery to he appeased, and, as far as possible, reconciled, so as to bind the North and South (each composed of independent State sovereignties) in one Union." Here is an unqualified assertion of the sovereignty of the States of this confederacy, as one of the '' facts" which Mr. Spooner finds it "very easy to ignore," if not so easy to refute. In fact, nearly every writer in the Liberator, so far as my memory serves me, speaks of the States as sovereign communities. 
This question of the Union being "composed of independent State sovereignties" having been con-ceded, will you do me the favor to reply to a few important questions?
If Massachusetts is "an independent State sovereignty," to which, as her Constitution asserts, her citizens "owe allegiance," can these same citizens "owe allegiance" to any other human authority whatever?
Judge Blackstone says: "And this maxim of the law proceeded upon a general principle, that every man owes natural allegiance where he is born, and cannot owe two such allegiances, or serve two wasters at once."
Again, if you, Mr. Phillips and Judge Blackstone are correct, as to sovereignty and allegiance, can a citizen of Virginia, by obeying her ordinance of secession, commit treason against the federal government? These questions are important to every man who aims honestly to perform his duty as a good citizen.
In the same review you say: "For if the absurdity were admitted to be a possible event, that a party might succeed and take the reins of national sovereignty," &c. &c. Here you take the ground of Gen. Hamilton, namely, a "divided sovereignty," or, rather, two sovereignties, each claiming the allegiance of the same citizens. If these two sovereignties come into collision, as in the seceded States, how is the citizen to know which to obey? If this old Hamiltonian theory does not exhibit a "confusion of mind" in its advocates, I shall never know where to look for "confusion."
In the same review, you fell back upon the Jeffersonian theory of "independent State sovereignty," by asserting that "The pro-slavery compromises of the Constitution will continue to be recognized as hitherto, until the time shall come when this 'covenant with death shall be annulled,' and this 'agreement with hell' shall terminate in a Northern secession."
But there are other proofs of "secession." The following is from a "series of resolutions," headed "In plain English," and discussed at the A. S. Conventions held at Buffalo, Auburn, Utica, &c.
"Resolved, That it is the solemn and imperious duty of the Senators and Representatives of the non-slave States and Territories to return, at once, to their respective constituencies, and take immediate measures for the formation of a new Northern Republic."
No one can mistake this language. In 1859, the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society asserted the right of "secession," or withdrawal, as follows:-
"And, therefore, they [the people of Massachusetts] can and ought, in common with the people of every other free State, to withdraw from a government which, by both practice and question, is a grand conspiracy against justice, and a bulwark of the slave system."
At the same meeting, H. C. Wright offered the following:-
"Resolved, That if the government of Massachusetts cannot and will not protect its citizens from kidnappers, that government has ceased to answer the end for which it was created; and it is the right and duty of the people to alter or abolish it."
These extracts prove, beyond the power of controversy, that these "Disunion Abolitionists," mean what they might, used the strongest language in favor of "secession."
The government of Massachusetts is made up of two organic laws, -the Federal and the State Constitutions; and of two sets of agents,-the Federal and the State officers. This government, H. C. Wright truly asserts, "the people of Massachusetts have a right to abolish," and, consequently, they have the right to secede from their co-States.
But if I am mistaken, and the "Disunion Abolitionists" only meant to get the free States out of the Union, by going down on their knees, and begging the "national sovereignty" "to let them slide," then the whole scheme, from beginning to end, has been an arrant humbug-a miserable "farce," infinitely more ridiculous than that with which you charge the "Radical Abolitionists" for voting for Gerrit Smith.
In the second number of your review of friend Jones's editorial, you take the ground that the Union was made "perpetual"; and you evidently agree
<c02>
with your quotation from Webster, that "Secession, as a revolutionary right, is intelligible," and that, "as a right to be proclaimed in the midst of civil commotion, and asserted at the head of armies, it can be understood." Now, if this doctrine of " Absolutisms " he true, will yon give your readers the programmer of your "Northern Secession," and show them how you expected to get the free States " peaceably " out of a "perpetual"- Union, and "at the head of armies," as his is the only way to make secession " intelligible"?
It really seems to me that the savage determination of the Federal Government-your "national sovereignty"-to wipe out your "independent State sovereignties," and to hang for treason the leaders of secession, has opened the eyes of the mass of "Disunion Abolitionists," and induced them, from some motive, to ignore the secession policy which I have proved them heretofore to advocate.
Yours, for humanity, B. G. WEIGHT.
Rural, Ill, May 26, 1881. 

THE RARE CRISIS.
Now is the accepted time; now is the day of salvation." 
Never, since the discovery of America, and we might retrospect farther than that, and say, never since the exodus of the Israelites from Egypt, has the world seen, and if this be neglected, it will not soon see another such an opportunity as the present juncture affords for the extermination of the hideous incubus which so troubles the repose of this continent. So close union of parties and sects, in their views on the absorbing topic of the day, their readiness and eagerness to volunteer for the promotion of the enterprise, he immense army of willing young men already harnessed in the field for action, the inexhaustible resources to maintain them, the great corps de reserve prepared to advance if needed, the supply of arms, ammunition, food, and clothing, the adamantine fortress of courage lodged in the soldier's breast, with an impregnable wall of approbation among the serried masses at home, the co-operating Administration, with an experienced general at its command, and a certain-of much loyalty even at the South, -all conspire to raise a pyramid of coincidences rarely, if ever, witnessed by the human mind. In connection herewith also, at the very crisis itself, yesterday commenced the session of our Congress, specially called for the extraordinary occasion, to give its counsel and aid, to reflect the popular wish through the representatives, and to crown the enterprise of liberty with its sanction. The strong arm of flesh, iron, and gold, guided by an energetic will and a cool judgment, and nerved with determination to shake off the stagnating incubus in the gigantic struggle, unless palsied by some compromising treachery within our own citadel, will decide the day in favor of freedom and human rights,-the freedom of speech, thought, and action.
Now seems to be the time to do the work, and not to await the meshes of foreign interference, the discouragement of the soldiery, the diminution of resources, the discord of opinion in the home ranks as well as in the camp and among the officers there; now, while we are unanimous, and zealous, and anxious. Let us not wait till we become lukewarm, and lose our interest, become weary of the tedious monotony of delay and suspense. Our men are in the field, others are ready with uneasy swords, muskets, and cannon to join, money we have in abundance, the enemy are close at hand plotting our overthrow and hoping for foreign interposition, our legislators are in the Capitol, and the American army is within and around the metropolis for its protection. Let the work then begin, proceed, be pushed forward thoroughly and unflinchingly till the fangs of the black incubus have been dislodged forever from the heart of the Columbian Republic.
As we are at present, one thing is quite certain, that we have not only a republican form of government, but a republican government. It is not, however, quite so certain, if we yield an iota, either in diplomacy or in arms, to the foe, under what form of government we shall be, in a very short time hence. Let the dictator prevail, and how far shall we be from a military despotism? Some may smile; but, did they not once smile at the idea of disunion? A virtual despotism, under a false name, is more uncomfortable than an iron-bound, professed one. The former would be full of traps and pit-falls; the latter would have the eternal and inflexible caveat stamped upon its brow. Let us then strive to keep what we have, and even improve upon its former condition, that it may be an asylum for other people, a safety-valve for foreign nations, as well as our own home, a true land of the free, and a home of the brave. Let us secure for posterity a homogeneous republic. Let us not wait till our armies are withdrawn, and our appropriations have impoverished us, till the popular spirits flag, and new national issues arise to distract us, to engender reaction; if so, we must do it all over with treble toil, trouble, and expense, even if we can ever do it again as we now have things. Let us do it well; we have means, disposition, ability, occasion, and public harmony with us. Let us settle the question now and forever; strike valiantly home for the right, for the Union, for liberty, and for the world.
Strike for your hearthstones and your altars,
Strike for the banner of the free,
Strike traitors now deserving halters,
Strike for the cause of liberty.

Troy, N. Y., July 1, 1861. 
TO THE EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR:
Dear Sir,-A plain man, who has followed the mind of Theodore Parker closely and far enough to be himself one of the most thoughtful men in our midst, said to me, this morning, "Where is Wendell Phillips? I am not satisfied that he should be in this country. What can he do here now? and what could he not do, both for America and himself, if he were in England, just at the present time? It is very important that the British masses, who are right now, regarding us, should be kept right. Who could have such influence upon them as the 'greatest orator that speaks our language,' and ' the first of America gentlemen'? and one, as well, who would have the advantage of present popularity among them? He should rusticate there, this summer."
To me, these remarks seemed wise. I am too ardent, and, I trust, too appreciative an admirer of the great, good man in question, to conceive that I can proclaim to him the smallest part of his own mission; and I have too much faith in the anti-slavery thinkers of our country, to feel the least confidence that I can suggest to them anything that their reflections and conclusions have not anticipated. Yet I venture-from youthful ardor, perhaps-to submit to you the remarks of my friend. E. C.
We heartily "second the motion."-Ed. Lib.
LEWIS'S NORMAL INSTITUTE FOR PHYSICAL TRAINING. We desire to express our warmest commendation of this new enterprise, in regard to which a necessary particulars may be found in the Circular we have placed on our last page. As its inauguration has just taken place, and the course is limited to nine weeks, no time is to be lost by those who desire to possess the knowledge to be derived from it, in order that they may also be qualified to others. The field of usefulness presented is a broad one, and the opportunity to cultivate it an excellent one.
The following are the names of the President and Directors:-
C. C. Felton, LL. D., President; His Excellency John A- Andrew, Rev. E. N. Kirk, Hon. George S. Boutwell, Hon. Luther V. Bell, H. L Bowditch, M. D., S. G. Howe, M. D., Rev. S. K. Lothrop, Rev. James Freeman Clarke, Rev. Edward E. Hale, Rev. Warren Burton, N. T. Allen, Esq., George N. Bigelow, Esq., A. G. Boyden, Esq., Prof. A. Crosby, John R. Manley, Esq., Rev. A. A Miner, Hon. Robert C. Winthrop, Rev. George: M. Randall, Rev: E. O. Haven, Edward Jarvis, M. D., Hon. Alanson Hawley, Hon. Samuel E Sewall, T. C. Severance, Esq., Secretary, J.C. Burrage, Esq., A. A. Burrage, Otis Clapp Esq., Dio Lewis, M. D., Treasurer.
<c03>
THE WAR AND ITS PHASES.
Some one has said, "Ask the stupidest Englishman a question on politics, and you are sure of getting a sensible answer"; and I had come to regard it as a settled fact.
The English press has seemed to me the Sir Oracle of politics, whose speech no slaveholding dog, or dog with cotton in his mouth, could interrupt, with any credit to himself or satisfaction to his friends. But I have lived to hear the wisest oracle of them all uttering the stupidest things in regard to our national affairs, even half threatening us with a refusal to recognize our nationality, while the dog aforesaid becomes the noble mastiff, guarding his master's fireside from privateers or private robbers of all kinds, and waking the echoes of Albion with his deep bay.
We have marvelled at the breadth and solidity of that throne,-on which a good fair woman sits as on a rock whose base the mightiest of waters wash without disturbing,-and, at the same time, looked with a shudder at the terrible volcano sleeping under our own Government But we have lived to see that throne yield a hair's breadth to the pressure of cotton, while out own dear but guilty country seems about to vindicate her honor through the last, saddest alternative, and prove herself great enough to meet the last issue of the contest, which must be Liberty.
So much is slavery at war with all the instincts of humanity, that the least pulse-beat disturbs it is not a living, mortal foe, but a monster-a loathing corpse, felling away at the least motion of living and healthy blood. Nothing but complete national torpor or speedy death can now save it on the door of that great charnel, the American prison-house of slavery, our whole American people had thrown themselves, a heavy weight, to keep down the grim shapes that ever and anon peeped forth, and to shut in the stench which made a whole nation sick. We feared they would never rise, held there as they were by self-interest, even by the semblance of nationality itself.
But an hour came when the keepers said, "Here shall be your grave also! Upon your prostrate forms we will hurl a mountain that will crush you, and you shall never rise again! "Not till then did the people "rise as one man." Then the door flew open, and those shapes of dread, moving and gibbering, came forth, and a sight from which there was no hiding shamed the light of day. But I will not pursue the figure. It is revolting, though true.
Have you never been almost superstitiously impressed with the view of that inexorable fate which seems to drive the South onward to repel every overture of peace from the North-to repay every act of conciliation with the darkest treachery, the most in-human hatred? It is the great conflict between good and evil, ever going on, through storm and sunshine; the great law-"No compromise with sin"-working its own fulfillment, spite of all our selfish devices; vice hating and punishing with uttermost torture its selfish abettor.
You and many others would have saved our people from the bloody baptism of war, (or without it,) but they "would not"; no, they would not. The insolent voice is hardly silenced that threatened anti-slavery people with every penalty of the law, for refusing to join in the unnatural hunt of men, ere we behold the spectacle of slaves sheltered in our national forts, and the same voice sternly refuses to give them up. It is time they all begin with quite other promises.
Our General McClellan offers to aid in "suppressing insurrections," but the crafty Southern, taught distrust by his own guile, drowns the sweet words with brutal taunt and threat, and proceeds to teach him another lesson, which he must practice in self-defense. The Cincinnati Commercial says, bitterly, "We protected your detestable system; we threw over it the Northern aegis, and shielded it from the detestation of the world; now go your way, and see what will become of it." And the South, with a madness inconceivable to any but the Anti-Slavery seer, refuses to acknowledge Northern friendship, and to accept Northern help; refuses to believe in the monstrosity; and they are right.
No, superstition is not the word for the emotions excited by the mighty spectacle now before us. We see the ploughshare of our Father striking into the hard soil, breaking through all impediments laid by the selfish passions of men, and shall we not acknowledge His presence and overshadowing care?
It has been with indescribable feelings of thanksgiving and hope, that I have watched the reception given to Mr. Phillips's speech. The Ohio State Journal, the most high-toned of our Republican journals, copied and emphasized its most anti-slavery portions. The Tribune did it justice. I think the smaller fry of journals are not up to the mark of seeing anything but that the great champion of disunion now "goes for the war"; but they will, in time.
By the way, many people seem to labor under a chronic disposition to find war tendencies in the Liberator, and in the teachings of Abolitionists. I am often reminded of Miss Mudstone's haunting suspicion of a man in dark corners, closets and coal cellars, and her-clapping to of doors, under the impression that "she had him." For twenty years have I heard of this gallant-hearted gentleman as the bravest defender of the doctrines of Christianity, the truest foe of those evils and of those unregulated passions which culminate in war; and I confess that never has he seemed to me to plant himself on broader ground, and sweep with freer, grander vision the whole field of humanity, than in that speech in Music Hall. Perhaps he was a little carried away by the martial spirit that was bred in his veins, but did it make him forget his fealty to justice and truth? I think not. No one thinks so, I am bold to say. For one, I own to being proud that anti-slavery people show themselves capable of that love of country, so native to all gentle souls, and that large magnanimity which is ever ready to welcome every symptom of returning grace in a condemned sinner. E. A. L.

OUR DUTY AS ABOLITIONISTS,
The great question upon which the friends of humanity, the advocates of the abolition of slavery, seem to differ at the present time, is this:-Shall we countenance this war-a war which is waged ostensibly for the sole purpose of sustaining the Government and the Constitution-a Government whose foundations are cemented with the blood of the slave, and a Constitution which is " a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell"? Now, sir, I believe we cannot oppose this war, without standing in the way of the accomplishment of God's divine purpose. Ever since this war commenced until now, I have conscientiously opposed it, even when surrounded by a brutal, unreasoning and infuriated mob; opposed it, because I hoped and believed that the bitter cup of retribution might pass from us-that the dark pall of sorrow and mourning might not be spread over our hind-that the sound of wailing and lamentation might not be heard in our pleasant homes-that our hearthstones might not be darkened by grief and desolation; and I believed that all this could be avoided by a dissolution of the Union, which would involve the abolition of slavery. But, as I journeyed in this path, I saw a new light which showed me that I was vainly "kicking against the pricks" of God's immutable providence; that I was standing in the way of the accomplishment of God's retributive justice. It was all plain-the Northern people had failed to remember those in bonds as being bound with them; they had persisted in bowing the knee to Baal, and had made haste to shed innocent blood. Now it is necessary that they should learn the stern truth, that whoever puts a chain upon the limbs of his brother man, fastens the other end around his, own neck; that with what measure they mete out to others, it shall be measured to them again. "Even so would he have removed thee out of the strait, into a broad place where is no strait ness. But thou hast fulfilled the judgments of the wicked; judgment and justice take hold on thee." And now, as we shed tears of bitter anguish by the fresh graves at Lowell, and over the youthful hero of Alexandria, let
<c04>
us remember the injunction so long unheeded, to "break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free"; and let us resolve, if we have done iniquity, to do so no more.
The Northern people were accessories in the great crime of slaveholding: it was not possible that they could part from the Southern people as did Abraham-and Lot on the plain of Jordan; and they be left alone to suffer the punishment of this terrible sin. No! Even though fighting against God and humanity, yet are they instruments by which we shall be punished for transgressing his covenant and his law; even as a nation of idolaters was the instrument by which the chosen people of Israel were punished for transgressing the covenant of their fathers, and hearkening not unto the voice of their God.
Then, let us not oppose this war; let us not attempt to shield the wrong-doer from the inevitable consequences of sin; but, rather, let us strive to make it a solemn and instructive lesson to future generations to stand as a monument of our shame, to warn posterity to shun the rock upon which the bark of our national peace was shattered, and to remember that, if they will but do unto others as they would that others should do unto them, they shall spend their days in pleasure, and their years in peace. C. F. H.
West Parish, Marlboro', Mass.

A WORD FROM THE GREEN MOUNTAINS.
WEST CHARLESTON, (Vt.,) June 22, 1861.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON,-I left the smoke, and dust, and excitement of the city, last month, to see if I could find some peace among my native hills in Vermont.
This is one of the towns in which that distinguished friend of the slave, Sallie Holley, lectured when she was on her tour through Vermont. Her noble words left a good impression, I think, but there is a great deal to be done here yet.
The war seems to be the all-engrossing topic of conversation here, as with you; and as with you, some think there will be a reconstruction by some mean compromise; and others, that slavery will be abolished; I have less faith in the latter than I had at the opening of hostilities. Reflection and the tone of the press confirm me, more and more, in the opinion that there is not virtue. enough in the American people to maintain a republican form of government any great length of time. Intelligence without virtue is worse than heathendom. The whole talent of the South, and a great portion of the North, is enlisted against a government of just and equal laws. There is a feeling among the rich and influential, all over the world, that the laborer should be owned, instead of hired. The feeling is by no means confined to the South. The love of command is the ruling passion of all nations. To be a modern Democrat is to be a tyrant; to be a Republican, what is it? Ask the poor fugitives who have been sent back to bondage by Republican office-holders. "Cotton is king" yet, I think, and the duty of Abolitionists is still the same as it has been, whether we succeed or not. The country has not been warned enough yet of the fearful retribution that overhangs the land. A long and bloody contest is inaugurated upon us; devastation stares us in the face; and, as sure as effect follows cause, eighty years of oppression and crime will not be atoned for in a few short months. A million dollars a day is no small amount of money to pay for shooting each other; and the demoralizing, dehumanizing effect of camp life cannot be reckoned in dollars and cents. "I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is just"!
Yours, for the "irrepressible conflict,"
J. LEONARD.
P. S. The hard times are not felt so bad here as in Massachusetts. Grass looks well, and farmers are in hopes to have good beef to feed the soldiers on; but I fear the soldiers will have hard fare. J. L.

THE BLACK LAWS OF ILLINOIS. 
Nora, (111.) Juno 9, 1861.
<illegible> Anti-Slavery has a few friends in this part of the West, who feel desirous that the Black Laws of Illinois should be "wiped out."
No colored person is allowed to stay in the State (if horn out of it) over two years, without being subject to fine and imprisonment, and no person with Negro blood in his veins is allowed to testify in a court of justice. Who shall be the means of blotting out from the statute book of Illinois this infamous law? The Republicans will not do it: their time is all taken up in taking care of their party. Who, then, are the men and women to take hold of the Anti-Slavery cause in Illinois, and carry it through to its sure triumph? The answer to my mind is plain-the old "Garrisoning Abolitionists." I know something about this class of Abolitionists. Having been born and bred in the old Bay State, and having been a subscriber to the Liberator for twenty-five years, "I know whereof I affirm." As old Deacon Kent, of Danvers Port, used to say, "I can stand as a witness to these things." At an early period, we used to go into the school districts, and hold our meetings in the school-houses, and there preach the unsearchable riches of immediate emancipation; and the people heard us gladly, and became converted. I speak of Essex county; other counties did the same thing, and the State was redeemed.
Now, this is precisely what is needed to be done in Illinois, and it can be done; but the Garrisoning must do it. One object of my writing is to speak of the visit of Judge Tabor, of Independence, Iowa, (formerly of Shelburne Palls, Franklin County, Massachusetts.) The Judge gave us one lecture here in Nora on Anti-Slavery, in the Congregational church, to great acceptance. He is an excellent lecturer, and an excellent man-has great knowledge of history-states facts in the best possible manner, and backs them up with unimpeachable testimony-is witty, and tells an anecdote at the right time. Now, we want just such a man as the Judge is to go through the State of Illinois, and do the work thoroughly. It is rarely that we find a man in the West of such large talents as Judge Tabor, who is willing to take hold of the Anti-Slavery cause, and labor in it with such ability as he does. His whole soul is in the work. C. B. Campbell, of Clinton, Iowa, accompanies Judge Tabor, and was here with him. Brother Campbell is a real working Abolitionist, a good speaker and singer, plays well on the melodeon, and sings Anti-Slavery songs very finely. Friend Campbell was formerly a Congregational minister, and settled over a good society; but he was too free a spirit to be bound by sectarian cords. He is an excellent man to get up a meeting, and work in the cause of the slave.
I believe, friend Garrison, that the old, fearless and pure Anti-Slavery work ought to be carried right straight along, notwithstanding the war seems to take up the people's attention just at this time.' J. P. HARRIMAN.
A SCALPING PARTY. The Hessians at Columbus trampled and spit on our flag. This was an insult to us, and is our quarrel. Our brave Tennessee boys want the opportunity to attend to the vile Cairo cowards, when they return to make the people of Columbus rue their devotion to the secession cause. They will scalp every one of them, if there is hair enough on their stupid pates to grab.-Memphis Avalanche.
The Memphis Appeal notices the departure from there of Brig. Gen. McLain, Col. Prentiss of Ky., and Col. Jeff. Thomson of Mo., for White River, Arkansas, taking with them a large quantity of arms. A special dispatch to the same paper says Bishop Polk has been assigned a command as Major-General of the Lower Mississippi!
A Paris correspondent says: "The public opinion of France, so far as it has been pronounced, has been, in the main, all on the side of the American Government.' The only journal which has consistently and persistently taken the rebel side is the Pays, edited by, Grainer; de Coassignee; and I have already stated to your readers the ground of his love for slavery and slave governments. His antecedents it are understood here, and his assertions and argument; pass for very, little."
<c05>
ANOTHER VICTIM. The Evening Gazette mentions the arrival in this city of Mr. Winters, an intelligent mechanic, a Bostonian, who has lately been driven from Mobile. He was employed by the Government on the works in Mobile Bay, and at the commencement of the troubles was compelled to join the Home Guard, and work "on the rebel fortifications. He was paid in confederate bills, which he destroyed as worthless. He was then suspected, and was required to take the oath of allegiance; but this he refused to do, and was then ordered to leave the city in half an hour. Without being allowed to see his wife and child, or to send a message to them, lie was put on board the mail-boat for New Orleans, with scarcely any clothes. Watching his chances, he secreted himself in a steamer for St. Louis, and so escaped, after many hardships, (having only $12 in money when he left,) he arrived here. He has no knowledge of his wife and child, and they are probably ignorant of him. He confirms the statement that there are many Union men in the Southern army who would not serve, Unless compelled to do so. Mr. Winters is in great distress, and in want of work. -Boston Traveler.
PARTICULARS OF MAJOR WINTHROP'S DEATH. 
During the battle at Great Bethel, Major Winthrop was distinctly seen for some time leading a body of men to the charge, and had mounted a log, and was waving his sword, and shouting to his men to " Come on!" when a North Carolina drummer-boy borrowed a gun, leaped on the battery, and shot him deliberately in the breast. He fell nearer to the enemy's works than any other man went during the fight Among the enterprises in which the Major had previously participated, was the 'celebrated expedition of Lieut. Strain, in Central America, the hardships and privations of which, are historical.
RECOVERY OF THE BODY OF MAJOR WINTHROP.-The Baltimore Clipper gives the statement from one who went out with the flag of truce for Major Winthrop's body:-
"After waiting some hours, a file of soldiers were seen approaching, bearing with them the body of Major Winthrop. It was in closed in an India rubber cloak, and very much decomposed. Upon examination, it was found that the Major's death had been caused by a Minnie bullet wound in the left breast. Col. Marauder informed the friends of the deceased that he had been buried with all the honors of war by the Confederate troops, and that they had also buried with military honors thirty of the federal troops who had been found upon the battle-field. When the body of Major Winthrop was placed in the colon, Col. Marauder and his men removed their caps, and appeared to feel keenly the solemnity of the moment. After the coffin had been secured, Col. Magruder and Lieut. Butler both shook hands cordially, and before parting, Col. Magruder remarked to Lieut. Butler, ' We part as friends, but on the field of battle we meet as enemies.' Each party then retraced their steps to their quarters. The body arrived in this city at 5 o'clock this morning, and was immediately dispatched to New York."
LIEUT. REBEL'S LAST LETTER. On the Sunday before his death, Lieut. Greble wrote as follows:-
"I hope that I may be given courage and good judgment enough to do well my duty in any circumstances in which I may be placed. As tar as I can see, there is not much danger to be incurred in this campaign. At present, both sides seem better inclined to talking than fighting. If talking could settle it, by giving the supremacy forever to the General Government, I think it would be better than civil war; but that talking can settle it, I do not believe."
Just before starting for the battle in which he was killed, he wrote on a piece of paper, in pencil, for his wife:-
"May God bless you, my darling, and grant you a happy and peaceful life. May the good Father protect you and me, and grant that we may long live happily together. God give me strength, wisdom and courage. If I die, let me die as a brave and honorable man; let no stain of dishonor hang over me or you."
Proceedings in the East Tennessee Convention have been received here. All the counties of that portion of the State, except Rhea, are represented. A declaration of grievances quotes facts showing that the right of free suffrage has been obstructed by a disunion government; that they had been subjected to insults, the flag fired on and torn down, houses rudely entered, families insulted, women and children shot by merciless soldiers, citizens robbed and assassinated, and in view of these facts it is resolved that the action of the State Legislature, in passing the Declaration of Independence and forming a military league with the Southern Confederacy, is unconstitutional, and not binding upon loyal citizens; that in order to avoid a conflict with their brethren, a committee be appointed to prepare a memorial, asking the Legislature to consent to the formation of East Tennessee into a separate Otto.
Arrangements are being made for nothing elections in the counties of East Tennessee to choose delegates to a General Convention to be held at Kingston.
BALTIMORE, July 1. Since 2 o'clock this morning, startling proceedings have been going on here. Detachments of artillery and infantry have been sent to various sections in the city, and are now posted at Monument square, Exchange place, and 8th ward, Broadway, and other points. Before daylight, all the members of the Board of Police Commissioners, except the Mayor, had been arrested, and sent to Fort McHenry. There are a multitude of rumors as to the cause of this sudden movement, but there is nothing definite. It is said a plot was discovered of an intended outbreak.
Marshal Kane, of the Baltimore police, on the morning of the 27th ult. Banks, for giving aid to the enemies of the Government. Gen. Banks issued a proclamation naming John B. Kenly as Provost Marshal, and superseding the powers of the Police Commissioners. Kenly is to exercise complete control over the Police Department until some known loyal citizen is appointed to act as Marshal. The Police Commissioners have issued a protest, and virtually disbanded the force, and Kenly has sworn in a new force.
ARREST OF A FEMALE SPY. The Michigan Regiment, near Washington, has arrested a young damsel of eighteen years. She gave her name as Alice Kingsbury, and said she was a native of Washington City. Upon her person was found an accurate diagram of the fortifications on Sorter's Hill, the position of the guns being marked, as well as the weak points. She had been permitted to remain in the vicinity for some days, but suspicion being aroused, was arrested. She is in close custody.
CAMP BUTLER, NEWPORT NEWS, JUNE 25. A friend of mine came from the fort, last night, They captured and brought in a $600,000 prize. She was a new clipper ship, with 40,000 stand of arms, a lot of brass rifled cannon, and any quantity of ammunition. She was captured by the Quaker City, of Charleston harbor, just as she was going over the bar.
DEATH OF CAPTAIN INGRAHAM. Accounts from Charleston report the death, on the 10th ult. ,of Capt. Duncan N. Ingra ham, formerly of the United States Navy. He figured, some years ago, in the famous case of Martin Kozsta. He deserted his flag, recently, in its danger, though he declared he would
never fight against it.
Two regiments of Alabamians and some Mississippians reached Harper's Ferry this morning, and destroyed the balance of the trestle-work of the rail-road bridge. They then came over to the Maryland shore, seizing all the boats they could lay their hands on, either breaking them up or taking them over the river. All the Union men of Harper's Ferry were again driven out by them.
J. B. Knott, Attorney General of Missouri, is now a prisoner at the arsenal. The Democrat's correspondence says the Union Home Guards, at the fight at Cole Camp, on the 19th ult., lost 20 killed or wounded, and 23 taken prisoners. The latter were taken to Warsaw, and liberated, on taking the oath not to bear arms against the Southern Confederacy. The Union force was 500, and the rebels 100 mounted and 200 infantry. The rebel loss is reported at 32.
All the roads leading in the direction to Washington are obstructed by cuts, barricades of trees, &c. The rebels were in hourly-expectation of an attack by the Union troops, and slept on their arms for ten days.
PHILADELPHIA, June 29. Our citizens have provided Five thousand soldiers, en route to Washington, with collations during the last 24 hours. 
Gen. Pillow has issued a proclamation, declaring that by the law of the State of Tennessee, all debts due the North are seized and sequestered to the State.
The Memphis Avalanche has an account of the seizure of the steamer City of Alton, and the probable capture of a large number of Cairo troops.
The recent repulse of the rebels at Edwards's Ferry is said to have been a serious affair for them, and it is reported that Lieu Has-brook's howitzer shells killed 60.
A dispatch from Washington states that a spy was arrested in the Rhode Island camp, and a quantity of arsenic found in his pockets. It was with much difficulty that the officers saved him from the summary vengeance of soldiers.
The Government can now concentrate 70,000 men in the vicinity of the Capital in three hours.
<c06>
FATAL AND DISASTROUS TORNADO. A late tornado at Campaign city and county, I'll, destroyed property of the value of nearly half a million dollars; while five persons were killed, and a number seriously wounded.
SHOCKING RAILROAD ACCIDENT. The express train from New York to Boston, over the New Haven and Hartford Railroad on Saturday, crushed three boys who were on the track at the depot it New Haven, so badly that two of them died.
MR. RUSSELL'S REPORT CONFIRMED. The New Orleans Crescent gives us an account of no less than five murders and several shootings and stabbings in that city in one day, together with robberies and assaults innumerable.
The Delta, publishes the following concerning the condition of society in New Orleans:-
"Personal security is fast becoming a matter of doubtful assurance. Men of high and low estate are met upon the street, assaulted, and in many cases murderously used, with an insolent disregard of law which argues a conviction of escape from punishment."
Mr. Davis, an artist employed by the Harpers, who has been traveling through the South with W. H. Russell, of the London Times, is likely to esurience some inconvenience in his further peregrinations through that country. The Charleston Courier of the 7th.ult says:-
"The courtesies and facilities properly extended to the gentleman who represents the London Times should not be abused and prostituted by a parasite hireling of such a contemptible New York Picture Magazine. Let the people of the South, in welcoming Dr. Russell, inform Mr. Davis that there is room for him elsewhere."
The Constitution of the Confederate States is unpopular in Georgia, because of the absence of a declaration making the three-fifths black rule the basis of representation. The Augusta Chronicle says, without such a basis, the Constitution cannot be ratified.
Judge Liery, 72 years of age, and a strong Unionist and a slaveholder, was tied to a tree by some of Gov. Jackson's men, in Missouri, and his body literally riddled with bullets.

MASSACHUSETTS A. S. SOCIETY. 
Collections by E. H. Heywood.
Weymouth, $3; Music Hall, 20; R. H. Ober, to redeem pledge, 10; Deborah Kimball (donation,) 1; Charles Babcock, (do.) 50c $36 50
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasure. Boston, July 1, 1861.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
Reference.-David Thayer, M. D.; Lather Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., portland, Me.
Rooms No. 20 Bulfinch street. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
PLEASANT BOARDING, ON FAVORABLE TERMS.-Mrs. H. S. DENHAM can accommodate a gentleman and wife, or two or three single gentlemen, with peasant rooms, on favorable terms, at 75 (formerly 33) Beach street, near the Worcester Depot, Boston. A few transient boarders can also be accommodated.
A. T. FOSS will speak at
Hyannis, Sunday, July 7.
Osterville, Sunday, July 14.
Centrevillo, Tuesday, Sunday, July 16.
Harwich, Sunday, July 21.
WM. WELLS BROWN will speak upon The Present Crisis and "The Irrepressible Negro," at West Wrentham, on Sunday, July 7, at 10 o'clock, A. M., and at Sheldon vile, at 5 o'clock, P. M.
A. M. POWELL, an Agent of the American A. S. Society, will speak at
Red Rock, N. Y., Sunday, July 7.
The P. O. Address of Mrs. Caroline H. Dall is changed from Bradford street to No. 5 Ashland Place, Boston. The Anti-Slavery Standard and the New York Christian Inquirer will please copy.

New Dress Goods
-AT-
HEBBARD'S,
365 Washington Street
Figured Irish Poplins, 62 cts. cost 87 cts.
French checked do. 50 cts. cost 62 cts.
French striped and figured do. 50 cts. cost 62 cts.
Double with Mozambiques, 37 & 50 cts. 62 A 75 cts.
Double width Groy Goods, 25 cts. cost 50 cts.
Single width Grey Goods, 8 & 10 cts. cost 9412 cts.
Best American Prints, 62 cts. cost 82 cts.
Berages, silk and wool, 17 cts. cost 32 cts.
Qrgandio Muslins, 13 cts. former
price, 27 cts.
Common Muslins, 8 cts. cost 12 cts.
Double width Challie, 25 cts. cost 35 cts. Boston, June 7.

Look at the Prices!
-AT-
HEBBARB'S I
365 Washington Street.
Block French Lace Mantillas, $4 cost $8
Black Silk Mantillas, 6 cost 10
Black Silk Basquencs, 12 cost I6
Cloth Garments, 5 cost 8
Heavy Plaid Silks, for Mantillas, 1 cost 1.50
Heavy Plaid Silks, 60 cts. Cost 90 cts.
Rich Chene Silks, 75 cts. cost $1.00 
Plain Silks at like discount, Boston, June 7.

Marking Down
-AT-
HEBBARD'S,
365 Washington Street.
Look at PRICES!
Mourning Pino Apple sets, $2.30 cost 3.00
Valancieno Medallion sets, 3.50 cost 5.00
Cambric and Muslin sets, 1.00 cost 2.50
Collars, 25, 37, 1.50 cost 50, 62, 1.75
Linen sets, 20 cts.-Collars 6ts. Boston, June 7.

"IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING"
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET, 
where she will attend to all diseases of the-Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark, which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country, They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three- years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
Call and see some of the beat references in the country. No charge for information.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
June 14.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
TWO PICTURES OF THE SOUTH.
"Look on this picture, and then on, this."-HAMLET.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
DEAR SIR-I take the liberty to send yon a couple of songs. One is from the pen of Gilmore Simms, an exquisite production, but full of that hyperbole for which the ”sons of the South" are famous. Probably you may have met with it before. The other is a different version of the same subject, in which I have endeavored to present a more truthful picture;-and I think that you will admit that, if my production is" inferior; in poetry, it surpasses that of Simms for truth. Thinking this might be of some interest to your readers-as giving the ”lights and shadows," the bright and the dark side of the picture-I send them to you for insertion in your paper, or otherwise, as you may see fit.
I remain, yours, &c., G. E. D.

SONG OF THE SOUTH.
I.
Oh! the South, the sunny, sunny South,
Land of true feeling, land forever mine!
I drink the kisses of her rosy month,
And my heart swells as with a draught of wine;
She brings me blessings of maternal love;
I have her smile, which hallows all my toil!
Her voice persuades, her generous smiles approve,
She sings me from the sky, and from the soil!
Oh! by her lonely pines, that wave and sigh-
Oh! by her myriad flowers, that bloom and fade-
By all the thousand beauties of her sky,
And the sweet solace of her forest shade;
She's mine-she's ever mine;
Nor will I aught resign
Of what she gives me, mortal or divine;
Will sooner part
With life, hope, heart-
Will die-before I fly!
II.
Oh! love is hers: such love as ever flows
In souls where leaps affection's living tide;
She is all fondness to her friends; to foes,
She glows a thing of passion, strength and pride;
She feels no tremors when the danger's nigh;
But the fight over, and the victory won,
How, with strange fondness, turns her loving eye
In tearful welcome on each gallant son!
Oh! by her virtues of the cherished past-
By all her hopes of what the future brings-
I glory that my lot with her is cast,
And my soul flushes, and exulting sings;
She's nine-she's ever mine;
For her will I resign
All precious things-all placed upon her shrine;
Will freely part
With life, hope, heart-
Will die-do aught but fly! GILMORE SIMMS.
SONG FOR THE SOUTH-[PARODIED.]
I.
Oh! the South, the sunny, sunny South,
Land of slavery, land of wails and wo;
I hear the curses issuing from her mouth,
And my heart swells with indignation's glow!
She brings me tears from the maternal eye,
And piteous moans that harrow up my soul;
Her barbarous deeds offend the gracious sky,
And her fair name illumes th' accursed roll!
Oh! by the myrind tears of sundered kin,-
Oh! by the miseries that on her wait,-
By all the thousand horrors of her sin,
And the dread future of her fate;
She is not mine;-no, no, not mine;
Give me the inclement clime
Where Freedom reigns, and I
Will envy not the chivalrous sons
Of sunny South, those valiant (?) ones
Who never fly!
II.
Ah! Hate is hers; such hate as ever springs
From wretched hearts deprived of Freedom's joy;
And round her all the horrors slavery brings,
And burning wrongs accumulate to destroy.
Nor long shall retribution slumber in repose,*
Or fulsome boasts pollute th' indignant sky;
Fate's ominous clouds, surcharged with dreadful woes,
Thick gathering round, proclaim her doom draws high!
Oh! by the fate of the unhappy blacks,-
Oh! by the cruel blows, and broken ties,-
And by their groans, and lacerated backs,-
By these, and more, that loud for-vengeance cries;
She is not mine; no, no, not mine;
Thank God! the inclement clime
Where Freedom reigns sublime,
And manhood swells the breast,
And all mankind is blest,
Is mine! is mine! G. E. D.
*These lines were written shortly after the Brown episode, and the fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth lines of the second verse were originally written thus:-
5. She quakes with terror whenever danger's near;
6. The color-fled her cheeks when Brown was nigh;
7. The danger past, and nothing left to fear,
8. Her fulsome boasts pollute th' indignant sky!
In consequence of later events, the lines in the test have been substituted in their stead.
June, 1861. G. E. D.
For the Liberator.
COME UP HIGHER!
Come, give us your hand, ye down-trodden million,
You've well earned your freedom from every-day toil;
Come, now, take your seat in Nature's pavilion,-
Mechanic, and seaman, and son of the soil.
come, give us your hand, your weary back straighten;
Step up on that stair; now, up on another;
Continue your rise, and your stand daily heighten,
Assert yourself equal with mankind, your brother.
Come, give us your hand, let us help you yet higher;
Look around on the scene fabricated by you;
This spectacle grand, which all nations admire,
To both, labor and art is assuredly due.
Come, give us your hand, step up a notch still:
The spade and the chisel, the steam and the pen,
Are the powers that move both mountain and mill;-
The laborer's the cream of all living men.
Come, give us your hand, you re reared up this huge pilo;
You've built us good houses, and cleared up our land;
Your created wealth has made all the world smile:
Stand erect on the platform, and give us your hand.
Come, give us your hand, you keystone the arches,
The structure of nations reposes on you;
You keep up the many in life's rugged marches,
While the reins have been seized by the indolent few.
Come, give us your hand, come, sovereign brothers,
Here's the signal of welcome to all of true worth;
We've one common Parent, the God of our mothers,
The great master Mechanic of heaven and earth.
Boston. W.
For the Liberator.
THE VICTIM OF SLAVERY.
Sits the negro in his cottage,
Long by Slavery's band oppress;
With the star of Freedom lighting
Up his sad and aching breast.
Round he looketh on the chosen
Of his young and tender years;
And adown his swarthy features
Stream the bitter, burning tears.
Rest his glances on his children,
Gathered fondly round his knee,
And his heart itself is nerving
To he happy, to be free.
Sons, too long outcast and trodden
Mid the cannon's deafoning roar,
There is hope the hour is coming
When your suffering shall be o'er.
It must die-that monster hugest-
Though by Wealth and Power fed,
For the sons of Freedom hate it,
And will trample in its head.
SYLVESTER.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE RIGHT OF SECESSION.
DEAR SIR-As you have given your readers the two sermons of Messrs. Beecher and Phillips, in favor of the war, and against the ”right of secession," and also referred them to the article of William Goodell, as ”a thorough refutation of the doctrine," will you do the few Abolitionists, who take an opposite view of this vital question, the favor to republish, (from a pamphlet sent to your address,) ”A Northern Plea for the Right of Secession,” by my friend, George W. Bassett, of Ottawa, Illinois?
The ”Plea" would occupy about the same space in the Liberator as the two sermons of Messrs. Beecher and Phillips. We would be thankful for its publication, even if divided to suit your convenience as to space.
The articles, which I requested you to publish from the Anti-Slavery Bugle, it is frankly admitted were below the mediocrity of the communications from your numerous correspondents, in style, arrangement, &c. I make no pretensions, whatever, to scholarship, as all the schooling my worthy, though poor, pioneer parents were able to bestow upon their children was acquired, ragged and barefoot, in a ”log cabin" in the wilds of the Northwestern Territory, and of the State of Ohio.
But this objection will not hold good against my friend Bassett. He is a scholar, and this production of his pen, so far from being a disgrace to the columns of even the Atlantic Monthly, would, if published therein, add another literary and political gem to the many which already adorn its pages.
But you will perhaps ask, ”Why should secession Abolitionists seek through a loyal anti-slavery journal to publish their unpopular views?" I answer, because we seek-anxiously seek-to reason with our fellow-abolitionists, and, if possible, to retain their good opinion, by an honest effort to convince them that, so far from being traitors, the Union, based upon the immutable principles of eternal justice and man's imprescriptibly right to self-government, has no firmer friends under the broad canopy of heaven than the secession Abolitionists. True, we are every where ill-spoken of; denounced by one class of our fellow-citizens, directly, and by another indirectly, as traitors, and threatened by the former class with the halter, for daring to express our honest convictions of ”right and wrong."
I have before me a letter from a friend in Illinois, dated May 11th, in which he says, ”I received yours of April the 3d, (remailed at-,) yesterday. In connection with it, I received a note from my sister, warning me for the world not to return home, as the town that I have done more than any other man to build up, physically and morally, would not listen to, or even tolerate me, one day. Oh, my brother! can it be possible that we are to be exiled for no crime, save preaching the doctrine that men are greater than their works-that God made man, and man made the Union; and that the Union,-man's work,-was not so great as man, God's work? Before I left-, the ’reign of terror’ had set in, and all hell appeared to be let loose. The main church in the town had the ’stars and stripes' afloat from the steeple, and the building was, as brother - phrases it, converted into a recruiting office. Oh, such is the religion of this God-accursed and Godforsaken nation!"
I could give several cases of the most brutal and savage threats against the life of individuals who question the policy of this war.
The Republican journal at Rock Island unblushingly heads an attempt to hang a supposed ”secessionist, who," it says, ”had to run for his life, and hide, from his pursuers in a ”waste-house," as ”Moline patriotism," or ”The patriotism of Moline." Moline, let it be remembered, has been proverbial for its Abolitionism.
This same Republican journal, in the same editorial leader, even urges the ”hanging of cowards;" and yet I have to find the first man, who is not a Democrat, who condemns its course, or withdraws his patronage from a sheet so vile, and so dangerous to liberty and life.
Now, is it any wonder that our lives are in imminent peril when the Republican journals, which so lately professed to be the champions of ”free speech, free soil, and free men," unblushingly incites the ferocious spirit of the mob, in a whiskey-drinking community, to the perpetration of the vilest crimes that disgraced humanity during the ”Reign of Terror" in France?
In order to show the predominance of mobocracy in this region, let me state that a reliable individual, residing in the vicinity, has intoned me that the ladies (I will not disgrace the name of woman by associating her with a mob) of Deanington and vicinity have threatened to tar, feather and rail-ride a military captain, one of their own professed anti-slavery Republicans, about some difficulty in the organization, or the acceptance by the Governor, of a military company.
Two years since, I lectured, by invitation, for a ”Harmonial Association," in an adjoining county, and, of course, chose my subject, which was, Anti-Slavery. Taking the position that the Federal Constitution was, according to the ”plain sense and intention of the words used in that instrument," an anti-slavery document, I admitted, on the other hand, that, as always administered, it was ”a covenant with death and an agreement with hell." And I urged upon the consideration of the audience the fact; that every man, who did not believe the Federal Constitution to be an anti-slavery document, and voted accordingly, was unquestionably bound, if slavery be a crime, by the most solemn obligation to God and humanity, to trample it in the dust, and to go for ”secession" from a Union which bound the free States to be the ”jailors and constables of slavery." At the close of the lecture, the gentleman, who brought me the invitation, informed me that the audience, respectable for both numbers and intelligence, ”thought that they got more than they bargained for." They, however, treated me courteously. Since the commencement of this war to maintain the ”covenant" which I then denounced, the same individual, a professedly anti-slavery Republican, informed me, in no very flattering, if not in unfriendly terms, that if I ever came back to Red Oak Grove, and lectured as I had done, they would lynch me. And, in fact, so changed are the times, and so terrible is the ”reign of terror," that it would cost me my life to attempt to lecture and distribute Anti-Slavery Tracts, as I did last winter. The remainder of the Tracts sent to me by Mr. May are, however, useless, as ”others are doing the work of the Abolitionists" so thoroughly, that they, impatient of results, like the ”Liberty," the ”Free Soil" and the ”Free Democratic" parties, have taken tickets in the Republican consolidated national lottery at Washington, under the management of Wendell Phillips's ”SLAVE HOUND," Seward & Co. The advertised scheme of this mammoth lottery consists of the enormous and alarming capital stock of eighty millions of dollars,-"Almighty Dollars,"-with the rare capacity of nearly doubling its capital every decade, while the ”covenant with death and the agreement with hell" can be maintained. The grand capital prize in this magnificent lottery scheme, ”conceived in sin and brought forth in iniquity," is the perpetuation of the above ”covenant," and the consequent perpetuity of slavery as a ”State Right," which the owners of this lottery told us at Chicago was ”essential to the perfection and endurance of our political fabric." The capital money prize is $100,000 to the fortunate holder of the ticket endorsed, ”The keenest-scented blood-Bound North of Mason and Dixon's line."
The other prizes are in a descending scale until they reach $10 to the holder of a ticket endorsed, ”Sent the fugitive back to the hell of slavery, right or wrong."
The blanks in this lottery are ”Secession and the overthrow of slavery"; and yet the ”Disunion Abolitionists," instead of consistently taking the slave
<c03>
States at their word, are unconsciously aiding the pro-slavery managers to turn the wheel so as to draw the grand prize, which will necessarily perpetuate slavery, and cheat hem out of the ”blanks," which they have heretofore coveted, as the, noblest prize which humanity could win.
B. G. WEIGHT.
P. S. Since writing the above, it seems that I am under the ban of a military company at Deanington for distributing "secession pamphlets." I have been warned by a man, who passed through, that place and vicinity, and heard the threats from numerous individuals, that this heroic company intends to give me a call next Saturday, and by the terror of a noosed rope, to force me to retract my belief in the right of State secession, and to compel me to swear to support the Union, when they know, from my lectures at their Lyceum, that I have always declared the Union, as the Constitution is administered, to be ”a covenant with death and an agreement with hell," which every man, who is not a Radical Abolitionist, should indignantly trample in the dust.
Did I not intuitively and implicitly believe in the unlawfulness of even defensive war, and had I not an abiding faith in the philosophical and heroic virtue of Jesus, that ”whoso loseth his life shall save it," I would arm myself to meet this heroic military mob. Nay, more, I would not visit one of bur villages, or even one of my Republican neighbors, without being armed with a bowie knife and a six-shooter.
Rural, III., June 2, 1861.
THE LOGIC OF ”COUTRABAND OF WAR."
The Pionier of June 6, commenting on Mr. Cameron's instructions to General Butler in regard to the fugitives at Fortress Monroe, says:
"Only in America is it possible, in times like these, for a banker, who knew how to wage war only upon money-bags, to be made Minister of War; but if the war, contrary to logic and to right, can supply the qualifications of a soldier, Mr. Cameron gives promise of marvelous performances in his department. Let us look a little closer at his Order.
'The Government,' it means, in other words, ’cannot recognize the rebellion of a State against its authority, but must, spite of the rebellion, recognize its own obligation to respect the laws of this State, and, among these laws, of course the one which makes cattle of men is pre-eminent.' But, we ask, is there in Virginia a law which permits Mr. Cameron to send troops into that sovereign State, and to rule there as lord and master? He derives this right from the federal Constitution and the state of rebellion, and thereby confesses that it is not the laws of the State which are binding upon him, but the purpose of the war, in which he has the authority of the Constitution. Why, then, should those State laws be binding in regard to slavery, especially since this constitutes the source of the rebellion? From the fact that Virginia is in the hands of the rebels, it is fairly established that the State of Virginia, whose laws were formerly entitled to consideration, no longer exists at all. How can Mr. Cameron recognize the State of Virginia into existence, when it no longer recognizes itself? But, as far as the obligations of the federal government are concerned, if the latter, spite of the rebellion and the war undertaken against it, declares itself still bound to the recognition of slavery that exists by Virginia law, surely all the more must it be bound to recognize the laws of the Union which exist for Virginia, and among these stands pre-eminent the Fugitive Slave Law. If Mr. Cameron, because of the state of war, can be acquitted of the duty of surrendering fugitive slavery as the laws of the Union enjoin, then most certainly he can also be acquitted of the duty of recognizing slavery, as the laws of Virginia enjoin. How will he escape this contradiction?
Where there is no logic, either honor or understanding is wanting. The policy which reckons Mr. Cameron amongst its supporters is lacking in both, and the poor slaves must shortly suffer for it. He calls them ’persons,' but orders them to be retained as ’contraband.' Were he candid, he would say: To surrender the ’persons' to their write these are in arms against us would be too outrageous, and would excite discontent among the soldiers; therefore, we will postpone the rendition till the ’masters' have been reduced to subjection, in order to console them for their fate. But we must restore-capital and interest. Hence the keeping of accounts."
THE PRINCIPLES OF PEACE.
ROCHESTER, (N. Y.) June 16, 1861.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
MY DEAR FRIEND-I was much cheered by reading your article in the last Liberator, headed, ”What of your Peace Principles now?"-for it seems to me that there has been a sorrowful departure from those principles by many who have, heretofore, professed to believe in them. I believe there never was a time when it was more necessary to hold up those principles high-especially now that we are all hoping that, in the contest now going on, in some way the liberation of the slave will grow out of it; and therefore, a great temptation is presented for the lovers of freedom to take part in it.
When I adopted the principles of Peace, it was from a conviction that human life is too sacred to be taken away, under any pretext; that the strongest power in the universe for the doing away of moral evil is moral truth; and that human life and human liberty will never be secure, so long as one human being is justified in taking the life of another human being for any cause. I have believed that the world was steadily progressing, and that the teachings of Jesus were far in advance of those of Moses; but some of our modern reformers, who have professed peace principles for a life-time, and are now preaching Progression, have discovered that the law of Moses is in advance of the precepts and example of Jesus. At the meeting of the Friends of Human Progress, held a few days ago at Waterloo, one of the prominent objects of which has heretofore been to promote peace principles, strong war speeches were made; and I was somewhat amused at the reasons that one dear old Friend gave for a change in his views. He had discovered that slaveholders were ”lions and tigers," and that it is right-to shoot ”wild beasts." So that we have only to cry ”tiger," or ”mad dog," and we have made a man an outlaw! Oh! when will men learn to be governed by sound principles instead of popular excitement?
Yours, for Liberty and Progress,
BENJAMIN FISH:
PEACE TESTIMONY.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
It seems to me that, if ever there was a time when the true friends of peace should report themselves," now is that time.
With all my soul, I respond a hearty ”Amen!" to brother Love of Philadelphia. I also feel it my duty to say, that I have not a particle of sympathy for the principles of brother Madox. I hope to hear extensively from the true peace men and women everywhere. Thank God for ”another sifting"!
Yours, for the redemption of man,
SEWARD MITCHELL.
Cornville, (Me.) June 20, 1861.
A FACETIOUS SOUTHERN STATE PAPER. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Confederate States, in a recent labored report, perpetrate the following excellent official joke: ”Our late associates in the Government of the United States have seized the whole of the United States navy, one half of which belongs to us, and design using it against us." The U. S. Government is actually charged with seizing its; own ships!
SOLDIERS' NEWSPAPER The printers in the 5th Pennsylvania regiment, at Alexandria, have started a newspaper devoted to the interests of the soldier and the Union. It is printed on the press of the Alexandria Sentinel, formerly a secession sheet.
<c04>
LEWIS'S FORMAL INSTITUTE FOR PHYSICAL TRAINING.
This Institution Is presumed to be the first ever established to educate guides in Physical Culture; and it is believed that, of all schools, none is more demanded by the exigencies of the times. Teachers, managers of schools, the people themselves, are awakening to a vivid perception of this vital want, and beginning earnestly to inquire how it can be best supplied.
Books, discussing the subject in some of its various aspects, have long occupied a place in our libraries; but we have failed to be improved by them, chiefly because Physical Culture, especially in the department of Gymnastics, is one of those arts which demand the living teacher. We need a college, in which persons may be taught both the art and the science of physical training.
After due consultation with leading educators, it was lately resolved to organize such a college; and that resolve, under a statute of the Commonwealth, has now been carried into effect.
Readers of our educational journals are, to some extent, familiar with Dr. Lewis's system of Gymnastics; since, in connection with his appearance before the American Institute of Instruction, last year, those journals, as also large numbers of the daily press, gave somewhat full accounts of the principal features of that system. It is a novel system; novel, alike in its philosophy, and in its practical details. Dispensing with the whole cumbrous apparatus of the ordinary gymnasium, its implements are all light, easily managed, and designed less to impart mere strength o muscle than to give flexibleness, agility, and grace of movement. The exercises are accompanied by music, and all of them so arranged that both sexes participate in each.
Competent judges, acquainted with the corps of Professors attached to this Institution, will deem it no hyperbolism to say, that an abler, a more earnest corps could be furnished by no other city in the country.
The chair of Anatomy will be occupied by Dr. Thomas H. Hoskins, author of the invaluable work, entitled ”What we Eat." His lectures will be abundantly illustrated by skeletons, manikins, models, paintings, and diagrams. To a judicious leadership in physical culture, a knowledge of anatomy is much more important than to the practice of medicine. If, in a class of pupils, one is very stooping, has a lateral curvature of the spine, an ugly gait, or is otherwise deformed or enfeebled through some muscular imperfection, the teacher, if not knowing anatomy, will proceed like one in the dark. On the day following the delivery of each lecture, a quiz will be held on the subject thereof, and all the pupils required to attend the same.
The chair of Physiology is to he filled by Dr. Josiah Curtis, whose State Reports and other writings occupy so large a space in Medical Libraries. His pupils will derive special advantages from the varied means of illustration employed by him in a course so important to those who would become guides in physical training. Each pupil in this department will be required to join a class for recitation, and will come under the Professor's direct personal examination.
The chair of Hygiene will be occupied by Dr. Walter Channing, who held for so many years a high professional position in the Medical College of Harvard University; who is so well known to the profession for the largeness of his observation and experience in all departments of Sanitary Science; and whose profound interest in the success of this movement could alone induce him to leave his well-earned retirement to engage in a work so onerous.
The chair of Gymnastics will be occupied by Dr. Dio Lewis.
Besides the services of the distinguished gentlemen above-named, those of several others, among the best thinkers in New England, have been secured for a course on the Philosophy of Education.
The class will also be taught the principles of the ”Swedish Movement-Cure;" a department of the Institution, devoted to the treatment of curvature of the spine, paralysis, and other chronic maladies, affording rare opportunities to study in detail the application of Ling's methods in treating such forms of chronic disease. This special use of muscle-culture has won a reputation so world-wide, that a course of instruction in Physical Education which should omit its development would be seriously defective.
Each pupil, on being received into the Institute, will be critically examined with reference to strength, form and health; and any deficiency thus disclosed will be placed at once under the most thorough treatment, for the double purpose of illustrating the process of such treatment, and of more fully preparing the pupil himself for the duties of his profession. Each will be drilled by Dr. Lewis in person, with such care that he or she cannot fail to become a competent teacher of gymnastics. And each will have two drills a day; in no instance, however, to be so protracted as to fatigue; will be made familiar with at least two hundred different exercises, all suited to develop both strength of muscle and symmetry of form; and will be allowed, every one in turn, to lead a small class, in order to learn more perfectly the arts of leadership; a point, this latter, of such prime importance that it will receive unwearied attention.
Tickets for the course,... $75.00
Matriculation fee,.... 5.00
Diploma,..... 10.00
Ladies will be charged twenty-five per cent, less than the above prices, and that reduction is made because of the unjust disparity of compensation which everywhere obtains between male and female labor.
Good board and room can be procured in Boston, during the summer, for $3.00, $3.50, and $4.00, per week.
The demand for teachers has risen to fever-heat. At the commencement of the autumn terms of our schools and colleges, it would be easy for Dr. Lewis to effect engagements for one hundred ladies and gentlemen, should so many be found, as all who had faithfully availed themselves of the facilities offered by this Institution might well be found, competent to teach gymnastics. There is not a village of five hundred inhabitants, in the Free States, in which it would be difficult to open a class of ladies and gentlemen that would pay, for two hours in the evening, at least three times as much as is generally received for the six hours of rather unhealthy labor in the public schools. Indeed, any qualified teacher of these new, fascinating modes of gymnastic training would, in any part of the Northern States, manage badly, if the earnings were not five times as large as are generally received in those schools. And unless, by some miracle, the physical condition of the American people shall be altogether revolutionized, the demand for teachers will rapidly increase. As no permanent fixtures are used, any hall with good light and ventilation might be occupied.
July and August have been selected as the time, and Boston as the place, of holding the first session of the Institute, for the following reasons:- The long vacation in schools occurs at that time, and teachers, so much interested in the work, are then at liberty. It is also the season of leisure with Dr. Lewis, in which he can give his undivided attention to the task of drilling the pupils. Boston is favored with almost uninterrupted sea-breezes, while the altitude and ventilation of the Institute building make it a very desirable place during the warm months. Persons in had health could scarcely spend two months in relations more favorable to its restoration.
It is believed that ”The Lewis Normal Institute of Physical Education" is opened under auspices which will insure its permanent success; that it will one day become the Harvard of many kindred colleges. The educational public will readily concede to Boston special advantages for the realization of all desirable educational schemes. This Institute will spare no labor and no expense which may promise to enlarge the sphere of its usefulness.
Address,| T. C. SEVERANCE, Sec'y,
Bank of the Republic, Boston.
<c05>
MR. RUSSELL'S CORRESPONDENCE.
Mr. Russell writes to the London Times, under date New Orleans, May 25th, from which we make the following extract, showing in what manner the Southern army is recruited:-
REIGN OF TERROR IN NEW ORLEANS
There are doubts arising in my mind respecting the number of armed men actually in the field in the South, and the amount of arms in the possession of the Federal forces. The constant advertisements and appeals for a few more men to complete such and such companies furnish some sort of evidence that men are still wanting. But a painful and startling insight into the manner in which ”volunteers" have been sometimes obtained has been afforded to me at New Orleans. In no country in the world have outrages on British subject been so frequent and so wanton as in the States, of America. They have been frequent, perhaps, because they have been generally attended with impunity. Englishmen, however, will be still a little surprised to hear that within a few days British subjects living in New Orleans have been seized, knocked down, carried off from their labor at the wharf and the workshop, and forced by violence to serve in the ”volunteer" ranks! These cases are not isolated. They are not in twos and threes, but in tens and twenties; they have not occurred stealthily or in by-ways; they have taken place in the open day and in the streets of New Orleans. These men have been dragged along like felons, protesting in vain that they were British subjects. Fortunately, their friends bethought them that there was still a British Consul in the city, who would protect his countrymen-English, Irish, or Scotch. Mr. Mure, when he heard of the reports and of the evidence, made energetic representations to the authorities, who, after some evasion, gave orders that the impressed ”volunteers" should be discharged, and the ”Tiger Rifles" and other companies were deprived of the thirty-five British subjects whom they had taken from their avocations. The Mayor promises that it shall not occur again. It is high time that such acts should be put a stop to, and that the mob of New Orleans should be taught to pay some regard to the usages of civilized nations. There are some strange laws here and elsewhere in reference to compulsory service on the part of foreigners, which it would be well to inquire into, and Lord John Russell may be able to deal with them at a favorable opportunity. As to any liberty of opinion or real freedom here, the boldest Southerner would not dare to say a shadow of either exists. It may be as bad in the North, for all I know, but it must be remembered that in all my communications I speak of things as they appear to me to be in the place I am at the time. The most cruel and atrocious acts are perpetrated by the rabble, who style themselves citizens. The national failing of curiosity and prying into other people's affairs is now rampant, and assumes the name and airs of patriotic vigilance. Every stranger is watched, every word is noted, espionage commands every key-hole and every letter-box; love of country takes to eaves-dropping, and freedom shaves men's heads and packs men up in boxes for the utterance of ”Abolition sentiments." In this city there is a terrible substratum of crime and vice, violence, misery and murder, over which the wheels of the Cotton King's chariot rumble gratingly, and on which rest in dangerous security the feet of his throne. There are numbers of negroes who are sent out on the streets every day with orders not to return with less than 75 cents-anything more they can keep. But if they do not gain that-about 3s. 6d. a day-they are liable to punishment; they may be put into jail on charge of laziness, and may be flogged ad labium, and are sure to be half starved. Can anything, then, be more suggestive than this paragraph, which appeared in last night's paper: ”Only three coroner's inquests were held yesterday on persons found drowned in the river, names unknown." The italics are mine.
Over and over again has the boast been repeated to me that, on the plantations, lock and key are unknown or unused in the planters' houses. But in the cities they are much used, though scarcely trusted. It appears, indeed, that unless a slave has made up his or her mind to incur the dreadful penalties of flight, there would be no inducement to commit theft, for money and jewels would be useless; search would be easy, detection nearly certain. That all the slaves are not indifferent to the issues before them is certain. At the house of a planter the other day, one of them asked my friend, ”Will we be made to work, massa, when old English come?" An old domestic in the house of a gentleman in this city said, ”There are few whites in this place who ought not to be killed for their cruelty to us." Another said, ”Oh, just wait till they attack Pickens!" These little hints are significant enough, coupled with the notices of runaways and the lodgments in the police jails, to show that all is not quiet below the surface. The holders, however, are firm, and there have been many paragraphs stating that slaves have contributed to the various funds for State defence, and that they generally show the very best spirit.
RETURNING FUGITIVES.
We trust that the order transmitted to Gen. Butler, to harbor no more slaves at Fortress Monroe, was based upon the fact that he is not prepared, by the condition of his quarters and the state of his commissariat, to give them a resting place; and that it is by no means an indication of the policy which the Government will order its commanders to adopt. The country needs and demands a practical assurance from the Government, that the war, brought upon the Republic by the insanity and folly of the South, is not on our side to be conducted with the gentle courtesy that marks the conduct of a man in his treatment of a rebellious and erring child; but that, as long as the Southern army wars upon the material interests and political prosperity of loyal men, striking at our trade, our manufactures, our commerce and our agriculture, with the venom of a serpent; issuing letters of marque, threatening the safety of our commercial towns, and doing whatever else their malignity and ferocity may suggest-as long as they do these things, the blows aimed at them should be such that, when they fall, they will tell upon the general result, and tend to bring this conflict to a speedy close. This is not a war of bulletins and proclamations-not a contest between cologne water on one side and sugar-plums on the other; and if we enter into it, and carry it on, under the impression that the enemy will restrain their hands when they have the power to cripple our resources, destroy our property, or take our lives, we fight at the disadvantage which would attend the man who should attempt to tame a hyena by pelting him with soap-bubbles. War means quick destruction. It means death to combatants by any of the means which civilized nations may employ. It means exhaustion of the resources of the parties engaged therein, in such a way that one or the other will confess inability to carry it on. Now, if there is any method by which the right arm of the enemy against whom we contend may be sooner paralyzed, or his intolerable boasting and arrogance be sooner subdued, than by striking at the main resource upon which' he relies for his bread-the labor of his slaves-we should be happy to have some one wiser than we are point it out!
We tell ”the powers that be," that there has been enough sending back of prisoners, enough scrupulousness in regard to the sanctity of slave ”property," enough mistaken leniency and forbearance lest some right should be violated. The people, while offering their lives in countless thousands and their treasures in untold millions, that rebellion may be overcome, want the assurance that the Administration is in downright earnest as they are-ready to seize occasions as they rise, to take” advantage of any weak side the enemy presents, and to turn to quick and rapid account any disability by which he is embarrassed. If prisoners are seized, let them be sent to the rear of the base line, and put in camp, and treated as their crimes warrant. If traitors who are worth the trouble are got within Federal power, let them be tried, and, if guilty of the overt act, hung up like malefactors and assassins as they are. If slaves escape, let them ran, and woe be to him who sends one back. They, are the backbone of the rebellion. They, work while the traitors fight. They produce the bread that treason eats. They dig the trenches and throw up the enbankments behind which traitors strut. They are more valuable to-day, man for man, to the rebel cause than the whites, who defend it, Without them the war would end in a month. Wherever they are cleaned out, there the contest is ended. In the name of all that is prudent and; patriotic, let our boys have their way, and hit hard where they can! Have we not dealt in cologne and sugar plums long enough? -Chicago Tribune.
<c06>
ST. MARY'S LAKE
WATER-CURE.
OPENED BY
H. A. PETERMAN, M. D.
THE Proprietors of this Institution take pleasure in announcing to the invalids of Michigan and its neighboring States, that they have opened their WATER-CURE at St. Mary's Lake, and are now in readiness to receive patients.
This Institution is situated in one of the most healthy and pleasant locations, in the State, on the banks of a beautiful little lake, four miles North of the City, of Battle Creek.
The buildings are new, commodious and furnished for the comfort and convenience of invalids. The bath-seems are large, and fitted up with hot, cold, vaper, chemical, and electrical baths.
The lake, whose waters are as clear and soft as those of a spring from, the granite mountain's base, is well supplied with boats and bath-houses. No more beautiful fresh water bathing can be found in any land.
Several hundred acres of the grand Old Oak Forest, immediately surrounding the lake, have been reserved for pleasure-grounds.
The afflicted, requiring surgical treatment, will find this most desirable establishment, where they can be place in the best possible condition to bear an operation, and receive the best of care afterwards.
Particular attention given to the treatment of diseases of the Eye. All operations performed that warrant a prospect of restoring sight to the blind. Our treatment for Cataract is entirely new, and in advance of anything hitherto known.
A supply of beautiful Artificial Eyes kept constantly on hand.
Paralysis, and every variety of Nervous and Chronic diseases, will be treated.
The Ladies' Department is under the care of Mrs. S. A. Peterman, whose long experience in the treatment of the diseases incident to the female constitution renders her treatment unsurpassed by that of any physician now practising in that department of the medical profession.
There will be a competent Music Teacher in attendance, to give instruction in Piano, Gaitar, and Vocal Music, to such as may wish to take medical treatment and pursue the study of Music at the same time. For such, this will be found a most desirable location, where the mental and physical systems may both be developed; the one in the music room, the other in rambling through the leady woods, in the Gymnasium, and in boat-rowing, than which no better exercise can be found.
We intend, with the aid of competent help in every department, to make this CURE the invalid's HOME, as well as a place for medical treatment.
Those coming as patients should furnish themselves with two comfortable, two linen or cotton packing sheets, one woollen blanket and one half-dozen bath towels, or they can be furnished by the CURE at fifty cents per week extra.
TERMS-From $7 to $10 per week, for treatment, heard, &c., according to recommend care.
This Institution is accessible by Miehigan Central Railroad. Carnage always in waiting at the Battle Creek Depot to convey people to the CURE.
H. F. PETERMAN, M. D.,
MRS. S. A. PETERMAN, M. D.,
Physicians and Proprietors,
To whom all letters of inquiry should be addressed Each communication, to insure an answer, should contain a postage stamp for return letter.
St. Mary's Lake, Michigan, May 20, 1861. J 21
$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents, of Howe, Wheeler A Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. E. LENONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice. Boston, Jan. 18, 1861 3m.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judges of the last Fair of the Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
"FOUR PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES. This Machine is so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the various patents owned and used by Elias Howe, Jr., Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, for which these parties pay tribute. These, together with Parker's improvements, make it a beautiful Machine. They are sold from $40 to $120 each. They are very perfect in their mechanism, being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such a manner that they cannot get deranged. The feed, which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is simple, positive and complete. The apparatus for gauging; the length of stitch is very simple and effective. The tendon, as well as other parts, is well arranged. There is another feature which strikes your committee favorably, viz: there is no wheel below the table between the standards, to come in contact with, the dress of the operator, and therefore no danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the double lock-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge upon the back quite flat and smooth, doing away, in a great measure, with the objection sometimes urged on that account."
Boston, June 7, 1861.
P. S.
PERUVIAN SYRUP,
THE GREAT CURATIVE OF THE AGE.
TRY IT.
IT will entirely cure, or greatly relieve, the following distressing complaints: Dyspepsia, Dropsy, Diarrhoea, General Debility, Nervousness, Ulcers, Piles, Bronchitis, Jaundice, Dysentery, Neuralgia, Liver Complaint, Erysipelas, and the endless catalogue of Female Difficulties, most of which originate in a low state of the blood.
Get our new Pamphlet, and read it.
JEWETT & COMPANY,
No. 39 Summer st., Boston.
For sale by all Druggists.
April 19. 3mis.
The British Reviews,
AND
Blackwood's Magazine.
1.
THE LONDON QUARTERLY, (Conservative.)
2.
THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, (Whig.)
3.
THE NORTH BRITISH REVIEW, (Free Church.)
4.
THE WESTMINSTER REVIEW, (Liberal.)
5.
BLACKWOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE, (Tory.)
TERMS
Per ann.
For any one of the four Reviews, $3 00
For any two of the-four Reviews, 5 00
For any three of the four Reviews, 700
For all four of the Reviews, 8 00
For Blackwood's Magazine, 3 00
For Blackwood-and on" Review, 5 00
For Blackwood and two Reviews, 7 00
For Blackwood and three Reviews, 9 00
For Blackwood and the four Reviews, 10 00
N. B.-The pries in Great Britain of the Jive Periodicals above-named is $31 per annum.
Republished by LEONARD SCOTT &c CO.,
54 Gold Street, New York.
Dec.28. 6m.
LINDA.
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF A SLAVE GIRL, Seven Years concealed in Slavery; narrated by herself; with an Introduction by LYDIA MARIA CHILD, and a Letter by ANY POST. A handsome book of 306 pages, just issued, which is receiving highly commendatory notices from the press. Price, $1.00. Orders for mailing must include sixteen cents in postage stamps.
Address WM. C. NELL,
F8 tf 221 Washington street.

