THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents- one square for $ 1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:- FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, Our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 52. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1860. WHOLE MNO. 1566.
<c01>
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
PERSONAL LIBERTY LAWS.
Among the many unhappy effects which have resulted from the enactment of the present Fugitive Slave Law may be included the passage, by a majority of the Northern States, of very stringent Personal Liberty Laws. These laws appear upon their face to have been designed to obstruct as far as possible the execution of the act for the recovery of fugitive slaves passed by the Congress of 1850.
While it is our sincere desire that no slave who escapes from his master may be re-taken by him, we at the same time regret that any State should do anything by its legislation to prevent the recovery of such a slave by his master. So long as the clause of the Constitution respecting those 'who owe labor or service in one State, escaping into another,' remains in that instrument, and so long as the Fugitive Slave Law is a Statute of the land, we regard it as an unfortunate thing that any State should seem to evince a disposition to render nugatory a provision of the Constitution, or to nullify an act of Congress. Whatever honor or disgrace may attach to nullification, we desire may be possessed by South Carolina alone.
But we object to Personal Liberty Laws not merely for the objects they seem to be intended to accomplish, but also because we consider them to be of little value to the slave. Our own State law forbids the servants of the State, either civil or military, to assist in the rendition of fugitive slaves, and forbids the use of buildings belonging to the State for their detention and confinement. But does any one suppose that the act will prevent the recovery of slaves? May they not still be arrested and confined in buildings or vessels belonging to the United States? May they not be safely kept by the servants of the General Government, either civil, military or naval? Is it then desirable there should be on our Statute books an act which exposes Massachusetts to the charge of Nullification, when no practical good has resulted, or may be expected to result from its enactment?
We know that it may be said that Personal Liberty Laws are needed for the protection of the rights of free colored persons. But we would ask, whose rights have these laws preserved? If the rights of any of our citizens are in danger, why seek to maintain them by an insufficient protection, since, as we have shown, slaves may still be re-captured, and it does not appear that Personal Liberty Laws can prevent the kidnapping of free colored persons. If we mean to nullify the Fugitive Slave Law, let us do it boldly, and if we do not mean to do it, let us not do anything which seems intended to nullify it, particularly where little or no practical good can result to any person from such action as does not nullify it.
This enactment not only irritates the South, but furnishes her one of those 'injuries' which she considers justify her in withdrawing from the Union. We have always thought, and long before the present troubles, took occasion to say, that the passage by the Legislatures of Northern States of laws designed signed to hinder the execution of statutes enacted by Congress for the benefit of the South, constitutes in our view the most plausible ground of complaint which the South brings against the North. There are in the South men of great ability and influence, who earnestly desire a dissolution of the Union. Is it wise in the friends of the Union to furnish these men with the means for weakening and perhaps dissolving the bonds which unite the States of this confederacy?-Taunton Republican.

OUR PERSONAL LIBERTY LAW. 
We have already expressed our own opinion of our Personal Liberty Law. We consider the enactment of at least doubtful constitutionality, and of clear worthlessness in a practical point of view. We have thought that such legislation, in nearly all cases, has been rather the expression of a just indignation aroused by the outrageous provisions of the present Fugitive Slave Law, than the result of a conviction that any useful end was certain to be attained by it. And while we should greatly prefer that a modification of the Federal act should precede the repeal of our own, yet considering-not the avowed secessionists at all-but the accordant wish of the sound Union men at the South; the honest prejudices of the masses in that section, who are kept from the circulation of truths prevailing here; the requirements of the new era of triumph upon which the Republican party is now entering, calling for a wise conciliation and ready generosity; considering all these things, we say, we should be glad to see the Personal Liberty Act repealed promptly by the Legislature shortly to assemble. 
Our readers will find in another column an address to the people of Massachusetts, urging reasons for a repeal of the Personal Liberty Law, which must command attention. Backed by the authority of such names as Ex-Chief Justice Shaw, Judge Parker, Ex-Gov. Washburn, and other eminent men, whose sympathies are Republican, as well as of men of other parties, this appeal to the good faith of the people of Massachusetts, in a matter in which we are clearly in the wrong, cannot be lightly regarded.-Boston Journal. 

TO THE CITIZENS OF MASSACHUSETTS. 
The undersigned are moved by an imperative sense of duty to address their fellow-citizens of the State of Massachusetts, concerning the portentous condition of our public affairs. 
We are private citizens of different political parties, neither holding nor desiring any public employment, having no interest in the subject which is not common to all, and being impelled by no motive save the love of our country and our sense of responsibility to God. for the preservation and transmission of the priceless blessings of civil liberty and public order which His providence has bestowed upon us. Many of us have heretofore, held public employments; and we say, not in a spirit of boasting, but because the occasion calls on us to say it, that the people have seen we have not been unfaithful to their trusts. 
For our honest and profound convictions, for the cause of truth and right, for the sake of your own duties and welfare, we ask you to hear us,. 
A large and important part of our common country is excited and alarmed. We deceive ourselves if we suppose this excitement and alarm are not real, deep and general throughout fifteen States, which have been united to us by the closest ties which ever did, or in the nature of human affairs ever can connect different political communities.
The foundations of our Government are shaken, and, unless the work of destruction shall be stayed, we may soon see that great Union, our honor and safety abroad and at home, broken into weak, discordant and shattered fragments; and that people, who have dwelt under its protection in unexampled peace and prosperity, shedding fraternal blood in civil war. 
At such a time, it is a great and solemn duty of the people of every State to consider well whether any part of the wrong which has produced this condition of affairs, can justly be laid to its charge,
<c02>
and if any such should be found, every consideration of duty and interest demands that such wrong should be promptly repaired. 
No specious fallacies, no blind resentments, no loud recriminations, no false pride, should be allowed to keep us in any wrong which can form even a small part of the causes which threaten a great people with ruin. 
Our first duty is with ourselves. It can be performed only by a just, candid and manly examination of our own conduct. 
When we shall have done altogether right ourselves, we can firmly demand all that is due from others, and calmly abide whatever consequences may ensue from insisting on that demand. 
Fellow-citizens of Massachusetts, we are forced by these considerations solemnly to declare, that we believe the State of Massachusetts has violated our great national compact, by laws now on her statute book, which are in conflict with the Constitution and laws of the United States. 
The Federal Government, like the government of each State, extends over the territory of each State, and over all persons within its limits. Each of these governments is sovereign and supreme within its own constitutional sphere of action, and entitled to the implicit obedience of the people to its laws, and to its judicial and executive officers appointed to apply and enforce them. It is plain, that if one of these governments may command its officers and its citizens to do an act, the other cannot command them to abstain from doing it, or require them to do something which prevents or obstructs its execution. It is an inevitable consequence, that, when either persons or property have been taken into the custody of the law of one of these governments, and its executive officers are required by its laws to preserve that custody, then the other government cannot require its officers and citizens, in any manner, to interfere therewith. Such interference would be a plain departure from its constitutional powers; and laws commanding it, are laws commanding civil war. 
Yet, it is nevertheless the fact, that if a fugitive from service, whom the Constitution and laws of the United States require to be delivered up, be in the custody of a Marshal of the United States, who is commanded by the laws of the United States to retain that custody, the laws of Massachusetts require every Judge of its Supreme Court, its Superior, Probate, or Police Court, (and any Justice of the Peace, in some contingencies,) to issue a writ requiring the Marshal of the United States, having such custody, to bring the fugitive before a State tribunal, to subject him to the control of such tribunal, and to relinquish his custody upon its order. And having thus taken the fugitive from the custody of the law of the United States, the State tribunal is to proceed to a trial of the matters in issue, with forms and principles of its own, which it is believed have never been applied to any other case, which are wholly inconsistent with the laws of the United States, and in open defiance of their authority. And, as if the execution of these laws could not be left to the ordinary instrumentalities, deemed sufficient for the protection of the lives, persons and property of our citizens, and in preparation, as it would seem, for an inevitable and perilous contest, special commissioners are required to be appointed in each county of the Commonwealth, and the treasury of the Commonwealth is subjected to their unlimited control, for the purpose of provoking the conflict, and pressing it onward to its final and inevitable issue of physical force. 
Besides the laws already referred to, there are other provisions which are manifestly designed to surround the performance of our constitutional duty of surrendering fugitives from service, with such obstacles as must prevent its performance, even though, by so doing, our own public peace should be left at the mercy of a lawless mob. 
We hold it to be plain, that a State has not the constitutional power to subject to severe and ignominious punishment, persons who, by mistake of facts, or misapprehension of law, and without any corrupt or wicked intent, make a claim under the and before the authorities of the United States. If such power existed, every law of the United States could be rendered inoperative by State legislation. For who would demand any right under a law of the United States, if the penalty of an innocent failure to prove his case, which may proceed from merely accidental causes, should subject him to a fine of five thousand dollars, and imprisonment in the State Prison for five years? Yet such is one of the laws now on our statute book. 
The volunteer militia are prohibited from acting, in any manner, in the rendition of a person adjudged to be a fugitive from service. The volunteer militia is the only arm on which the municipal magistrates of our cities and towns can rely, to quell organized and dangerous riots. Every one of its members is a member of the militia of the United States, and they are armed at the expense and under the authority of the United States, expressly conferred by the Constitution. Yet this law declares, that the arms of the United States, in the hands of citizens of the United States, who are a part of the militia of the United States, shall not be used by them to protect officers of the law of the United States from lawless violence in the streets of a city, whose peace the Commonwealth is bound to preserve. 
Fellow-citizens, is it consistent with the duty we owe to our common country, to our State, and to ourselves, that such laws should be permitted longer to exist? 
We know it is doubted by some whether the present is an opportune moment to abrogate them. It is said-We grant these laws are wrong, but will you repeal them under a threat? We answer no. We would do nothing under a threat We would repeal them under our own love of right; under our own sense of the sacredness of compacts; under our own conviction of the inestimable importance of social order and domestic peace; under our feeling of responsibility to the memory of our fathers and the welfare of our children, and not under any threat. We would not be prevented from repealing them by any conduct of others, if such repeal were in accordance with our own sense of right. He who refuses to do a right thing merely because he is threatened with evil consequences, acts in subjection to the threat; he is controlled by it; his false pride may enable him to disregard the threat; but he lacks courage to despise the wrong estimate of his own conduct, which conduct he knows would spring only from his love of duty. If every right minded man must admit that he ought to govern his own conduct by these principles, are they inapplicable to the conduct of a great and populous State? On what ground can it be maintained that hundreds of thousands of innocent citizens are to be subjected to suffering, because the false pride of their rulers refuses to do right? Mankind have been afflicted long enough and grievously enough by commotions and strifes and wars springing from such causes. We had hoped that the nature of our Government would protect us from swelling the great sum of human misery produced by the evil passions of rulers. We had hoped that, inas-
<c03>
much as the masses of the people can have no interest but to do right, they would have the discernment to perceive, and the manliness to do it; and would be too calm, too wise, too magnanimous intentionally to persevere in any wrong; and we hope so still. 
But what is meant by the exhortation not to repeal these laws under a threat? Who threatens us if they should not be repealed? 
Whatever may have been true in the past, whatever faults of speech and action may have been committed on the one side or on the other, we firmly believe that the men from whom the worst consequences to our country and ourselves are likely to proceed, have no wish that these laws should be repealed, and no disposition to use any threats in reference to them. On the contrary, they desire to have them stand as conspicuous and palpable breaches of the national compact by ourselves, and as affording justification to themselves, to the world and to posterity, for the destruction of the most perfect and prosperous government which the Providence of God has ever permitted the wisdom of man to devise. How far these acts of ours are from affording any justification for the enormous wrong such men contemplate; how precipitate, rash and unnecessary are the violent and destructive measures they are seeking to pursue, we know but too well. But we know equally well that there are other men, living among these last, and connected with them as members of the same society, who are struggling to preserve our Government, who are seeking for other remedies than revolution and civil war, who still love their whole country, how ever bounded, and who would not see the glory of our fathers sink into the darkness of their children's shame; and we know that these patriotic, wise and courageous men are checked and weakened in their efforts to save the country, by our persistence in our wrong. They threaten no one; but their labors and their sacrifices for our common country call on us in tones more eloquent; than any words, to do our duty, and not to obstruct them in doing theirs. 
We have heard it suggested, also, that this is not the time to repeal these laws, because, in any future attempt at a compromise between the North and the South, we should not have them to surrender on our part. But we cannot listen to those who counsel us to make merchandise of our own honor. Shall we grasp what does not belong to us, and, when we are satisfied it is not ours, say, we will keep it wherewith to make a bargain? And a bargain with whom? With strangers-with aliens in blood and speech, in interests and destiny? Not so. We all have but one country, one welfare, one destiny; whether that destiny be to climb by the upward path of peace and union to the height where we should be the envy and delight of the nations, or to plunge into the gulf of civil discord, and find a dishonored grave. No serious wound can be. inflicted anywhere on our body politic, without making the whole head sick and the whole heart faint. And he who should approach an attempt to cure our disorders, not with a spirit of moderation, of justice, of kindness and fraternal regard, but with a disposition to seem to surrender what is not our own, that we may keep what we have not the courage otherwise to claim, has but a poor kind of cunning, and very little manhood. 
We do not believe that such is the temper of the people of Massachusetts. 
We know they have in times past had great provocations. And we firmly believe that if they have so far yielded to them, as to allow their resentment to press too strongly on their judgment, it is not because they do not love the right, or because they feel any indisposition to discharge honestly and generously every constitutional obligation. The entire history of our State, back to its earliest germ on the rock of Plymouth, forbids us to doubt the integrity, the magnanimity, the intelligence or the patriotism of our fellow-citizens. To these great qualities we earnestly appeal. We be seech you to consider carefully this momentous subject; to act upon it justly, firmly, wisely, as becomes men to whose care so great privileges have been entrusted, and who are accountable to posterity, to the world, and to our Creator for their transmission unimpaired to our children. Let those whom you have delegated to represent you know your determination. Cause them to obey it. Let not the public servants be above the people, who are their masters. See that they do right. 
LEMUEL SHAW, Boston. 
BENJAMIN R. CURTIS, Boston. 
JOEL PARKER, Cambridge.
JOSEPH GRINNELL, New Bedford. 
ISAAC DAVIS, Worcester. 
HENRY J. GARDNER, Boston.
GEORGE PUTNAM, Roxbury. 
JAMES SAVAGE, Boston. 
GEORGE PEABODY, Salem. 
HOMER BARTLETT, Lowell. 
GEORGE TICKNOR, Boston. 
JARED SPARKS, Cambridge. 
ALBERT FEARING, Boston. 
HENRY W. CLAPP, Greenfield. 
NATHANIEL WOOD, Fitchburg. 
CHARLES THEO. RUSSELL, Cambridge 
GEORGE T. RICE, Worcester. 
EDWARD DICKINSON, Amherst.
LEVI LINCOLN, Worcester. 
WILLIAM BAYLIES, Bridgewater. 
SIDNEY BARTLETT, Boston.
JOHN U. CLIFFORD, New Bedford.
EMORY WASHBURN, Cambridge. 
JAMES JACKSON, Boston. 
THEOPHILUS PARSONS, Cambridge.
JAMES WALKER, Cambridge. 
EDWARD A. NEWTON, Pittsfield. 
CHARLES B. GOODRICH, Boston. 
J. G. ABBOTT, Lowell. 
WINSLOW WARREN, Plymouth. 
JAMES M. BEEBE, Boston. 
LINUS CHILD, Lowell. 
JOHN AIKEN, Andover. 
HENRY W. BISHOP, Lenox. 
WILLIAM G. BATES, Westfield. 
ISAAC L. HEDGE, Plymouth. 
HENRY W. PAINE, Cambridge. 
WM. C. PLUNKETT, South Adams.
DAVID AIKEN, Greenfield. 
CHARLES S. STORROW, Lawrence. 
SAMUEL L. CROCKER, Taunton. 
INCREASE SUMNER, Great Barrington. 
ASA C. RUSSSLL, Great Barrington. 
J.C. RUSSELL, Great Barrington.
It cannot fail to strike the thoughtful portion of the people that if only this thing [repeal of the Personal Liberty Law] were done, we should have immensely improved our condition in the controversies raging about us. There, would no longer remain the slightest pretext to justify the violent measures for the disturbance of the public peace upon which some heated partisans at the South seem to be determined. When we are sure that we have put ourselves right, we can afford to await the progress of events with confidence, we might almost say with indifference, as to the issue.-Daily Adv.
<c04>
THE MEETING YESTERDAY.
As a general rule, there could be no better ordered city than this of Boston. On all public occasions, its inhabitants behave themselves with a decorum which sometimes has almost the effect of tameness. It is true, our ancestors over the water styled it a 'rebellious city,' but this was because the people had too much latent spirit to submit to intolerable oppressions; and when endurance became a vice, broke out from time to time, after remonstrance, into open and forcible resistance. The time comes in every community, when a little deviation from the ordinary rules of demeanor are called for by circumstances which can be met and counteracted in no other way. Thus, we have long suffered under the infliction of seditious meetings, addressed by a set of incendiaries, who spared nothing and nobody-who have gone on actually cursing the Constitution which protects them, and gathering audiences pretending to represent the sentiment of the community. The effect of this abroad has been most pernicious. It has alienated our fellow-citizens from us, and multitudes of our people from them-until, finally, the safety of the country itself is in imminent peril. 
Some people, whom we cannot but think illjudging, talk of making martyrs of such wretches by resisting them. By neglecting to furnish them a proper expression of public sentiment, they have indeed victimized the better portion of the community to a most extraordinary degree. From an insignificant handful, by being permitted to go on in their own way, these martyred Abolitionists have at length contrived to get possession of the Commonwealth by throwing themselves, and inducing others to throw with them, mire than a hundred thousand votes for an Abolitionist. At length, they had the impudence to announce their intention of holding a public meeting in this city on the anniversary of John Brown's execution. And this, too, in the midst of the severest apprehensions and trials of the country. The parties who got it up were all irresponsible-a large majority were negroes-and among their Committee was the notorious Redpath, an Englishman, reputed an emissary to stir up disturbance here, under pay of British abolitionists, and himself author of the Life of John Brown. This was really too much.
Our reports give a sufficient account of the quiet, yet effective manner in which the meeting was brought to a summary conclusion, by turning the tables completely upon the conspirators against common sense and decency. That the result was not more disastrous to those irresponsible persons who were responsible for the meeting, resulted from their incapacity to defend themselves, and from the resolute good nature of the public WHO TOOK POSSESSION OF THE HALL. We are not disposed to be very nice upon such an occasion, in discussing legal rights. This might be a clear case for the intervention of that higher law, so often appealed to by the Brownists themselves. Still, under the call for the meeting, which was merely to discuss the question of slavery, all good citizens were entitled to take a proper part in the proceedings, and to determine the question in the way most agreeable to their own views. 
The effect of the whole affair is, that a public meeting, called really, though covertly, to renew the lamentations of negroes, and white men far their inferiors in claims to public good will, over THE JUST DOOM AWARDED TO JOHN BROWN, proved the opportunity for a powerful expression of appropriate sentiments in regard to that desperate ruffian and his misdeeds. Another effect will follow. No such assembly, for that or any similar purpose, is very likely to be held in any conspicuous place in Boston again. Nor do we believe that our people will listen hereafter, as they have hitherto done, to the fierce tirades of Phillips and his crew, to the empty platitudes of Sumner, or the insolent bravado of Wilson. Indeed, it was a marked feature of the occasion, yesterday forenoon, that neither Phillips nor Garrison were visible. Their names were to the summons, and the posts of some of them at least assigned-but when the day of battle came, these leaders of an ignorant and fanatical multitude to sedition and treason put their followers forward, but they reserved their own persons for some other occasion than that which so imperiously demanded their presence. Men like these, who can only scold in presumed safety, are not martyrs of that stuff on which the fortunes of a great country should be dependent.-Boston Courier, Dec. 4. 
We publish, this morning, an accurate and elaborate report of the proceedings of the meeting, called to discuss the slavery question, and, under the rose, to eulogize the murderer, John Brown. It turned out that the bulk of the audience was composed of men who think that the hanging of John Brown himself was 'right.' The meeting was organized by the choice of an able body of officers, and FREE SPEECH WAS VINDICATED, and sound resolutions were adopted. All this is recorded. In the evening, the Abolitionists assembled in the African church, a building in Smith Place. A crowd gathered in the street outside, but there was no interruption of the proceedings. At the close, Wendell Phillips was escorted to his home by the police, and the other white leaders were invisible, though some of them were armed. John Brown, Jr., carried his pistols exposed to view. We have given no detailed report of the insane speeches in the church.-Boston Courier, Dec. 4. 
Mr. Wendell Phillips and Mr. Garrison-notwithstanding the formidable organization of colored Wide-Awakes in this city-were not in attendance at the John Brown meeting yesterday morning. Who are the cowards?-Courier, Dec. 4.
We notice that there is much discussion in the abolition papers on the subject of free speech, and it is intimated that the rights of the negroes who congregated at the Temple last Monday were infringed in this respect. To our mind, the utmost latitude was given to the dusky orators. Indeed, we reported a speech of Fred. Douglass, which, had a white man made it in the Legislature, the Sergeant-at-Arms would have removed him from the chamber. The truth is, the Abolitionists have all the freedom of speech on their side. After their expulsion from the Temple, they assembled in their rookery on Smith Court, and while the police protected them, they passed resolutions, censuring the Mayor of the city and the Chief of the very men who guarded them from an angry populace. Is not this freedom of speech?-Boston Courier.
A good deal has been said in certain quarters-for instance, in the New York Times-concerning the insignificance of the white and black traitors who assembled in the Tremont Temple last Monday, to again, in the name of Massachusetts, eulogize the murderer, John Brown. Our New York critic has devoted a good deal of time to Mr. William Mulligan; and why? Because he is a dangerous bruiser. Our nuisances are not bruisers; but they are of that class of cowards who preach war against our fellow-countrymen of the South, and when the more courageous of their followers are caught in the act of murder, the counsellors fly to England, Canada and Hayti. We have in our 
<c05>
possession a document-the production of one of the persons expelled from the Tremont Temple last Monday, and which bears his handwriting-which develops the plans <illegible> abolitionists. We shall make proper use of it <illegible> proper time. We say now, that a subject of <illegible> Victoria, who should possess such a document, would be tried by a special commission for high treason. Any person who wishes to see this infamous and murderous manifesto can do so, by calling at this office.-Boston Courier, Dec. 6.

WENDELL PHILLIPS'S LAST APPEARANCE.
Once upon a time, a young Scotch clergyman, after preaching a silly sermon, was dining with a shrewd old farmer, and in reply to some inquiry about his health, said that he had been rather unweli before service, but felt much better since; to which his host quietly rejoined that he should think he would feel better after getting so much trash off his stomach. In like manner, we hope and trust that Mr. Wendell Phillips feels better after throwing off such a mass of poisonous and malignant trash from his stomach as he did on Sunday. We hope he relished his dinner after it. After such a thorough jail-delivery of bad temper, vituperation, and hatred, we hope further that Mr. Phillips will be quiet for a season, and allow the land to have peace. We have read-'with closed nostril and glove-guarded hand'-the verbatim report of his tirade, as contained in one of the morning papers, and laid it down with no other feeling than that of compassion for the state of mind which it evinces. We sincerely pity any man whose breast is such a cage of unclean birds as this discourse of Mr. Phillips proves his to be. We pity any man whose chief intellectual mainspring is hatred. There is something to us painfully incongruous in the contrast between Mr. Phillips's finished rhetoric, and the ferocity and brutality which constitute the staple of his speeches. It is a dish of tripe and onions served on silver, or black-strap presented in a goblet of Bohemian glass. We find all the graces of speech-all the ornaments of language-lavished upon a style of discussion usually accompanied with bid grammar, profanity, indecency, and slang. Mr. Phillips thinks like a Billingsgate fish woman, or a low pot-house bully, but he speaks like Cicero. It is a jewelled hand flinging filth. Mr. Phillips is a 
standing exception to the rule laid down by a Latin poet:-
Ingenuas didicisse fideliter artes,
Emollit mores, nec sinit esse feros, 
which means, substantially, that every scholar must needs be a gentleman. He is utterly unaware that freedom of speech is subject to any moral limitations, or any restraints proceeding from good manners and good taste. We have been a pretty diligent reader of Mr. Phillips's speeches for many years, and we recall them as an unbroken series of polished invective and graceful vituperation. There are certain gentlemen whom he is constantly serving up with viper sauce for the intellectual palates of his hearers-men of irreproachable lives-good men, moral men, men as faithful to duty, to affection, to honor, to religion, as Mr. Phillips himself, to say the least, but whose sole offence is that they don't agree with him as to the mode in which the subject of slavery should be dealt with. To differ from him is to deny the faith, and be an infidel. If some power would only give him the gift to conceive that it is just possible he may be wrong! but as the age of miracles is past, this is too much to hope. But, as we before said, we hope now for a little peace. Mr. Phillips has triumphantly vindicated and asserted the freedom of speech, backed by the police force of the city of Boston. The freedom of speech cannot go beyond his discourse of Sunday, until a new language shall have been invented. Let him rest content a while, and repose upon his laurels.-Boston Courier.
The chief local event is the 'sermon' of Mr. Wendell Phillips. The Music Hall was crowded yesterday morning, and the police were obliged to protect the preacher from violence on his way home. It was a queer spectacle for Boston; but those persons who have encouraged this man in his abuse of respectable people must take the responsibility of events which may follow this free speech. The troops were ordered to be in readiness for any emergency yesterday.-I bid. 
As our reporters show by their accounts in another column, an extraordinary spectacle was presented yesterday at the Music Hall, and in the streets of this city. Reports, unfounded in truth, had gone forth to the effect that the meeting at which Wendell Phillips was to speak on 'Mobs and Education' would be broken up, and the result was the assembling of an immense multitude. Every part of the hall was crowded, and the spacious corridors of each floor were crowded with people discussing the impropriety of the harangue. The police were likewise out in large force. But Mr. Phillips was permitted to go on with his tirade of personal abuse, interrupted only by frequent hisses. The Union men of Boston attended the 'services' through curiosity, and for the purpose-so far as many were concerned, at least-of guarding the public peace against outrage, and they placed upon the occasion the seal of their utter disapprobation in the manner described.-Boston Post. 
Mr. Wendell Phillips had full swing, with the freest, and we may say foulest of 'free speeches,' at the Music Hall yesterday. He was protected by the men he abused, and is reported by the press, which he styles 'despicable tools. 'It is quite evident that Mr. Phillips has no popular instincts, and while professing great interest in humanity, despises the individuals of which humanity is composed. By his attacks on Governor Banks, the new Chief Justice of the Commonwealth and other eminent men, he has recently lost caste everywhere. The rebuke he has recently received in the New York Tribune, from a literary lady of Boston, and the satire of Lowell, in the Atlantic Monthly, have been highly relished by all except the extreme wing of malignant philanthropists.-Boston Transcript. 
As our reporters show, by their accounts in another column, an extraordinary spectacle was presented on Sunday at the Music Hall, and in the streets of this city. Reports, unfounded in truth, had gone forth to the effect that the meeting at which Wendell Phillips was to speak on 'Mobs and Education' would be broken up, and the result was the assembling of ant immense multitude. Every part of the hall was crowded, and the spacious corridors of each floor were crowded with people discussing the impropriety of the harangue. The police were likewise out in large force. But Mr. Phillips was permitted to go on with his tirade of personal a abuse, interrupted only by frequent hisses. The Union men of Boston attended the 'services' through curiosity, and for the purpose-so far as many were concerned, at least-of guarding the public peace against outrage,(!!!) and they placed upon the occasion the seal of their utter disapprobation in the manner described.-Boston Poet. 
<c06>
SELECTIONS.
DISTURBANCE AT MUSIC HALL.
It is very certain that it was not excess of religious zeal, or regard for Christian truth, which led men to the Music Hall to interrupt Mr. Phillips, or to hoot after him on his return home; the piety of this city does not show itself in that manner. And however difficult it may be to account for the process by which Mr. Phillips and his hearers obtained their views, it must be evident enough, that had there been no interruption of the meeting at Tremont Temple a few days since, there wou'd have been no occasion for Mr. Phillips to! have delivered a lecture on Sunday upon 'Mobs.' It takes a great while for some men to learn the simplest truths; the cause and effect, to them, are not very Apparent, and frequently the one is mistaken for the other. In this instance, it ought to be very clear to the dullest minds. 
The first mob was proclaimed throughout the country as a triumph of the Union sentiment of Boston over abolitionism; if so, what must be said of the failure in the attempt of yesterday? If this one had been successful, would it have been beneficial to the cause of the Union, and have effectually put down the abolition spirit, as it will be called? Would it not rather have increased that spirit, brought multitudes into sympathy with them, and made it more difficult to shut their mouths the next time? Had the press and the leading men of this city been unanimous in their condemnation of the outrage at the Temple, there would have been no attempted repetition of it at the Music Hall. On the right view of this subject now will depend the renewal of these scenes, which, if continued, must inevitably result in bloodshed. We take pleasure, in this case, in commending the conduct of the police, and trust they may ever be as efficient in the performance of their duties. 
Should it be said that the language of Mr. Phillips was calculated to produce irritation, and provoke disturbance, it is a sufficient answer to say that it does not become the objectors to make such a plea. They were under no obligation to listen to it; and if there was a justification, some of their friends would long ago have been mobbed on the same pretext. The language of Caleb Cushing in Faneuil Hall, in stigmatizing Gov. Banks and other officers of the State government as 'drunken mutineers,' would have been sufficient justification on the same ground for the entire destruction of that sacred edifice.-Atlas and Bee.

THE LAST BOSTON MOB.
The mob which assailed Wendell Phillips in Boston. last Sunday, does not get such notice from the Boston press as it deserves. The Atlas and Bee has spoken of it very properly, and the Traveller has given it similar attention; but most of the other Journals recorded the leading particulars without comment. The Boston Transcript spoke of Mr. Phillips with great severity, but had not a word, either of censure or commendation, for the mob that sought his life. It seems to us that our Boston contemporaries have a duty to the laws, to the good name of Boston, and to the well-being of the community where they live, which some of them fail to discharge. It is our opinion that a Sunday mob in Boston, such as that which intruded itself into Music Hall, and made such ferocious efforts to seize and injure Mr. Phillips, should be denounced in terms which the dullest reader can understand.
It is not our intention to criticise of question the Transcript's estimate of that gentleman or his speeches; but it seems to us that something more than criticism was required when his right to speak was foully pat in jeopardy in the city of Boston. He is not likely to escape criticism at any time. We believe he does not shun criticism, nor wince under it. He certainly should not, for he never spares others, who get in the way of any principle or policy he advocates. But when his life, or the life of any other man, is assailed by a brutal mob n broadcloth, a subject is presented on which the press should have something to say. And every man who sees any worth in free principles, or who has the slightest respect for the institutions of Massachusetts, should deal by that mob as all satanic things should be dealt by, before he ventures even to inquire the subject of Mr. Phillips's discourse.
This matter is becoming serious. Free speech can not be suppressed in Boston, nor any where else in Massachusetts, and they are the worst enemies of law and order who encourage mobs to assail it, either directly by such inculcations as have appeared in the Courier, or indirectly by equivocal words, or still more equivocal silence. We who live outside of Boston are astonished that such things can be done or attempted there in this sixtieth year of the nineteenth century. To us it is very plain that free speech cannot be suppressed there; but, if the press continues to neglect its duty, this matter may go on as it has begun, until it shall end in a fearful tragedy.-Worcester Spy.

A SUNDAY ROW..... FREE SPEECH SUSTAINED
Wendell Phillips spoke last Sunday in Music Hall, Boston, on mobs and education. He was engaged to deliver his address by the Committee of the Society of the late Theodore Parker. Fearing a riot, about one hundred of the police went to the Hall, and remained through the services. Mr. Phillips was as brilliant as usual, and justly severe. He gave Fay and his base followers who broke up the meeting at Tremont Temple, the castigation they richly deserved. Mr. Phillips was frequently interrupted by hisses, derisive laughter, and the Bell Everett cry of 'all up,' but when interrupted, the orator repeated the passage the more emphatically, and they were compelled to hear. Mr. Phillips left the hall accompanied by a body-guard of friends, but when he reached the lower entry, the crowd swayed to and fro, so that he was bustled about, but without doing him any injury. As he emerged from the building, he was greeted with insulting remarks, interspersed with the phrase 'all up.' The police now came, and took a position near the orator. One rough-looking rascal attempted to strike him. A mob of two thousand followed him to his home, hooting and yelling. Some wanted his life taken, declaring that he had lived long enough. A large crowd assembled before his residence, some making insulting remarks, while others gave the most enthusiastic cheers. Mr. Ham, Deputy Chief of Police, addressed the crowd, and they dispersed. One thing is certain, they can only put down Wendell Phillips by taking his life, for he is ' the noblest Roman of them all.'-The Vermonter. 

THE PRO-SLAVERY ROW IN BOSTON. 
We do not regard the breaking up of the anti-slavery very meeting in Boston on Monday, as a matter of very serious importance, any way. It is altogether too late for a successful attack upon the right of free speech in this community, and this small-size demonstration in that direction, achieved only the little and mean advantage that could be gained over a meeting unprepared for such interruption. The metting it-

NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.' 
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution...... There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States is binding on men an unrighteous yoks. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution....... No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the <illegible> of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.’
-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
self, if it had been allowed to go on quietly and peaceably in the discussion of the question which it proposed to treat, viz.: ï¿½How can American Slavery be abolished?' would not have exerted any considerable effect upon public opinion, because its attendants would have been few, and the expressions of its speakers discordant.
Mr. Fay, at the head of a rabble of merchants' clerks and speculators in Southern securities-negroes included-chose to go in and disturb the public peace by breaking up the meeting, and exhibiting in some conspicuous way their very humble devotion to their Southern overseers. In thus voluntarily, and by previous arrangement and combination, assuming the part of disturbers of the peace, ï¿½for the sake of the Union,' they are to be regarded, of course, as any other rowdies would be, when so engaged.
Mr. Fay and his mob of clerks passed the following resolution:-
4. That the people of this city have submitted too long in allowing responsible persons and political demagogues of every description to hold public meetings to disturb the public pence, and misrepresent us abroad; they have become a nuisance, which, in self-defence, we are determined shall henceforward be summarily abated.
By this they meant that anti-slavery folks had been allowed too long to hold public meetings in Boston, and that they, the money-changers and cringing clerks of State Street, would thenceforward prevent such meetings, by such disorderly interruptions as they were then engaged in. How vain was this threat, and how <illegible> were Mr. Fay and his adherents to maintain their own resolution, even for one day, was shown by the holding of the same 'abated' anti-slavery meeting in Joy Street Church, that evening. Mr. Fay and his upholders did not then appear to carry out the pledge of his resolution read in the morning, but wisely kept away from a place which would undoubtedly have proved prejudicial to their health. It is true that a loose and disorderly mob of people, with oaths in their mouths and bad rum in their stomachs, infested the vicinity of the Joy Street meeting during the evening,ï¿½ making night hideous,' but it does not appear that Mr. Fay and his friends were among them. The evening mob was encouraged, not by the presence, but only by the example of those who figured by daylight.
The Boston authorities, on this occasion, showed themselves either incapable or unwilling to preserve the rights of unpopular persons in a public meeting. Those who summoned the gathering on Monday, and hired the hall, had a clear right to organize the meeting in their own way, and conduct without disturbance the discussions which they proposed. And when other parties went in, and frustrated the designs of those who projected the Convention, and proceeded to discuss topics not mentioned in the call, with the purpose of breaking up the assemblage, it was the clear duty of the police to eject the intruders from the hall. That they did not do so indicated inefficiency, or else indifference to the rights of citizens, which is worse.-Salem Observer.

THAT ADDRESS.
The Springfield Republican, referring to the address issued by Judge Shaw and others, says:-
'There are only four or five names on the list that can have any influence with the Republicans in behalf of the object desired. The list as a whole is positively a stumbling block in the way of repeal; and when the Legislature comes together, and the division which the question will create is made, the fact will be made sadly apparent. Two-thirds of the men who have signed this unheralded document have no more influence upon the popular will of Massachusetts than James Buchanan or Jefferson Davis-no, nor as much, for the latter can control the office-holders and the few thousand who voted the Breckinridge ticket; but these "old Bourbons" of Massachusetts can scarcely govern more voters than the coats on their backs will cover. Whether the men who got up this manifesto in secret caucus, and peddled out the privilege of joining in it to their especial associates and sympathizers, scattered like solitary and almost forgotten trees over the plains of the Commonwealth,-excluding from even the opportunity all the representative men of the party which must do the desired work, if it be done at all,-pursued this course through a stupidity that is bomb-proof against all the teachings of political sagacity, or with the secret purpose of preventing the very result they profess to seek, may well be a serious question with the rest of mankind.'
Judge Shaw and some thirty other elderly and respectable gentlemen have issued an address urging a repeal of our laws for the protection of personal liberty. They think it would save the Union, cast out devils in South Carolina, fill the Southern States with patriotism, and make slavery as gentle as an angel fresh from heaven. So we understand them. They do not say, however, that it would secure a faithful execution of the laws against the slave trade, nor ensure protection for citizens of Massachusetts, who may have occasion to visit the Southern States; neither do we find in their address any assurance that it would make Wigfall a decent man, or give President Buchanan a dream of manliness. If they had said positively that a repeal of our personal liberty laws would cleanse Wigall and convert Buchanan, we might have been in favor of trying the experiment.
But, seriously, the law in question was not designed to nullify, either the Constitution or even the Fugitive Slave Law. It was meant as a precaution against kidnapping, and it has a right to remain on the statute book. Any question touching its right to exist can be decided by the courts. It has no more to do with the present excitement in the country, than with the present civil war in Mexico. The secessionists know and care so little about it, that they cannot quote it correctly. It is not well to give it such an exaggerated importance in connection with secessionism; and it does not seem to us becoming in Massachusetts men to undertake a crusade against it now.-Worcester Spy.
One of the gentlemen who signs this appeal (Prof. Parker,) was one of the Commissioners to revise the Statutes, and assisted to put the Personal Liberty Bill in its present shape in the General Laws. Gen. Cushing, who complains so bitterly of its existence there, and Gen. Butler, another Breckinridge supporter, passed upon these statutes as legislators. If this bill was so palpably unconstitutional, so gross a violation of the national compact, and so flagrant an outrage on the rights of sister States, why did they suffer it to remain without so much as an effort to remove it Nevertheless, if it be unconstitutional, let it go, but let us have sufficient warrant for so doing. The Republicans did not originate the Personal Liberty Bill; they have no desire to violate the Constitution; and we do not doubt that the Legislature, when the subject comes legitimately before it, will be disposed to do what is right and proper in the premises.-Salem Register.
Another prominent name to the Address is equally suggestive. In 1858, when the general voice of conservative men asked his aid in the Legislature to assist in the revision of the statutes, and a Republican convention nominated him and instructed their committee to ask his acceptance simply as a lawyer, and not as a party man, leaving him at liberty to vote against a Republican candidate for United States Senator, Judge Curtis declined an opportunity in which he might have changed this so-called unconstitutional legislation, but now, when a political crisis agitates the country, he appears as the signer and reputed author of an ï¿½Address to the People,' not a petition to the Legislature,' dealing in denunciations of alleged unconstitutional statutes. To say the least, this was a notable instance of neglected opportunity, which might have proved far more beneficial than the present effort possibly can be.-Atlas and Bee.
A QUESTION FOR THE FIVE-AND-THIRTY CITIZENS ï¿½OF HONEST AND PROFOUND CONVICTIONS.ï¿½ If Congress, in order to secure the constitutional right of a colored citizen of Massachusetts to go into South Carolina, and there exercise and enjoy the privileges and immunities that belong to the citizens of that model Republic, should pass a law requiring United States Marshals and Commissioners, on the affidavit of a Yankee skipper, to seize in that State any colored person so sworn to, and by summary process deliver him to the said skipper to be transported away from South Carolina, would that Stale have no right to legislate any judicial barrier to protect slave property from being carried away by such ministerial federal process? Come, good and wise veterans, is your goose-sauce inapplicable to gander? Of course, freedom in Massachusetts is not so sacred as slave property in South Carolina; but supposing ï¿½twas- what then?
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
BOSTON, DECEMBER 28, 1860.
CLOSE OF VOLUME XXX.
The present number completes the THIRTIETH VOLUME of the Liberator, in full; but, in consequence of the pressure of important matter,-especially in reference to the question of Southern secession,-we shall add another number to be included in the present volume, which will be published on Monday next, Dec. 31.
We should like to commence our next volume with a large addition to our subscription list. It is a favorable time to subscribe.

NO SLAVE-HUNTING IN MASSACHUSETTS.
The following petition is now in the hands of reliable friends of freedom, in all parts of the Commonwealth, for immediate circulation. It is precisely the same which, for the two preceding years, has been signed by thousands of the most virtuous and <illegible> of the people, and which ought to be subscribed by every man and woman in Massachusetts. Those to whom it has been sent are earnestly urged to <illegible> up and doing, for the time is short between the present and the period for the assembling of the Legislature. Let every family, and every person, be tested by its presentation; let it be (as it will) a revelation of character and of purpose; and let the world know how many there are among us who 'remember those in bonds as bound with them,' and are therefore for protecting the fugitive, or, on the other hand, how many are still for allowing slave-hunters to seize their prey with impunity on the Puritan and Revolutionary soil of the old Bay State, and to act as heir accomplices in kidnapping.
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts:
The undersigned, citizens of Massachusetts, respectfully ask you to put an end to SLAVE-HUNTING in Massachusetts, by enacting that no person, who has been held as a Slave, shall be delivered up, by any officer or court, State or Federal, within this Commonwealth, to any one claiming him on the ground that he owes 'service or labor' to such claimant, by the laws of one of the Slave States of this Union.

THE PRO-SLAVERY MOB AT THE TEMPLE.
The riotous interruption of the Anti-Slavery meeting held at the Tremont Temple on the 3d inst., by Richard S. Fay, J. Murray Howe, and others of that stripe, and its unlawful suppression in the sequel by Mayor Lincoln, have been duly set forth in our columns; but little has been said respecting the course of the daily press of the city toward that meeting. We purpose, therefore, to say a few words in that direction.
Prior to the meeting, nothing adverse to it appeared in any of the daily papers, except the Post. That had two or three articles well calculated, and we believe expressly designed, to create a riot on the occasion. It branded the meeting as ï¿½making a severe test of the forbearance of this community.' It expressed the hope that it would be abandoned, as calculated to augment the general distress and trouble. It taunted James Redpath with being an Englishman, and not a citizen of the United States-'a man whose association with the difficulties in Kansas and John Brown had rendered his name obnoxious to very many peace-loving (!!) people.' And having thus played the incendiary, and kindled the fire, the Post proceeded to express the hope that no conflagration would follow! It is in this insidious manner that riots are generally created.
After the deed had been consummated, the Boston (Catholic) Pilot,-true to its despotic instincts and base pro-slavery feelings,-exulted over it, saying- ï¿½We are proud of this (!) It is not likely that the furious Abolitionists amongst us will ever again attempt to make themselves the exponents of public feeling (!) This is the proper fate of criminals and their abettors (!) If our city had acted in this manner before, (!) it is quite certain that the country would not be to agitated as it now unfortunately is (!) But better late than not at all; and the present ebullition of patriotic sentiment MAY BE FOLLOWED BY A GREAT MANYï¿½ (!) And thus the Pilot sanctioned the scoundrelism of the mob, and stimulated to the renewal of similar outrages in time to come! And its publishers and editors are men glorying in the name of Irishmen! Such Daniel O'Connell ever indignantly disclaimed as his countrymen. 'They are bastard Irishmen,' he said.
The Boston Journal knows how to be as mean and contemptible, as base and unscrupulous, with reference to the Abolitionists, as any paper in the land. Utterly destitute of all principle, and mercenary in its calculations to the last degree, it is sure to cater to the prevailing sentiment of the hour, especially if that sentiment be adverse to radical reform. Of course, it sanctioned the mob. 'The fellows,' it said, ï¿½who got up that meeting, ï¿½love to be persecuted," and nothing would please them better than to be the martyrs of a riot.' This is a hydraulic compression of falsehood and defamation: its accusation and taunt are equally malignant and brutal. It has the impudence to declare,-ï¿½The majority in attendance, under such a call, had a right to organize the meeting, and take part in its proceedings'-though they went there for the express purpose of breaking up the meeting by lawless violence! ï¿½The proceedings did not violate the right of free speech,' says the Journal. This is either very cool lying, or else free speech has never yet been violated.
Since the riot, the Boston Courier has been preeminent in diabolism of spirit and rowdyism of purpose. For an outpouring of its venom and filth, see the various articles culled from its columns in the ï¿½Refuge of Oppression,' on the first page. Professing to be on the side of law and order, it glories in the most lawless acts, and exhibits towards the friends of the enslaved the temper and attitude of a Southern overseer towards his cowering slaves. With the insolence of a bully, it proclaims,-ï¿½No such assembly, for that or any similar purpose, is very likely to be held in any conspicuous place in Boston again.' And so it summons the mob to be in readiness for the next occasion. It stigmatizes the heroic and inspired John Brown as ï¿½that desperate ruffian and murdererï¿½; it talks of ï¿½the fierce tirades of Phillips and his crew, the empty platitudes of Sumner, and the bravado of Wilson'; it affects contempt for the courage of ï¿½Mr. Wendell Phillips and Mr. Garrison,' lyingly declaring that ï¿½their names were to the summons-but when the day of battle came, these leaders of an ignorant and fanatical multitude to sedition and treason' ignominiously skulked it asks, ï¿½Who are the coward?ï¿½ In one sentence it says, 'The truth is, the Abolitionists have all the freedom of speech on their side' and in the next it says,' After their expulsion from the Temple, they assembled in their rookery on Smith's Court.' Now it speaks of the ï¿½insignificance of the white and black traitors who assembled at the Tremont Temple, to again, in the name of Massachusetts, [what deliberate lying!] eulogize the murderer, John Brown'; and, anon, in order to justify the villanous conduct of Messrs. Fay, Howe, & Co., it correctly announces the meeting as 'called to discuss the slavery question,' and, therefore, ï¿½all good citizens were entitled to take a proper part in its proceedings, and it was organized by the choice of an able body of officers, (!) and free speech was vindicated, (!!) and sound resolutions were adopted' (!!!) And so it goes on, raving, deceiving, falsifying, bullying, from day to day. Towards Mr. Phillips its spirit is absolutely infernal.
<c03>
ADDRESS OF JUDGE SHAW AND OTHERS, 
TO THE CITIZENS OF MASSACHUSETTS.
It seems that the men of trade have succeeded in inducing the men of dignity and station to set this key-note for the humiliation of Massachusetts. Fortunately for us, the precipitation of South Carolina has produced a pause in our movements, all men looking with amazement to see what act of unspeakable folly she and her sisters in pro-slavery fanaticism will next commit. Most fortunately, at a time when it was to be feared that the mass of Massachusetts men would make the foolish and shameful concessions urged in the Address above named, they are obliged to pause, in consequence of the actual occurrence of the catastrophe which they had hoped to avert by the concessions in question. We have been thrown into a panic by the sudden outcry of eminent men, 'The house is falling!' What folly might have been committed, had the fright continued, what sudden, self-destructive rush we might have made, in the moment of alarm, (like Cowper's sheep, who were counselled by their leader to ï¿½leap into the pit,ï¿½ to escape the terrific noise of hounds and horn,) cannot now be told; for, most fortunately, before we had time for action, the crash came. The dreaded event had taken place; and we could stand still, and recognize the fact that, so far from being crushed-ruined-ï¿½kilt and smashed intirely ï¿½-not a bone of us was broken.
We may profitably use this pause in looking deliberately at the assumptions made and the counsel given by Judge Shaw and his associates; in looking to see whether all their assumptions are correct; whether such of them as are really correct, do not point to a course of remedial policy quite different from the one suggested; and whether the policy suggested would not be practically ruinous, as well as disgraceful.
The Address urges that a large and important part of our common country is excited and alarmed, and that this excitement and alarm are real, deep and general, throughout fifteen States. 
Granted. But before their excitement and alarm can justify similar feelings on our part, we must look into the cause of them. Why are they thus agitated?
The one cause of their disturbance is, that their 'peculiar institution' of negro slavery is growing less and less secure, and that they see more and more reason to believe that they can neither extend it nor perpetuate it!
Is this a reason for us to be alarmed? Is it not, on the contrary, the best news, with one exception, that could possibly come to our ears? Have we not long known this villanous ï¿½institutionï¿½ to be the chief disgrace and the chief danger of our country?
The very best thing that could possibly happen to the United States would be, for the slaveholding members of the Confederacy to apply their united energies to the abolition of slavery, and to pursue that work heartily and vigorously, until not a slave remained!
Does anybody doubt this? Does even Judge Shaw doubt it? It is perfectly plain that a course like this would remove the worst evils under which our country now suffers, and would open to her a career of prosperity such as she has never yet known.
The thing next best-next most to be desired-to a voluntary discarding of slavery by the slaveholders, is their inability to extend and maintain it. If slavery; should grow unprofitable, diminish, and gradually die out, in spite of all the efforts of the slaveholders to sustain it, so that, at last, our country should become really a free country, a land of liberty, this would be the next most desirable thing for the whole nation. It would not only be a direct and immense benefit to us of the North, but it would give all parties, slaves, slaveholders and non-slaveholders, a chance for permanent and progressive welfare, such as they have never had before.
It is precisely this thing, the weakening and decadence of slavery-the second best thing that could possibly happen to the nation-that has caused the 'excitement and alarm' of the fifteen slave States. Is this a cause for the free States to be alarmed? Is it not an unshaped for blessing and advantage? Why should we fear it? Why should we not rather joyfully welcome it? Instead of dreading and counteracting this state of things, our wisdom would be, heartily to cooperate with the causes that have produced it.
The particular motive urged by the Address as requiring immediate action from the citizens of Massachusetts, is a fear lest the union of these States be dissolved; a union which the Address declares to be 'our honor and safety, abroad and at home.'
Our honor and safety! Let us see if the Union be really such!
If it were customary for England, France or Spain to imprison our sea-faring men, without the pretence of crime on their part, whenever our vessels entered their ports, and to compel our ship-masters, first to hire additional labor, and then, on their departure, to pay jail-fees for the outrages inflicted on their sailors, we should, long ago, have demanded and obtained reparation. At present, we suffer such outrages to be constantly committed upon citizens of Massachusetts, without even a demand for justice, because we are in union with the States that commit them!
If England, France or Spain had insulted and ignominiously expelled from her territory a Commissioner sent by Massachusetts to look after the interests and rights of Massachusetts men, we should demand and obtain reparation for that.ï¿½ But we have quietly pocketed just such an insult and outrage, in repeated instances, because we were, and are, in union with the States that committed them!
If a citizen of Massachusetts, high in official station, and transacting important business for his native State in England, France, or Spain, were to be assaulted and half-murdered by officials in either of those countries, expressly because he was transacting his proper business among them, we should surely demand and receive reparation! At present, we are submissively bearing such an insult and outrage because we are in union with the State that committed it, and with other States that applauded and rejoiced over it!
Finally-to make but one further citation from the long catalogue of injuries and disgraces that Union has brought upon us-if it were customary for Massachusetts men, travelling for health, pleasure or business in England, France or Spain, to be seized, robbed, beaten, imprisoned, tarred and feathered, and insultingly expelled from those countries by their officials, only for holding or expressing certain opinions, or even merely for being Massachusetts men-we should surely, should we not, demand and obtain reparation. At present, we are in the habit of submitting quietly to such outrages, because we are in union with the States that commit them!
Is our enforced sufferance of such things as these the possession of ï¿½honor and safety abroad and at homeï¿½? Is it really desirable for us to preserve the Union which has brought these injuries and disgraces upon us? Or, if other considerations render its preservation desirable, what security are we to have against the repetition of such outrages?
Strange to say, the Address does not mention this point, or notice it! 
Strange to say, the Address not only seems to imply our continued submission, without remonstrance, to wrongs like these, but it proposes further concessions to the States from which we are now suffering such outrages, for the sake of continuing the Union with them!
Let us look at these additional concessions. There are two of them.
The first is, that we repeal certain laws, the enactment of which was found imperatively necessary to secure the liberties of our own citizens, on our own soil, from the assaults of citizens of other States, with which we are in union!
The second is, that we prevent our own citizens from giving relief to destitute and helpless strangers who ask it of them, and that we formally make the State of Massachusetts an accomplice in whatever rob-
<c04>
bery of the poor, and oppression of the weak, any citizens of our sister States (!) may choose to commit!
! Strange to say, the Address deliberately recommends these concessions, and represents them as suited to promote the honor and the safety of Massachusetts!
In the name of Heaven, what, then, would be her danger and her disgrace?
The names of James M. Beebe and of Henry J. Gardner seem fitly enough appended to such an Address as this. It is a melancholy sign of the low grade of public morals and religion, when the names of eminent Judges, and of popular Clergymen, and of ex-Presidents of Harvard University, are also found appended to it. 
We have long enough sacrificed duty and honor, justice and humanity, the credit of our State and the protection which we owe alike to its Senators and its in mariners, to a superstitious notion of sacredness in the Union, which has extorted from us the sacrifice of all these things. We have shrunk from the duty of putting forth our hand to break this bond, this fetter, which men have dignified with the name of Union, But now, when a merciful Providence is kinder to us than our deserts; now, when the States that have so long outraged us are setting us free by taking themselves away, in God's name, let us not interpose obstacles to their departure! Let us not offer further protection to that villanous ï¿½institution' which, having lived so far, because we have unjustifiably favored it, seems now about to die! Let us not so absurdly uphold the continuance of slaveholding by Southern men, as to offer ourselves to be their slaves! If we have not manhood enough to act, to advance, in this emergency, let us at least stand still, and look at the enemy! Let us not retreat!ï¿½C. K. W.

PEACE AND LIBERTY.
An excellent sermon, suggested by, and suited to, the present aspect of public affairs, was preached by James Freeman Clarke, at the Indiana Place Chapel, on Christmas Eve. Its subject was: The voice of Christ to this people at the present time.
The coming of Jesus was announced as a coming of peace on earth, and good-will to men. And when he declared his own mission, he chose, as best suited to express it, these words of the Hebrew prophet, Isaiah:ï¿½
ï¿½The spirit of the Lord is upon me,
Because he hath anointed me to preach the
Gospel to the poor;
He hath sent me to heal the broken-hearted,
To preach deliverance to the captives,
And recovering of sight to the blind,
To set at liberty them that are bruised,
To preach the acceptable year of the Lord.'
Liberty and peace are the two chief elements of the work of Christ in the world. There are two kinds of liberty, and two kinds of peace. And if we would be followers of Him, we must discriminate between these, and choose the right.
Liberty is the following of that truth which we see with our own eyes. The following of error, or the blind adherence to another man's notion of truth, is not liberty.
Peace, too, may be outward or inward. The true peace cannot be bought by mere external conformity, still less by a compromise of right, or a concession to wrong.
After sketching the strong contrast now existing between Christmas in Massachusetts and Christmas in South Carolina, Mr. Clarke inquired:-What are our Christian duties at this hour, in reference to this contrast?
Alluding to the difficulty which many people find in judging of this matter, and to the very different; conclusions to which they come, he said:ï¿½A moral difficulty is always a question between truth and love. The question is often solved by sacrificing one of these to the other. But both should be invariably preserved.
We must never surrender truth for the sake of love, nor justice for the sake of peace. Our duty and our wisdom are, firmly to resist the demand, or the solicitation to do either. 
We are now beset by demands from the South, and by solicitations from eminent citizens of Massachusetts, to concede these three things:ï¿½
1. To allow the undisturbed and permanent establishment of slavery in the Territories of the United States.
2. To repeal our Personal Liberty Laws.
3. To allow freedom of speech to be suppressed, and the mouths of abolitionists to be closed.
We are now called upon to consider and decide these things. What is to be said of them?
As to the first-It can never be permitted.
As to the secondï¿½ Our Personal Liberty Laws were made for reasons of urgent necessity, which still exist; for an indispensable protection of our own citizens, endangered by the Fugitive Slave Law. It is our manifest duty to provide against the kidnapping of Massachusetts men; though, strange to say, the eminent men of this State, who are now appealing to us to abolish these safeguards, not only suggest no other mode of accomplishing this, but seem neither to have cared for, nor thought of it.
It is complained that these Personal Liberty Laws are unconstitutional. But this is an error. Portions of them which were really unconstitutional were repealed, at the suggestion of Governor Banks, soon after their enactment. The existing Personal Liberty Laws, however at variance with particular laws of the United States, (the Fugitive Slave Law,) are in no manner or degree at variance with the United States Constitution. There is no need of repealing them.
But it is further complained that these laws of ours interpose difficulties-and were intended to interpose difficulties-to the re-capture of actual fugitives from slavery.
This is true, and it is right. It is our duty to favor and help the escaping slave. God made him free; and he has additionally earned the right to freedom, by claiming and taking it.
The Constitution of the United States allows the master to recapture the fugitive, but it does not require us to do a work so repugnant to justice and humanity. If we comply with the letter of this law, this is all that the Constitution requires of us. Not an inch further of concession is to be made to a law contrary to natural justice. Our own principles have some claim to consideration, as well as the demands of the South. The; 'DECLARATION OF RIGHTS of the Inhabitants of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts' opens with this statement:ï¿½
'Article 1. All men are born free and equal, and have certain natural, essential, and unalienable rights; among which may be reckoned the right of enjoying and defending their lives and liberties.'
In accordance with these just and noble ideas, and with our own impulses of right and humanity, we will interpose every obstacle to the reenslavement of a human being, which the spirit of our own truly free Constitution permits, and which the letter of the United States Constitution does not deny. Every possible advantage and facility are to be given to liberty. Not an inch beyond the strict letter of the United States Constitution is to be yielded to slavery. This second concession is, therefore, not to be granted.
Neither can we grant the third thing claimed, suppression of the freedom of speech, and interference with public debate about slavery. To attempt it would be futile, to accomplish it would be dangerous. Freedom of speech is our safety-valve. It must never be given up. There is no danger that this concession will be made, but the very attempt to make it, should be exposed and resisted.
The voice of Christ now says to us-Seek peace, but not by falsehood! Seek liberty, but not by hatred! Seek peace and liberty, but not by concession or compromise of principle.
If the slave States choose to go, for the sake of slavery, let them go. But let us adhere to liberty, at any cost.
<c05>
Christ says to us-When ye hear of wars, and rumors of wars, be not troubled. Let us not be troubled.
We have had trials in our past history. The present may be, perhaps, the greatest of them. But, like the others, it is designed to lift us into a higher plane of action, if we use it faithfully.
Trusting in God, let us adhere to the right. Let us be gentle and sympathizing, yet loyal to truth.
Such is the substance of Mr. Clarke's Christmas Eve sermon. Being often obliged to chronicle cases in which the pulpit perverts the Gospel, I rejoice to mention one case in which the preacher proved himself ï¿½a minister of the Gospel.ï¿½ï¿½C. K. W.

FREE SPEECH AGAIN VINDICATED.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., being announced to deliver a lyceum lecture in Watertown on Friday evening, rumors were very generally circulated in this city to the effect that a riotous demonstration would be made. The friends and supporters of Mr. Phillips, and others who feel interested in demonstrating the fact that any man may say whatever he pleases anywhere in Massachusetts, were considerably exercised thereby, and some fifty of them went out with the expressed determination to protect him at all hazards. The meeting was held at the Town Hall, which, at 7 1/2 o'clock-the hour appointed for the lecture-was filled by an audience most respectable in every sense of that word. The entrance of Mr. Phillips was announced by a round of applause. 
Mr. PHILLIPS was introduced by Mr. MILES PRATT, who occupied the chair during the evening.-After the applause which greeted his appearance had subsided, Mr. Phillips said:ï¿½z
Ladies and Gentlemen,-Some two months ago the Chairman, Mr. Pratt, and myself made an agreement that I should come here to lecture in a sort of Lyceum experiment, to see whether we could resume or re-inaugurate the Lyceum courses that have been held in this town in previous years, and we fixed upon this night and an old subject to try the temper of the population of Watertown on that point. Well, since! that time some people have lost a good deal of money in the stock market, who didn't want me to come here; and one of our State family has run away, and left the household. We shan't advertise her, or ask anybody to bring her back, nor offer her any reward, (applause,) and people who have felt some degree of grief at her loss from the family table think that I ought not to come here to speak; but what precise connection there is between my speaking and South Carolina going out of the Union, nobody has attempted to discover. (Applause.)
But still there was a great deal of feeling somewhere in the neighborhood as to whether Mr. Pratt and myself, or our friends in Watertown, should attempt to reintroduce a Lyceum. Well, we concluded we would try. (Applause.) So here we are to-night to try, and we mean to do our best. If anybody don't like it, they can stay away, and if we get through comfortably, we shall probably try some other lecturer not so unpopular as I am, and see if we can succeed better. It seems to me that Watertown is a very good place to try the experiment. I don't know where I could find a fitter field. The earliest record of Watertown, in the history of Massachusetts, is that she was always making difficulty with the city of Boston. She was always finding out some extreme democratic theory of government which didn't suit Gov. Winthrop and the old South. (Applause.)
Well, it doesn't suit them now. It runs in the blood, that same old democratic spirit-words that have been abused here of late-let us give to them a respectable meaning-the same old spirit which in this town started the first germ of what we may call a real representative government of the Commonwealth, which under the first church of elder Knowles made glory for the rest of the colony. I hope it survives now, and that it means that Watertown is not yet ready to give up to State street, but means to have a municipality or township of its own. (Applause.) So we mean to have free speech here. (Continued applause.) A man always goes home when he undertakes to vindicate his rights-to a place where, if he becomes a pauper, he would have right of settlement; and I should have a right of settlement in Watertown, on account of the first settlement-they don't want to have, me in Boston. I should have to come back here with you.
I mean to-night to consider the question whether we should choose our own subject and our own time. As Gov. ANDREW excellently says-' White or black, rich or poor, hated or loved, at all times, good times and bad times, in season and out of season, truth or error, every man has a right to speak what he sees fit, and when he sees fit.ï¿½ (Applause.) Now I don't mean to leave the Governor alone in that matter; we mean to show him a constituency worthy of such a Governor. (Applause.) That is the reason why we are here to-night. And I don't think, with such an audience, I need fear it will be surrendered. Some men dread secession; but now, Mr. Chairman, I dread concession a great deal more than secession. (Applause.)
I think New York is a great deal nearer to kneeling than South Carolina is to walking. The Northern States may give up all which it has been the object of thirty years of agitation to impress upon them, and to make them determine to maintain; and I don't care whether they maintain it or not, provided they leave our Yankee tongues free to ask all sorts of questions at all sorts of times. Napoleon said he feared five newspapers more than a hundred thousand men. What would he have said of twelve hundred thousand Massachusetts tongues, infinitely more dreadful than five newspapers?
Now what we want to decide at this hour and this year is, not whether the North will back down or stand up, but whether New England keeps her right of discussing free all things. (Applause.) The old story goes, that when Croesus showed the Greek his costly array, the treasures, and gems, and gold, the Greek drew his sword and said, 'This is more than them all, for with it I can gain them all!' So I say of the unfettered tongue. Let the North yield all; let Congress yield all it pleases; let politics yield all it pleases; let the pulpit yield all it pleases; while the people keep the right of free speech, we can get it all back again. (Applause.) And that is the main Gibraltar that we should see to it that we defend. It is no matter to us about the compromises they agree upon at Washington. They may compromise our Personal Liberty Bill, but they can never repeal it; and if they do, John A. Andrew will never sign the repeal. (Applause.)
Gentlemen at Washington are making learned speeches and saying what ought to be repealed, what shall be repealed, and what must be repealed. Thank you, gentlemen! we have made up our minds to repeal nothing. (Applause.) As the fish said to the cook, when she asked him how he would prefer to be cooked-' I don't want to be cooked at all.' So we say to the gentlemen in Congress, 'We care not to be compromised at all. We are to repeal nothing-give back nothing.'
This is, to be sure, but a Lyceum lecture-nothing but an ordinary literary lecture. But when a man says it shall not be delivered, it is of inestimable importance that it should be. As Luther said of the Sabbath, when the priests charged upon him at that day,-'I don't care what I do on that day, but if you say I shall not play upon the violin, I will, to show that I had a right to.' Daniel Webster said the same thing, not quite so humbly, in Congress, that when a man told him he should not discuss, it was the very time he intended to discuss. So I am here to-night to show that we can meet here in peace, selecting our own time and our own subject.
The lecturer then proceeded to deliver his lecture-now pretty familiar to lecture-goers-'Toussaint L'Ouverture.' Two or three allusions to John Brown
<c06>
were hissed as well as applauded; but otherwise everything passed off as such things commonly do in village Lyceums. Having concluded his lecture, Mr. Phillips said:-
There! Watertown still lives! (Laughter and applause.) And I don't think any harm has been done, either. I wish I could say something worthy the occasion. It is a pity that so many good men should come out here to-night to hear nothing better. But coming here was the thing. The sitting here one hour, and going away our own masters. State street has not bought these acres, nor got title-deeds of Yankee tongues, yet. (Applause.) While we keep the English language and this glorious Saxon tongue of ours, we mean to use it, wherever we choose, as did the Sidneys, the Adamses, the Hancocks, the Otises of that day when it was treason to preach free speech. But they preached it if they broke an empire asunder, and we will sustain it and practise it, even if the Canada line goes down to Mason and Dixon's. God speed the day-let it travel fast! (Great applause.)
The lecturer having thus closed his remarks, the hall was rapidly cleared. Mr. Phillips left the hall surrounded by his friends. There was a considerable crowd of the curious about the door, some of whom amused themselves by crying 'All up!' when the orator appeared. Without meeting any obstruction, however, Mr. Phillips reached his carriage and left for Boston. So far as could be ascertained, no fighting men, or other persons more evil disposed than the newspaper reporters and Mr. Phillips's guard of friends above named, who took the trouble to go out from Boston to attend the lecture. [The preceding report we take from the Boston Journal of Saturday.]

PRO-SLAVERY MOBS.
GROVELAND, (Mass) Dec19, 1860.
MR. EDITOR-I have read with pain the accounts, given by the Boston dailies, of the riotous mob of Sunday, attempting to do injury to the person of Wendell Phillips, Esq.
Is America the land of forty thousand churches, and is this the character of the Sundays in one of her principal cities?
Do the pulpits of Boston,ï¿½to some extent bigoted and time-serving,-keep silence in these days of trial, lest they should disturb the moneyed aristocracy, instead of teaching them to worship God?
Is this the Puritan Boston of Wilson and Cotton, or the patriotic Boston of Hancock and Adams, that the first orator of the country cannot stand up in the place of the great anti-slavery preacher who labored for oppressed humanity till the last?
What do these rioters think Mr. Phillips is made of? Have they not yet learnt that menaces do not daunt him, and that money cannot bribe him? Has he not said repeatedly, by actions which 'speak louder than words,' Frangas, non flectesï¿½'You may bend, but shall not break, me'-and has not time shown that he is not easily broken? Is not one man who is true to his own convictions, radical though they be, worth whole acres of your Fays and Howes? Caleb Cushing can stand up in Faneuil Hall, and liken Massachusetts to a piratical ship, and nobody disturbs or threatens him; but when Wendell Phillips, Rev. J. Sella Martin, and others, wish to express their opinions upon the 'Abolition of Slavery,' instead of the 'Preservation of the Union,' they are mobbed by duty-loving Mayor Lincoln, and educated Chairman Fay!
Carlyle says, in his lecture on ï¿½The Hero as Prophet,ï¿½ ï¿½The greatest of faults is to be conscious of none.ï¿½ Mr. Richard S. Fay seems to be about as conscious of his faults, relative to the mob, and the injury thereby done to the colored citizens of Boston, as he does of the existence of parliamentary laws and usages.
The mobocrats have not been entirely successful. If you hush the whisper for freedom, be sure the next tone you hear will be that of thunder! Some Wendell Phillips will speak in Music Hall, and nobody can help it.
Anti-Slavery meetings may fail of accomplishing their objects, and ï¿½anniversaries of the martyrdom of John Brownï¿½ may fall to the ground before an ignorant mob; but they fall as falls the sandal-tree, shedding perfume upon the axe that brings it to the earth.
The cause of freedom will continue to excite the interest of our people, and will ever awaken them to new and manly efforts. Dr. Adams says, in his sermon on Choate, 'Great men are the special gifts of God to a nation, and through it to the world.ï¿½ So great anti-slavery reformers are the 'special gifts of God' to a race, and through the elevation of that race to all mankind; for whosoever does aught for the cultivation or elevation of a single man, thereby enriches humanity. The days of disunion will pass away; secession movements will blow up in inoffensive resolves; freedom will be triumphant, and the American slave set free. H. G.ROLLINS 

THE PORTLAND MOB.
MR.GARRISON:
DEAR SIR,ï¿½In the address of Mr. Phillips at Music Hall, on the subject of Free Speech, Education and Mobs, I find the following passage:-
'I have known three cases of magistrates quelling mobs. One was Neal Dow, in Portland-not necessary, I think; done merely to show his courage. Any man who steps one step out of his path to prove his courage is of course a coward'
I am sorry to meet with this remark, coming from such a source. I never before knew the same opinion to be expressed, except by persons in the rum interest, or political demagogues, or else by persons who had a personal dislike to Neal Dow; and I should be very sorry to have to think that Mr. Phillips could from any motives be influenced, even unconsciously, by such a feeling.
But why, I would like to ask our friend Phillips, was it not necessary that the Portland mob should be quelled as well as any other mob? It may be the case that some future magistrate may think it right and necessary to quell a mob got up to crush an anti-slavery meeting, and then will Mr. Phillips say it was not necessary, but done to show his courage, because none of his predecessors had either the courage or will to do it? But if Mr. Phillips will not say so, some popular orator, like Edward Everett, may say the same thing; and should we not all suppose that some hostile feeling prompted the utterance?
I differ from Mr. Phillips, for I think it was necessary for Mr. Dow to quell that mob. But, after all, it is not so much what Mr. Phillips thinks, or what I think, but what Mr. Dow thought was necessary on that occasion. He was a magistrate, sworn to see that the laws were faithfully executed, and he had proclaimed that he should not fail to use all the power with which the law had clothed him to perform that duty. It seems rather uncertain whether Mr. Phillips means that it was not necessary to suppress the mob on that occasion, or that it was not necessary to resort to extreme measures to do it. Now, if he means that it was not necessary to suppress the mob on that occasion, and that it would have been better to have let them triumph over the government, and seize and destroy, or convert to their own use, the government property, I have no reply to make, for I must acknowledge that he is altogether unanswerable. But Mr. Phillips is not a no-government man, and therefore I suppose that he meant that it was not necessary to resort to the extreme measures which were used for that purpose. I was a resident of Portland at that time, and although I was not at the mob, I knew, as well as I know any thing about that mob, or the one at Tremont Temple on the 3d instant, that Mr. Dow tried every other means in his power that he could think of before resorting to ultimate violence and extreme measures. True, I think he erred in ordering blank cartridges to be
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
fired, for it emboldened the mob, who thought he would not dare to do more than that, and their violence was accordingly increased; and then he thought it was necessary, not only to show his courage, but to secure success, to use balls. The necessity of doing so is a matter of opinion. Many persons in Portland, opposed to the measure, have thought they land, opposed to the measure, have thought they could have done better; but they were not clothed with authority, and therefore their efficiency can never be known. I think he did right, for I should have done the same. D.S.GRANDIN.
[Translated for the Liberator from the Boston Pionier (German) of Dec. 20th]
SLAVERY AND MOBOCRACY AT THE NORTH.
It has been the boast of the Republicans, that under Lincoln they would restore freedom of speech and of the press at the South, maintain personal security, &c.., and, in a word, carry out the Constitution. What we think of such brag and gammon, our readers have long understood, and we long ago explained, too, that to carry out the Constitution at the South would require as great force and energy as to conquer the South. We have, moreover, endeavored to make it clear, that w shall have to provide against the conquest of the North by the South, of course, with the aid of Northern demagogues and mobs, in the interval between the 6th of November and the 4th of March,—before we dare to think of trying the opposite experiment.
Thus far, the result has shown that we did not underrate the Republicans. A few weeks have elapsed since the Presidential election, and already we have got so far, that the question is not of the triumph of freedom at the South, but of the preservation of freedom at the North. What greater mockery than lies in the fact, that those who would restore freedom of speech at the South, abandon it in their own home, the free States, through indifference and cowardice, after a toilsome victory at the polls? If things continue as hitherto; if what has already happened in Philadelphia, Boston, Brooklyn and Washington, must be taken for a symptom of what is yet to happen; then one day it will read in history: After the election of Lincoln, there were in the North American Republic only two parties ,the traitors and the cowards. The former were the supporters of slavery in all inhabited States, the latter the supporters of freedom in all-uninhabited Territories.' Look at this, Messieurs Republicans! You wish to keep slavery out of the free Territories, and you virtually allow it to establish itself in the free States. Or is it something other than slavery that makes compromises at Washington, and persecutes free speech in Philadelphia and Boston? Where are your Wide Awakes, when the defence of free speech against the brutality of slavery is at stake? Where are your Wide Awakes, when the issue is to crush out the mobocracy that is rampant before your eyes? Where are your organizations, your orators, your leaders, your principles, your promises? Every where the rabble is drummed together in Union meetings, where the enemies of freedom hold their muster; why do you not call the PEOPLE to their feet, to hold a muster of the friends of freedom? Every where, too, at the North are thousands ready to hang a free man; where are as many ready to defend him? Take away the police, and, in a fortnight, no truly free man would be alive in all the large cities. And yet this North has a victorious party, which wants to carry out the Constitution! Before the victory, of the Republican party, one could still speak freely; after this victory, the lamp-post beckons to such as open their mouths! That is the great step forward. For the first time in the history of this country has one party triumphed in favor of another. Were it not for the Abolitionists and the free negroes, the world would no longer know that there are still at the North free men, determined at every cost to preserve the Republic from dishonor, and freedom from suppression. Your chattering in the press, as experience has shown, is not worth a rush. Where to-day you bully, tomorrow you crouch; and while to-day you cry,' No more Compromises to-morrow you yourselves present the compromise on a salver. As long as you do not say and show-—' Here are so many hundred thousand men, who are resolved and prepared and prepared not only at all hazards to restore the Constitution at the South, but also to annihilate at the North, every violater of its rights'-—all your platforms are but empty words, and all your denunciations bullying.
There is nothing more instructive in the recent history of this Republic than the late occurrences in Boston.
We have already noticed the first debut of mobocracy in this most orderly of all American cities. This half-successful debut had only tickled the palates of its instigators and abettors, but had not satisfied their appetite. After they saw that they could play the barbarian with impunity,-yes, and with the consent of almost the entire daily press of this city, and the passive approbation of the victorious party,-they hankered after more. Sunday before last, Frederick Douglass, a colored man, spoke in Music Hall before Mr. Parker's congregation. In that hall, in which the statue of Beethoven represents harmony, and the din of a fierce mob had never been heard, were present a gang of Southern sympathizers, who sought to continue the tune begun at the Tremont Temple, and to disturb the meeting by rowdyish noises. But they were not strong or resolute enough, and, even without the police, were reduced to silence. This indignity the honor of rabbledom could not brook. The true mob, if it is not floored by grapeshot, and forced into silence by determined energy, will consider a foiled attempt to commit an outrage as an invitation to the commission of a greater. No wild beast possesses a more obstinate eagerness for blood and destruction than a mob whose bestial desires on the one hand are roused and encouraged, and on the other are not kept in check by fear and chastisement. It is a chief trait in the character of the mob, as manifested originally at the South, and then most successfully aped at the North, that it sees in every endurance of an outrage a justification of a new one, and in every repulse of the same a justification of revenge. The argument can impart to it the consciousness of having perpetrated an outrage, the pleasure of whose repetition only force can rob it of. And if only one weak man confronts it, who can oppose to it no force and inspire it with no fear, the mob will persecute him the more implacably, the more cowardly he proves himself, Where the weakness of their adversary disarms noble and courageous men from shame and magnanimity, just there the mean and cowardly man serves himself up as a feast of brutality for this weakness. If the people of the Revolution were a noble lion, the people of the Reaction are a loathsome hyena. No greater delight for a mob a t the South than when some thousand barbarians can perform the exploit of hanging and burning a lone and fettered negro; no greater delight for a mob at the North, when some thousand apes of barbarism can perform the equally great exploit of mobbing a lone and unprotected abolitionist, or of trampling his human rights in the dust. To live to see such bestiality in a Republic, and especially in the 'Cradle of Liberty,' excites a greater loathing and a deeper revolting than would the sight of a genuine cannibal Performance in mid Africa.
What we experienced last Sunday in Boston belongs in this category. The speaker at the Music Hall was Wendell Phillips, and his theme was, 'Mobs and Education.' It was known that a new, and of course improved, practical illustration would be lent his subject; wherefore a considerable number of police was deputed to the defence of the quiet Music Hall, and the military kept in readiness. The hall was filled as perhaps never before, and Phillips spoke as unsparingly and resolutely as ever. It was soon manifest, that a large crew of disturbers of the peace.
<c02>
had there assembled, with the aim of proving their much-vaunted enthusiasm for 'order' and 'constitutional rights' by a contempt of all order and constitutional rights, when these were to profit an opponent of slaveholders and their Northern servants. But all their pains to disconcert the speaker, or to prevent the lesson designed for them, were vain. By way of a mends, they had reserved the chief act of brutality for the street. There outside, from two to three thousand men awaited the speaker, the greatest, most radical, most independent, and most eloquent orator in America, in order to-hang him, in the' Cradle of Liberty'! 'Kill him! hang him!'—was the cry on all sides from the Northern Jack Ketches in the service of the slaveholders. And the furious mob would have made good their word, if the man whom they had selected for a martyr to freedom had been without defence. A small number of determined friends kept off the fists of the barbarians, but they would probably have been overpowered, had not the police strengthened the escort, and accompanied Mr. Phillips to his house.
Consider this fact. In the year 1860, after a Republican victory, in the freest city of the republic, in broad daylight and on Sunday,—that day which once kept this devout populace in peaceful seclusion,—the. greatest orator in America had to be escorted home by a police force, lest the freedom-loving populace should hang him to a lamp-post by way of recognizing his love of freedom! What is freedom, what is a republic, what is right, what is a people, what is humanity, and what is man? Is a republic an institution to rear barbarians? Are republicans necessary to place them in power? But there we have the result of slavery and the consequences of enduring it, and the wretched effect of a 'legal' indulgence of conditions for which no human law can exist. Slavery makes a coward of him who endures it, and a cannibal of him who protects it.
Shall we congratulate Theodore Parker, that he lay down to rest in the Italian soil, and lived not to see this disgrace? How would it have fared with him, the author of the revolutionary anti-slavery manifesto from Rome, if, in the sense of that document, he had just now in Boston Music Hall defended the rights of man and combatted slavery? Has Boston the ambition to become the Northern Baltimore, nay, to surpass Baltimore? In sight of the old Bunker Hill monument, is hanging threatened to the men who are fighting on the new Bunker Hill against the new oppression? If the spirit which now so unexpectedly rears its shameless head in this city is still to live some time, Senator Toombs need not bring his negroes here, in order, for the fulfillment of his prophecy, to call the roll of his slaves at the foot of Bunker Hill. The roll of his white slaves in Boston is already longer than that of the black ones on his plantation will ever be. What is left of freemen here, if the free word, whose surest protection should be the spirit of the people, can be spoken only under the protection of the police? Boston has taken a disgrace upon her, which she must efface at any cost, and if she herself has not the will and the strength to do so, the State must come to the rescue. They want to destroy freedom in Boston, that the money-bag may quietly serve the slave-whip. Unless the laws of the would are reversed, all Boston must be destroyed, sooner than it should witness the destruction of freedom.

ALL COMPROMISES USELESS.
NEW YORK, Dec.17, 186O.
Are we in earnest? How vain is the hope by any tinkering of a committee to effect a settlement of this controversy that shall be satisfactory to the North and the South! Let us for a moment look at the true issue. More than half of those who voted for the Republican President elect, as we think, believe that slavery is a sin. They are desirous to relieve the Government of all responsibility with and for it. They could not be bribed, persuaded or coerced into aiding in the enforcement of the Fugitive Slave Law. They believe that slavery should be prohibited in the Territories, that it should be abolished in the District of Columbia. They believe that slavery is emphatically-in the language of the heroic Sumner—a barbarous institution; that a Christian man can no more sanction or uphold slavery, than he could sanction or approve of murder, adultery or arson. We believe in the higher law; and we claim the right to interpret the Constitution as we understand it. We tell you plainly and frankly-—you of the Slave States, you slaveholders, while we disclaim any personal enmity or malice towards you—we hate your institutions. We declare uncompromising hostility against slavery,-politically under the Constitution, and morally and religiously everywhere on the face of the earth. We may be mistaken in assuming that more than half the Republican party hold these views; but we think, from the manner such sentiments are greeted at popular meetings, that such is the case. At any rate, the party holding such views, substantially, are respectable in numbers and determined in purpose, as the compromisers will find if they under-take to make con cessions inconsistent with the Chicago Convention. That Convention and its candidate but faintly and feebly represented the moral conviction of Anti-Slavery men and women in the Free States. Pressing hard in the rear of that political organization, and supporting it, are the material interests and human influences of the times. We cannot reverse the engine of human progress. Men of mercenary aims may damage and retard the movement, but the swelling tides of truth are rolling in with resistless power, and before them this ancient wrong must retreat. Let, then, every patriot, every anti-slavery man, in this hour of peril, stand firm. What ever the result, let us do our duty. If driven from Washington, we will retire with our faces to the enemy. They may push their successes as they threaten—to Philadelphia, New York and Boston. Slavery may review its forces in Beacon street—call its roll on Bunker Hill. It may spread its tents in Newburyport, and use its Cushing for the legitimate purpose for which cushions are made. It may form a hollow square around the grave of Webster, and through Nehemiah Adams reiterate the sentiment that the Blue Ridge of Virginia is higher than the throne of God. Still, all is not lost. Quincy and Plymouth Rock are left; and, if driven from these, the friends of liberty, with their leaders and prophets, Garrison, Phillips, Sumner, Beecher, Giddings and others taking up the Ark of Freedom, will retire to North Elba, that Calvary of our cause, and there, over the grave of its martyr, we will inaugurate by our death, if need be, a conflict which shall end only in universal emancipation. J. H. C.

SECESSION AGREED UPON.
CHARLESTON, NOV. 20. The Convention met to-day at 11 o'clock.
Mr. Rhett's resolution for a committee of thirteen to provide for the assemblage of a Convention of the seceding States to form a Constitution was adopted.
Mr. Inglis reported the following ordinance:-
'We, the people of South Carolina, in Convention assembled, do declare and ordain that the ordinance adopted by us in Convention on the 23d of May, 1788, whereby the Constitution of the United States was ratified, and all acts or parts of acts of the General Assembly of this State ratifying the amendments to said Constitution, are hereby repealed, and the union now subsisting between South Carolina and the other States, under the name of the United States of America, is hereby dissolved.'
The ordinance was passed unanimously by 169 members, at a quarter past one o'clock.
The news spread rapidly, and a crowd collected amid immense cheering.
Mr. Miles moved that the Clerk telegraph the intelligence to the members at Washington. Carried unanimously.
The ordinance was ordered to be engrossed on parchment, and to besigned by the President and members, at six and a half o'clock this evening, at Institute Hall, and to be placed in the archives of the State.
<c03>
VALUE OF THE UNION.
The secession of one or more of the slave States from the Union, whether right or wrong, having now become a certainty, any further discussion of their constitutional right to do so is useless. Assuming, however for the sake of argument, that they have no such right, the questions to be considered are the duty and expediency, incumbent on the Federal Government, of preventing such secession by force. I shall not stop to discuss the duty which has already been done to a considerable extent, as I presume it will be allowed on all hands, that whatever may be the right of the free States to compel any of the slave States to remain in the Union, they are not under any obligation to do so, if they are willing to part with the seceding States. The only question, therefore, now to be considered, is the policy of preventing or permitting such secession.
This question has not been discussed; for it has been taken for granted by all parties, that the Union is in itself a blessing; that its dissolution would be an enormous evil; that it must be preserved at all hazards. But although this is the general doctrine with the leading politicians and papers in all except the seceding States, it is believed that there are thousands in the free States who silently dissent from this doctrine; and who are brought, by recent events, to doubt the value of the Union. The question will soon be forced upon us; and the remarks now offered are only an entering wedge; only to give expression to the suppressed sentiment of thousands.
The question in its simplest form is, What is the value to the free States of their federal connexion with the slave States?
1. Does the union of all the States give greater power to resist foreign aggression, and, of course, importance abroad, than would be possessed by any portion separated? In the early period of our government, when the States were few and weak, this might have been true; but now the truth is directly the reverse. Considering the magnitude of the uneasy slave population at the South; the necessity of protecting the Union from an internal, as well as an external enemy, our connexion with the slave States is an element of weakness, and not of strength: the free States separated would be decidedly more powerful without them.
2. Does our union with slave States increase our credit and respectability among foreign people, and admiration of our republican institutions? It is the uniform testimony of all travellers abroad, that our country is perpetually reproached with its maintenance of slavery: it is the triumphant excuse of despotism: the discouragement of the advocates of popular freedom. The free States, while in the Union, cannot plead exemption from responsibility for it; for it is well known, that as great a support of slavery is effected by party ties at the North, as by slaveholding interests at the South. Delivered from connexion with slavery, our free confederacy would stand the most glorious and admired in the world.
3. Does the Union ensure to our citizens greater harmony, order and good government? It is scarcely necessary to answer this question; for the most thoughtless mind must perceive that the 'irrepressible conflict' which has disturbed our quiet, encroached on our rights and interests, and outraged our humanity, has entirely proceeded from our political connexion with slaveholding communities, and would cease with our separation.
4. Does the Union insure peace between the Northern and Southern sections of the country? Should there be an attempt on the part of the free States of the North to coerce any of the seceded slave States into the Union, undoubtedly there would be war; but should any States be permitted to secede by agreement and mutual consent, there would be no danger of war. The free States would have no interest or disposition to make war on the slave States; and the slave States, in view of their slave population, would not venture to commence it. There is far more danger of a civil war under a nominal union, than a legalized one between the two independent republics.
5. Does the Union sustain commerce between the two sections, and increase the wealth of the free States? Every tyro in political economy knows, that the changes of government in nations, or their political relations to each other, do not materially affect their mutual commerce, unless restrained by rigorous penal laws; and that even these have not always the power to suppress such commerce. While the manufactories of the North afford a good market for the cotton of the South, no restrictions by the governments of either section on this commerce could be enforced, even if either party was so unwise as to make them; no such restrictions would be borne by the people of either republic. The loss of the revenue also, collected mostly at the North, and expended mostly for the benefit of the South, would be avoided; and this would more than compensate for any possible diminution of trade; and, certainly, no pecuniary gain should be considered in opposition to political freedom.
6. But the most serious and paramount question is the effect of the Union on the intelligence, humanity and morality of the North. All unbiassed travellers in the slave States, and even residents, who are not interested to make misrepresentations, invariably represent these attributes as at a far lower ebb than in the free States. The denial of the Scriptures to the slaves, causing their more general disuse; the discouragement of other instruction; the frequent lynchings, expulsions, and murders, denote an awful state of barbarism; the complexions of a great portion of the population unmistakably indicate the prevalence of licentiousness; and the general practices of gambling, intemperance and profanity evince a depravity as low as that of savage communities. I do not deny exceptions; I speak of the state of society as a whole. Now it is next to impossible, that communities thus connected by political ties, strengthening those of a social and relative nature, should not have a corrupting influence, diminishing aversion, and obstructing the advance of intelligent and moral sentiment at the North; and, accordingly, we perceive this effect in the great increase of crime, noticed by moralists, part of which is indeed to be ascribed to immigration, but quite as much or more to the influence of Southern manners. It is noticeable, that this vicious conduct at the North is most apparent among those of the ignorant masses, who are the least opposed to the continuance of slavery. This influence would be much diminished by separation.
It is a consideration of momentous importance, that by the division between the free and slave States, the former will be exempted from the tyrannical and odious Fugitive Slave Law, and from all obligation to return escaped slaves to the cruel punishment of their masters, which is so torturing to the feelings of humane men of the North, supposed to be binding them, in defiance of their consciences, to the effective support of slavery; an evil not compensated by all the alleged advantages of the Union, if real, but now refuted.
It thus appears, that the free States not only derive no advantage from their Union with the slave States, but positive injury; and the desire and proposal for separation should rather proceed from the former, than from the latter; at least, the inference is, that when any of the slave States are bent upon secession, it should not be opposed by others, but permitted peaceably and cheerfully, as a happier revolution than that which delivered us from British domination. Every slaveholding State, which secedes from the Union, cuts off a decayed branch from its growth, and accelerates it advance to power, respect, virtue and prosperity. J. P. B.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for January, 1861, makes its appearance promptly, with an attractive table of contents, including a timely paper on 'The Question of the Hour.'
<c04>
THE DOUBLE-DEALING OF THE SOUTH. 
The real design of the actors in the secession movement is becoming every day more and more apparent. Underneath the mass of resolutions offered in Congress, embracing 'plans' for adjustment of Southern 'claims,' and the bluster, bullyism and terrorism of the unreasonable and unreasoning masses of men in the South there is beginning to crop out that which by-and-by will stand in bold-relief, the one all-absorbing, all-directing motive, at once the cause and foundation of all existing disturbances. Look! see! yonder out of the boiling sea of discord and commotion, already half-discerned through the vapory elements, a mighty and magnificent empire! As the clouds disperse, behold her gilded palaces, her lofty turrets, her temples of Science, and religion towering up to greet the earliest rays of the sun of her independence! Who but the unimaginative can withstand this glorious vision? The Great Southern Confederacy, the pride of the nations, the paragon of empires, the patron of art and science, the nursery of statesmen and princes, her commerce whitening the seas, her shores gemmed with cities, her magnificent harbors furnishing safe anchorage to the shipping of every people and clime, her ports the most commodious and freest in the world, her' divine institution,' her cotton, the sole and only needful basis of her wealth, and above all her splendid Church and State arrangements, the one the abode of a royal priesthood pledged to the divinity of the' institution,' the other the sure precursor of a long line of nob'e descendants!! Is it strange that a great nation of 33,000,000 of freemen should suspend all work and worship to contemplate such a theme as this! No wonder that the Union threatens to crack and dissolve under the pressure of such a crushing thought! 
Really, it is a hard case that well-disposed citizens, as everybody knows Northern men to be, should be constantly compelled almost at stated intervals to desist from our labors when we would much prefer to be at work to earn a few dollars for the support of our families, than to listen to harangues about secession and dissolution every time we would do a kind or honest thing either as citizens, Christians or men. We say it is confounded hard that, because we just want to act out the religion which our mothers taught us in infancy and youth, and which our Bibles and common sense teach us now—we say it is hard that in the exercise of that benevolence which our religion declares to be a duty, so that when a poor man knocks at our doors, and asks for bread or inquires the way to Canada—we say it is mighty hard that we can't be allowed to gratify this poor man's wish, without being liable to punishment therefor, on application to the legal authority, by a ruffian barbarian living a thousand miles off. Why, we can't even choose a President, or a Governor of a State, or enact a law, or speak or publish a word, or travel South as our National Constitution says we may, or even trade, without getting a black or white mark on our backs; or do anything under the heavens tending in the slightest degree to illustrate our love for freedom rather than slavery, without thereby preparing halters for our own necks, or tar and feathers for our backs.
Now it is a fact, and we must say it even at the risk of our lives, that we do not like this state of things; and yet, it is because of this that our Southern brethren (some of them brethren, not all) are determined, if they can't go off and leave us, to constantly try to frighten us out of our wits with cries of secession; and yet, these poor deluded creatures, who have flattered themselves that they do frighten us—and it is a fact that they have, some of us—now begin to tell us themselves, and through their representatives in Congress, that they don't care a snap about our State legislation, or the choice we have just made of President; and some of them begin to whisper—(we are glad to see even faintest signs of returning honesty)—that they not only do not now care-for us or our legislation, but that they never did; that there is a diverse and irreconcilable difference in our ideas and institutions; that we cannot live together on any peaceable terms for this reason, and that therefore they are determined to 'cut stick,' whether we like it or not Now there is no chance for an argument here. We concede the point. Our ideas and institutions ARE different and irreconcilable, and we don't complain of you because you dislike this fact. Why under the sun did n't you ever tell us of this before? Why don't you instruct your representatives in Congress to let it straight out to the Nation, so that we can all understand what it is you are driving at? Then we shall have something to talk by. It is always best to be honest, not because it is ' best policy'—the devil invented this phrase—but because it is best, and that's the long and short on't. Why, in the name of common sense, if you want to go out of the Union, and set up for yourselves, have n't you pluck enough to say so? We always thought you had pluck; for bowie-knives and pistols, tar, feathers and hemp, sell well in your section. Why, you always said you had pluck, and we never denied it—some. If you desired to go out of the Union, why did you want to fetch it about in such a sneaking way? Why compel editors, and speech-makers, and philosophers, and all sorts of thoughtful men, all over the nation, on the other side of the Atlantic and in Congress, to spend their money and their treasure to argue about personal liberty bills, and fugitive slave laws, and constitutions, and supreme courts, and presidential elections, and a thousand other things, and thus absorb the money and time and intellect of the people about matters which have no possible bearing on your case? O, this is poor, miserable business for Southern chivalry!It looks as if you were not so honorable and above-board as we used to suppose you to be. Now, for once, let us play a fair game; be serious, frank and honest. Use no longer those old edgless, pointless, rusty weapons of cunning and chicanery, employed so successfully in times past, in hewing your way to power. Strip off the mask! With open face and steady eye, clearly and honestly state your case! Urge the ' incompatibility of the two systems of labor,' and that, BECAUSE of this incompatibility, you both honestly see and feel the necessity of separation. Make your appeal in man-fashion to the free, magnanimous North, and you shall not lack the listening ear. But do not, as you value your manhood, place yourselves in the attitude of hypocrites and cowards, and pretend to claim redress for grievances you never suffered. Do not, like a pettifogging lawyer, meanly seek to throw the burden of proof on the shoulders of those who never offended you, and thus ' assume a virtue' which you know you do not possess. Shoulder to shoulder, in a solid unit, press straight to the issue. Declare your preference for a separate existence; but don't disgrace your nature, and the Union to which you now belong, by an effort to sneak away from us under the cover of a lie, and then feel your-selves forced to steal the property of the United States in defence of a position which you will vainly strive to maintain! W.

LETTER FROM A. T. FOSS.
VALLEY FALLS, (R. I.) Dec. 14, 1860. DEAR FRIEND GARRISON:
Permit me to give the friends of our cause a brief account of my recent Anti-Slavery labors.
In the month of October, I was about two weeks in the county of Coos, (N. H.) among the everlasting hills. There has been but little anti-slavery labor in this part of New Hampshire, and consequently the reign of pro-slavery Democracy has been but little disturbed.
There were three things that were most unfavorable to the success of my mission. First, the time was just on the heel of the Presidential election. Secondly, the weather was unpropitious, rain falling almost incessantly. And, thirdly, the typhoid fever was very prevalent through that whole vicinity. Still.
<c05>
I had some good meetings, and there seemed to be considerable desire to hear more on this subject, which has been so long discussed, but which is always presenting some phases new and startling.
Our friends, the Higgins, of West Milan, gave me a most hospitable welcome to their home, and the younger Mr. H. took his horse and carriage, and went with me from town to town, generously defraying the expenses out of his own pocket. I reckon this family among the best friends of our cause.
My next visit was on Cape Cod, where we always have good meetings, and which always seem to me like Bunyan's delectable mountains, from which one may catch glimpses of the celestial city.
There is at Harwich one good, faithful anti-slavery Orthodox minister. Mr. Munson invited me into his meeting-house,—as he had done once before during the year,—to plead the cause of the slave. To meet such a minister is like an oasis in the desert. If all the ministers at the North were of like spirit and work, the days of slavery would be few in this land. No truer friends have the slaves of this country than are to be found on this sandy Cape. 
Dec. 2d,—that day made memorable forever by the martyrdom of the heroic, good old John Brown,-I had two good meetings in Fall River. In the evening, the large City Hall was well filled with attentive hearers, mostly young. 
Last Sunday, Dec. 9th, I spoke for the first time in New Bedford. We had a good attendance in the afternoon. I took occasion to criticise with some severity the shortcomings of the Republican party. At the close of my address, a gentleman arose, and offered the following resolution:-
'Resolved, That the Republican party is the bulwark of American slavery.
I supposed the speaker was one of our friends, of an ultra stripe. I was, therefore, quite in sympathy with him, and remarked that I had no objection to the resolution, only it seemed an implication that the Democratic party was not equally involved in this wicked support of slavery. I remarked that I had no objection to getting a shot at the Republican party, provided I could shoot through the heart of the Democratic party, which was always before it in iniquity. While making these remarks I noticed great merriment and good feeling in the audience, which I could not account for, as I was quite sure I was saying nothing pungent or witty; but all was made very plain, when, at the close of the meeting. I learned that my ultra anti-slavery friend was no other than a Democratic lawyer, by the name of Cushman, who has a brother in Boston who is a United States Commissioner.
It was talked about town that our meeting in the evening would be mobbed and broken up by genteel rowdies, in imitation of their brethren in infamy at Boston. But the Mayor and Chief of Police were on hand, with the determination to protect the freedom of speech, and so the large audience was undisturbed, as the meeting in Boston would have been if those functionaries there had been equally faithful.
Some of my meetings in the week time have failed, others have been well attended. The petition for a Personal Liberty Bill meets with some favor, but will not be as numerously signed as last year.
One reason why the meetings in Fall River and New Bedford were so successful was, that they were, thoroughly notified. If our friends in all places would be equally faithful, the <illegible> of the Agents would be much more pleasant and profitable.
I held a good though not large meeting in this place last evening. To-day I am enjoying the hospitality of the home of our friends Samuel and Elizabeth Chase, where many a weary worker in the world's reform has found rest to soul and body. 
Yours truly,
A. T.FOSS.

THE TWENTY-SEVENTH 
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY 
SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.
The Ladies who have for so many years received the Subscriptions of their friends to the Cause, ask the favor of their company, as usual, at this time of' the year, on 
WEDNESDAY, the 23d of January, Day and Evening, in Boston.
As accidental omissions are almost unavoidable, even of those whose company is most desired, the Ladies hasten to say, that ALL who hate slavery, and wish to become subscribers to the funds for its peaceful, immediate abolition, without expatriation, may obtain special invitations (without which no party is ever admitted) at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington street, and of the Ladies at their respective homes.
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN, 
MARY MAY, 
LOUISA LORING, 
L. MARIA CHILD, 
HENRIETTA SARGENT, 
ANNE WARREN WESTON, 
MARY GRAY CHAPMAN, 
HELEN ELIZA GARRISON, 
SARAH SHAW RUSSELL, 
FRANCES MARY ROBBINS, 
CAROLINE WESTON, 
MARY WILLEY, 
SARAH BLAKE SHAW, 
SUSAN C. CABOT, 
SARAH P. ATKINSON, 
ELIZA ANDREW, 
LYDIA D. PARKER, 
ELIZA F. EDDY, 
SARAH P. REMOND, 
SARAH RUSSELL MAY, 
ABBY KELLEY FOSTER, 
SARAH H. SOUTHWICK, 
EVELINA A. S. SMITH, 
ANN REBECCA BRAMHALL, 
AUGUSTA G. KING, 
ELIZABETH VON ARNIM, 
ANNA SHAW GREENE, 
ELIZA APTHORP, 
MARY ELIZABETH SARGENT, 
MATTIE GRIFFITH, 
ANNE LANGDON ALGER, 
MARY E. STEARNS. 
The friends of the Cause in distant cities, or in country towns with whom we have been so long in correspondence, are earnestly entreated, for the sake of the Cause, at this moment of hope and cheer, when the very evidences of progress make it difficult to raise money in large sums,—to take up collections in their respective neighborhoods; using all diligence to make the amount of smaller subscriptions supply any deficiency the hard times may possibly occasion in the larger ones. Now, as the very time for the most efficient expenditure, should be the time of most devoted effort. It is to be hoped that not a town in any State where we have ever had correspondence, nor an individual whose heart is in unison with ours on this subject, will be found wanting to our list We have ample opportunity to know that there are many such at the South as well as at the North, for we are not exclusively of Northern birth, nor all free from the painful remembrance of having once been slave-holders. We hope to welcome as many as possible at the evening reception;—at all events, to receive their subscriptions by letter. Some of the ladies will be ready, while directing the arrangements for the evening reception, to welcome and receive the subscriptions of all their friends who prefer to make their calls during the day.
The Germania Band will fill the pauses of conversation in the evening. The guests may leave cloaks and shawls in the care of the attendants at the entrance and in the ante-rooms.
Each invitation must be countersigned by the guest, as last year, before presenting at the door.
<c06>
'WOMAN'S RIGHTS UNDER THE LAW.'
MRS. DALL'S LECTURES 16 SUMMER STREET.
MRS. DALL will deliver a course of Lectures on three successive Wednesday afternoons, at the Room of the Young Men's Christian Union, No. 16 Summer street .to commence.
WEDNESDAY, Jan. 9th, at 3 o'clock, P. M.
Jan. 9. French and English Law.
Oriental basis for the Law's estimate of woman. Common proverbs. Roman Law not pertinent. The estimate of the French Law shown in the rights of property, marriage and franchise. Women in the public employ never promoted. The estimate of the Law regulates the price of Labor. 'The Lawe's Resolution.' English Common Law. Divorce for hopeless insanity not allowed. Results. Anecdote of a London Court Room. Sir Charles Morgan's Aunt, and her opinion of the Law.
Jan.16. The English Common Law—continued.
Equity. The Law's estimate of a woman's truthfulness. Divorce by Act of Parliament. The Hon. Mrs. Norton. Hungarian Law contrasted with the English. Practical immorality of the Law, which makes virtue in the wife depend on vigilance in the husband. Suffrage. Objections met. The Art Critic and Rosa Bonhour.. Suffrage a death-blow to three kinds of Law. Harris v. Butler. Delicate discussions in Parliament. Divorce Bill. Duke of York's Trial. John Stuart Mill on Suffrage. Women of Upsal. 'Dames de la Halle.' Blackwood in 1854.
Abbesses in Parliament. Buckle's Lecture. Changes in Canada. Pitcairn's Island.
Jan. 23. The U.S. Laws and the Secret of Success.
The despotism of a Republic. Kent. The man's notion. Poynter on Consistency. The Laws of nineteen States changed in ten years. Graham's decision. Mrs. Dorr's claim. New York Bill. Complication of legislation. Mrs. John Adams and Mrs. Hannah Cobbold. 'Human rights.' Patient thoroughness the title to respect. Through Labor to Suffrage Mean men. Woman's right to man as counsellor and friend. The historical development of the question. The practical question. Mahomet and the Venetian Catechism.
These lectures are given in the afternoon in order to permit persons from the neighboring towns to attend. The subject is very little understood by women, and this course of lectures concludes the twelve Mrs. Dall originally projected.
Doors open at 2, P.M. Admittance to each lecture, 25 cts.

NO COMPROMISE WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
Conventions, in the State of NEW YORK, to be addressed by Rev. BERIAH GREEN, ELIZABETH CADY STANTON. Rev. S.J.MAY, AARON M. POWELL, SUSAN B. ANTHONY, and others, will be held as follows:—
Buffalo, Thursday, Friday, Jan. 3, 4.
Lockport, Sunday, Jan. 6.
Albion, Tuesday, Wednesday, Jan. 8, 9,
Rochester, Friday. Saturday, Sun., 11, 12,13 
Utica, Monday, Tuesday, Jan. 14, 15.
Rome, Thursday, Friday, Jan. 17, 18 
Cortland, Saturday, Sunday, Jan. 19, 20.
Fulton, Tuesday, Wednesday, Jan. 22, 23,.
Oswego, Thursday, Friday, Jan. 24, 25.
Port Byron, Saturday, Sunday. Jan. 23, 26, 27.
Syracuse, Tuesday, Wednesday, Jan. 29, 30.
Auburn, Thursday, Friday, Jan. 31. Feb. 1.
Peterboro', Saturday, Sunday, Feb. 2, 3.
The sessions of the Conventions will be afternoons and evenings, at 2 and 7 o'clock. Afternoon sessions FREE—evening sessions, 10 cents.
Let there be a grand rallying of the People.
The friends in the several places will give free entertainment to those in attendance from the country.

NEW YORK STATE CONVENTION.
The Fourth Annual New York State Anti-Slavery Convention will be held at Albany, in Association Hall, Monday evening, Tuesday and Wednesday, afternoons and evenings, Feb. 4, 5, 6. Wendell Phillips,Hon. Gerrit Smith, Lueretia Mott, Rev. Beriah. Green,. Ernestine L. Rose, Elizabeth. Cady Stanton, Oliver Johnson, Rev. S. J. May, Aaron M. Powell, Susan B. Anthony and others will address the Conventions.
Afternoon sessions will commence at half-past 2 o'clock. Admission free. Evening sessions, at half-past 7 o'clock. Admission 10 cents.

WOMAN'S RIGHTS.
The Second Annual New York State Woman's Rights Convention will be held at ALBANY, in Association Hall, Thursday and Friday, afternoons and evenings, Feb. 7 and 8.
Lucretia Mott, Wendell Phillips, Ernestine L. Rose, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Hon. Gerrit Smith, Rev. Beriah Green, Rev. S. J. May, Aaron M. Powell, Susan B. Anthony and others will address the Convention.
Afternoon sessions at half-past 2 o'clock.Admission free. Evening sessions at half-past 7 o'clock. Admission 10 cents.
ESSEX CO. ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.—
The next meeting of this Society will be held at Lawrence, Sunday, Jan. 30th, day and evening. CHAS.L. REMOND and A. T. Foss and others will speak. The public are invited.
CHARLES L. REMOND, President. LYDIA M. TENNEY, Sec'y.

SIXTEENTH COURSE.
The Fifth Lecture before the Salem Female Anti-Slavery Society will be given by Rev. SUMNER ELLIS, of Lynn, on Sunday evening, Dec. 30th, in Lyceum Hall, at 7 o'clock. Admittance five cents.
CAROLINE BALCH, Rec. Sec.
H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at
North Oxford, Friday, Dec. 28.
Leicester, Sunday, Dec. 30.
Oakdale, Monday, Dec. 31.
West Boylston, Tuesday, Jan. 1.
Princeton, Wednesday, Jan. 2.
Clinton, Sunday, Jan. 6.
Lancaster, Tuesday, Jan. 8.
Harvard, Thursday, Jan. 10.
Groton, Friday, Jan. 11.
Pepperell, Sunday. Jan. 13.
SITUATION WANTED.—A lady who has had large experience in matters of house-Keeping, and who is eminently qualified satisfactorily to discharge the duties connected therewith, desires a situation either as house-keeper, or matron of some establishment, in this city or vicinity. The best of references given. Address X., Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street.

RESSIE S. LOCKWOOD, M. D.,
No. 34 AUBURN STREET, BOSTON.
Particular 
attention paid to the Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Diseases.
OFFICE HOURS from 11, A. M., till, P. M. Nov. 23. 3

FREE DISPENSARY, 
For Women and Children, 274 Washington street, Boston. Open every day, from 12 to 1 o'clock.
The above institution (in connection with the LADIES' MEDICAL ACADEMY) is now open for the gratuitous treatment of Women and Children, and for Surgical Patients of both sexes. Difficult cases may have the benefit of a Consultation on Wednesdays, at 12 o'clock.
MIDWIFERY. Attendance by duly qualified female practitioners will be provided for the poor, at their own homes, free of charge.
Dr. BESSIE S. LOCK WOOD, Physician for December.

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
MIDDLESEX, .ss To the Heirs at Law, Creditors, and all other persons interested in the last Will of JOHN CABOT, late of Newton, in said county, deceased, testate:
WHEREAS, application has been made to me to appoint GEORGE JACKSON. of Boston, Trustee under the Will of said deceased, in the place of FRANCIS JACKSON, of Boston, in the county of Suffolk, resigned—you are hereby cited to appear at a Probate Court, to be held at Cambridge, in said county of Middlesex, on the second Tuesday of January next, at nine o'clock before noon, to show cause, if any you have, against granting the same.
 And the said George Jackson is hereby directed to give public notice thereof, by publishing this citation once a week, for three successive weeks, in the newspaper called the Liberator, printed at Boston—the last publication to be three days, at least, before said Court.
Witness my hand, this 27th day of November, in the year eighteen hundred and sixty.
WILLIAM A. RICHARDSON,
Judge of the Probate Court.
A true copy: attest, J.H.TYLER, Register.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
CLERICAL APOLOGISTS AND DEFENDERS OF SLAVERY.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
[In the report of a celebrated pro-slavery meeting in Charleston, S. C., published in the Courier of that city, it is stated, 'The CLERGY of all denominations attended in a body, LENDING THEIR SANCTION TO THE PROCEEDINGS, and adding by their presence to the impressive character of the scene'!]
Just God!-and these are they 
Who minister at Thine altar, God of Right!
Men who their hands of prayer and blessing lay 
On Israel's Ark of light!
What! preach and kidnap men? 
Give thanks-and rob Thy own afflicted poor!?
Talk of Thy glorious liberty, and then 
Bolt hard the captive's door?
What! servants of Thy own 
Merciful Son, who came to seek and save 
The homeless and the outcast,-fettering down 
The tasked and plundered slave!
Pilate and Herod, friends! 
Chief priests and rulers, as of old, combine! 
Just God and holy! is that church, which lends 
Strength to the spoiler, Thine?
Paid hypocrites, who turn 
Judgment aside, and rob the Holy Book 
Of those high words of truth which search and burn 
In warning and rebuke?
Feed fat, ye locusts, feed! 
And, in your tasseled pulpits, thank the Lord 
That, from the toiling bondman's utter need, 
Ye pile your own full board!
How long, O Lord! how long 
Shall such a priesthood barter truth away, 
And, in Thy name, for robbery and wrong 
At Thy own altars pray?
Is not Thy hand stretched forth 
Visibly in the heavens, to awe and smite?
Shall not the living God of all the earth,
And heaven above, do right?
Woe, then, to all who grind 
Their brethren of a common Father down! 
To all who plunder from th' immortal mind 
Its bright and glorious crown!
Woe to the priesthood! woe 
To those whose hire is with the price of blood-
Perverting, darkening, changing as they go, 
The searching truths of God!
Their glory and their might 
Shall perish; and their very names shall be 
Vile before all the people, in the light 
Of a world's liberty.
Oh! speed the moment on, 
When Wrong shall cease-and Liberty, and Love, 
And Truth, and Right, throughout the earth be known 
As in their home above!

STANZAS FOR THE TIMES.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
Is this the land our fathers loved, 
The freedom which they toiled to win?
Is this the soil whereon they moved?
Are these the graves they slumber in? 
Are we the sons by whom are borne 
The mantles which the dead have worn?
And shall we crouch above these graves, 
With craven soul and fettered lip?
Yoke in with marked and branded slaves, 
And tremble at the driver's whip? 
Bend to the earth our pliant knees, 
And speak-but as our masters please?
Shall outraged Nature cease to feel?
Shall Mercy's tears no longer flow? 
Shall ruffian threats of cord and steel-
The dungeon's gloom-th' assassin's blow, 
Turn back the spirit roused to save 
The Truth, our Country, and the Slave?
Of human skulls that shrine was made, 
Round which the priests of Mexico 
Before their loathsome idol prayed;-
Is Freedom's altar fashioned so?
And must we yield to Freedom's God, 
As offering meet, the negro's blood?
Shall tongues be mute, when deeds are wrought 
Which well might shame extremest hell? 
Shall freemen lock th' indignant thought?
Shall Pity's bosom cease to swell?
Shall Honor bleed?-shall Truth succumb?
Shall pen, and press, and soul be dumb?
No-by each spot of haunted ground,
Where Freedom weeps her children's fall-
By Plymouth's rock, and Bunker's mound-
By Griswold's stained and shattered wall-
By Warren's ghost-by Langdon's shade-
By all the memories of our dead!
By their enlarging souls, which burst 
The bands and fetters round them set-
By the free Pilgrim spirit nursed 
Within our inmost bosoms, yet-
By all above-around-below-
Be ours th' indignant answer-NO!
No-guided by our country's laws, 
For truth, and right, and suffering man, 
Be ours to strive in Freedom's cause, 
As Christians may-as freemen can! 
Still pouring on unwilling ears 
That truth oppression only fears.
What! shall we guard our neighbor still, 
While woman shrieks beneath his rod,
And while he tramples down at will 
The image of a common God! 
Shall watch and ward be round him set, 
Of Northern nerve and bayonet?
And shall we know and share with him 
The danger and the growing shame?
And see our Freedom's light grow dim, 
Which should have filled the world with flame?
And, writhing, feel, where'er we turn, 
A world's reproach around us burn?
Is't not enough that this is borne?
And asks our haughty neighbor more?
Must fetters which his slaves have worn, 
Clank round the Yankee farmer's door?
Must he be told, beside his plough, 
What he must speak, and when, and how?
Must he be told his freedom stands
On Slavery's dark foundations strong-
On breaking hearts and fettered hands, 
On robbery, and crime, and wrong?
That all his fathers taught is vain-
That freedom's emblem is the chain?
Its life-its soul, from slavery drawn? 
False—foul-profane! Go-teach as well 
Of holy Truth from Falsehood born!
Of Heaven refreshed by airs from Hell!
Of Virtue in the arms of Vice! 
Of Demons planting Paradise!
Rail on, then, ’brethren of the South'-
Ye shall not hear the truth the less-
No seal is on the Yankee's mouth, 
No fetter on the Yankee's press! 
From our Green Mountains to the Sea, 
One voice shall thunder-WE ARE FREE!
Speed on the light to those who dwell
In Slavery's land of woe and sin, 
And through the blackness of that hell, 
Let Heaven's own light break in!
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
For the Liberator.
A WARNING.
Attend, ye Southern mountebanks,
While I your tricks expose:
And think not, by your blust’ring pranks, 
To lead us by the nose!
To scare the North and West, you try 
By threatening to secede: 
While you are acting out the lie,
You dare not do the deed! 
Your slaves, though all so quiet now.,
Their necks your feet beneath,
Would breathe the long heart-cherish'd vow
For 'LIBERTY OR DEATH!'
A hundred thousand glittering knives 
Around your heads would dash, 
And you, your children, and your wives,
Must meet their lightning flash.
Let but your trampled bondmen hear 
That they may dread no more 
The Northern sword, or Western spear, 
To sentinel your door,
And soon the dreadful sound would come 
Along the trembling earth,
The rattle of the Negro's drum, 
Their slogan yell of death!
All this you know, you braggart knaves! 
We're of your tricks aware:
‘Wolf! wolf!' you cry-look to your slaves-
You'll find the Wolf is there! 
Weymouth. F. M. ADLINGTON. 

For the Liberator. 
LINES, 
Suggested by reading the Proclamation of the President for a day of Fasting and Prayer.
O, James Buchanan! are you thinking 
That prayer will save a ship from sinking, 
If, all the tiresome labor shirking,
The sailors pray, instead of working? 
Dost think that going without eating,
And each attending his own meeting, 
And asking God the work to do, 
That He has given to me and you,
One day of such 'humiliation’
Can help to save our guilty nation? 
After that day, will there not be 
Four million slaves to be set free,
Before we dare to think of rest, 
Before our Union can be blest?
Ah! James Buchanan! some bright day 
You'll learn how slaves and freemen pray! 
A voiceless prayer, yet heard on high, 
And God will answer by-and-by:-
We know full well our country's needs;
Our holiest prayers are noble deeds;
Such prayers go heavenward every day-
Yes, James Buchanan, WE WILL PRAY;
But we'll not ask our God to save
The Union whilst it holds a slave!
E. D. MORSE. 
Sherborn, Dec. 19, 1860.

From the New York Tribune. 
PRAYER MEETING IN A STORM. 
[See President Buchanan's late Proclamation.]
A gale came up from the sou'-sou'-west; 
'Twas fierce November weather: 
But the ship had felt such a storm before, 
And her planks still held together. 
And thus, though the howling tempest showed 
No signs of diminution, 
The passengers said-'We'll trust our ship, 
The stanch old Constitution.'
The captain stood on the quarter-deck-
'The seas,' he said, ' they batter us: 
'Twas my watch below in the former gale-
I doubt if we'll weather Hatteras. 
The wind on the one side blows me off, 
The current sets me shoreward:
I'll just lay too between them both, 
And seem to be going forward.'
'Breakers ahead!' cried the watch on the bow; 
'Hard up!' was the first mate's order; 
'She feels the ground-swell,' the passengers cried, 
'And the seas already board her!' 
The foresail split in the angry gust: 
In the hold the ballast shifted: 
And an old tar said-'If Jackson steered, 
We shouldn't thus have drifted!'
But the captain cried-'Let go your helm!' 
And then he called to the bo'swain-
'Pipe all hands to the quarter-deck, 
And we'll save her by Devotion!' 
The first mate hurled his trumpet down; 
The old tars cursed together, 
To see the good ship helpless roll 
At the sport of wave and weather.
The tattered sails are all a-back, 
Yards crack, and masts are started; 
And the captain weeps and says his prayers, 
Till the hull be mid-ships parted: 
But God is on the steersman's side-
The crew are in revolution; 
The wave that washes the captain off 
Will save the Constitution! 
BAYARD TAYLOR. 
New York, Dec. 20,1860.

IMPORTANT MEETING OF FRIENDS OF THE INDIAN TRIBES. 
An adjourned meeting of philanthropic persons, interested in measures for the protection of the Indians, assembled on Friday evening, the 14th inst., at Allston Hall, Tremont street. 
Mr. John Beeson called the meeting to order, and the usual officers were appointed; the chair being filled by Dr. H. F. Gardner. 
The Chairman briefly alluded to the former meeting in School street, on the 19th ult., and explained that the present meeting had been summoned to determine the mode of calling a General Convention, and the time and place at which such Convention should assemble. He then read the following resolutions, which had been referred from the former meeting to the present one for final consideration:-
Whereas, The design of all just governments and of all true religion is to promote the best interests of all mankind; and for this purpose organizations are instituted for the benefit of every class of men, with the exception of our frontier Indians, who are literally left to perish for the want of adequate care; therefore, 
Resolved, That a General Convention of the friends of the Indians is hereby invited to assemble in the city of Boston, on the 9th day of January, 1861, and to continue three days, during which the following subjects shall be considered: 
1. The reason why the Indians have not become civilized. 
2d. The cause of their fading away. 
3d. A plan for their future government.
4th The location and extent of the domain or domains which should be appropriated for their final settlement. 
5th. The propriety of aiding all the principal tribes of Indians to send delegates of their own people to a general convention of their race, at some appropriate place, during the coming summer, to determine for themselves relative to the foregoing points. 
6th. The propriety of asking Congress for an appropriation sufficient to carry the foregoing into effect. 
Resolved, That a Committee of Arrangements for the proposed Convention be appointed. 
Resolved, That the entire press of the country be respectfully invited to give these resolutions a place in their respective papers.
FATHER BEESON, in his usual simple, earnest language, enlarged on the wrongs and sufferings of the Indians, at the hands both of the Government and the settlers. Treaties are made with the Indians, but no adequate provision exists for carrying them out. Such treaties are a solemn mockery, violated almost at pleasure, and with impunity, by white settlers and others. Yet the press, with few exceptions, is silent: the pulpit is silent:-and thus, unprotected by law, and foredoomed by public opinion to annihilation, the red man suffers the most wanton outrages. Look at the mere cost of this barbarous treatment. In four years, not less than twenty-four millions of dollars have been expended in needless Indian wars: and now the Secretary of War recom-
<c03>
mends that these injured people shall be put under martial law;-their great wrongs to be righted by the, rifle, the revolver, and the sword! But recently, the New York Tribune contained an account of the massacre of 200 Indians in California. Of course, reasons are assigned for such brutality; but we have only one side of the question-the white man's. True, indeed, the Indian race is destined to perish, but not by this atrocious warfare. As Indians, they must cease to be, and become absorbed into the great mass of human life, which on this continent is blending so many races into one people. He desired that the proposed Convention should meet during the session of Congress, and search into the question submitted in the resolutions. When the subject is then fairly before the people, the wrongs complained of must cease. Let us remember, that in the effort to save inferior races, we shall ourselves be elevated. 
The Chairman here introduced Mr. Ralph Waldo Emerson to the audience, amidst. hearty cheering. 
Mr. EMERSON said that he was impressed, as all must be, by the remarks of Mr. Beeson, which deserved an audience as large as the country itself. He had regretted that the meeting had been called now, when political and commercial affairs are in such an agitated state, and it is difficult for people to extend their sense of duty to distant objects. Yet there is something imperative in the time,-because the law of Kansas has to come before Congress, and other questions of Indian reserves, and perhaps some further injustice will be consummated.
It is always time, and never too late, to do right:-these are words out of the heart of the world. We are severally parties to wrongs which are coming to a crisis, and it fit some present effort should be made in expiation. Yet we hardly realize our responsibility here. In this portion of the country, the Indian is a picturesque antiquity. We have the waters of Massachusetts Bay, and the State bearing their name. We have recollections of them as a race which preceded ours, and who have covered the country with their beautiful names. But where are the men? We read Cooper's novels, and think of the Indian with an interest belonging to a creature of fiction. But he is himself worthy of the interest he inspires. He is a naturalist by what is called the rule of thumb. He is as wise as a hound. He is not imitable in arts properly his own. 'You cannot lose an Indian' is a proverb. He finds his way by marks which the white man does not make. He can call the moose, and the moose will come. He can call the muskrat while he is swimming, and the animal obeys. He has the greatest self-command, and sense of a wild justice which is true to the laws of his tribe and his religion. Many of the Indians have exhibited extraordinary traits. Red Jacket's speech to the missionaries who came to convert his tribe deserves the very best consideration of every thoughtful person. It is remarkable for its keen wit and truthful eloquence. The interest in the wild man increases as we ourselves become scientific. His arrow-heads and hatchets are found all over the world; even, it is said, under the glaciers of Switzerland! His very antiquity should give a sacred tenderness to our thoughts of him. But there is come into our country, with its amalgamation of races, a power not civilized nor humane.
The wrongs of the Indians on our western frontiers are owing to the large share which the State of Missouri has had in settling these regions. The free and hearty settlers from the North, untainted by slavery, could never of themselves have committed such crimes. I hope that, in the time before us, a happier era is to be inaugurated. I entreat you, gentlemen, for the sake of civilization, to have regard to the Indian.
All union means justice; all injustice means disunion. If only two people understand each other, and mean justice, they will gather strength and prevail. Injustice is ever the disuniting principle. 
The Chairman here introduced Miss BALL and her sister, who sang from the platform a song called ‘Speed on!' illustrative of a beautiful superstition among the Seneca Indians. At the conclusion of the song,
Miss BALL briefly addressed the audience on the wrongs of the Indians, and the retribution ever following injustice. Each race of men is a special type of the Divine. In the red man we see a natural simplicity, sagacity, and unconquerable love of freedom. In the African, a race full of music and of social affection, happy even in bondage. The Anglo-Saxon lives by method, laws, institutions; and force their souls into the forms they have made. This brotherhood of States will yet be owned,-and the political and social institutions of the now dominant race widened to embrace and cherish the others. 
At this stage of the proceedings, a collection was taken up to defray the expenses of the hall.
The Chairman read the resolutions again, when, on the motion of Mr. Beeson, the time for a Convention to meet was changed to the 20th, 21st and 22d of February, (the latter day being the birth-day of Washington.) In their amended forms, the resolutions were then adopted unanimously. 
Mr. Beeson expressed his regret at the non-attendance of the clergy, of whom he had seen twenty-four on the subject. Many of these had made him half-promises of personal co-operation, but none had come forward. 
Dr. Gardner spoke with his usual clearness on the subject of justice to the Indian, and followed up Mr. Beeson's comments on, clerical lukewarmness with an earnestness of indignation which aroused the dissent of some individuals, and the hearty applause of the rest of the meeting. 
On motion, a Committee was appointed to issue a call for a Convention, consisting of the officers of the meeting and any persons they might select to make up the number of five.
The Chair announced Mr. Beeson's desire to go to Washington to advocate in person the Indian claims, provided he could raise the needful sum for expenses.
Mr. Emerson highly commended Mr. Beeson's book on the late war in Oregon as full of interesting and valuable matter.
The resolutions were unanimously adopted, and, after a little animated discussion, the meeting broke up with a deep sympathy for the cause which it had met to promote.

TAXATION WITHOUT REPRESENTATION. 
BOSTON, November 6, 1860.
To FREDERICK U. TRACY, Treasurer, and the Assessors, and other Authorities of the City of Boston:
My tax-bill for the year 1860 is before me. And now, on this national election day, when men are running to and fro, seeking voters by fair means or foul; when men of all nations-no matter how ignorant, or how unfitted by imbecility, intemperance, and poverty for paying their taxes even-are fraternally solicited to exercise this high function of citizenship, I feel, with new emphasis, the fact that woman alone, of all sane adults, is denied this right,-although contributing millions for the maintenance of government. The payment of a tax to support government identifies the payer with that government; recognizes him as a citizen under it, entitled to its protection, and responsible for its action. If it is the duty of a citizen to pay the tax, it is equally a duty to act in the selection of those who are to levy it, and decide its uses, and to bear also a share in the framing of those laws which he as a citizen is forced to obey. 
A native of Boston, attached to its institutions, and willing to bear a share in its just pecuniary burdens,-having no one to represent my views and wishes at the polls, (as the wife and mother are claimed to have)-I find myself compelled to pay taxes for property which I am not allowed to repre-
<c04>
sent, and which, therefore, like so many other thousands in the hands of women in Boston, is unrepresented;—while the ignorant, the irresponsible, and the uninterested are admitted to all the rights and duties of citizenship. Is this just? Is it in accordance with the spirit of the age-with the intelligence and progress of our people?
The election of the proper National, State and City officers is a matter of equal importance to all citizens, and should not, therefore, be delegated to any one sex or class. Especially is this felt in the choice of city officials and the administration of municipal affairs, because here arise many questions involving enormous expenditure, and many changes of old established ways, as the widening of streets-which were intended for the joint benefit of all classes, and not the especial benefit of corporations, at great injury to the property and comfort of the residents upon the same-and other questions affecting the vital interests of many, and upon which the moral sense and rights of all concerned should be consulted, but which now are managed too much by short-sighted partizans or imprudent speculators, who do not hesitate to increase the city debt for any purposes of display or luxury, outside of the legal provisions for the expenditure of taxes, and at any disadvantage to the tax-payers, who have no special benefit therefrom.
Against this compulsory payment I again protest, hoping that, at no very distant day, our Government will come to recognize in its action its cardinal principle-'The consent of the governed.' 
This is respectfully submitted. 
HARRIOT K. HUNT. 
32 Green Street.

LETTER FROM MRS. FRANCES D. GAGE.
MENDOTA, (III.,) Dec. 1,1860.
FRIEND GARRISON,-I have just laid down the Liberator of the 16th of November, containing the letter of Parker Pillsbury, bearing date from this place. We thank him for those frank words of reproof to the manhood of our country; but he is mistaken in saying that ‘the most lynx-eyed of the Woman Rights Lecturers have failed to note the wrong' which he so graphically describes. Some of us have not only noted, but we have been' chiels among them taking notes, and, faith, have printed them' many a time.
Well might the sights and scenes which every day met his eyes and ears almost make him forget the ‘plantations of the South'! The four million slaves of the Southern plantations, whose skins mark their position, are but a fraction of the slaves of these United States; and if these things meet us among reformers, among men professing to believe in human rights, what shall be the condition of wives where men recognize only rights for the 'free white male citizen'? Can we expect any earnest anti-slavery effort while nearly every man in the country over twenty-five years of age owns one pair of hands, for whose labor of a life-time he is only obliged to give ‘necessary support'? Will he have any realizing sense of the degradation of caste, so long as he spurns the idea of equal rights for the sexes?
We heard an anti-slavery man of the strongest stamp, a few days since, asserting the idleness and dependence of Illinois women-indeed, of all women-there ‘was not one in fifty that was the least help to a man in getting a living, and nine-tenths of them could not even do their own work without hired help. Talk about giving such women the right to acquire and hold property!'
We asked him demurely, who raised all the children of Illinois-who cooked all the food-who tended all the household operations-who made the clothes for the family-who nursed the sick-who set the tables, swept the house, and washed the garments?
‘What does that all amount to?' was his scornful answer.
'Why, my dear sir,' I replied, ‘if you will pay your wife the ordinary price for simply doing up your washings weekly, and allow her to put that money in the savings' bank, and continue it for twenty years, she will have more money laid up at the end of that time than half you men could raise as the saving of the same number of years.'
'I tell you,' he replied, ‘it would be mighty little she would have left, if she would pay me for furnishing soap and water, tubs, fire-wood, board and house rent.' 
'Heaven save the mark!' He seemed to forget that she would, or could, or did ever do anything else but wash his two or four fine shirts a week! 
We met another of these reformers, who, in the presence of a large company, scolded a young wife not twenty-one, who was the mother of two children, and about to become the mother of the third, till she wept like a child in her agony; simply because some trifling matter of mere convenience to him had not been attended to in an absence of weeks, leaving her with all the household cares. Poor slave!
Another one who writes letters for the Liberator, and gives his energies to the defence of the slave, lets his wife get up, and build fires, and get his breakfast, habitually; and appropriates her earnings, without her consent, to his use. She put sixty dollars in the bank, and for a special purpose; and when she called for it, he had taken it out, and spent it; thus betraying her confidence and trust. Yet this man is called a strictly honest man-high-minded, genial and hospitable. 'Such a good man!' the neighbors say.
Mr. Pillsbury's account of the woman who got supper for ten, reminds me of a like circumstance. I had lectured three evenings in a neighborhood, and the mother of seven children-one at the breast-was my landlady. The last evening I urged her to go, and the husband offered to stay with the baby. Talking it over, she let fall the remark-‘I never get out any where.' 
'Yes you do!' shrieked out a bright little girl; ‘you've been out twice since I can remember: once down to grandad's, and once over to aunt Hannah's.'
This husband was an earnest Woman's Rights man, and a Garrisonian-by profession. He might have emancipated one slave, surely, if he had been desirous of so doing!
But we hope for better things, and an effort is now making in our State of Illinois to secure to married women the right to acquire and hold property in their own name, and the right to alien and devise the same, and to protect their own persons and reputation by law-asking also joint right in the guardianship of children for the mother. 
Mrs. TRACY CUTLER and myself have been, for the last two months, circulating petitions for this object, and we find in the hearts of the people, everywhere, a ready response. Much more so than in New York last winter; and we hope that the time is not far distant when the evils complained of,-which are often more the result of custom than of any positive intention of unkindness,-will not be found marring the household relation.
The slavery of woman is older than chattelism, and I much fear it will take longer to file off her chains-from the simple fact, that the. husband, professing deep love, considers himself and wife a unit; and she being a part of himself, he has a right to abuse himself as much as he pleases, through her.
On the other hand, we do know women who do not act well their part. We pray that both may do better in the time to come. If we have spoken especially of anti-slavery men and reformers, it is because we feel that they should stand pre-eminent above all others in their works of kindness and love; and, beginning their labors at home, let them go from thence outward to the ends of the earth, wherever there may be a human soul wearing the fetters of a slave. 
F. D. GAGE.
<c05>
ELOQUENT VINDICATION OF FREEDOM OF SPEECH.
The people of this country ought certainly to be the last to speak of the dangerous influence of eloquence, for their history is full of examples, which show that the highest oratory could not move the popular mind from the ground of strong moral convictions. Eloquence has not seldom been more dangerous to those who possessed it, than to those upon whom it was destined to operate. New England had a favorite son, whose massive eloquence had more than once thrilled the heart of the nation. New England had been true to him as long as he was true to her. But once, on the 7th day of March, 1850, he spoke again, spoke with all the power which none but be possessed, spoke for a cause which the conscience of New England condemned-spoke himself to death-but the conscience of New England still lives. [Applause.] 
If the greatest efforts of the thunderer of Massachusetts could not shake the moral convictions of the people, what chance have those, who, with the strength of their voices, try to make up for the failing strength of their cause? There is, and perhaps there never was a man in this country, who has addressed as great a number of his countrymen as Mr. Douglas; and I venture to say there hardly ever was a man who, with greater dexterity and perseverance, used the watchwords of liberty in the advocacy of slavery. It does not appear that his prodigiously meandering search after his maternal relative [laughter and applause] made many converts for his cause. Malicious people even go so far as to pretend that he would have received more votes, if fewer people had heard his eloquent voice.
But examples still more striking are crowding up on my memory. It is said that the eloquent Caleb Cushing is laboriously engaged in the delivery of a speech, which he commenced at a time out of men's memory, and which he means to continue to a time out of men's endurance; [continued laughter] a speech in which he has proved, is proving, and will still further prove, that the people of the North have speedily to abandon the principles contained in the Republican platform, or this young and hopeful Republic will sink to the bottom of the unfathomable ocean, never to rise again. And yet I am informed the moral convictions of the people are successfully enduring the most unearthly of trials. The New York Tribune even asserts that this speech has created a panic in the good town of Newburyport, and that the citizens are rapidly moving their families to Plum Island, [laughter] in order to escape the infliction; thus, rather abandoning their old and dear firesides, than yielding their consciences to Caleb Cushing's oratory This, however, I do not believe. I think the report is exaggerated. For, although Caleb Cushing's speech may not be attractive enough to hold them, it is probably not propelling enough to drive them away. [More laughter.] 
Is any further proof required that a people who are educated in the great school of public life, are proof against the seductive power of eloquence? That they are moved by ideas, and not by the verbiage of sounding appeals? That it is a conscientious conviction that governs them, and not the charm of glowing periods? [Applause.]
And now suppose the meeting which those refined and patriotic gentlemen of this neighborhood saw fit to break up, suppose it had resulted in the expression of the sentiment that slavery could be abolished in no better way than by invading the Southern States and liberating the negroes by force of arms-suppose this proposition had been ever so publicly discussed, had been set forth in language ever so glowing and brilliant, had been urged upon you in appeals ever so warm and touching, do you think a single individual within the reach of its influence would have promptly resolved to shoulder his musket, to march into the South, and to undertake this terrible business? Do you not think if it had ever been seriously entertained, the same freedom of speech which brought it forth, would have subjected it to a rigorous criticism, and would have worked its abandonment?
You may remind me of John Brown. Ah, it was not in consequence of rights and liberties safely enjoyed, but of oppression ignominiously suffered, that he entered upon his fatal career. It was not in the free and serene atmosphere of public discussion, but in the dark secresy of a despairing heart that he conceived his terrible design. [Sensation.]
Nor do I think that those who disturbed the meeting of Abolitionists had any such fears. They deemed it necessary to satisfy their Southern customers of their loyalty, so that trade might not suffer. They had to demonstrate that State Street is not disposed to invade Virginia or South Carolina, all of which was very right and proper. Everybody has a right to pass, and if they can persuade the South that Boston is not altogether an anti-slavery city, let them do so.
But is it necessary for that purpose that they should put down the freedom of speech? Why not by free speech counteract the mischief that free speech threatened to accomplish? Why not call a meeting on their side, a tremendous outpouring of the conservative masses, in Faneuil Hall? Have they no orators on their side, whose voices will reach farther than that of Fred. Douglass, and drown that of Wendell Phillips? [Voice in the audience, 'No.'] Mr. Everett is certainly longing for an opportunity to make another speech for the Union, if his health permits, and I sincerely hope it has not suffered in the Presidential campaign. [Laughter.] He will describe the horrors of the slave insurrection in St. Domingo, to draw tears from your eyes. He will recount all the battles of the Revolution, one by one; he will invoke the spirits of Washington, Jefferson, and Madison, generously forgetting that these three great Virginians were anti-slavery men, and if he should not succeed in demonstrating your loyalty to the dullest mind in the South, what have you to hope for? Are brickbats better than Everett's periods? Is a loafer's oath more demonstrative than Mr. Everett's appeals? Is a bully's bludgeon more indicative of loyalty than Mr. Everett's quivering finger? [Loud applause ]
Ah, yes, it seems indeed to be so. The Union-savers have learned a lesson, and, remarkable enough, have not forgotten it. Last winter a conservative Union meeting was held at Faneuil Hall. It was a great success. I stood among the assembled multitude, and listened to the speeches. The speeches were good. Ex-Governor Lincoln spoke, Mr. Everett spoke, and Caleb Cushing spoke. Mr. Lincoln's speech was replete with patriotism, rather liberal; Mr. Everett's with patriotism, rather whining; Mr. Cushing's with patriotism, very vindictive. He indulged in the pious wish that the Abolitionists should be hung, and when I heard that, I thought that the most fastidious Southern appetite ought to be satisfied. But lo, behold! Southern gentlemen made remarks in Congress about the Union meeting in Boston, and kicked and abused Mr. Lincoln for having made an anti-slavery Union speech, and abused and kicked Mr. Everett for not having made a pro-slavery Union speech, and abused and kicked even the indomitably faithful Caleb for having complimented Mr. Lincoln, who made an anti-slavery Union speech. [Applause and laughter.]
This result was very unsatisfactory; it was hard. No wonder they have at last come to the conclusion that they cannot demonstrate their loyalty to the South successfully, unless they do it in the Southern way. The breaking up of a meeting of Abolitionists was decidedly better, and showed a certain progressive spirit; but it was by no means the thing. The thing would have been to tar and feather James Red-path, to hang Wendell Phillips, and to burn Fred. Douglass alive. That would have been a sign of loyalty worth a gracious acknowledgment. [Sensation.] But nothing short of that will answer, and although they certainly have done better than last winter, yet I fear the demand is running ahead of the supply, and love's labor is lost again. Are they afraid to go to such extremes? Ah, why then go in that direction at all, if only by such extremes the desired result can be obtained? It is humiliating to degrade one's self; but is it not still more humiliating to degrade one's self in vain? 
When I look upon this spectacle, there is one thought which impresses itself irresistibly upon my mind. This nation has undertaken to be the great guiding star of mankind, and to show the people of earth that man can be free, if left to himself. Thus, this Republic does not belong to herself alone. The human race has its stake in the enterprise. If Liberty falls here, where can we expect to see it maintained? If man does not respect his neighbor's rights here, where he has tasted their enjoyment, how can he respect them where he is ignorant of their blessings? If the people cannot preserve the harmony of human rights, where they, free of outward pressure, and independent of a foreign will, belong to themselves, how can they be expected to create that harmony, where their feet are clogged, and their hands are tied, by institutions, and laws and customs, not of their own making, and their movements are-embarrassed by the cumbersome traditions of past centuries?
<c06>
And now there are millions of men living in the old world, watching the development of things in this Republic with anxious solicitude, fondly hoping for the final solution of the great problem, applauding with exultant joy every success we achieve, deploring with heartfelt grief every reverse we suffer,-for our victories as well as our defeats are theirs also-and whenever I hear, in this Republic, of individual rights invaded, of liberties threatened, and of the great agencies of progress disturbed, I cannot help asking myself: What will they think? What will they think, who expect to hear from our shores the divine message that man is capable of governing himself, and, being free, capable of respecting the freedom of others? To them, another spark of light is extinguished, another ray of hope obscured, another bond of sympathy severed.
Indeed, those whose eyes were hopefully fixed upon this land, have already had to reconcile themselves to many a contradiction. Slavery existing in a portion of this Republic of equal rights, and all the despotism that grows out of slavery. But where slavery does not exist, there, at least, they supposed, would Liberty throw her shield over every natural right of man. And now they have to learn that even here the freedom of speech means, that every man has a right to say what is not unpleasant to others! [Applause.] They will remember that there never was a despot on earth who refused to tolerate opinions which exactly agreed with his own. What will they think?
I must be pardoned, if, in my public address, I have not always been able to refrain from expressions of scorn and contempt; from applying the lash of invective and bitter denunciation to those who disfigured the fair image of liberty, which this Republic holds out to the world, and drove into despondency the millions of liberty-loving men in the world, abroad, who, with all the tendrils of their soul, clung to this last hope! I feel every pang of disappointment that distresses them, vibrating in my heart, and so I ask, again and again: What will they think? It is true, the time is out of joint; clashing interests and ideas are standing up against each other in formidable array; the minds of men are disturbed here by the pusillanimous frenzy of fear, there by the madness of a stubborn infatuation, and every day an untoward event may rouse the elementary forces of society to desperate conflicts. The passions of the multitude may be fiercer than in ordinary times, bewildered by the perplexities which seem to beset our path. And believe me, I do not belong to those who think lightly of the dangers threatening the Republic. I have, like many of us, watched the development of our days with profound anxiety, weighing the stake which the universal cause of human liberty and civilization has in the momentous struggle, and seeking, with a scrutinizing eye, for a gleam of light in the confusion. Terrorism rules the hour in one part of the country; the light of reason seems to be extinguished by headlong passion, and the voice of counsel drowned by the clamor of infatuated zeal. In our midst peace is still reigning, not undisturbed, but not forever broken. Shall we follow their example? Is it better that here, also, the turbulent passions of the multitude should supplant a free and quiet exchange of opinions? If there is a light that may guide us in the storm, it is protection of liberty extended to all, the rights of the individuals mutually respected, and the freedom of opinion held inviolable. (Applause.) Then the freedom of thought and the freedom of utterance may issue from this crisis as it has done a thousand times; not only as the great agency of progress, but as the firmest bulwark of peace and order, as the great moderator of strife, as the great safety-valve of the social machinery.-[Extract from Carl <illegible> Lecture at the Tremont Temple, Boston.

From the New York Times.
A CANDID VIEW OF SECESSION.
Extract of a private letter from a lady in South Carolina received in New York:-
K-, S. C., Saturday, Dec. 1, l860.
MY DEAR UNCLE,-It is with different feelings that I sit myself to pen these lines to you, from those which actuated me when I wrote you last. Then, all looked bright and cheerily in the future-now, how gloomy and portentous! Still I fervently ‘pray God that this cup may pass away from us.' The country here is all aglow with the fires of the revolution, and such is the intensity of excitement that we can scarcely find time or inclination to talk or think of anything else than the political topics of the day, and the moral and social consequences directly pertaining to secession. I fear that secession and revolution are, with our people, foregone conclusions; that we have gone so far, retraction and recession are impossible, and that civil war, with all its consequent horrors, is already upon us. I shudder for the wives and mothers, sisters and babes of South Carolina, as I contemplate the immediate future of the State. You need not be surprised at any time to see me and the children in your midst, for no argument could induce me to remain here an hour longer than I should be compelled to, if the worst should come to the worst.
You may imagine, dear uncle, our situation, but you never can realize it in its fullness. Already we tremble in our own homes, in anticipation and expectancy of what is liable to burst forth at any moment, a negro insurrection. Could you see the care and precaution displayed here by the proprietors of the negroes,-not only planters, but others,-you would not for a moment envy us our possessions. Not a night passes that we do not securely lock our field servants in their quarters; but our most loved and valued house servants, who in ordinary times we would trust to any extent, are watched and guarded against with all the scrutiny and care that we possess. Our planters and owners of slave property do not allow their servants to have any intercourse with each other, and the negroes are confined strictly to the premises where they belong. We are all obliged to increase our force of overseers, to prevent too free intercourse even among our own servants. The negroes feel and notice these new restraints, and naturally ask, 'Why is this?' But it is unnecessary for them to ask the question, for they all comprehend the cause as well as we who own them. They have already learned enough to give them an idea of what is going on in the State and nation, and this Knowledge they have not gained from Abolitionists, as some suppose, but from the conversation of their owners indirectly held in their presence. They have already heard of Lincoln's election, and have heard also that he is for giving them their liberty, and you may imagine the result.
You have heard that our servants all love their masters, and their masters’ families, and would lay down their lives for them-that the colored race in the South prefers slavery to freedom-that they would not be free if they could, &c. That is but the poetry of the case; the reality consists in sleeping upon our arms at night-in double-bolting and barring our doors-in establishing and maintaining an efficient patrol force-in buying watch-dogs, and in taking turns in watching our sleeping children, to guard them and ourselves from the vengeance of these same 'loving servants'-a vengeance which, though now smouldering, is liable to burst out any moment, to overwhelm the State in spite of the Palmetto flags or State precautions.
You at the North are not the only ones who are suffering financially by this new panic. The planters among us are really suffering from the depreciation in their property. Already, negroes are not worth half price. No one dares to buy a servant, fearing lest he, in doing so, should be introducing upon his plantation one tinctured with the idea of freedom.
My husband has but a few servants-I believe but thirty-one all told-still I feel (and so does he) that they are thirty-one too many in such times as these. He would sell them immediately, if it were possible, but the truth is he could realize nothing for them at present, or at most not over half their real value. Slaves are a drug in the market, my husband says, and you know him well enough to judge of his judgment in such matters. 
Now, one word as to the military force of the State, to protect us against an insurrection. I presume, with the exception of Charleston, and perhaps a few large towns, that the remainder of the State is situated very much as we are here; and I will give you an idea how well prepared we are to resist a mob. On our place of about 1200 acres, we have:-Of whites, males-husband, two overseers, and my son of 18 years-total, four; females-self and cousin, little Lucy, and one of the overseer's wife-four; of whom only four at the most are capable of bearing arms. To offset which, we have at least seventeen field hands, sturdy young negroes, besides the female servants. And this is a fair representation of the force upon our plantations. Considering such a state of facts, do you blame me for desiring to absent myself, my husband and children from the State?
