THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed,(POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $ 1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:— WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. NO.24. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 16, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1793.
<c01>
Selections.
PUBLIC FEELING IN ITALY ON THE ASSASSINATION OF MR. LINCOLN.
FLORENCE, May 5.
It may seem strange that in this busiest of cities, now the capital de facto, with the Dante Festival at hand, and the elections pending, a correspondent should take pen in hand for the mere purpose of writing on American affairs; yet such is my intention, for I well know the interest taken by the readers of the Chronicle in all struggles for liberty, and feel sure that they will be anxious to know how the calamity that has befallen the mighty wrestlers for freedom beyond the Atlantic has affected these feeble, yet as earnest, strivers in this old world community. It is no exaggeration to say that nothing in the memory of living men has affected the Italians so deeply as the assassination of President Lincoln. The moderates, as you well know, have ever sided with the South, and I could cite instances of insult and contumely poured on the good man who is gone, to match the raciest abuse of the Times or the Standard. Boggio and Company in the house; the Perserveranza Opinone, &c., spared no taunt, no imprecation, as long as the destinies of North and South hung (to superficial observers) in an even balance. The why and wherefore of this gratuitous one-sidedness is evident; the Padrone of Italy, resident at the Tuileries, was a Southerner at heart, and his satelites in Italy were, of course, more Imperial than the Emperor. Hence we were taught that the South was fighting for independence, and the North for mastery; that the Southerns had as much right to throw off the yoke of Lincoln as the Neapolitan and Sicilian provinces to eject the Bourbons. These and other assertions, proving the utter ignorance of the speakers and writers as to the American laws, constitution, and history, the origin and cause of the war. The party of action, on the contrary, from the first espoused the cause of the North; their organs-the Unita Italiana, the Papolo of Italia, the Nuova Europa, teemed with facts and chronicles and leaders on the American war. You may remember that in 1861 Garibaldi was invited, and felt strongly inclined to accept an invitation to cross the Atlantic and fight for freedom; but was, to his own cost and ours, prevented from doing so by his friends, who affirmed that his services were owing to, and needed by, his own country. Nevertheless, the hearts of the Liberals were with the North, and Lincoln, by his grand simplicity, his patriarchal goodness, gradually became their idol and their model; they never despaired of the North. I have articles before me written in the darkest hour, in which the papers above referred to refused for an instant to despair of final triumph. When the news of Lincoln's reelection came, it was a day of rejoicing; illuminations in the windows of Liberals, banners floating from their houses, bespoke their gladness. When the news of the taking of Richmond and the surrender of Lee reached us, it was celebrated as an Italian victory might have been, and of course in these demonstrations the Moderates joined. Forgetting their prognostications, forgetting that, according to their notions, right was vanquished, and wrong had triumphed; eating their own words in, their servility to success, they were ready to join in the monster demonstrations prepared by the Florentines for the Consul General of the United States. Then, on Wednesday, the 26th, the telegram flashed the awful news on the city, and for days that city seemed stricken as by the plague. Moderates and Progressionists, Conservatives and Liberals were bowed to the dust by the hurricane of horror that had swept over them;—silent hand grasps, a mute exchange of sorrowful glances, that was what you met in the streets. But mark the difference between the effects of such a blow on a people born in and to liberty, a people whose existence is based on principles, and a people born in slavery, and who even in their struggles after liberty put their faith in persons rather than in principles-in special plans rather than in a broad general system. ”It is all over with the North," cried the Italians;—"this awful catastrophe will lead to infractions of the Constitution; there will be a military dictatorship; the Americans will never be ruled by such a man as Johnson; Grant will be appointed in his stead. “No! oh dear, no!" replied the Americans, in their deepest grief. ”We mourn our beloved chief magistrate, our indignation against the awful evils resulting from slavery rises to the highest pitch, but we have no fear for the present or the future of our Republic." The great calamity has brought the Italians of this city in much closer contact with the Americans than they have ever been brought before; addresses have been sent by every society and association, and deputations are hourly being received by the Consul and Vice Consul, and it is with wonder and admiration for this trait in the national American character that the Italians come away from those interviews. Dalfi, our popular baker, went yesterday with the deputation from the republican democratic association, and came away amazed and delighted with the calm and hopeful way in which the Consul spoke of home affairs. Indeed, one, cannot help being surprised oneself at their absolute faith in themselves, their certainty of reconstraction, their conviction that the American nation is as immutable as are the laws of the universe. Now that the stunning effects of the first blow are ever, they begin to talk of the right course to be taken, and I think I may say that the desire for severe punishment of all traitors is unanimous here. By all traitors they mean the originators and planners of the rebellion, not the instruments of those arch-friends. I have been favored with a report of the meeting held here, which may be interesting to your readers.
Pursuant to a call of the Consul General, the citizens of the United States, resident or temporarily slaying in Florence, met at the Consulate on Tuesday, May 2, to take such measures, consequent on the death of President Lincoln, as might seem appropriate.
The meeting was called to order by Hiram Powers, Esq., and on his motion, Colonel Lawrence (the Consul General ) was appointed Chairman, and Dr. B.B Appleton, of Boston, was chosen Secretary. Colonel Lawrence, on taking the chair, addressed the meeting as follows:-
FELLWO COUNTRYMEN,— We have met here united as mourners and companions in a common sorrow, to take counsel together in a national calamity, in an unspeakable and overwhelming grief, which bows our heads and fills our hearts. One of the best of Presidents, one of the purest of statesmen, one of the truest of men, is no more, and the lamentation which arises from every part of our land finds a responsive echo in our own bosoms. The appalling tragedy which has removed our chief magistrate is absolutely without parallel or precedent in history. Caesar found a Brutus, because he had trampled upon the liberties of his country. Henri Quatre fell by the hand of an insane fanatic. But it has remained for the nineteenth century, for a period when civilization and Christianity are supposed to exert greater influence than ever 
<c02>
before, to produce a cold-blooded and cowardly assassin, to strike down a President acknowledged even by his enemies to be possessed of the highest virtue, and to have been actuated throughout his public career solely by a single-hearted and unselfish patriotism. It is not my belief that this fearful deed is either endorsed or approved by the people of the South. I believe, that at home and abroad, they are sincere in ignoring this atrocious crime. But the broad fact nevertheless exists, that with the institution of slavery, the pistol and bowie knife have gone hand and hand, and that under its dominion personal revenge has avowedly been permitted to take precedence of established laws. As a result of slavery, therefore, we owe this awful deed, and let us thank the Almighty that as an institution it has perished for ever. Gentlemen, it is unnecessary for me to pronounce a eulogy upon President Lincoln. He needs none; there is his record— the world knows it by heart; his memory will gain new lustre as time rolls on, and history will accord him a niche in the temple of fame, second only to that occupied by our immortal Washington. 
The following resolutions were then drafted by a committee appointed for the purpose, and adopted unanimously:-
The American residents and visitors in Florence, desiring to give expression to their profound horror and grief on account of the atrocious crime by which our beloved country has been deprived of its honored and revered chief magistrate, hereby resolve’
That while we see in the assassination of President Lincoln an act of barbarity unparalleled in the annals of crime, yet we are constrained to regard it and denounce it as naturally and logically related to the grand conspiracy which has aimed at the overthrow of our Republican institutions.
That while we recognize the hand of Providence in this great calamity which has plunged the nation into mourning, we yet believe that the Divine power and goodness will so overrule it as to give stability and prosperity to our people, and to render lastingly triumphant the cause of freedom.
That while we recognize the great and patriotic work accomplished by our late President, which will secure for him an undying place in history, we believe that his violent death will but lend additional lustre to the noble and manly virtues of that worthy successor of Washington.
That in common with all loyal Americans at home and abroad, we hereby express our heartfelt sympathy with the bereaved family of the President in this hour of desolating affliction.
That in token of our respect and sorrow, we will wear a badge of mourning for thirty days."
It was voted that a copy of the resolutions be transmitted to his Excellency the President of the United States.
The Chairman stated that deputations from various public associations existing in Florence had waited upon him to express their sympathy in the dire calamity which had befallen the United States, and that addresses to the same effect had been received from other cities of Italy.
After a vote of thanks to the chairman for his opening remarks and for his acceptable manner of presiding, the meeting was dissolved.
Of course, no Southerners took part in the meeting. After the failure of the attempt in Paris, no effort was made to induce them to attend, but I can affirm by my own personal observations, that their affliction has been heavy and unfeigned. Mrs. Ritchie, who had opened a dramatic drawing-room for amateur theatricals at no small trouble and expense, closed it immediately the news came, saying that it was a time of too great mortification and humiliation for the North for any American to share in gaieties and amusements. They feel, too, in the hour of their defeat, that their best friend has been struck down; and this the Northern papers, which are on the whole very moderate in their tone, tell them pretty plainly. I have before me all the Boston, Washington, and New York papers arrived at the Consulate this morning, and if the Italian press could but translate a leader from each into their own columns, their readers would be more surprised than ever at the hopeful, self-reliant, yet not boastful tone of the American mind, which no shock can unbalance.
SWEDISH SYMPATHY. 
The following is from the Stockholm Allehanda, a leading Swedish paper:
“Abraham Lincoln was the very embodiment of the great principle which pervaded the war. The vindicator of free labor, he fell at the moment of accomplishing its victory. His was a beautiful death. A new martyr has been added to the champions of liberty, and the name of Lincoln will be surrounded for all time by a halo of glory. His death will stigmatize forever the patrons of slavery, who, fighting under the false pretence of maintaining the in dependence of the individual States, had no object but to uphold feudal institutions and enrich themselves by the sweat of hordes of slaves."
RUSSIAN FEELING.
The Russian Invalide employs this language: 
"The shocking news from America fills all honorable people, all friends of moderate and sensible progress, with deep sorrow. Lincoln has been taken away at the very time when he might have hoped to enjoy the fruits of his persevering energy in a war carried on for a just, respectable, and a lawful cause. America may be proud of having produced such a man as this. Undaunted by gigantic difficulties, and firm amid all opposition and sorrow, he never doubted for a moment the high destiny of his people, and steadily pursued his course to the chosen goal. A modest, moderate, and deeply religious man, he was the last, to sing his praises, and never allowed himself to be carried away by the impulse of the hour. Never did his qualities shine more brightly than in the last days of his life. Unmoved by the people clamoring for revenge, unintimidated by party cries, he spoke of mercy to the conquered, and was intent only upon rebuilding the edifice of the great Republic."
Extract translated from the Journal, of St. Petersburg, organ of the Department of Foreign Affairs:
"We are persuaded that the American nation will show herself in the present, as in the past, equal to her destiny. Inspired by the memory of the great citizen she has just lost, she will continue the work commenced by him. President Lincoln had gloriously fulfilled the first part. It remains for her to complete the second-more difficult, perhaps-that of reconciling after having smote, of soothing after having vanquished. No doubt this eminent man would have brought to this work the same greatness of soul, the same elevation of views, which have marked his career. His memory will animate his fellow-citizens. They will remember that it was neither political passion, nor party spirit, nor hate, nor vengeance, which armed with inflexible energy the hand of this patriot; but a sense of duty, a desire to reestablish upon a wide, solid and enduring basis the Union of the great Republic.
His death, then, as his life, will remain a lesson for his fellow-citizens and successors. We can affirm, that nowhere will more sincere wishes be offered than in Russia, that the work in which he was martyred may be crowned with entire reconcilia-
<c03>
tion between the contending portions of the American Federation, and by the return of that peace, which is the best guarantee of her prosperity and power."

THE WORKING MEN OF EUROPE TO PRESIDENT, JOHNSON.
The New York Tribune of June 1st says:— 
We have received from a London friend the following address to President Johnson by the International Council of the Working Men of Europe on the assassination of President Lincoln, which we presume has by this time reached its destination. As nothing could be more appropriate to the solemn observances of this day, we append the document, as follows; 
To Andrew Johnson, President of the United States:
SIR: The demon of the ”peculiar institution," for the supremacy of which the South rose in arms, would not allow his worshippers to honorably succumb in the open field. What he had begun in treason, he must needs end in infamy. As Phillip II. 's war for the Inquisition bred a Gerards, thus Jefferson Davis's pro-slavery war a Booth. 
It is not our part to cull words of sorrow and horror, while the heart of two worlds heaves with emotion. Even the sycophants who, year after year, and day by day, stuck to their Sisyphus work of morally assassinating Abraham Lincoln, and the great Republic he headed, stand now aghast at the universal outburst of popular feeling, and vie with each other in strewing rhetorical flowers on his open grave. They have now at last found out that he was a man neither to be brow-beaten by adversity nor intoxicated by success, inflexibly pressing on to his great goal; never compromising it by blind haste; slowly maturing his steps; never retracing them; carried away by no surge of popular favor; disheartened by no slackening of the popular pulse; tempering stern acts by the gleams of a kind heart; illuminating scenes dark with passion by the smile of humor; doing his Titanic work as humbly and homely as heaven-born rulers do little things with the grandiloquence of pomp and state-in one word, one of the rare men who succeed in becoming great without ceasing to be good. Such, indeed, was the modesty of this great and good man, that the world only discovered him a hero after he had fallen a martyr.
To be singled out, by the side of such a chief, the second victim to the infernal gods of slavery, was an honor due to Mr. Seward. Had he not, at a time of general hesitation, the sagacity to foresee and the manliness to foretell” the irrepressible conflict"? Did he not in the darkest-hours of that conflict prove true to the Roman duty, never to despair of the Republic and its stars? We earnestly hope that he and his son will be restored to health, public activity, and well-deserved honors within much less than ”ninety days." 
After a tremendous civil war, but which, if we consider its vast dimensions and its broad scope, and compare it to the Old World's 150 years' wars and 30 years' wars and 23 years' wars, can hardly be said to have lasted 90 days, yours, sir, has become the task to uproot by the law what has been levelled by the sword-to preside over the arduous work of political reconstruction and social regeneration. A profound sense of your great mission will save you from any compromise with stern duties. You will, I never forget that, to initiate the new era of the. EMANCIPATION OF LABOR, the American people devolved the responsibilities of leadership upon two men of labor: the one, Abraham Lincoln, the other, Andrew Johnson.
The Central Council of the International Workingmen's Association, London, May 13, 1865.
[Here follow the signatures.]

JEFFERSON DAVIS.
We believe Jefferson Davis to be the worst man in all history. He was a repudiator and a slaveholder. He has been a secessionist, traitor and rebel. During all these last twenty years, he has been conspicuous in working mischief to our people. The cause of slavery has urged no villany so great but that he has plotted for it and supported it. He has sedulously endeavored to subvert our free institutions and set up on their ruins the reign of caste, privilege, and oppression. The accursed Fugitive Slave Law, the infamous repeal of the Missouri Compromise, the border-ruffian outrages in Kansas, the inhuman Dred Scott decision, and the nationalization of the abominable system of bondage in whose behalf all these atrocious crimes, and others like them, against liberty were perpetrated, ever found in him a quick and persistent advocate and helper. And when these conspiracies against justice and right were found to be unavailing, he was the recognized chief among those who had resolved to set fire to the republic and lay the mighty edifice in ruins. Like Satan, he preferred to ”rule in hell than serve in heaven." To fulfill his own mad ambitious schemes, and found a slave empire over the fallen glories of a nation that had only honored and blessed him, he deliberately, wilfally and determinedly plunged a peaceful and prosperous country into the agonies and horrors of civil war. With lying words of loyalty and devotion to the Union upon his lips, he yet for months was secretly engaged with kindred minds in perfecting his plans for the national overthrow, until his arrangements were completed, when he threw off the mask, and the giant iniquity stood manifest to an astonished world. The master-spirit of this deviltry was instantly and universally designated as the fit instrument to lead on and complete the work of destruction. Who can recount the rascalities and enormities of his Presidential career? What pen can describe the arbitrary arrests and the rigid conscriptions, the merciless punishments and the nameless butcheries, the bitter persecutions and the astounding robberies, the hypocritical appeals to God and the atheistic enmity to the human race that on have characterized his rule at Richmond?. Sixty thousand of our brave men have frozen, or starved or sickened to death on their cold prison ground, or in dark and filthy dungeons-and he refused to give them relief. Myriads of the Beauty of our Israel were shedding their precious blood like water for the Union of their fathers-and he would not stanch the flowing streams. Poverty, Desolation and Death were wasting the homes and the hearts of the South-and still this incarnate fiend would not abate his tyranny. The air was filled with hints, threats, and prognostications of theft, arson and murder—and not one word from this chief of assassins to discourage or rebuke them. With infernal art and hate he plied all the enginery he could command to stimulate to still farther strife and sacrifice a people whose passions he had already goaded beyond endurance, and whom he had deceived and wronged beyond all hope or power of redress. And when at last his game was at an end, when his promises were seen to be lies, when his charlatanism was played out, and when all his wit and skill and malice could no longer avail, he must needs give one more crown-
<c04>
ing and damning evidence of his cowardice and cupidity by plundering the banks of Richmond, and seeking his safety in an ignominious and ridiculous flight. Nor is this scoundrel and vagabond less rebellious and impenitent than ever he has been. The man who, when the great martyr-President first pleaded so affectingly for peace and concord, threatened with boastful and insulting air to ”make the North feel Southern steel," is as hardened and hellish now as he was then; and if he had it in his power to accomplish it, he would plunge the very dagger of assassination into the vitals of the nation. For ourselves, we have not the shadow of a doubt that he knew and approved of the contemplated murder of President Lincoln, even should the evidence that may be adduced fail to convict him of his complicity with that unparalleled crime. But whether he did or not, it is clear that he sanctioned a system of ”secret service," which comprehended every kind of illegal, indiscriminate, and diabolical warfare; that he has been the inspiration and soul of a rebellion that has swept a half million of men into their graves, and that he stands to-day before the world the prince of murderers, as he is the most malignant of traitors.
It is now to be determined whether such unrelenting and protracted attempts to destroy a free republic, and put back for ages the cause of human progress, are an offence to be punished with the most condign retribution known to our laws, or are simply the clever deeds of an able man, which, having failed of their dreadful intent, may now be dismissed and forgotten in the exercise of an easy good-nature, and of a weak, sentimental sympathy. It is now to be determined whether or not, while the poor soldier who fought at Antietm and Gettysburg, but at last slept at his post, must be shot like a dog, this author of stupendous iniquities is entitled to a certain degree of immunity from punishment, and lifted up to a kind of moral respectability, so that the world shall behold that here in America the transgressor is safe and unharmed in proportion to the criminality of his conduct. It is to be determined whether justice is but a name, and the majesty of law but a fiction, and the Government itself but a farce, and the life of a people a thing of contempt; or whether these things are unspeakably dear and sacred, and whoever lifts his hand against them deserves to die the death. Now is the time of all the world's history to teach men that such treason against a benign government like ours is the crime of crimes; and so to impress the lesson upon the minds of this and all future generations, that never again shall banded conspirators dare to reenact the villanies of these awful years. The leniency which our rulers have lately shown to the enemies of our peace, have made bad men rejoice and good men mourn. A postmaster enters a bank in Massachusetts, aims a pistol at the head of a fine, noble young man, faithfully discharging the duties of his post, blows out the brains of his victim, robs the institution, and make his escape. The assassin is arrested, tried and condemned, but the Governor interposes his sympathy, and the sentence remains unexecuted. 
Some bold and bloody rough in New York city murders a policeman, set to protect the interests and preserve the order of the community, and he is pardoned only to pursue, with increased impunity, his horrid pastime. Bounty-jumpers enter the army, desert to the enemy, and swindle the Government twenty times, and still are the objects of tender consideration. The ringleaders of the ”Sons of Liberty” and the "Knights of the Golden Circle”—than whom few men in modern times have been more infamously wicked—are apprehended, convicted, and doomed to the fate they richly merit. Governors, friends, and “ influential members of various political parties" begin their pilgrimages to Washington to intercede for these worse than rebels-in-arms, and respite and commutation are the result. 
Such things make the loyal heart sick. They lessen our respect for law. They increase our sense of the insecurity of life and property. They encourage wickedness, and they paralyze the energies of them who do well. They serve to confound in the minds of men great moral distinctions. They delay the hour of reconstruction and peace. They involve more lives than they save.
We cherish no revengeful spirit. We would be merciful to the masses of the South, so far as they are disposed to be loyal and penitent. We do not wish to see an indiscriminate hanging of their leaders. But there is an awful voice that admonishes us to make sure on the gallows the expiation of guilt like that of Davis, and Breckenridge, and Harris, and Clay. And the ”influential members of various political parties" who shall seek to stay that hand of justice will deserve the reproaches of the myriad ghosts of slain, poisoned, and starved heroes of the Union, whom these polished and pretentious knaves and monsters have cut off in the flower of their day, and who would rise up from their graves in solemn condemnation of those who should refuse to avenge their death. We bless God that such men as Johnson, Stanton, Holt and Dix are in the land. But still we exclaim-" Oh, for one hour of Jackson!"—Christian Inquirer.

SENSIBLE TO THE LAST.
A Western newspaper, rather than else not remarkable for excessive loyalty, draws consolation for the extinguishments of the ”rebellion from a philosophical source, and expresses its happiness as follows:” With the demise of the rebellion, we confidently anticipate the decease of its twin, abolitionism. With no bondmen to rant about, silence will prevail in the councils of abolition legislators. Sumner will have to round his classic periods with reference to some other subject than the wrongs of the negro, with no opportunity to enlarge upon the heinousness of men selling their children." 
This is perfectly true. It is also true that when a pestilence has abated, the business of the doctors is considerably diminished. We never heard anybody abusing the doctors for that.
But since we are reminded of it, we may as well suggest that other folks will find their occupation gone, and if they can stand it, we will answer for Mr. Sumner, and even for” the ranting Abolitionists." We happen to remember when it was much more profitable to be a doughface than a hounded and harrassed anti-slavery orator. Abolition extinguishes the Pros as well as the Cons. The man who minces a text-the man who marshals a mob-the gerund-grinder-the expositor of the Constitution-the deviser and executor of Fugitive Slave Laws-the aspen-limbed conservative-the concoctor of compromises-the prophet of coming evil-the denouncer in temple and caucus-room of Higher Law-the vender of his own and of his constituency's consciences-the special pleader for political follies-the ethnological demonstrator-what is to become of all these? Out of business, every one of them! And worse-out of character! The “Ranters” have carried their point-the doughfaces haven't. The Agitators have agitated to some purpose, as the huge and prone corpse of the drag-
<c05>
soon testifies; but the friends of the dragon-where will they-find another monster so savage, so scaly, so beautifully obscene and so ravishingly hideous? This is the question for them to ponder.
There is another sore point for them as politicians. They have no longer the divisions of the country to trade upon “Our Southern brethren" is a neat, but now antiquated phrase. “Our wayward sisters" have left the family mansion for the graveyard. Who loses most, Mr. Garrison or Gov. Seymour? Ward Beecher, or Dr. Lord?
However, we beg of these amiable” Conservatives” not to despair. We do not think the world at all likely to become over-good. The primer tells us that Satan finds some mischief still for his admirers to do, and though Davis has abdicated, the Prince of Darkness will hang on a little while longer-the friend and patron of all who do sincerely love him.-Tribune.

BLACKS AND WHITES IN SOUTH CAROLINA.
“BERWICK," correspondent of the Tribune, gives the following account of matters in Orangeburg, S. C., eighty miles from Charleston, where the 55th Mass. Regiment is now stationed:-
Apart from the destruction of the railroad and the business blocks, Orangeburg has been but little injured. It could be made a pleasant and picturesque village if there were any live people here. It is scattered among fine oak groves, and is high and healthy; but while these old Bourbons hold sway, it will be as mummy-like in its progress as they are in their creeds. They are an inhospitable people. They say of one another that they are heartless in their treatment of refugees. They hold themselves aloof from our officers, and must be beggared before they can be made patriotic. Oath-taking has commenced, and they came forward slowly-for no perjury, no protection, is the rule in this State.
There are sad stories from the country about the treatment of the negroes. Found away from their old masters' plantations, in many cases they are shot dead in their tracks, and in other instances they are told that they must either stay for their board or go off at once. This, at a time when the crop is three-quarters made, indicates the trouble ahead of us. This vicious landowning class, I dare to predict, MUST BE BEGGARED before a permanent peace can be established in this traitor State. There is no vestige of loyalty in the interior except among the blacks, who are everywhere, of course, the same-grateful to their deliverers, and filled with a fervent spirit of loyalty to the flag which is now studded with North Stars.
Throngs of planters and of negroes come into Orangeburg, daily, to see Gen. Hartwell, of Massachusetts, who commands the post. They have all one errand-to know what terms the conqueror, or the deliverer, as the case may be, is determined to impose.
To the planters, the following circulars are read and expounded:
HDQRS., NORTHERN DIST., DEPT. OF THE SOUTH, CHARLESTON, S. C., April 25, 1865.
CIRCULAR—TO PLANTERS, ETC.: Numerous applications have been made to me for information as to the policy to be adopted on the subject of labor. 
All can understand the importance of making a crop the present season, and foresee the misery and suffering consequent upon its failure. 
In the present unsettled state of the country, and in the absence of any recognized State authorities, I find it my duty to assume control of the plantations near the military lines, and order as follows:
First-The planters, after taking the oath of allegiance, will assemble the freedmen (lately their slaves) and inform them that they are free, and henceforth they must depend upon their own exertions for their support. 
Second-Equitable contracts in writing will be made by the owners of the land with the freedmen for the cultivation of the land during the present year. 
Payment will be made in kind, and the allowance of one half the crop is recommended as a fair compensation for the labor, the landlord furnishing 
subsistence until the crop is gathered. 
These contracts will be submitted to the nearest Military or Naval Commander for approval and endorsement.
When the above requirements are complied with, protection will be granted as far as military necessity will allow; but where no contract is made, the crop raised will be considered forfeited for the use of the laborers. Should the owners refuse to cultivate it, they will be considered as endeavoring to embarrass the Government, and the land will be used for colonies of the freedmen from the interior.
JOHN P. HATCH, Brig.-Gen. Commanding.
HDQRS. NORTHERN DIST., DEPT., OF THE SOUTH, ORANGEBURG, S. C., May 25, 1865. 
[CIRCULAR.]
To the planters of South Carolina residing within this District:
You are invited, after taking the oath of allegiance to the United States Government, prescribed by the President of the United States in his Proclamation of December 8,1863, to make equitable contracts for labor with the freedmen. Such contracts, approved by the Commander of the nearest Military Post, will be considered binding on both parties, and will be enforced by the military authorities as far as the exigencies of the service will allow. The contracts will set forth in words the freedom of the laborer.
When the freedman is, from age or infirmity, unable to labor, and is without natural protection, his support will devolve upon the Parish to which he belongs. The citizens of such Parish are requested to meet and devise some method for providing for such persons; and until such provision is made, they will remain on and draw their support from the plantations where they now are.
JOHN P. HATCH, Brig.-Gen. Commanding.
The hopeless apathy of the poor whites, which is described by officers and refugees as something appalling, renders the planters disposed to do the best they can with the blacks; but there are large numbers who evidently intend to do as the Jamaica planters did-swindle the freed slaves under any and every pretext. Their conversation shows it. Unless ALL South Carolina is garrisoned by anti-slavery troops, this State will either become a desert by the desertion of the laborers-or pass into other hands. It is very desirable for the good of all parties that it should change owners-for the planter, that he may learn to work for his own living; for the black, that he may become an honest laborer, which, under the present capitalists, he has no inducement to become; for the poor white, that he may have and see an opportunity to rise in the social scale. No man in the North who has not lived among these planters can understand what a brutal and vicious class of persons they are. The is New York Five Points could turn out at random a more intellectual and as moral-looking a delegation any day as I have seen here in conference with Gen. Hartwell.
To the freedmen, Gen. Hartwell gives the advice that is embodied in the following semi-circular, which,
<c06>
by the way, is a model of its kind, as it is adapted to the most ignorant intellect by its simple phraseology:
HDQRS PROVISIONAL BRIGADE, ORANGEBURG, S. C., May 22, 1865. 
To THECOLORED PEOPLE: You know that you are free and are to be treated like free men and women; but there is no one to support you and your families beside yourselves, and any arrangements you can make with people who will treat you kindly and pay you for your work will be the best thing you can do.
The bargains that you make to work for a share of the crops will be kept. You cannot be sent to Charleston, and if you went there, you could find nothing to do to get a living.
No one will be allowed to abuse you or treat you like slaves, and you will not be allowed to take what does not belong to you, and you had better make a bargain for work as soon as you can.
A. S. HARTWELL, Brevet Brig.-General.
The objection made to Gen. Hatch's circular by friends of the blacks is that in the first place it is a usurpation of power, which rests exclusively in Gen. Saxton; and in the second place, that it puts the negro at the mercy of any pro-slavery military commander or gunboat captain. It is better that these things should be stated publicly and plainly, as they are zealously discussed in anti-slavery circles North and South. Having friendly relations with the different officers and being indebted for personal favors to none of them, (for I am more than careful to carry out the Tribune's policy, that its special correspondents shall put themselves under no private obligations to any one,) I think I am as well qualified as any one to write on this point. In the first place, then, it is notorious in this Department that every obstruction possible is and has always been thrown in Gen. Saxton's way, and that his right to the title and powers of Military Governor is not disputed merely, but denied. He has seldom transportation to convey his emigrants to the Islands, and he has not a force of subordinates adequate to his duties. Hence, if he alone is the proper officer to deal with freedmen, his powers should be well defined, and sufficient forces and authority be given him to attend to these people. As it is, VERY SERIOUS SUFFERING is caused to the freedmen by this conflict of authorities. The friends of the blacks could do no greater service than have this jurisdiction defined. I care not who is in power here, if he be a friend of the freedmen and not an enemy of the poor whites; but it is very necessary that neither class should suffer by reason of this military muddle. In the second place, it is the fault of our own Government if pro-slavery men are kept in power here, and especially the fault of the friends of the freedmen if they leave a stone unturned to oust them. It is idle to educate the blacks, if they are not to be enfranchised; and it is worse than idle to submit to the rule of their enemies, when their friends have influence in Washington.

A NEGRO SCHOOL CELEBRATION IN RICHMOND.
A very novel scene was witnessed in the African church in this city yesterday. Its main feature was the assembling of about one thousand negro children, who were attending the different schools of their race here, who were addressed by a squad of teachers on a visit from Boston. The negroes, ranging in age from six to thirty years, were seated in the pews of the church, and the pulpit was occupied by the teachers from Boston and others Scattered along through the aisles were a number of lady teachers, who were occupied in keeping the scholars quiet, a task which was rather arduous. A picture of President Lincoln was hung on the galleries. We give a report of this exhibition of the ”spirit of progress."
The exercises opened with the singing of
John Brown's body lies mouldering in the ground;
John Brown's body lies mouldering in the ground;
John Brown's body lies mouldering in the ground,
But his spirit is marching on.
Hang Jeff. Davis on the sour apple tree;
Hang Jeff. Davis on the sour apple tree;
Hang Jeff. Davis on the sour apple tree,
For we are marching home, &c 
At the conclusion of this song, which was sung with much spirit, the scholars went through various evolutions, such as crossing hands, putting the hands upon the head, raising the right hand, &c.
The Superintendent, Mr. Coan, now requested all who wanted to hear a good story to raise their hands. A large majority gave evidence that they were in a story-hearing humor; but there being some confusion, he requested all who did not intend to be quiet to raise their hands; whereupon an opposition element displayed itself, principally girls. (Laughter.)
Mr. C. remarked that he knew that they felt so happy they could not keep in, hence he did not intend to blame them; but he knew they would keep quiet during the short prayer which the Rev. Mr. Raines would offer up. During the prayer, the children repeated it sentence by sentence, after the manner of the Catholic and Episcopal churches.
The Superintendent asked-
Are you glad you are free?
Scholars in a body-Yes, indeed.
Who gave you freedom?
Scholars-God. 
Through-god.
Through whom?
Scholars-Abraham Lincoln.
Is Mr. Lincoln dead?
Scholars-Yes.
Who is your President?
Scholars-Johnson.
Are you glad you have schools and teachers?
Scholars-Yes.
Do you want these friends who are here to-day to 
go North and send you more teachers?
Scholars-Yes, indeed.
The Superintendent stated that on the 17th of April, fourteen days after the evacuation of Richmond, the plan for the establishment of these schools was inaugurated. On the 18th, they commenced operations with 1,500 scholars, and occupied six churches, owned by the colored people of this city. The average attendance up to the present time has been 1,400. The children have shown a disposition to learn, and nothing deserving the name of punishment has yet been found necessary.
The Rev. Mr. Stockwell, connected with the schools, gave his experience, and corroborated what had been said by the Superintendent. He said be spoke of them not as colored children, but as children just as good, and no better, than whites, and who, under equal facilities of educational improvement, would not prove themselves a whit inferior to white children.
The Rev. Mr. Raines next addressed the assemblage for a few minutes. He stated that he was connected with a school in Massachusetts, and inculcated the idea that obedience was the first duty of a scholar. The scholars sang:
"Yes, Jesus loves me-this I know."
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PASSIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war, of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”—J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Mr. Battaile of the Christian Commission followed in amusing "talk", which was loudly applanded by the scholars. The Superintendent here stated that in seven days the third division of the schools  had contributed $80 toward paying for books. This they had earned by holding officers' horses, shining boots, &c. In the meanwhile, though whites had applied for them, not a white man, woman or child had contributed a cent. The scholars sang:
"Rally round the flag, boys,
Rally once again,
Shouting the battle-cry of freedom.
Rally from the hill-sides,
Rally from the plains,
Shouting the battle cry of freedom.
Union forever, hurrah, boys, hurrah;
Down with the traitors, and up with the stars," &c 
Samuel Mason, principal of the Eliot School, Boston, was introduced, and gave the scholars some wholesome advice. He informed them that in Boston, if children stayed from school, they were confined in a lockup, and added, that yon boys who are laggards at school will drive donkeys on the streets of Richmond, while those that are industrious, studious and obedient, will own the mansions and stores on Main street.
After a brief address by Mr. Bent, the scholars sang:
"I want to be an angel,
And with the angels stand.
A crown upon my forehead,
And a harp within my hand."
Mr. Van Vliett, a reporter, next spoke. He said, you must wash your faces and hands every morning before coming to school, so that you may look as clean and pretty as possible, and as neat as the neatest white boy or girl in Richmond,
The Mayor of Chelsea, Mass., followed Mr. Van Vliet. At the conclusion of his remarks,
Mr. Crane, of Baltimore, formerly of Rich' mond, took the stand, and said he participateed n an African missionary meeting in that very room, fifty years ago. He spoke of Lot Cary a negro preacher, who went to Africa as a missionary, in 1821, and other well-known negro members of the African Church of former days.
The scholars again sang "John Brown's body lies mouldering in the ground." The school then, at the suggestion of the visiting teachers, gave three hearty cheers for the Superintendent.
We could not catch the names of several of the other speakers.
Capt. Fisher, trustee of a female school in Boston, endeavored to impress upon them the importance of being good children and studious scholars.
After singing, "Yes, Jesus loves me," the scholars were dismissed, and young Africa departed in high glee. So ended the first "celebration" of the negro school children in Richmond.-Richmond Republic, May 30.

THE TRIAL OF THE ASSASSINS.
Nearly all the evidence on behalf of the government is in, only four or five witnesses remaining to he examined. When this has been done, the defence will do the best it can.
That the guilt of all the men now on trial will be established, there can be but little doubt. It is not probable that all will be executed, however, as one or two of the parties on trial seem to have had no intimate connection with the plot. How far their testimony has implicated Davis and other rebel chiefs is uncertain, as some witnesses have been examined in secret, and their revelations are unknown as yet. Besides, it may prove that the witnesses yet to be examined will prove the most important of all.
It is reported, however, that the government proposes to put Davis upon trial for treason first. This seems to us altogether the best course. If he is to be hanged for murder, his punishment will have no significance, as a punishment of rebellion. Murder will always be recognized as a horrible crime, but we are in danger of regarding treason as rather a blunder than a crime, and if Jefferson Davis is to pay the penalty of violated law, it should be as a traitor, and not as a murderer. There is much of the old "State rights" feeling at the South still, and the surest way to administer a death-blow to this treasonable spirit is to inflict the extremity of punishment upon its leader. Already we hear of arguments in the South among men like Lee, that this rebellion is not treason. It is necessary that these men's mouths should be closed effectually and the principle established that the general government is a sovereign power over the States.
It is not from a vindictive spirit that the loyal people demand that Jefferson Davis be hanged. With tens of thousands of their sons and brothers murdered in the Southern prison pens, it may seem strange, but Davis has been so great a criminal that the low passion of revenge nowhere exists. He has done more, far more, than ten thousand lives like his can ever atone for, but if we would secure our country against rebellion and civil war in future, it must be by visiting the penalty of broken laws upon the arch-traitor himself. We must not hang murderers like Harold and Atzerot and Payne, and allow the great man in intellect and reputation to escape. If there has been any man connected with this rebellion guilty of crime during the past four years, the 'man who has been the head and soul of the rebellion is the one. As such, he must answer to the Almighty, and as such, he should be held in human courts.-Exchange

THE LAST SCENE.
Perhaps there was something needed to put the people of the United States in a good humor after their recent calamities, which affected every mind. Nothing could, therefore, have come to them more comical in its suggestions, than the idea of " the man of destiny," " the stern statesman," the intensely admired head of the disloyal sympathizers with the rebellion, ending his tragic career with the ludicrous exit of a low comedian in a farce. The great "Bombastes," who, at the beginning of the war declared that it was necessary to make the North "smell Southern powder and feel Southern steel," after desperate endeavors to carry out this threat, after being the "rose and expectancy of the fair State, the glass of fashion and the mould of form," after swimming in " a sea of glory," ends his career of lofty pretension by donning his wife's petticoats, and attempting to run from the soldiers who pursued him. The exordium was sublime, the peroration was ridiculous. The incident shows that this monster, who has the fierceness of Robespierre and the malignity of Marat, was at heart a coward, who, instead of meeting his fate bravely, endeavored to evade it by the device of a Jerry Sneak-Phil. Inquirer.
NO SPEECH MAKERS. One of the most singular developments of the times is the appearance in American public life of a class of men who cannot make speeches. Thus, we have a Lieutenant General who, when be it fairly cornered by an admiring crowd, will make two or three polite bows, but will not let a word out of his mouth any more than he would let Pemberton out of Vicksburg, or Lee out of his lines below Richmond. Gen. Sherman, on similar occasions, attempts but the most meager replies, although he is ready and pungent enough with his pen. Gen. Thomas returns thanks and that is all; while the gallant Sheridan simply says: "Excuse me, boys, you know I never make speeches."
"And yet the land is full of fluent spouters who are do-nothings, while these men who are tongue-tied before a common audience are among the Keenest intellects, the most resolute spirits and the ablest executors of modern times! It is a phenomenon worth studying. Probably, however, training has more to do with it than anything else. As rigidly reserved as Gen. Grant now is, we have no doubt that, if his line of duty should call for it, he would be able to express his thoughts in public with sufficient fullness and force, just as the Duke of Wellington acquired that art in his later years. But in this speech-ridden country, such illustrious exceptions may have a salutary effect. Before the war, talking had become so largely a part of public life, that man's worth and ability were almost entirely judged of by it. If he could not speak brilliantly, his chances of promotion were sadly lessened. But the rough experience of the last four years has spoilt the reputation of many eloquent speakers; and now we have men who have shown themselves equal to the grandest requirements of the age, who are as "slow of speech" as Moses was, and as modest as Washington. The fact cannot but have a correcting influence on the passion of our people for oratory, leading to a quicker perception and a juster estimate of the more solid qualities requisite in our public men, civil as well as military-Boston Journal.
<c02>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 16, 1865.
THE BUEEAU OF FREEDMEH, &c
This new department of public affairs is destined, we believe, to fill a valuable and most beneficent place in the reorganization and pacification of the country. Its field of action is large and undeniably of the first importance. The most momentous questions, in connection with the future prosperity, order, and well-being of the country, are committed to its charge.
It is no objection to the new Bureau that it has the care of the white refugees as well as of the freed people. If the interests of these two classes were committed; to different departments and officers, jealousies would be likely to arise, leading to a clashing in the arrangements adopted for the two. This may be entirely avoided by bringing both under one administration; while the local superintendents will, be free to use the abundant opportunities they must have, to cultivate feelings of good will between the two classes, to establish them in harmonious, instead of antagonistic relations, and to give both a fair field for the full development of their respective capacities.
Nor does it seem to us an objection of any special moment, as has been urged, that, instead of being an independent Bureau, it is connected with the War Department. On the contrary we see this positive advantage in the arrangement, that, inasmuch as the weight of the military arm cannot be withdrawn from the Southern States for a long time yet, and will not be unless the nation is demented, the Freedmen's Bureau will have of necessity the whole power of the War Department to sustain it, whenever the tyrannical spirit of the old Slavery attempts, as it infallibly will, to throw obstacles in the way of the elevation of either the freed slaves or the poor whites,-which latter class have, for generations, been quite as much the slaves of the Southern aristocracy as the others, though in a different way.
And it is a subject, we believe, for general felicitation that Major Gen. O. O. HOWARD has been appointed the Chief of the Bureau. That he has been a faithful and a brave soldier, all know; that he is a humane, an upright, and an anti-slavery man we are assured by authority we cannot question, and we believe it. We have seen his appointment welcomed by that class of the loyal journals which are not in the habit of commending indiscriminately, and we find that gentlemen who knew him well, and who are themselves abolitionists of no recent type or standing, have the fullest confidence in his ability and integrity.
Moreover his own acts, since entering upon his duties in the Bureau of Freedmen, have been such us to testify in the strongest manner in his favor. One of his very first acts was to invite, from all friends of the freed people throughout the land, suggestions which might seem to them important in advancing their well-being and securing their rights. We trust that this request has been, and will be, complied with, by those who have really valuable co-operation or advice to offer. Another early order of his was that no freedman should be dispossessed of any land upon which he had been laboring and was now cultivating.
General Howard's appointments of local Commissioners have been eminently judicious, so far as our knowledge extends. No better appointments could have been made than those of Col. BROWN, at Norfolk, for Virginia, of Mr. HORACE JAMES, at Newbern, for North Carolina, of Major Gen. SAXTON, for South Carolina and Georgia, and of Brig. Gen. FISKE, of St. Louis, for Kentucky and Tennessee. If the to hers may be judged of at all by these, Gen Howard has been as fortunate as wise in his selection of assistant-officers.
How far the new Bureau will be untrammelled in its action, remains to be seen. Very much depends upon the spirit of the people, and upon their determination that full and substantial justice shall be rendered to the freed people. We hope great things from the new Bureau. We shall expect all the more, in proportion to the interest taken in it by the people. We exhort our readers, and all friends of the emancipated slaves, to keep a vigilant and interested eye upon its doings, and to call to it general attention The freed people, by their humanity, their steady friendship to the Union soldiers, their loyalty, their patience,-not now to speak of their long and unexampled sufferings,-have well earned the amplest enjoyment and fullest possession of every right which belongs to man or citizen. Let us see to it that neither they nor the Nation are baulked or defrauded by the old slaveholders appearing in new disguises. The fullest justice to the freed slave is the only safety and wisdom for us all.-M.

ILL OMENS.
We have conquered the military power of the rebels. The question now is, are we able to conquer their social power. Are we able to overcome, in ourselves and others, that prejudice against the colored people which was the offspring of slavery, and to rid ourselves of the bad habit of acquiescing in any ill-treatment which they may receive, as something settled by the customs of society, and beyond our power to resist. This habit, far from being an unimportant one, which we may leave to its natural operation without harm, is likely to make a most serious interference with the country's welfare, and to hold its ground more firmly than the armies of the rebellion have done. The old feeling of hatred to the negro has lately been conspicuously manifested in various quarters.
It is not surprising that such manifestations should occur in Richmond, particularly since the reinstatement of Mayor Mayo, the old rebel Mayor of that city, in full authority there. It is now said that the old law of slavery is revived which punishes negroes for being out after 9 o'clock P. M.; that the first act of the Mayor on his reinstatement was to confirm the reappointment on the police of men who held that position during the rebellion, and who were the terror alike of negroes and Union men, and especially of the Federal soldiers confined in Libby and other prisons; that over 800 colored men were arrested on Wednesday, the 7th inst., without reason or justice, and that even colored soldiers are called upon to show passes; that the negro schools have been obliged to be suspended on account of abuse and intimidation towards their inmates; that colored men have been struck without provocation, and subjected, when under arrest, to cruel and unusual punishments; that two colored men have actually been shot, by the "master " of the wife of one of them, who objected to the husband's visits to his wife; and that Mr. Coan, Superintendent of colored schools, has been notified to vacate at once the rooms occupied by himself and his corps of teachers.
These are not random statements, but are taken from the report of a special correspondent of the Tribune. They are moreover further corroborated by the following appeal from negroes in Richmond for protection, which is copied from the Tribune of the 12th inst. 
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune.
SIR: In presuming to address you as perfect strangers, we trust the importance of the subject will plead our excuse. We are all colored men, free born in the State of Virginia, and have resided here ever since our birth. Many of us have large families to support, and have done it honestly by our own industry, both before and through the four years of the Rebellion with all its troubles, and can give any references that can be required of honest men, of what class so ever. We further claim to know no superiors save in education. Most of us are men that own real estate, and have ever paid our taxes to the Government, and are not only willing to pay taxes, but are willing to lay down our lives to protect the beloved Government that has brought liberty to our brethren in the South.
We are compelled to think, from every day's observation, that this city needs a decent government. After
<c03>
all that has been done for the freedom of the colored people, there is here a daily mounted patrol, with their sabers drawn, whose business is the hunting of the colored people, and we truthfully say that our present treatment is worse than we ever suffered before. We are required to get some white person to give us passes to attend our daily occupations, without which we are marched off to the Old Rebel Hospital, now called the negro bull pen. To more effectually accomplish this disgraceful work upon the poor, inoffensive people, Gov. Pierpont has reinstated the former Mayor of this city, and with him all his former nigger-hunters and whippers, and to-day they are going into people's houses and taking them out and confining them in City Jail until nearly night, when they are marched off by the mounted guard, to the bull-pen, n this gang to-day they had about 75 or 80. We saw women looking for their husbands, children for parents, but to no purpose—they were in the bull pen. These are statements for the truth of which we, the undersigned, are responsible, and we wish them known everywhere.
We have tried to have these things published here, but the papers refuse to publish anything like this for negroes, for they rejoice to see us so treated. We are frequently pointed at by the rebels, with this remark: "That's Yankee freedom, march on to the bull pen, then to the corn field;" for the Government authorities have appointed agents to hire all of us thus taken to work on farms. All that is needed to restore Slavery in full is the auction-block as it used to be.
Your humble servants,
N. H. ANDERSON, MADISON CARTER,
RICHARD CARTER, SPENCER SMITHEN,
ROBERT W. JOHNSON, and many others.
Richmond, Va., June 7, 1865.
The latest reports tell us that the white loyalists of Alexandria, alarmed by Gov. Pierrepoint's assignment of ex-rebels to important positions, have held meetings to devise means of self-protection; and that, on the 10th instant, they adopted a series of resolutions, one of which affirms in strong terms the right of the colored man to vote. If this step is needed, purely as a defensive measure, by the loyal people of Virginia, is it not needed for the same purpose by the whole United States? Are we safe from the machinations of rebels whose malignity has been exasperated by defeat, until the ballot is in the hands of black loyalists?
But the detestable prejudice against color has just brought forth its evil fruit in a place still more alarming. In Washington itself, on the 10th instant (according to the Tribune's report) a considerable number of U. S. soldiers made an attack upon the houses and persons of unoffending colored people. From one hundred and fifty to two hundred of these rioters, sundry of them armed with axes, passed from house to house of the colored people in the Seventh Ward, breaking down the doors, driving out the inhabitants, destroying the furniture, and maiming or killing such as made resistance. The police were promptly on the spot, but were so outnumbered that they could do nothing, and the devastation went on until a military force could be brought. Is the near vicinity of a military force always to be necessary for these unfortunate people? Ought not some great public measure to be taken which will make it plain to the whole country that the negro has a man's position and man's rights in these United States? Ought not the ballot to be given him at once? Is it creditable to our intelligence to leave the fact so long unrecognized that our help must come through help given to him 
C. K. W.

NEW PUBLICATIONS.
"THE RADICAL CREED: a Discourse at the Installation of Rev. David A. Wasson, as Minister of the Twenty-eighth Congregational Society of Boston May 7th 1865 Delivered by the Pastor Elect. With an Appendix, containing the Installation Services. Published by request of the Society. Boston : Walker, Fuller and Company, 245 Washington Street, 1865."pp. 40.
This neat pamphlet, printed in the accurate manner which always distinguishes work from the office of John Wilson and Son, contains significant and important matter. We should naturally expect much from the sermon and services which gave a new Pastor to the church established by Theodore Parker, the Twenty-eighth Congregational Society of Boston The Installation services are interesting, and give good example to other churches by their conformity to the simplest style of Congregational action, where the Society settles its own minister, without asking either consent or assistance from clerical or episcopal authorities. But the sermon is especially noteworthy coming directly after that Unitarian Convention, a party in which had (vainly) made a third attempt to express Unitarian ideas by a creed, chiefly, it seemed for the purpose of limiting them to its specifications and stereotyping some set of doctrines as the permanent belief of that sect.
Mr. Wasson's discourse, protesting against all attempts to restrict thought, and to interfere with the free progress of inquiry into religious matters, yet mentions certain points of positive belief in which the most advanced reformers may be expected to agree. Among these he insists very strongly (as Mr. Parker always did) on Revelation and Inspiration, as two o the most essential points of the relation between Got and man. He also states, as important to be under-stood and accepted, such proportion of truth as there is in the orthodox doctrines of the Divinity and the Vicarious Atonement of Christ, making those points clear in a way adapted to comfort many persons who have been confused about them.
The class of papers which call themselves " religious" so generally misstate matters like these in their comments, that those who wish to understand the set of ideas popularly known as Parkerism will do well to buy and read, mark, learn and inwardly digest, this sermon.
"THE CRIMINAL; THE CRIME; THE PENALTY. By George H. Hepworth. Boston: Walker, Fuller and Company. 245 Washington Street, 1865."-pp. 31.
Jefferson Davis, Treason, Death, are the equivalents of the words constituting the above title. Mr. Hepworth describes, forcibly and well, the nature of the crime of rebellion, and the character, as events have developed it, of Jefferson Davis. He supposes a Supreme Bench, constituted to try this man for this crime, consisting of the great political minds, the reformers, and the philanthropists of the age; and the jury are the whole people. He arraigns him for, First, Conspiracy against a legitimate Government, the best in the world; next, an attempt to subvert the best ideas of the century; third, for the use of unjustifiable and abominable means for the accomplishment of his purposes ; and lastly, for being in his own person an assassin and a robber. The court find the prisoner guilty on all these counts; and Mr. Hepworth, declaring his strong repugnance to the infliction of death as a punishment, yet thinks it in the case the appropriate one. He would have this chief representative of the accumulated crimes of the slave holders' rebellion hung, and hung on the Old Bull Run battle-field, with the State motto of Virginia-Sic Semper Tyrannis-inscribed upon his gallows. There is safety for the nation, he thinks, only in this course.-C. K. W.
COMPANION POETS FOR THE PEOPLE, IN ILLUSTRATED VOLUMES. Messrs. Ticknor and Fields have begun the publication of a new series of Illustrated Volumes of Poetry, containing popular selections from leading American and English poets. Each volume will contain about one hundred pages, and from twelve to twenty illustrations, on wood, from drawings by well-known English and American artists. The series will consist of handsomely printed volumes, on tinted paper, and bound in a neat pamphlet form, with vignette title. The following will be the initial volumes:-
Household Poems. By Henry W. Longfellow. With illustrations by John Gilbert, Birket Foster, and John Absolon. Paper, 50 cents. Songs for all Sea sons. By Alfred Tennyson. With illustrations by D. Maclise, T. Creswick, S. Eytinge, C. A. Barry, and others. Paper, 50 cents. The two volumes above named are now ready.
<c04>
Will be published July 1st: National Lyrics. By John G. Whittier. With illustrations by various artists. Paper, 50 cents. To be speedily followed by: Lyrics of Life. By Robert Browning. With illustrations. Paper, 50 cents. Humorous Poems. By Oliver Wendell Holmes. With illustrations. Paper, 50 cents. Religious Poems. By Harriet Beecher Stowe. With illustrations. Paper, 50 cents."
Other popular poets will be added to the series, of the continuation of which early announcement will be made.
As the design of this series is to present selections from the leading poets in a style at once convenient, tasteful, and inexpensive, the publishers have fixed the price at fifty cents for each volume; upon the receipt of which sum any volume will be mailed postpaid. The volumes will be uniform in size and style.
The publishers trust that this effort to place the best poems of the best poets within the reach of every household will meet with general acceptance.

NEW ENGLAND A. S.CONVENTION 
[Deficiencies and errors in the following report may be explained by the facts, that the person to whose lot it has fallen to prepare it was not present at the commencement of the meeting-that his part heretofore has been merely to assist in such work, without pre-arranging, superintending and completing it-and that he did not discover that he was to be principal instead of assistant until the meeting had been some time in progress.-C. K. W.]
The New England Anti-Slavery Convention met according to appointment, at the Melodeon, on Wednesday, May 31st, at 10 o'clock, A. M. It commenced punctually at that hour, with a much larger attendance than usual at the beginning. The Convention was called to order by EDMUND QUINCY, whose remarks were given in last week's Liberator.
A Committee to nominate officers of the Convention was then appointed, consisting of Messrs. Phillips, Sargent, Everett, Foss, and Hovey. While they were deliberating, Mr. Ezekiel Thacher, of Yarmouthport, (one of the twelve persons who, in 1831 or thereabouts, met in Boston to form an Anti-Slavery Society for New England.) addressed the meeting, giving reminiscences, reflections and congratulations.
The Nominating Committee reported the following list of officers of the Convention:
President-BOURNE SPOONER, of Plymouth.
Vice Presidents- Rev. John T. Sargent, of Boston, Joshua T. Everett, of Princeton.
Secretaries-Rev. Samuel May, Jr., and C. K Whipple.
The report of the Committee being accepted and adopted, Mr. Quincy resigned the Chair, which (by Mr. Spooner's wish) was taken and held throughout the meetings by Mr. Sargent. 
Rev. Samuel May, Jr., asked to be excused from serving as Secretary. On motion, his request was granted, and Stephen S. Foster was chosen in his place. Mr. Foster said that other business would absolutely prevent his performing the duties of Secretary, but at length consented to let his name stand.
A Business Committee was appointed, consisting of Wendell Phillips, Joshua T. Everett, William A. Hovey, Charles Lenox Remond, and Mrs. Caroline R. Putnam.
They retired to the ante-room for deliberation, and Mr. Thatcher resumed his remarks until their return.
The Chairman of the Business Committee reported the following resolution:
Resolved, That this Convention hereby expresses the decisive, settled opinion that any reconstruction of a rebel State, without negro suffrage, is a practical surrender to the Confederacy, and will make the anti-slavery proclamation of the late President, and even the expected amendment to the United States Constitution, utterly inefficient for the freedom and protection of the negro race.
Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY, of Syracuse, New York seconded the resolution, declared his hearty endorsement of it, and hoped it would be accepted by the Convention. He wished that the whole subject of suffrage might now come up before the country for consideration. He thought the right of voting for women ought now to be considered, but at all events, the right of the negro to suffrage should be vehemently and firmly insisted on. Mr. May reported a most interesting conversation which he had held with Hon. Horace Maynard, of Tennessee, who said that we could not afford to wait for the instruction of the colored man before giving him the ballot. His power of voting needed at once to be exercised, for the safety of the nation.
Mr. KING, of Kansas, said he had been surprised that any person at the recent meeting in New York had proposed the dissolution of the Anti-Slavery Society. He thought, on the contrary, that now was a time for increased and intensified work. The question is whether the elements that have made American slavery are still in active operation among us; and if they are, whether we arc to labor to counteract them. The prejudice against the negro is still active, and shows itself in opposition to his voting. Mr. King proceeded to state very forcibly his belief that the real conflict is now before us, and that the rights of black men, and white men, and women, are now to be acted on. He wished that our people could be made to understand that it is not safe to trample on the rights of anybody.
WENDELL PHILLIPS was the next speaker. The real topic, he said, which ought to engage the attention of this Convention, is Mr. Maynard's sentiment repeated to us this morning by Mr. May. Immediate suffrage for the negro is the work demanded alike by justice to him and safety for us. The North Carolina Proclamation of the President was the entrance upon a policy full of disaster to the country. Every lover of justice and freedom should openly repudiate it. Reconstruction upon that basis would be a practical fraud on the North.
I look on reconstruction based on white suffrage as but another name for the assumption by the nation of the Confederate debt. The two things are parts of the same whole. No man acquainted with the present mood of the white race at the South believes that its representatives in Congress will ever vote to pay our present debt or its interest, unless theirs is included. That is one feature of reconstruction on a white basis. We are to plunge into that gulf of war debt which now threatens to swallow up the European nations. Much of their war debt was fraudulently imposed on a people unable either to resist or protest, and, in my opinion, whenever the masses there obtain their rights they will properly and justly repudiate much of those debts.
Any imposition upon us of that Confederate debt, carried by means of white suffrage reconstruction, will be a fraud upon the people. Mr. Sumner's resolves, adopted by Congress, have attempted a barrier: an insufficient one, I fear, if this plan of reconstruction on a white basis be adopted. For myself, I protest in advance against both parts of this one measure, white rebel suffrage and the assumption of rebel debts, as fraud on the people. Fraud vitiates all contracts. A man or a minority may be bound by national acts to which they silently submit; but not by those against whose validity they protest at the time. I, for one here avow my purpose to be bound by no such fraud however covered up. I shall, life-long, advocate repudiation of any rebel debt adopted by any such reconstructed Congress. I shall hold myself at liberty to cooperate with any party which puts on its banner, "REPUDIATION OF ALL REBEL DEBTS," no matter how sacredly such a bastard Congress may have assumed them. I invite others to join me in this avowal, till it swells to a national protest, and becomes fair and sufficient warning to all creditors.
The condition of the black man at the South is at present in utter uncertainty. Can he hold a title to land? Nobody knows. Can he protect his wife? Nobody knows. Can he testify in a court of justice Nobody knows. None of his rights, natural or civil, are assured to him. The white men of each Southern State claim the right of settling all those matters.
<c05>
The Legislature of Tennessee has just passed a law concerning free colored people. Do they enact laws concerning free white people? All that concerns the colored people there is to be regulated by the whites. What will those whites do when their States are reconstructed without the negro franchise? One of them has frankly told us, boasting to a Union man that the slaveholders would yet have the substantial fruits of victory, though they had been defeated in the field. They would unite (he said) with the old Democratic party, when the last Congress of Johnson's Presidency should come, and then they would show the Union men who had really been whipped in this last hour of the war. The negro race would be kept, practically, in the condition of serfs, bound to the soil. The first admission of a seceded State without black suffrage would settle the whole question, and then slavery would exist in reality, though not in name.
If negro suffrage, Mr. Phillips proceeded to say, shall be forbidden at the South, the North will have been practically conquered. Every drop of blood will have been spilled and every dollar expended, in vain, Threats have already been made that reconstruction will be put through next <illegible> on an anti-negro basis, in spite of all opposition. This will be the great question of the next Congressional session. This very spring, Mr. Sumner said to Mr. Lincoln-"Louisiana must be reconstructed on the basis of the Declaration of Independence." (Applause.) Mr. Lincoln hesitated, and did not reply ; and Mr. Sumner said-"Mr. President, if you reconstruct it on any other basis, count me as an opponent." (Loud applause.) That is the true position for every friend of a permanent Union and of permanent freedom to take, and to stand by firmly. Far better that Grant had surrendered to Lee, than that the President should surrender to North Carolina or Louisiana, and nullify all the sacrifices, losses and sufferings of this dreadful struggle.
Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY, HENRY C. WRIGHT, and others, rose to ask questions or make explanations in the course of Mr. Phillips's speech. Mr. Wright thought he had never used a certain expression which had been imputed to him. Mr. Earle, however, asserted confidently that he had heard it from him on the occasion referred to, at the New England Anti-Slavery. Convention of last year. After these explanations, Mr. Phillips proceeded with his remarks, and closed them by saying-"I don't want men's speeches, I want their votes, their action."
On motion of S. S. FOSTER, it was voted that Mrs. Caroline K. Putnam be one of the Secretaries of the Convention.
On motion of Mr. EVERETT, a Finance Committee was appointed, consisting of Mrs. A. K. Foster, Elbridge Sprague, and Nathaniel Spooner.
Mr. KING, of Kansas, made some further remarks in reference to the calumnious statement that the negro could not take care of himself. He wished to state a significant and encouraging fact about those of the freedmen who are settled in his region. They are industrious, frugal, and honest; the agriculture of Douglas County is mainly in their hands, and it is so managed as to be a credit to them.
Mrs. FOSTER spoke on the financial question, urging the importance of active operations and of liberal contributions to sustain them. Vast sums are now expended in charity to the negro, and if we pursue only this method, more and more will still be required. But if we give justice to the negro, there will be no more need of charity for him. Mrs. Foster moved that the money raised by this Convention, beyond its expenses, be paid to the American Anti-Slavery Society. The question being put by the President, it was so voted without dissent.
Mrs. ABBY FOLSOM, who had repeatedly interrupted the speakers and disturbed the proceedings of the meeting, in spite of repeated warnings from the President to desist, was now removed from the platform by the Superintendent of the Hall.
Hon. AMASA WALKER, of Brookfield, was the next speaker. The great point, he said, is to know whether the negro shall have the right of suffrage. The people must rise in their strength and demand that he shall have this right. The old prejudice will of course raise its voice in opposition; but we have struggled against and overcome several departments of this prejudice. The negro has been made free, and has been allowed to fight for us. He has helped us to win the victory, which, indeed, could not have been won without him. Now we come to the moral struggle, and that promises to be yet more severe. We must struggle and suffer until this point is gained. I think we have the Bull Run of this moral contest in President Johnson's North Carolina Proclamation. Our work is now to raise a moral sentiment which shall compel the government to act in the right direction. Mr. Walker strongly praised the position of Mr. Sumner, as reported in Mr. Phillips's speech. He fervently hoped, and expected, that the next Congress would pursue the policy indicated in Mr. Sumner's words. In the meantime, money should be raised largely to send forth lecturers and documents among the people.
CHARLES LENOX REMOND, of Salem, then spoke. He regretted that Mrs. Foster's remarks on finance were not heard by the whole audience. Money was urgently needed, for the work to be done was vast and pressing. He was impatient, deeply impatient at the continuance of the wrongs inflicted by the community upon the colored people. He thought the work now proposed the most important that had come before the anti-slavery public. He doubted whether anything had really been gained by the Emancipation proclamation. Spending a part of last winter in Virginia, he saw no evidence of a satisfactory state of things there. Every State, and city, and town, needs to be visited and exhorted to take an active part in this moral contest. The cause of the black man cannot yet be left in the hands of the masses of the community, South or North.
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, of Florence, Mass., agreed with the previous speakers that the true crisis of the nation was now pending. He spoke of the method of reconstruction proposed by President Johnson in North Carolina, clearly displayed the vast loss and evil that would result from its adoption, considered the objection in regard to intelligence as a qualification for voting, and showed that, if this educational test should be established in the South, the white people there would oppose the negro's education expressly for that reason. He wished it to be understood, that black men should have the vote, because they are men.
The Convention then adjourned to 3 P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
At the appointed hour, Mr SARGENT took the chair, and a song was sung, much to the gratification of the audience, by the Hutchinson family.
After a reading of the resolution before the meeting, Mr. BRADLEY, of Boston, who described himself as a South Carolina negro, made some criticisms on the proclamation of President Johnson in regard to North Carolina.
Mr. WILLIAM B. EARLE, of Boston, strongly supported the resolution. He said that no key note of any such method of reconstruction as would be safe for the country had yet reached his ear. The Amendment to the Constitution now pending would do nothing for the colored man but to put his rights on the same footing as those of the Abolitionists for the last thirty years, namely, to depend on the consent of the friends of slavery. There was danger, he thought, now that the war was ended, that the rights of Massachusetts would be given away again. Andrew Johnson had no more right to order an election in North Carolina than in Massachusetts. His only right is to provide a military government until the Congress of the United States shall provide a civil government. If that region is a State, the President has no business there, and his late action is an usurpation of power.
The next speaker was STEPHEN S. FOSTER, of Worcester. The object of these meetings heretofore, he said, has been the establishment of liberty, having, for its general object, the equality of all men before the law, and for its particular purpose, the abolition of slavery in the United States. Now, the right of the negro 
<c06>
to suffrage is the one question of paramount importance. Mr. Foster enforced this point with this usual energy, severely criticizing President Johnson, and praising Charles Sumner as the only faithful man in the Senate. To him it was owing that Louisiana was not now in the Union. In the course of this speech, Mr. Foster was interrupted by several persons with comments and questions, but he patiently heard and replied to each. He closed by saying: There will not be one hour of peace in this country until the negro has the ballot. Until that consummation comes, there will be continuous civil war.
Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY wished to express, before leaving, his earnest determination to labor that the rights of all men may be made certain, established beyond question. Unless we live up to that idea, we shall have no peace, and we shall deserve none. What is our duty in the present crisis? Is it not to examine most carefully any proposed method of reconstruction, and see that not a fibre of the slave system, or of the prejudice to which that system gave <illegible> shall be left in it? If our Constitution is perfect, let me now make those. <illegible>
suggestion of some one in the audience.
On motion, Mr. R. P. Hallowell was added to the Finance Committee.
Mr. PHILLIPS, in behalf of the Business Committee, read a second resolution, as follows:
Resolved, That we claim of the political leaders, of all parties, that they plant themselves in open and constant opposition to any policy which accepts reconstruction on such partial basis (the exclusion of negro suffrage;) and that, in our opinion, any such reconstruction will sacrifice half of what the war has fairly earned.
Mr. Phillips proceeded to speak upon the resolution, first saying, in regard to the action of the Finance Committee, (who were then beginning their tour of collection,) that pecuniary aid, enabling the Abolitionists to enlarge their sphere of operation, was now of immense importance.
The PRESIDENT of the Convention here read the following letter from THEODORE TILTON, who had intended to speak at the evening session, but, being suddenty called away, had sent this letter as a substitute:-
MARLBORO'HOUSE, Boston, May 31.
Mr. SARGENT, Chairman-My Dear Friend: As an unexpected duty calls me immediately away from Boston, let me borrow your lips to say to the friends who this morning called for my opinion, that my opinion is this:
First, demand the immediate passage of the Constitutional Amendment.
Second, demand the immediate investiture of the negro with the elective franchise.
On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets.
President Johnson's proclamation denying negro suffrage in North Carolina is as great a delinquency as President Lincoln's proclamation of Sept.223, 1862. It can not be justified by Abolitionists-it cannot be accepted as the groundwork of reconstruction.
I think the true method of reconstruction is this:
Leave the conquered States under military government until their loyalty is proved sufficient to be entrusted with civil government. Meanwhile, let the military authority in each State make an enrolled list of all loyal citizens, without distinction of color, including both old residents and new settlers:; and then let the loyal citizens thus enrolled, and no others, but all these, represent themselves in a Constitutional Convention, and make a Constitution which, it possible, shall outshine that of Massachusetts.
What I lately saw in South Carolina makes me shudder at the thought of stripping the negroes of their just and needful protection by ballot against their former masters.
I join myself, therefore, to those who will not rest, day or night, until the peaceful weapon of the ballot be lodged in the negro's hand.
This triumph achieved, we may then go to sleep a little while-just long enough to be refreshed for the next great question which God has in store for this nation-which is, the ballot in the hand of woman.
Ever yours, THEODORE TILTOS.
The venerable LUCRETIA MOTT of Philadelphia, then made a brief address to the Convention. She had been greatly interested, she said, in attending this meeting. She wished to speak of her regret that some who have been accustomed to take part in gatherings like this (and especially the great Reformer and Liberator) are not here present. She was greatly interested in the movement which was chiefly agitated in this meeting, and hoped that the instrumentality of Petition would not be forgotten,-a work in which women also could labor. The works of Abby Kelley Foster, of Angelina Grimke, and of Sallier Hollie bear witness to the efficiency of woman's aid. She had been sorry to hear Wendell Phillips's eulogy of the influences of war. Moral influences, she thought, should be rather employed, and were far more fruitful of good. We must not cease from our labors, nor lose confidence in God's blessing on them.
Let petitions and remonstrances still be circulated. But let us remember with gratitude the much that has already been done, both by government and the Freedmen's Associations. These are good grounds for thankfulness. Let us continue to labor, and thus best shall we bring others to the right ground, and the public sentiment of the country be raised to the true standard. Especially should we be mindful to do this work on religious grounds, and in a religious spirit, which is far different from a sectarian spirit.
Mr. C. C. COFFIN ("Carleton," the distinguished correspondent of the Journal) gave a very interesting account of the valor of some of the colored troops before Petersburg, who only failed in the capture of it (he said) through the fault of a West Point officer. Mr. Coffin spoke of the necessity of constant agitation to make a public sentiment which shall require public functionaries to do justice to the negro. He gave some valuable testimony in regard to the hatred of Southern whites in Washington against the blacks, and described the need of assiduous and constant action, in this transition period, in favor of the rights of the negro.
Mr. PHILLIPS here said a few words of the very important aid given to the cause of the colored people by the facts concerning them published in the letters of Carleton.
An original song was then sung by the Hutchinson family, and the Convention adjourned to a quarter before 8, p. m.
EVENING SESSION.
Mr. SARGENT in the chair.
WILLIAM WELLS BROWN made a few opening remarks, declaring his full agreement with the ideas of Mr. Phillips in regard to the reconstruction of the rebel States. Though the system of slavery was perhaps broken, the colored people of the South could not live there in peace and prosperity if the old slaveholding class shall still bear rule. Already that class is showing its evil dispositions and evil intentions, persecuting the blacks and all other Unionists. It would be grossly unjust in the government, after using the important services of the negroes in the war, to leave them to the hostile and embittered feelings of the ex-slaveholders. Now is the very moment in which this matter should be urged. Every effort should be used to settle it on the right basis now.
JOHN PARKER (a black man, who represents himself as a fugitive from the rebel army) felt "glad to stand here on this solemn occasion," and gave some specimens of his experience of prejudice both South and North.
The Hutchinson Family then favored the audience with another song, after which
ANDREW T. Foss said-One thing is admitted by all, that the colored people throughout the country have behaved well, and are entitled to our respect and gratitude; also, that they have been treated very shabbily. We freed the negro, not at the call of justice, but at that of military necessity. We called him to be a soldier when we could no otherwise conquer. Then we refused to give the promised payment. Now it is proposed to deprive him of the right of voting, and to reconstruct the government in such a manner as to leave him out in the cold. But the negro has conquered and made progress up to this time, and I believe he will conquer yet.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
I believe slavery is dead, or just about to die. But we must be quite sure that it is dead before we discontinue the assault upon it. All Abolitionists, and a large majority of the Republican party, are in favor of full citizenship and equality before the law for the colored people. I think an overwhelming majority throughout the country will take this ground, and are ready to work for it. To tie the hands of the blacks and give freedom of action to the rebels would be suicidal. I say, let no State be admitted which does not give every man his rights.
CHARLES L. REMOND, of Salem, was the next speaker. He doubted about the majority which, his friend Mr. Foss thought, were ready to give the colored man his rights. Certainly the Southern whites do not take this ground, and Illinois, Connecticut, and New Jersey are utterly opposed to it. Even in Boston, a colored man cannot sit in the jury-box.
Mrs. FOSTER proposed further action of the Finance Committee, both to defray the expenses of this <illegible> that Cornelia Nowell be added to the Finance Committee, which was voted.
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH wished to correct a statement of Mr. Remond. Connecticut is not standing in opposition to negro suffrage, but is in a state of transition, and will probably soon take the right ground. Mr. Burleigh went on to speak of certain illogical features in President Johnson's proclamation it regard to North Carolina. By rebellion, the Southern States forfeited their rights under the Federal government, but did not escape their obligations to it. If the old North Carolina Constitution holds its regard to voters, the President has no right to send his Military Governor there at all. On the other hand, if it does not hold, he has power to regulate matters there in conformity with justice, and to disregard the old prejudices which slaveholders had incorporated with their laws.
Mr. Burleigh proceeded to show that as soon as the old Constitution of North Carolina was set aside by rebellion, the rules of justice and right resumed their natural force there, and every man was entitled to his share of their natural operation. According to these rules of justice, the black and white inhabitants of North Carolina now stand on the same ground.
Mr. PHILLIPS offered resolution No. 3 from the Business Committee, as follows:
Resolved, That we gratefully recognize the emphatic earnestness with which the pulpits of New England have claimed negro suffrage as an indispensable element in any scheme of reconstruction; and that we hope they will as emphatically let the Administration know that that they will accept no reconstruction which denies that right, and will let every party that advocates it feel the full power of their rebuke and opposition.
Mr. Phillips proceeded to speak upon the immense importance of a right direction of the movement for reconstruction, urging the same points as in the previous sessions, with some new forms of illustration.
A fourth resolution was then offered, namely:
Resolved, That John T. Sargent, R. P. Hallowell, and Mrs. S. J. Nowell, be a committee to confer with the Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society in regard to a meeting at Framingham on the next 4th of July, and to take such measures on the subject as they deem fit.
Mr. Sargent announced that he was Miss ANNA E. DICKINSON in the house, and at his request she came forward to speak a few words. She said she was here to-night because she wished to identify herself with the people who are nor willing to take half-way measures, and who propose not merely the removal of slavery as a fact, but also as an idea. She thought it an honor to stand, and to work, by the side of Wendell Phillips, in a struggle like that now going to on.]
On motion, it was unanimously voted that the resolutions be now adopted.
A parting song, sung in a very spirited manner by the Hutchinsons, was heartily applauded, and the Convention adjourned.
S. S. FOSTER, Secretary.
C. K. WHIPPLE, Secretary.
C. R. PUTNAM, Secretary.

YEARLY MEETING OF PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS.
BOSTON, Tuesday morning, June 13.
I have just returned from Longwood, Pennsylvania, where I have had the pleasure of attending the sittings of the Yearly Meeting of Progressive Friends. 
In company with Mr. Garrison, I left this city on Tuesday last. We reached Longwood the following evening, and were received under the truly hospitable roof of John and Hannah Cox, by whom we were entertained until yesterday morning. Our stay was rendered as agreeable as kindness of treatment, abundance of good fare, social intercourse with some of the excellent of the earth, and the most delightful weather could make it.
The sessions of the Yearly Meeting commenced on Thursday morning, and were continued until Saturday evening. The attendance was extremely numerous. On every occasion, the Longwood meeting- house was densely crowded, and should have been double or treble its size to have afforded sufficient accommodation for the eager throng that sought admission. Amount those who, during the three days, delivered addresses, were Mrs. Frances D. Gage, Annie M. Stamback, M. D., Dr. Cameron and Dr. Pusey Heald of Wilmington, Del.; Rev. Charles G. Ames, of Albany; Bennett Wallers of Iowa, (a minister in the Society of Friends,) and Messrs. Garrison, Oliver Johnson, Chandler Darlington, Thomas McClintock, and my self.
In the course of the Proceedings, "Testimonies" were prepared, submitted, considered and adopted, upon the following subjects:-
1. To the memory of departed members of the Meeting.
2. Slavery and the Rebellion.
3. The extension of the Suffrage, without distinction of color.
4. The Assassination of President Lincoln.
5. Peace.
6. Temperance.
7. Religion, and
8. The Rights of Woman.
The Meeting also adopted-
1. A petition of State Legislatures in favor of the removal from their statute books of the word "white:"
2. A petition to Congress, in favor of an Amendment of the Constitution, prohibiting all legislation based upon distinctions in regard to race or complexion.:
3. A memorial to the President of the United States, calling upon him to exercise his Constitutional powers in favor of the extension of the suffrage to the colored population in the late rebel States.
A very large number of the those who had been present at the sittings of the Yearly Meeting were present at the meeting held for worship on Sunday morning, when, after an address from Mr. M'Clintock, Mr. Thompson delivered a discourse upon the decline and approaching extinction of those powers throughout the world which have been most opposed to the spread of the principles of liberty, and to the diffusion of truth among mankind. Mr. Garrison followed in an able and impressive address upon the importance of exposing and denouncing the preposterous pretensions of the Pope, as set forth in his recent Encyclical letter.
Mr. John Hutchinson was present at all the meetings, and responded to the many calls made upon him for the exercise of his vocal powers.
Mr. Garrison lectured last evening in Norristown, and to-day will lecture at 2, P. M., in New town. He may be expected in Boston on Saturday or Monday next. 
GEO. THOMPSON.
<c02>
AN INTERESTING OCCASION. 
NEW YORK, June 9, 1865.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
You would have much enjoyed it, had you been present last Monday evening at the house of Mr.’ Chas. G. Judson, of this city, on Thirty-eighth street. You would have found yourself in the midst of a somewhat numerous company of ladies and gentlemen, neither strangers to you nor to the cause which is now victorious. Certainly you would have felt quite at home on finding Mr. Oliver Johnson, lately editor of the Anti-Slavery Standard, among the number, and perhaps would have understood rather better than he did the especial reason for his being there. This was a tolerably well- kept secret till the host of the evening rapped his guests to order, and ingeniously shitted the responsibility of presiding by calling Mr. Theodore Tilton to the chair, and soliciting from him a statement of the object of this pleasant gathering. The Editor of the Independent accordingly rose and spoke <illegible>
I <illegible> to perform the <illegible> of duties in the few of words. I hold in my hand One Thousand Dollars in seven- thirty bonds-the gift of five gentlemen, mostly of this city, to be presented by me, in their name, to our valued, our honored, our beloved friend, Oliver Johnson. [Applause.] Your plaudits are proof that you already know the good reason for this testimonial. After twelve arduous years in the editorial chair of the Anti- Slavery Standard, Mr. Johnson has retired with a reputation for fidelity, skill, judgment and tact, unsurpassed in the press. After a long and active career in the American Anti-Slavery Society—joining it on the self-same day with its founder, William Lloyd Garrison, and working side by side for thirty years with that illustrious man-he lately retired from it on the self-same day with its retiring President, from a joyful conviction, not only that the flag which hangs from the outer wall of this mansion floats over a re-united Republic, but that henceforth under its folds no man shall wear a chain. [Applause.) But our friend, neither by his retirement from an Anti-Slavery Journal nor from an Anti-Slavery Society, has signified any retirement from the still untended work of advancing an oppressed race to their final rights. It has seemed to him, however, and to many noble men and women acting with him, that the old methods should now be laid aside, the old agencies discontinued, and that time-honored Abolitionists, hitherto a minority of their countrymen, should now cease to maintain their former separateness, but join freely with the great multitude of their awakened fellow citizens to work henceforth with the co-working nation—hand to hand, shoulder to shoulder,—till the capstone shall be laid with shoutings, and the cry go up, Grace unto it! [Applause.] To-night, therefore,' we gather round our friend to congratulate him on the good name he has borne for thirty stormy years, and still bears with ever increasing honor-to rejoice with him over the marvellous progress of the Good Cause from his youthful consecration to his gray hairs—and to invoke upon his remaining years the kindest blessing of our Father in Heaven. [Applause.] And now, without attempting by this testimonial to express the adequate measure of our thanks for the useful services of our friend— indeed, who are we, to thank him?—for the thanks due to such a man can come only from the lips of liberated slaves[applause] I now deliver this gift to Mr. Johnson, trusting that he who has so long sorrowed over the bonds of others, may now at last rejoice over these bonds of his own! [Laughter and applause.] 
Mr. Johnson's reply, as may be imagined, was briefly and feelingly delivered, yet with a natural grace which was hardly impaired by the strong emotion under which he labored. I cannot give you,—it would be difficult,—his precise language. The burden of his remarks was a disclaimer of any indebtedness on the part of the Anti-Slavery cause to him, its servitor. The balance was on the other side: he had gained 
more than he had contributed, and in his account there was no room for pecuniary considerations. In a philosophic sense, this modest utterance was accepted by the company, but no one felt inclined to admit that one or two or many thousand dollars need have weighed upon the conscience of their recipient.
The remainder of the evening was consumed by further impromptu speaking, by music, and by a most elegant entertainment in the not less elegant rooms of Mr. Judson, who had hung before his mansion a huge flag of the nation, meaning now what Mr. Johnson had endeavored to make it—" No Union with Slaveholders!"
I do not know why New York alone should interest itself to bestow a testimonial upon your long-tried friend and fellow-laborer. He has laid the whole land under lasting obligations, and though his unselfish and retiring nature has rendered and may ever render his name less conspicuous than that of others in the thirty years' struggle, it can still be affirmed, that for patience, devotion and steadfastness, the roll of honor may be searched in vain for a superior, and with rare exceptions for a peer, of Oliver Johnson. Nor is this loyalty to conviction all, nor this endurance all, nor the spirit of abnegation in which these virtues were manifested. It might be added, that Mr. Johnson has used his talents to the utmost; and still the tale falls short. The Standard is proof of all this, and more: of remarkable editorial ability; so that the praise of one of the contributors to the fund was not extravagant: "I regard the Standard as a perfect paper." And when we consider Mr. Johnson's peculiar situation in this unfriendly city—isolated, far away from counselors, forced to act oftentimes without the possibility of consulting the officers of the Society whose organ he conducted—there is ground for admiration in no common degree of the judgment, the discretion, the well-nigh unerring instinct, which have maintained the reputation of Society and paper alike. A thousand dollars are only a token: they are not a quittance or a receipt in full. DEBIT AND CREDIT.

JUSTICE TO ALL—A NEW PAPER WANTED. 
It seems likely that the time has come for a division in the ranks of the Anti-Slavery party.(I speak as a sympathizing outsider.) All will not consent to follow Mr. Wendell Phillips in his course now-a days. His speech at the thirty second anniversary of the American Anti-Slavery Society, (see Liberator of May19,) I read with leas satisfaction than anything that fell from his eloquent lips before. He does not believe education necessary to the proper exercise of the elective franchise. He says, "Whoever works developes his intellectual faculties." (Remember, by "work," he means hard manual labor, as contradistinguished from mental labor.) "The mass that work - but doesn't read is half a century ahead of the mass that reads but doesn't work." "The negro inherits a brain that work has cultivated for four generations. And further on, contrasting mental and bodily exercise, be says, "Infinitely better, it you have but one is the education of work." "If a man has intellect enough to justify his being hung under our laws he has enough to entitle him to a voice in making them." These quotations will show his where about on this question. 
It is conceded that the highest human development it is attained by a union of physical and mental culture; but will any physiologist teach that HARD bodily labor, and that, too, with the rode implements of the South will develop the intellectual faculties?
His other statement, that the dull round of unreasoning toil to which the slave has been subjected is "infinitely" better adapted to raising him than mental education alone, is a most extraordinary avowal and it seems incredible that it should come from man of Mr. Phillips's calibre. If this his position be true, the field hands of the South, die miners of Lancashire, and the laborers of Ireland are higher in the scale of humanity than the professors of Harvard Cambridge or Trinity, who probably never handled a 
<c03>
spade or hoe in their lives! But enough; it is need-leas to further expose this fallacy.
He finds fault with John Stuart Mill for insisting on an educational qualification, and at the same time acknowledges that he himself is not yet prepared to demand the ballot for woman. Too much engaged in trying to secure it for the brutalized (not brutalized through his own fault, however) negro of the South, to fight the battle now of the educated women of the North! This seems strange, for Mr. Phillips is really, as we all know, an advocate of woman's rights, and has spoken eloquently in their behalf before now. I respect him for his fearless devotion to the cause of the slave, but I think in his anxiety for his welfare be goes too far, and neglects those nearer home. 
Believing that ignorance and crime go hand in hand, (see prison statistics,) I would certainly limit the franchise to those able to read and write the language of the country. The line must be drawn somewhere, and we can hardly put it lower. Such a restriction is especially commendable In this country of free schools, where the facilities of education for the poorer classes are so great, that ignorance is little less than crime. Such a limitation of the right of suffrage would be an Inducement to study that is now lacking, more especially amongst the emigrant population. There should be no exclusion on account of sex or color. Make the demand for justice to all; this would include the Negro and Indian. 
New York city shows what unrestricted suffrage does. Because ignorant, brutal men have foolishly been allowed to help make laws in the North, will it mend matters to commit the same mistake down South? I used to say, "Inasmuch as ignorant white men are allowed to vote, ignorant black ones should not be prevented. "But I have changed—" Two wrongs don't make a right."
Henry C. Wright's position is more tenable than Mr. Phillips's, judging from a letter of his in the Liberator of May 19. He, too, is in favor of educational qualification. He realizes the shameful injustice of, and the keen insult to, the multitudes of intellectual women in the North, in denying them the right to vote, and allowing it to the hordes of low, degraded Irish and stupid Dutch, who yearly swarm over to swell the ranks of the misnamed " Democratic" party. I am a non voting Irishman myself.
Let the readers of the Liberator be heard on this matter. I, for one, pledge myself to do as much as my means will admit of to support a paper whose object shall be "freedom and justice for ALL."—a periodical conducted in the same spirit of fair play which so preeminently distinguishes the Liberator, whose Editor never has been afraid or ashamed to admit criticisms on himself and cause.
EDWARD M. RICHARDS. 
Mound City, Linn Co., Kansas, June 1. 1865. 

AN A. S. SOCIETY DISBANDED. 
CHRISTIANA, (Pa.) June 7,1865.
At the thirty-third annual meeting of the Clarkson Anti-Slavery Society, held at Homeville, May 20, 1865, the following resolution was adopted, and the Secretary directed to forward a copy to the Liberator for publication:—
Whereas, the object of the formation of the Clark-son Anti-Slavery Association was the abolition of American Slavery; and whereas, the Congress of the United States has passed an amendment to the Constitution that we feel morally certain will be speedily ratified, and will put an end to chattel slavery throughout the Union; therefore, 
Resolved, That said Society, being no longer needed, now disband. 
ELIZABETH COATES, Secretary. 

NEGRO SUFFRAGE. 
Gov. Smyth, of New Hampshire, in his Inaugural, delivered at Concord on Thursday of last week, took strong ground in favor of loyalty as the sole condition of suffrage. In concluding his very able and eminently practical address, he said:—
"I congratulate you, gentlemen, on the success which has attended the efforts to restore the Union, and to establish it on foundations of truth and justice. Our armies have not only carried with them a restored authority, but they have opened the way for a higher and nobler civilization, without which there can be no free government, and with which rebellion is impossible. For myself, I shall feel that the great purpose of this war is not attained, the lesson of this punishment not learned, until free schools, free churches, and a free ballot, are established wherever the federal authority extends. This we owe to the good order and permanent security of nil the States; this alone will be a commensurate reward for the unparalleled heroism of our brave soldiers, who have borne us through the contest. On such a consummation only can we expect the continued favor of Heaven, and the blessing of the God of our fathers. Let the awful scenes through which we have passed teach us our duty. The blood of the sons of New Hampshire, mingled with that of others from every loyal State, calls to us from a hundred battle fields to stand true to the great cause, through all the exultations of victory and amidst the signs of accomplished peace. 
"The spirit of the great martyr for universal emancipation, lifted above the cares and weaknesses of this life, bids us be true to the cause. In our sorrow, even, let us take courage, and make the brutal assassination of our noble President—that most wicked fruit of a barbarous system—confirm us in the resolution to make universal freedom a synonym for universal suffrage, under such safeguards as wise legislation my provide. All must agree that the States which have been in rebellion should not hereafter be controlled by rebels and traitors, and that as we do not propose to admit again into the Union the cause of all this evil, let us extend to the loyal citizen, of whatever color, those rights justly earned by patience, devotion, and firm, unwavering faithfulness to the common cause. 
"The weakness, dependence and ignorance of the race whose broken shackles have paved our way to victory, are so many potent reasons why its condition should no longer be left uncertain or insecure. This question of negro suffrage it one of those defences behind which slavery will yet entrench itself, and by which it will seek to regain some fragment of the power it has justly lost. If we would have an enduring and prosperous peace, we shall level every obstruction, concede nothing to the prejudices of slavery, and give the freedman the right to assert that manhood peacefully at the ballot-box, which he has so nobly proved on the battle-field. Let no fears or apparent difficulties in the way deter us. There is no danger so great to a nation as the existence of a flagrant injustice in its midst, sanctioned and protected by its authority. Let us, therefore, be just, and hope for continued favor from the source of all prosperity." 

NEGRO SUFFRAGE. 
The suffrage question must inevitably come up for discussion in this country. Theoretically, it has never yet been settled anywhere. At this moment, writers on politics are considering it as a matter of abstract speculation. But events are fast compelling us to deal with it as a practical matter, demanding fresh and immediate attention. 
If it could be considered calmly and on its own merits, and without the introduction of disturbing influences, an adjustment might be reached with comparative ease. But this is too much to hope for. Interested persons are to have a large share in the debate, and they cannot be expected to put aside all regard for its bearings upon their personal fortunes Members of Congress, sure of election under existing arrangements, however unequal and open to abuse in their respective districts, will hardly be willing to have them changed. Political parties, whose chances of success depend upon methods of voting in certain localities—though the methods may be. anything but fair—will violently oppose any rectification of those methods. Reformers, exclusively, eager to extent the franchise to particular classes, now shut out, will endeavor to shape everything with reference to their special purpose. In these and in other ways, the solution of what is a difficult problem at beat is now to be made more difficult. Its intrinsic perplexities will be overlooked. It will be treated dogmatically, in stead of being taken up in a liberal and philosophies spirit. It will be made the subject of partisan agitation, when it should receive a statesmanlike examination. All that is justly desirable will not be found practicable; and the best that can be anticipated is only a nearer approach than we now have to what is a fair, equal and safe.
Meanwhile, without pretending to go into the case, a suggestion or two may be thrown out to show the direction correct thought ought to take, by indicating the principles to be borne steadily in mind—principles that all will recognize as sound. It will be con a ceded that in a republic or democracy, the right of suffrage 
<co4>
should be granted to all persons competent to exercise it intelligently; and the limitations should only be such as are necessary to secure the State, or the people, from the misgovernment of ignorance, and the mischievous designs of demagogues working upon the passions of benighted and degraded classes. It will be conceded, also, that conditions regulating the ballot, so far as it concerns the election of Federal officials at least, should be uniform all over the land; since in the choice of such agents or rulers, citizens are to act mainly in their relation to the nation, and not as belonging primarily to the separate commonwealths. It will be conceded, further, that a steady reference in fixing the qualifications of voters should be had to the securing a growing homogenity in the mixed character of our American population.
A system recognizing these principles would be satisfactory. How to get it and get it into operation is not easy to say. A uniform suffrage law, extending over the whole United States, permitting all loyal citizens who can easily read the Constitution in English and write well enough to register their own names to vote by ballot, according to check-lists, for Federal officers—such a law, faithfully enforced, would be all and could reasonably ask for, and enough to insure a trustworthy expression of public sentiment at the polls. If the suffrage question is to be agitated, it should be with a view to some such general result, and not by temporary expedients to meet a temporary exigency. What are the safest conditions on which American citizenship can intelligently be entrusted with the support of American democratic institutions in the United States, is the broad inquiry to be met sooner or later. The easiest way to meet it would seem now to be to have it discussed in the respective States, and to endeavor in them to approach the truest and fairest arrangement. So far as the rebellion has given the Federal Government power or influence in the premises, both should be exercised so as to secure by the ballot the peace that has been won by the bayonet. If this requires negro suffrage, in whole or in part, negro suffrage may become a necessity.—Transcript. 
PERIL OF ADVOCATING NEGRO SUFFRAGE IS THE POLPIT.—Editor of the Traveller:—The minister of the 2d Congregational (Unitarian) Society in Concord, N. H., Rev. J. L. Hatch, having ventured boldly to advocate negro suffrage in his pulpit last Sunday, as A measure absolutely necessary, in order to complete the emancipation of the slaves and enable them to protect their own rights and interests, prominent members of the society have called a meeting of the parish, with the determination to shut him out of the pulpit hereafter. Such was the excitement, that, no sooner was the benediction pronounced, than an officer in the society declared the discourse " damnable! " and another " conservative republican" met the reverend gentleman in the entry as he passed out, shook his fist in his face, and called him a 
"miserable puppy! " It should be added, that the clergyman had been previously warned by these men not to preach any more anti-slavery sermons, or there would be trouble. The spirit of tyranny seems not to be confined to the South. Rev. Mr. Stewart, of the Unitarian Society in Nashua, was recently dismissed in a very summary manner for the same offence.
Whether the friends of freedom, North as well as South, will prevail in this case, we hope is not doubtful. Concord, June 9. 
NEGRO SUFFRAGE IS NEW HAMPSHIRE. The Unitarian pulpit in Concord, N. H. was closed against the minister of the Society, Rev. J. L. Hatch, yesterday, June 11, on account of his having, against warning, advocated the right of the freedmen to the elective franchise on the previous Sunday. 
The friends of human rights and free speech secured Eagle Hall,—the largest in the city,—and there the Rev. gentleman repeated the objectionable discourse last evening to a large and approving audience. 
The closing of the church has caused considerable excitement at Concord, and the end is not yet.—Traveller. 

THE CONDITION OF THE SOUTH. 
Rev. Chas. Lowe, of Somerville, Mass., who has recently had opportunity for extended -observation in South Carolina and Georgia, preached an able discourse on the Condition of the South on the 4th inst., in which he says:—
"The people of South Carolina and Georgia are beginning now to hold meetings and mike loyal professions, In hope that by promptly declaring their desire to be in the Union again, they may receive greater leniency and ampler restoration of privileges from the Federal government. I think no one can be really acquainted with the character of these meetings, and of the persons who attend them, and not feel deeply solicitous lest government shall be too much influenced by the representations they make.
I believe the only safe course is to continue to hold military control of the conquered States until the condition of things shall have changed. This will change in two ways. 1. By the inpouring of an entirely new element of population. 2. By the change in the sentiment of the Southern people themselves. And a year or two hence the people will be prepared to adopt measures that would be impossible now, and will then be hampered by the results of premature action if State organization should be at once allowed. * *
"The fact is, they are as easily influenced and versatile as they are intense in the feeling they chance to hold; and I see no reason why, it a proper method of dealing with them is pursued, we may not expect within a reasonable period, a pleasant harmony between the people of the two divided sections of our land. I say it a proper method is pursued—and this method I believe to be, while affording them protection and kindness, and unrestricted business and industrial opportunities,—to keep a firm hold upon them that shall restrain them from every act of disobedience and continually compel their respect.* *
"In fact, it is a simple application of accepted principles of surgery. The treatment of a ragged wound is, while trusting chiefly to nature's recuperative power, yet first to bring the parts together and bind them by a firm bandage in their place till there has been lime for the flesh to heal and the ligaments to unite. Precisely the same principle holds for the cementing of these torn ties of sentiment and brotherly feeling. The natural working of social intercourse will be. the proper cure; but the parts need bandaging for awhile. And the simplest compress is a strong military force." 
ACTUAL CONDITION OF THINGS IN SOUTH CAROLINA. We have been permitted to publish, says the Transcript, the following passages from a private letter by a gentleman in South Carolina, whose opportunities of observation there have been peculiar.— 
"The war is not ended, as many fondly imagine. I only changes its form. The customs of society, the schools, the press, and the pulpits, the true accompaniments and essentials of true freedom, now prefer their claims,—claims as unwelcome to nine-tenths of the Southerners as the Union without negro slavery. The return of the rebel soldiers to their homes has greatly embittered and emboldened the citizens, who, under the pressure of the war, bad become somewhat softened. The soldiers have, of necessity, laid down their arms, but only, apparently, to tall back on prejudice and hatred.
The interior of South Carolina is as impenetrable to the friends of schools and the freedmen as ever, if no more so. Men in Charleston, professing Christianity and Unionism, declare to me solemnly, that they’ regard putting arms into the hands of negroes as a sin in the eyes of both God and man.' The same class of men declare they’ will have their own preachers, instead of Northern ones.' Prominent men of all classes say,’ We accept the Union only on condition the negro be left out.' Even Gov. Aiken said to me, I cannot believe the negro emancipation will be any thing but a failure. The whites of the South cannot live with them if free.' By-the-by, I have in my possession some account books of a blockade-running company, wherein the name of’ William Aiken’ appears as a stockholder, and & cannot learn that any such man’ lived in Charleston, except the Governor. Some prominent men, from whom you would expect better things, roundly assert that' there will be a Confederacy yet.'
Now, if these things be done in’ the green tree what may be expected in’ the dry?' The disbanding of the national army delights the rebels. Only this week, one of the largest landholders of the South told me that the planters of the interior would dictate terms to the negroes; that if they set up claims to freedom, they would be driven away. The vast interior will long be governed by the slave oligarchy unless an armed force precede the friends of the treed men, the planters of schools, churches, and the press." 
The President has issued a proclamation appointing Judge Sharkey Provisional Governor of Mississippi, with power to call a Convention of Delegates for the amendment of the State Constitution This Proclamation closely resembles the one in regard to North Carolina. 
Miss Anna E. Dickinson is visiting Richmond and will make a speech there. In no place are ideas and principles such as hers more needed. 
Mrs. Sigourney, early and favorably known among the poets of America, died recently in Hartford, at the ripe age of eighty-four. Her published. works, in prose and verse, are said to be nearly fifty. in number.
<c05>
WHAT WENDELL PHILLIPS SAID.
The New York Evening Post remarks, under this heading—
The Anti-Slavery Standard of this week gives a report of the speech delivered by Wendell Phillips at the New England Anti-Slavery Convention, correcting the stupid blunder of the Boston telegrapher - Mr. Phillips made no suggestion for the repudiation of the national debt. He simply declared that the nation should never consent to assume the payment of the rebel debt—a conclusion which all loyal men will approve. He has fair cause of complaint against the careless or malicious reporter who sent over the wires the garbled account of his speech. 
SENATOR SUMBER has received from the colored men of North Carolina a petition to be presented to President Johnson, asking for the right to vole. It is signed by upwards of two thousand names. Among other things it says: " It seems to us that men who are willing on the field of danger to carry the musket of a Republic, in the days of peace ought to be permitted to carry its ballots; and certainly we cannot understand the justice of denying the elective franchise to men who have been fighting for the country, while it is freely given to men who have just returned from four years' fighting against it."
The petitioners then say to the President: " As you were once a citizen of North Carolina, we need not remind you that up to 1835 free colored men voted in this State, never, as we have heard, with any detriment to its interests." The petitioners conclude as follows: "What we desire is, that, preliminary to elections in the returning States, you would order the enrolment of all loyal men without regard to color." Senator Sumner has to-day forwarded the petition to be President.—Boston Transcript, 8th.

AN UNPLEASANT STORY FROM VIRGINIA.
New York, June 13. A Virginia correspondent of the Tribune ridicules the idea of there being any considerable number of white Unionists in that Slate. There were not ten in three counties, and yet the management of the State is handed over to white Unionists.
The spirit of these people is shown in the remarks of a Richmond lawyer, who exclaimed:—" Had it not been for your securing the services of the d—d nigger, or had we two years ago offered him his freedom for those services, we should have been a tree people now." Tell any leading Southerner that our success was not due to the aid of the negro, and he looks upon you with piteous scorn.
This correspondent condemns the administration of affairs under Gen. Ord on the peninsula, saying that he negroes who have really been our friends are treated shamefully. Other correspondents state that the slaveholders act more like fiends toward their late laves, than like human beings. 
ABUSE OF THE BLACKS IN RICHMOND. The Tribune's Richmond correspondence details the treatment he negroes are subjected to in that city and vicinity, showing that these poor people are treated by our authorities far worse than they were by the slave-driving authorities both before and after the rebellion. An appeal from the Richmond negroes for protection is also published, closing with the declaration that all that is needed to restore shivery in full is the auction-block. 
The negroes in their appeal, state that they are required to get some white person to give them a pass to enable them to attend to their daily occupation, without which they are marched off to the negro bull pen. The rebel Mayor Mayo has been re-instated, and he has re-appointed his rebel policemen, who were notorious and famous negro hunters, and who occupy themselves in entering the houses of inoffensive negroes, dragging the inmates out and imprisoning them.
IMMENSE DAMAGES FROM THE OVERFLOW OF THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER. The water, all the way down from Cairo to Vicksburg, has done and is doing immense damage. With the exception of a very few places, it has overflowed on both sides. It may be that by the loss of fencing and other damages, no opportunity wilt be offered for planting until it is too late to make even a crop of corn. From Helena to Vickst burg, the levees are broken in the course of almost every mile. The very few who have fortunate enough to escape the damaging effects of the overflow are making good crops. These latter present a healthy appearance. Not far from Helena are one or two plantations in a condition equalling that of peaceful times. Those who are effected by the overflow will not make any cotton crop all this year. In some places the planters will be prevented from raising a crop for two seasons to come—attributable to the loss of fencing and levees. At different points mansion houses and cotton gins are actually tumbling into the river. 
THE WRECK OF THE STEAMER ADMIRAL DUPONT, AND Loss OF LIFE. The iron side-wheel steamer Admiral Dupont, 700 tons. Capt Simeon Pepper, sailed from New York on Wednesday afternoon, June 7, with sealed orders, bound for City Point, where, as was supposed, she was to take troops on board for Texas. She took on board at New York a small detachment of furloughed troops returning to their regiments, numbering about forty. Her crew numbered thirty-two all told. On the morning of the 8th, at a little after 4 o'clock, in a dense fog, and running some nine miles per hour, she was run into by the British ship Stadacona, Capt. Stewart, from Philadelphia for St. John, N. B. in ballast, going about six miles. She was Struck on the starboard bow, just forward of the paddle box, carrying away her foremast, and the bow was completely crushed in, causing her to sink immediately, leaving the crew no time to save anything. The pilot, Capt. Brown, John Gardiner, Chief-Assistant Engineer, William Sullivan, porter, and two soldiers were carried down with the ship, but saved themselves by clinging to a boat and to the pilot house.
The chapter of shipwreck does not end here. On the morning of the 10th, at about 4 o'clock, the ship, in a fog, went ashore on Smith's point, Nantucket, the crew and passengers of the steamer leaving her by boats drawn on shore by hawsers. They came to Hyannis by steamer, and arrived in Boston Saturday evening by the last train from the Cape. 
New Orleans advices of the 6th, state that an important clue to the cause of the late disastrous explosion at Mobile is thought to have been obtained. A man named Wall has been arrested, at Mobile, charged with being implicated. He states that he and two other men on the night previous to the explosion placed torpedoes between the buildings containing powder; that the work was performed under the direction of a rebel major, who threatened them with instant death if they disobeyed or offered to resist, and that the major afterwards lighted the fuse of the shell connected with the infernal arrangement. Torpedoes have also been discovered in rooms in the Custom House so arranged as to explode on opening the doors. Others have been found concealed in desks of the same building.
INFERNAL MACHINES. On the 30th ultimo two torpedoes were discovered in the Custom House at Mobile, in a room which had not been used for some time. One was fastened to the door, so that on opening it the chance existed that it would explode. The result was happily averted by the cautious suspicion of the person who first attempted to enter the room. In the same room under some loose papers in a desk, with strings among the papers so that an explosion would be produced by any one attempting to remove the rubbish, another torpedo was found. This one was also got rid of without doing any damage. The explosion of the torpedo attached to the door would have torn the upper part of the Court House to pieces, and great loss of life must have necessarily ensued. 
NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
THE SLAVE TRADE. This trade is still active on some parts of the coast of Africa. There are several steamers engaged in carrying slaves from the coast, and they are too swift for the slow English cruisers. These steamers are rigged and painted so as to resemble the English mail steamers which run to the coast. They have been seen and chased several times, but not one of them has yet been captured. It was reported a short time ago that there were 1500 slaves at Whydah awaiting shipment. One of these steamers was seen to come in twice to attempt their shipment, but she was so closely pursued by the cruisers that she put to sea both times, without accomplishing her object. 
THE DCTCH GAP CANAL. Prof. Maillefert. who has been engaged in removing the obstructions in James river, represents the Dutch Gap Canal as not only no failure, but a complete success. A number of vessels have passed through. The action of the tide washes the debris left by exploding the outer wall and it is confidently asserted by practical men that the improvement in the James river will be of immense value to shipping. 
About 16,000 hostile Sioux Indians, including 4,000 warriors, are now assembled in the northern part of Dacotah, near the British boundary, and they threaten a raid upon the frontier settlements. A movement is on foot which will interfere with their hostile plans. 
GREAT DESTRUCTION OF GOVERNMENT PROPER TY. A fire occurred at Nashville, on Sunday, destroying from $8,000,000 to $10,000,000 worth of quartermaster's and commisary stores—enough to supply 80, 000 men for two years.
The HAYTTIAN REBELLION. News from Hayti to the 22d May states that the rebels had been driven to the mountains by Geffrard’s forces; that the revolutionary party was largely composed of Dominican robbers, and the stability of Geffrard’s government is not doubted.-Journal.
<co6>
THE NATION,
A WEEKLY JOCRNAL OF POLITICS, LITERATURE, SCIENCE AND ART, 
Will be published July 6, 1865. 
Its main object will be— 
First—The discussion of the topics of the day, and above all of legal, economical and constitutional questions, with greater accuracy and moderation than are now to be found in the daily press.
Second-The maintenance and diffusion of true democratic principles in society and government, and the advocacy and illustration of whatever in legislation or in manners seems likely to promote a more equal distribution of the fruits of progress and civilization of the fruits of progress and civilization.
Third-The earnest and persistent consideration of she condition of the laboring classes as the South, as a matter of vital interest to the nation at large, with a view to the removal of all artificial distinctions between them and the rest of the population, and the securing to them, as far as education and justice can do it, of an equal chance in the race of life.
Fourth—The enforcement and illustration of the doctrine that the whole community has the strongest interest. both moral, political and material in their elevation, and that there can be no real stability for the republic so long as they are left in ignorance and degradation. Fifth—The fixing of public attention upon the political importance of popular education, and the dangers which a system like ours runs from the neglect of its any portion of our territory.
Sixth—The collection and diffusion of trustworthy in formation as to the condition and prospects of the Southern States, the opening they offer to capital, the supply and kind of labor which can be obtained in them, and the progress made by the colored population in acquiring the habits and desires of civilized life.
Seventh-Sound and impartial criticism of books and work of art.
THE NATION will not be the organ of any party, sect or body. It will, on the contrary, make an earnest effort to bring to the discussion of political and social questions a really critical spirit, and to wage war upon the vices of violence, exaggeration and misrepresentation, by which so much of the political writing of the day is marred.
The criticism of books and works of art will form one of its most prominent features; and pains will be taken to have this task performed in every case by writers possessing special qualifications for it.
It is intended, in the interest of investors, as well as of the public generally, to have questions of trade and finance treated every week by a writer whose position and character will give his articles and exceptional value, and render them a safe and trustworthy guide.
A special correspondent, who has been selected for his work with some care, is about to start in a few days for a journey through the South. His letters will appear every week, and he is charged with the duty of simply reporting what he sees and hears, leaving the public as far as possible to draw its own inferences.
The following writers among others, have been secured, either as regular or occasional contributors:
HENDRY W. LONGFELLOW,
J. R. LOWELL,
JOHN G. WHITTIER,
SAMUEL ELIOT,(Ex-Pres. Trin. College, Hartford,)
Prof. TORREY, (Harvard,)
Dr. FRAANCIS LIEBER, Prof. CHILD, (Harvard,) CHARLES B. NORTON,
Judge BOND, (Baltimore,)
EDMUND QUINCY,
Prof. W. D. WRITNEY, (Tale,)
Prof. D. C. GILMAN, (Yale,)
Judge DALY,
Prof. DWIGHT, (Columbia College,)
Judge WAYLAND, 
FREDERICK LAW OLMSTED,
Rev. Dr. MCCLINTOCK,
Rev. Dr. THOMPSON, 
Rev. PHILLIPS BROOKS,
Rev. Dr. BELLOWS,
C J. STILLE, 
HENRY. TUCKERMAN,
BAYARD TAYLOR, 
C. A. BRISTED,
C. L. BRACE,
RICHARD GRANT WHITE,
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON,
SYDNEY GEORGE FISHER,
THEODORE TILTON,
GAIL HAMILTON,
R. H. STODDARD, &c. &c. A more extended list will be published in a few days. Terms, $3 per annum. 
JOSSPH H. RICHARDS, PUBLISHER,
No. 130 Nassau st., New York. 
June 16. 
MARRIED—In this city, Mar 10, by Rev. L. A. Grimes, Mr. BENJAMIN F. WASHNGTON to Miss MARY A. SANSLING. 
In New Bedford, May 18, by Rev. Mr. Jackson, Mr. CHARLES BROOK to Mrs. MARY A. REMINGTON, 
DIED—In Cambridgeport, June 6, Mr. NELSON L, PERKINGS, AGED 46. Deceased was native of North Carolina, but had resided for several years in Boston and vicinity, where his industrious and exemplary character, his public service in behalf of those identified with him by complexion and condition secured the respect and secured the respect and esteem of large circle. The recollection of his many virtues will prove a perpetual solace to his bereaved wife and children. He was connected with various societies, including the Prince Hall Masonic Lodge, which latter ware prominent as mourners at the funeral. 

WANTED,
A SITUATION as travelling nurse to wait upon an invalid lady. Good references can be given. Apply at 57 Joy street, or at the Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street, Boston, Mass. 
June 9. 

Dr. Ayer's Cathartic Pills 
ARE the most perfect purgative which we are able to produce, or which we think has ever yet been produced by anybody. Their effects have abundantly shown to the community how much they excel the ordinary medicines in use. They are safe and pleasant to take, but powerful to cure. Their penetrating properties stimulate the vital activities of the body, remove the obstructions of its organs, purify the blood, and expel disease. They purge out the foul humors which breed and grow distemper, stimulate sluggish or disordered organs into their natural action, and impart a healthy tone, with strength to the whole system. Not only do they cure the everyday complaints of everybody, but also formidable and dangerous diseases. While they produce powerful effects, they are, at the same time, in diminished doses, the safest and best physic that can be employed for children. Being sugar -coated, they are pleasant to take; and, being purely vegetable, are free from any risk of harm. Cures have been made which surpass belief, were they not substantiated by men of such exalted position and character as to forbid the suspicion of untruth. Many eminent clergymen and physicians have lent their names to carry to the public the reliability of our remedies, while others have sent us the assurance of their conviction that our Preparations contribute immensely to the relief of our afflicted, suffering fellow-men.
The Agent below named is pleased to furnish gratis our American Almanac, containing directions for the use and certificates of their cures, of the following complaints;-
Costiveness, Bilious Complaints, Rheumatism, Dropsy., Heartburn, Headache arising from foul stomach, Nausea, Indigestion, Morbid Inaction of the Bowels and pain arising there from, Flatulency, Loss of Appetite, all diseases which require an evacuant medicine. They also, by purifying the blood and stimulating the system, cure many complaints which it would not be supposed they could reach, such as Deafness, Partial Blindness, Neuralgia and Nervous Irritability, Derangements of the Liver and Kidneys Gout and other kindred complaints arising from a low state of the body, or obstruction of its functions.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations which they make no profit on. Demand AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
June 2. 2m.

Farm for Sale Franklin, Mass.,
CONTAINING thirty-five acres of tillage and pasture, including eight acres of wood-land. Also, house, barn, and carriage-house, all in excellent order, built some fourteen years ago, with all the modern improvements, range, bath, &c. Also, apple, pear and peach trees, grapes, currants, etc. Further information can be obtained at the Anti-Slavery Office, No. 221 Washington Street, Boston.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
TO MRS. LINCOLN.
22 MAY.
Homeward—that sacred way
To woman's inmost heart ever the best;
Home, to those holy haunts
The joys of complemented lives have blest;
Home, whence thou comest forth
With the wild pulsing of that mighty change;
Home, to whose solemn gloom
Thou goest alone—thyself to self most strange.
Called from life's level plane
To lead that high-souled, self-forgetting band
No class or years can bound,
The holy and heroic women of the land,
'Twere vain, indeed, to hope
Thy steps up smooth and sunny slopes should tend;
Ah, via dolorosa
They must pass who own the Highest as their friend.
Thou chastened mother heart!
In lofty halls and lowly wayside homes
Pale mothers waited long
The bounding footstep that, O, never comes;
And thou, in gorgeous state,
Seemed but a looker on; not of them—them!
But, hark, a call to thee!
And from thy bleeding breast thou torest a gem.
Wife deeply sanctified!
They fell, in thousands, by the traitor hand!
And widows, through hot tears,
Smiled proudly that they fell for Mother—land!
Yet not to thee they turned;
Thine toiled—yet still thy hand could smooth his brow;
HE FELL—those thousand hearts
In tenderest sympathy yearn toward thee now.
Yes, leader, now, indeed;
The dark-draped throng, all one in glorious grief,
Press fondly to thy side,
Gazing with thee, where, round their martyred Chief,
Their Hero-martyrs stand,
Crowned by His hand who died to save a World,
And by that cruel death
Sin from its haughty height of empire hurled.
Not lost, to thee or them—
That which we once have loved is never lost!
Time's clouds may lower between,
The grave may shut its portal, sealed with frost,
And hours may often come
When cloud and frost are all we see and feel;
But, in the heart's night-bush,
Close to those yearning hearts their still steps steal,
And, ever, ‘round our way
A presence hovers sense may not reveal.
Homeward—but not alone,
No, not alone! for, lo! one hand is grasped
By Sorrows sanctified,
The other with unchanged affection clasped
In theirs who know not pain;
And thus the earthly grief and heavenly joy
Shall steady all thy steps—
Thy molton being, freed from all alloy,
More pure and bright shall flow,
Till Woman, Wife and Mother shall ascend
To complement again
That Life whose fame and progress cannot end.
Boston, Mass. ALMIRA SEYMOUR.
REUNION.
An end at last! The echoes of the war—
The weary war beyond the western waves—
Die in the distance. Freedom's rising star
Beacons above a hundred thousand graves!
The graves of heroes who have won the fight,
Who in the storming of the stubborn town
Have rung the marriage peal of might and right,
And scaled the cliffs, and cast the dragon down.
Peans of armies thrill across the sea,
Till Europe answers-"Let the struggle cease,
The bloody page is turned; the next may be
For ways of pleasantness and paths of peace!
A golden morn—a dawn of better things—
The olive-branch—clasping of hands again—
A noble lesson read to conquering kings—
A sky that tempests had not scoured in vain.
This from America we hoped and him
Who ruled her" in the spirit of his creed."
Does the hope last when all our eyes are dim,
As History records her darkest deed?
The pilot of his people through the strife,
With his strong purpose turning scorn to praise,
E'en at the close of battle reft of life,
And fair inheritance of quiet days.
Defeat and triumph found him calm and just,
He showed how clemency should temper power,
And, dying, left to future times in trust 
The memory of his brief victorious hour.
O'ermastered by the irony of fate,
The last and greatest martyr of his cause;
Slain like Achilles at the Scaean gate,
He saw the end, and fixed" the purer laws."
May these endure, and, as his work, attest
The glory of his honest heart and hand—
The simplest, and the bravest, and the best—
The Moses and the Cromwell of his land.
Too late the pioneers of modern spite,
Awe-stricken by the universal gloom,
See his name lustrous in Death's sable night,
And offer tardy tribute at his tomb.
But we who have been with him all the while,
Who knew his worth, and loved him long ago,
Rejoice that in the circuit of our isle
There is no room at last for Lincoln's foe.
JOHN NICHOL.
COLUMBIA VICTRIX.
Choose your new Union flag,
Lift it on high!
Blue as the garb of hope,
Blue as the sky.
Wipe out the slavish stripes,
Home from thy wars,
Rest as in summer time
Under the stars!
God bless Columbia,
Free from the stain,
Rid of the curse of old,
Saved by her pain!
After the battle-storm
Peace heal her soars!
Heaven be her banner now,
Crowded with stars!
April, 1865. W. J. LINTON.
A MAY IDYL.
The Spring is here; the sweet May blooms,
Like snow-flakes, whiten all the air;
I smell the delicate perfumes
Of apricot and pear.
I wander down the garden slopes,
And take the path that nearest leads
To where, in blind assurance, gropes
My buried store of seeds.
Ah! Nature fails me not! She keeps
Her promise sacred as of old;
See where her glad fulfilment peeps
Up through the softened mould!
Pansies and pinks and daffodils— 
A brave, array of bursting green;
Prophetic of the bloom that fills
The summer days with sheen.
A handful of unsightly seed—
That was the simple gift I brought;
And, lo! in answer to the deed,
A miracle is wrought.
—Religious Monthly.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
TEH PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, 
ABRAHAM LINCOLN:
PERSONAL REMINISCENCES,
BY AUGUSTE LAUGEL.
[Translated for the Liberator from the Revue des deux Mondes.]
High above all men whom the American civil war has placed in view and given to fame, Abraham Lincoln stands henceforth as the purest and the greatest. After some years of struggle and anxiety, after having so long hoped against hope, and seen so much precious blood shed in vain upon the soil of Virginia, the twice-elected President believed he was about to reach his aim. He had almost accomplished the formidable task imposed upon him by events and by the popular will; and at the very moment when it seemed as if Fortune could refuse him nothing, when he was about to reach the late fruit of so much labor, death—a death cowardly and traitorous— snatched him away. A succession of brilliant victories had at length opened the gates of Richmond, and the remains of that army which had so long defied the North were obliged to lay down their arms. Surrounded by almost delirious transports of joy, no words but of gentle kindness were heard from Mr. Lincoln. Never was victor more modest, one might almost say more humble. He had been to Richmond, he had entered for a moment the house of Jefferson Davis, some black regiments had passed in review before him, he had shown to Virginia the President of the United States: but amid the smoke of the burning city, the gleam of bayonets, and the noise and confusion of war, he himself thought only of peace. He had not hastened to Richmond to sign lists of proscription; no gust of pride or hatred could enter that soul, so naturally humane, filled with the tenderness of such a multitude of emotions during so many years. How many times, in journeying from Washington to the camp, and from the camp to Washington, had he gone up and down the sluggish Virginia rivers a sombre, careworn visitor, seen oftener by the army on the morrow of a defeat than on the eve of victory! This time, all was done. Grant and Sherman now overran, at will, those provinces where every inch of ground had been so long contested. For the first time, Mr. Lincoln might return light-hearted to the capital. Wisdom forbade his joy to be of long duration, and hardly had he arrived, when he convoked his ministers, to consult with them upon the recent events, and the pacification of the South. He spoke of Lee with kindness, ready to extend his loyal hand to a captain who had been upon the field of battle a loyal enemy. This is the language he used on the morning of the 14th of April: that very evening, he was assassinated. History shows us a few great sovereigns thus struck down in the midst of great designs, on the eve of important decisions, on the morrow of memorable actions; but if they paid so dear for greatness and for glory, they at least bought them for their whole lives, for their children, and for their entire posterity. Democracy draws from the shades of private life her favorite of a day, and having laid upon him for a time the accomplishment of tasks almost regal, she commands his abdication. Is it now her will that a few years of precarious authority without futurity shall cost as dear as crowns and empires? Must her chiefs, too, be victims devoted to be sacrificed? Shall assassination, which hitherto has only stalked round palaces, now lie in wait for those popular magistrates that are here to day and gone tomorrow? Must they too pass on through snares and swords?
Henceforth, the life of Mr. Lincoln belongs to History: and she will recall his humble beginning only to contrast it with the grandeur of his end. She will not follow him step by step as he climbed from the most obscure ranks to the great theatre of public life, by dint of patience, intellect and will. The life of the fields and the open air of the Western plains formed this robust nature for the struggles it was to undergo. Like almost all the Western people, he did a little of every thing.. He commanded a flat boat on the Mississippi, and was a rail splitter, cutting and sawing wood for the fencing of farms in Illinois. The great rivers and the prairies taught him more than books. He tells us himself that it was during his trips on the Mississippi that he began to hate slavery as he remarked the contrast between the States that had preserved this institution and those that had never known it. It is from the wilderness, among the woods, the wild flowers and newly-planted fields that he took that love of independence, that contempt of etiquette, that respect for labor. He began late to study law; but his originality was already in flower, and under the forms and skilful circumlocution of the civilian there was something frank and ingenuous, as it were a perfume of the soil. From law to politics there is in the United States but a single step; every lawyer covers a politician.
The political career of Mr. Lincoln was not long. At the outset, he found himself face to face with an adversary who would have been formidable to any other man. For several years, Mr. Lincoln struggled in Illinois against the preponderating influence of that Douglas whom men called" the little giant of the West." Gifted with wonderful eloquence, knowing how to flatter and excite to madness the democratic passions of that Western population, so lively, so enthusiastic, and so easily led away, Douglas was astonished to find a competitor worthy of him in this somewhat awkward man, without oratorical ability, who had hardly time to read any thing but the Bible, Shakespeare, and a few law-books. The skilful rhetoric of the Democratic agitator was turned aside by that acute logic, that robust good sense, that familiar speech, sometimes serious, sometimes jesting, always manly and honest. It has been too often said, that in the Convention of the Republican party which met in Chicago in 1860, Mr. Lincoln was chosen as a candidate for the Presidency merely because he gave umbrage to no one; and that his very obscurity was considered as his principal claim. It is true that for a time it was expected that Mr. Seward would be chosen: the nomination of Mr. Lincoln was made to propitiate the West, of which the political importance had so greatly increased as to weigh down the scale into which it should be cast. But there would have been no sense in such a propitiation if Mr. Lincoln had not at the time been in high credit among the people of the West. He was not, then, a mere chance candidate. His great oratorical tourneys with Douglas had brought him before the whole public. He was known as a formidable debater and an able lawyer; but his two great claims were his spotless integrity and his constant opposition to the encroachments of slavery.
It must, however, be confessed, that Mr. Lincoln had not, in the eyes of the whole Union, when he came into power, the prestige of a Madison, a Jefferson or an Adams. He knew it better than any one else; and his first act was to offer the Secretary ship of State to his rival, Mr. Seward, fully appreciating his vast acquirements, his elastic intellect, so ingenious and fertile in resources, and the high authority of his long parliamentary experience. We know what followed: when once the Union had been rent, and the war begun, Mr. Lincoln appeared fitter than any other man by temperament, by character, and even by the circumstances of his elevation, to represent the American people in the great crises through which it was about to pass. His ruling passion, and, so to speak, his only one, was found to be that of the nation. The word passion ought not, perhaps, to be used to express a resolute, calm, inflexible conviction, a sort of inborn, inbred faith in the destiny of the American people. I have before had occasion to remark, in speaking of the West, that nowhere has the national sentiment penetrated the souls of men so deeply as among the people beyond the Alleghenies. The inhabitant of Mass-
<c03>
sachusetts may take pride in the history of his little State; the greater part of the States washed by the Atlantic have traditions and memories; but Indiana, Ohio, Illinois have as yet no history. The inhabitant of those vast regions who feels himself irresistibly called to such high destinies, is above all an American. He is, and is determined to be, the citizen of a great country. He is determined to measure the power by the immensity of its provinces, and his patriotism literally knows no bounds. During the long years of peace and prosperity of the first half of the present century, this national passion, of the American people was almost unknown to itself. It had merely burst out in eruptions few and far between, seeming to superficial observers to wear itself out in the endless strifes of hostile interests. The civil war brought it out in all its strength. Europe might think the United States had become a simple agglomeration of provinces, and even in America some minds had reached a mistaken conclusion as to the true characteristics of the confederation. But when its flag was insulted, the American people stood revealed to itself. It vowed to remain a people. It saw on one side the principle of Union—the great native land, and on the other, State sovereignty—the little native land. It did not hesitate an instant, but chose the great country, and made ready for every sacrifice. Who better than the former deputy of Illinois could represent the wishes and the popular instincts, and become the living image of that patriotism without alloy, proud of the past, but prouder still of the promise of the future?
Faith in the Union has been the dominant feature of Mr. Lincoln's policy. His whole conduct is easily explained when one seeks amid the confusion of events, words and deeds, for this clue, so strong and tightly drawn. At the first glance, he understood the character of the war. He well knew his enemies, and knew them to be formidable. We do not find in his speeches a word which indicates that he was ever self-deceived as to the difficulties of his task. He had already foreseen them when he took leave of his neighbors and friends at Springfield in these touching words, where it seems to me we can read his whole character, such as after days were to reveal it to his country:-
"No one not in my position can appreciate the sadness I feel at this parting. To this people I owe all that I am. Here I have lived more than a quarter of a century, here my children were born, and here one of them lies buried. I know not how soon I shall see you again. A duty devolves upon me which is, perhaps, greater than that which has devolved upon any other man since the days of Washington. He never would have succeeded except for the aid of Divine Providence, upon which he at all times relied. I feel that I cannot succeed without the same Divine aid which sustained him, and on the same Almighty Being I place my reliance for support; and I hope you, my friends, will all pray that I may receive that Divine assistance without which I cannot succeed, but with which success is certain. Again I bid you all an affectionate farewell."
It was not pride that made him find his place in history by the side of Washington; there is nothing in his tone but gentleness, modesty and goodness. But he understands the present danger, and already is futurity revealed to that soul gifted with the foresight that belongs to the pure and disinterested. With these thoughts he quitted the State he loved so much, and that he was never more to behold. Let us recall the circumstances in the midst of which he received the presidential power from the hands of his feeble predecessor. Washington and even the Capitol itself were full of traitors. The treasury was empty, no navy, no army, a few officers, all personal friends of the rebels, the houses of Congress profoundly divided, public opinion almost as warmly roused against the abolitionists as against the secessionists, confusing them together in its thoughtless rage; a disposition, tacit or avowed, to avoid all immediate, direct struggle with slavery, with the idea of bringing back, if it were possible, those whom it still considered as erring brothers, the national sentiment taking shelter under the formula of "the Union as it was," but in reality disposed in its" blind fervor to restore to the South more than its old privileges;—this was what surrounded Mr. Lincoln on his accession to office. In the tide of opinions, passions and conflicting projects, he perceived but one immovable point, and on that he planted himself. All else might change, but one thing must remain standing,—the Union. The great sagacity of Mr. Lincoln quickly discriminated between what was false, artificial and perishable in the sentiments of the American people, and what was stable and fundamental. The eye does not perceive the tenacious root which almost forms a part of ‘the rock beneath the soil; it only takes cognizance of the branches, leaves and flowers that are the sport of the sun and the air: but when the tempest has swept away all these, life still takes refuge in the root.
The prudent and almost timid attitude of Mr. Lincoln at the beginning of his presidential term is explained by his great deference for public opinion: great reserve, too, was imposed upon him by the very circumstances of his elevation to power. For long years, the Democratic party had reigned paramount at Washington. The Republican party had neither the traditions nor the prestige which are acquired by the long exercise of authority. It even owed its triumph in the elections to the division of its adversaries. Mr. Lincoln was regarded as an intruder at that Capitol where men like Sumner, Seward and Chase had been so long looked upon as strangers. I am, for my own part, convinced that on the day when Mr. Lincoln entered the White House, he said to himself, in the solemn stillness of his conscience—" I will be the Liberator of four millions of slaves. Mine has been the hand chosen to strike the death-blow of the servile institution." Ought he, could he say it aloud from the balcony of the Capitol? If he had done so, he must have passed for a fool and a fanatic. Such a declaration would perhaps have provoked a civil war at the North. It would at least have aroused such resistance that all would have made shipwreck in the division of parties,—the Constitution, the laws, the principle of the Union itself. Mr. Lincoln had but one mission, to save that principle; and how could he fulfil it, if he audaciously separated himself from public opinion? He must, then, wait patiently until the whole country, man after man, should have received the rude, sharp lessons of war, till the public conscience, stirred to its depths, should yield to heroic inspirations and great and generous emotions. Mr. Lincoln was like the physician who knows the remedy, but may not use it till the supreme crisis has passed. They have been most unjust to Mr. Lincoln, and to the North itself, who accuse them of not having seized the arm of emancipation till the last hour, in a fit of despair and out of hatred to their enemies. That hatred was felt is neither by President nor people; and it should moreover be understood, that how great so ever may he the cause of emancipation,—and it is not we who could ever strive to lessen its claim,—it comes to the American people but after the national cause itself. While the maintenance of the Union seemed in a sort bound up with this institution of the South and the guarantees the Constitution had given it, we may understand the trouble and embarrassment of statesmen place, between their love of their country and their hatred of slavery.
Mr. Lincoln did not entirely escape from these uncertainties. During his whole life, he had sincerely detested slavery, and he had a hundred times foretold its dangers. He could never believe with Mr. Douglas that the slave-laws were of the same nature as the Virginia oyster-laws, or any other local laws of the States. He said publicly, on the 17th of June, 1858, at Springfield, in Illinois," A house divided against itself cannot stand. I believe that this government cannot be maintained, upheld on one side by liberty and on the other by slavery. I do not believe that this Union will be dissolved, or that this house will fall; but it will cease to be divided." At Chicago, on the 12th of July, 1858, he said:" I have always hated slavery,—as much, I believe, as any abolitionist. The American people regard slavery as a great social evil." And in one of his public debates at
<c04> 
Ottawa with Douglas, in 1858, he repeated— "I cannot but hate slavery. I hate it because of its monstrous injustice." On this point he never varied. Before as after his presidency, he often repeated this maxim: "If slavery is not wrong, nothing is wrong." Such was the language of the moralist. The President of the United States was restrained by all possible obstacles. He could advance only step by step in his Emancipation policy. He could not go faster than the people; but he constantly urged his friends to act upon public opinion. He had nothing to fear from publicity, and he appealed to the thousand voices of pulpit, tribune, and press.
The Constitution formally forbade him all interference in the interior governments of the loyal States, and his first thought was, besides, to retain in the Union the frontier States of Maryland, Kentucky, Tennessee, and Missouri, where slavery still existed at the outbreak of the war. He must not dream of imposing its abolition upon them, but he urged upon them to amend their Constitutions, and generously offered them the support of the whole Union, to facilitate the transition from the old to the new order of things. He had at the same time an idea of peopling distant colonies with the black race, but he abandoned it when it was proved to him that the plan was impracticable. When he was urged for the first time to issue a proclamation emancipating the slaves in the rebel States, he at once placed himself in a completely practical point of view." A proclamation," said he," will emancipate nobody. A Bull might as well try his horns against the tail of a comet." He allowed himself to be persuaded, however, and he soon understood that if the proclamation of liberty was without material effect, its moral effect would be immense in the North, at the South, and throughout the world; that if it did not act upon the present, it would not fail to do so upon the future; and he foresaw so clearly the indirect and distant consequences, that he solemnly announced it beforehand to the Southern States, and held them three months under the expectation of it. On the 1st of January, 1862, the proclamation was issued, and from that day we may date the abolition of slavery in the United States.
The President was at times, notwithstanding, full of anxiety, and disturbed by doubt as to the future consequences of this great act. It was to be feared that the Supreme Court might some day decide the proclamation to be a dead letter by declaring it to be unconstitutional. Mr. Lincoln took advantage of the death of Chief Justice Taney, who had for thirty years been the docile tool of the Southern oligarchy, to offer the highest judicial function of the country to a decided enemy of slavery, Mr. Chase, although Mr. Chase had just retired from the Cabinet and taken a discontented if not a hostile attitude to the administration. Whenever the abolitionists expressed fears with respect to the proclamation, he reassured them; and he took every occasion to make the American people understand that so far as he was concerned, the character of the act was irrevocable. He said in his message of the 8th December, 1863:" I shall never retract or modify my emancipation proclamation, and I will never return to slavery a single person who has been made free by its terms, or by any act of Congress." A year after, in view of the coming presidential election, he repeated the same declaration, and added:" If by any way or by any means the people ever should lay upon the executive the obligation of returning to slavery those whom my proclamation has made free, it must choose another, not myself, as the instrument of its will."
He pursued the emancipation policy with as much tenacity as he did the principle of union itself from the moment that the nation blended these two causes into one. It will be remembered that, during the last summer, commissioners from the South entered into non-official conferences in Canada, near Niagara, with some of the political men of the North. Mr. Lincoln, not choosing to treat with them directly, contented himself with giving to those about to represent the North in this conference a note in the following terms, in which we find something of the keenness of the lawyer combined with the sagacity of the statesman:" To all whom it may concern: any proposition embracing the re-establishment of peace, the integrity of the Union, and the abandonment of slavery, which shall be presented with and by the consent of those who control the armies now in the field against the United States, will be received and examined by the executive power of the United States, and will be replied to in liberal terms as to all secondary and collateral points." In the spring of 1865, the Vice President of the Confederacy, Mr. Stephens, having demanded a personal conference with Mr. Lincoln, the President consented to meet him in the harbor of Fortress Monroe; and there again he insisted as energetically upon the abolition of slavery as upon immediate submission to the Union; and while testifying the most conciliating intentions, he refused to be drawn into compromises dangerous to the great principles he was set to defend.
During this long conference held under the guns of Fortress Monroe, he did not for a single moment lose sight of his main object. In vain did Mr. Stephens intimate to him that the armies of the North and of the South would quickly become reconciled on new battle-fields, beneath the banners of all the States, while in the intoxication of great victories over a foreign foe, the passions excited by civil war would give place to new ones; that the military honor of the South once saved, the political sacrifices would be less galling to its pride; Mr. Lincoln remained inflexible. He would neither buy the triumph of the Union at the cost of a foreign war, <illegible> sacrifice the colored race to the ambition of his <illegible> people.
Mr. Lincoln always realized that the abolition of slavery ought not to retain the character of a mere measure of public safety, defensive and military. So when the great Baltimore Convention which bore him for the second time to the presidency demanded that he should submit first to Congress and then to the States an amendment of the Constitution, he hastened to do so, in order to efface from the laws of the country the last trace of that fatal institution which had almost been its ruin. I was at Washington while the proposition for the amendment was discussed, and I know with what interest the President followed all the phases of that memorable debate. His tone had for some time been touched with a singular solemnity, whenever he spoke of slavery. One delights to repeat the words he addressed to Congress in his message of the 1st December, 1862."Fellow-citizens, we cannot escape from history. We all make a part of this Congress and this administration, and we shall be remembered in spite of ourselves. Neither our it insignificance nor our personal worth can guarantee any of us. The trial through which we are passing will leave around our names a memory of honor or of infamy to the remotest generation. We say that we are defending the Union. The world will not forget it. We profess to be able to save it: the world takes note of the same. In freeing the slave, we secure all liberties. Other means might possibly succeed, but this is infallible."
This tone, already so noble, did but rise till it became religious in the discourse which he pronounced on the 4th of March 1865,—the day of his second inauguration:-
"The Almighty has His own. purposes.’ Woe unto the world because of offences, for it must needs be that offence cometh.' If we shall suppose that American slavery is one of these offences which, in the providence of God, must needs come, but which, having continued through His appointed time. He now wills to remove, and that He gives to both North and South this terrible war as the woe due to those by whom the offence came, shall we discern therein any departure from those divine attributes which the believers in a living God always ascribe to him? Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray, that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away.
Yet, if God wills that it continue until all the wealth piled by the bondmen in 250 years of unrequited toil shall be sunk, and until every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword—as was said three thousand years ago, so still it most be said, that the judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether.
<c05>
With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right, as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in, to bind up the nation's wounds, to cars for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphans; to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and a lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations." 
After such words, is it possible to accuse Mr. Lincoln of having entered with reluctance upon the path to which the abolitionists had urged him from the beginning? If he advanced slowly, it was because he knew he must not separate himself from the nation. Patience and moderation were not merely his natural qualities; he esteemed them to be the duties of his high position. While all around him might abandon themselves unreservedly to their emotions of patriotism, indignation or wrath, he alone must be calm, for he was the President of all the States, rebel as well as loyal. While the Union was receiving such cruel blows, he would not himself be one to deal them. Never did an irritating expression or a word of bitterness escape from his lips. During my visit to Washington at the beginning of the present year, it chanced to me to converse with him of President Davis. One may judge of the moderation and the modesty of his language by these words, which I report literally: "Our adversaries have been more fortunate than we; for it has been their good luck to have for their chief one of the ablest of men,—very capable of conducting at the same time both civil and military affairs. As minister of war, Mr. Davis had known all the officers of the regular army. I had never seen but three of them before I came to Washington as President." Long did his merciful heart recoil before the most imperious necessities. There was great difficulty in obtaining his consent to shoot deserters. He was always ready to pardon. He had no need to pardon attacks and injuries against his own person;—he ignored them. This goodness was not weakness. There was no place for that in a man so robust, so severe towards himself, and who had all his life breathed the air of liberty and undergone the collisions of democratic life.
But with all that loftiness of soul, which from time to time took refuge in thoughts far above the vulgar politics, Mr. Lincoln was nothing of a doctrinaire. He had been brought up in the rude school of experience, and she always remained his sole guide. He did not pique himself upon an inflexible logic, and his strong will dispersed the array of useless formulas. Brooks had taught him less than men, and he thought no better of himself than of humanity at large. A man of the people, he did not think it possible to save a people in spite of itself. "Such as it is, I will run the machine," he said, on attaining power. We have seen him on the question of slavery varying his language, and following with docility the pressure of necessity; at first insisting only on preventing the extension of the servile institution in new territories; declaring himself, later, for gradual emancipation, then for immediate freedom; and finally, after two years of civil war, arriving at the supreme resolution of freeing three millions of slaves at a stroke of the pen; and not hesitating at length to demand of the nation the modification of its fundamental charter, so as to establish unity and harmony between the facts and the laws.
[CONCLUSION NEXT WEEK]
THE SUPPRESSED TESTIMONY IS IN THE CONSPIEACY TRIAL.
NEW YORK, June 4. The Cincinnati Commercial of June 2 says authority has just been given for the publication of an additional instalment of that portion of the testimony taken before the Military Commission engaged in trying the accomplices of Booth:
Sanford Conover testified: Have resided in Canada since October last; was conscripted into the Confederate army and detailed to service in the War Department of the Confederacy, at Richmond, under J. A. Seddon; while in Canada was intimate with Geo. N. Sanders, Jacob Thompson, Dr. Blackburn, Tucker, William C. Cleary, Captain Castle main, Mr. Cameron, Captain Magruder and others. Also, knew Clement C. Clay and Gen. Carroll of Tennessee; I know Mr. Surratt also, and J. W. Booth, and visited these gentlemen in Canada. 
Saw Surratt there on several occasions last April, in Jacob Thompson's room, also in company with G. N. Sanders and other rebels in Canada; I saw him about the 6th or 7th of April with Thompson, Sanders and Booth; at that time he delivered to Booth in my presence dispatches from Richmond to Thompson from Benjamin and from Jeff. Davis, the latter either a cipner despatch or letter; previous to this Thompson conversed with in upon the subject of a plot to assassinate President Lincoln and Cabinet, of which gave notice before the assassination in the N. Y. Tribune, the paper for which corresponded; I had been invited by Thompson to participate in that enterprise; when Surratt delivered these despatches from Davis, Thompson laid his hand upon the papers, and said—referring to the assassination and to the assent of the rebel authorities —" This makes the thing all right."
The despatches spoke of the persons to be assassinated, viz: Lincoln, Johnson, the Secretary of War, Secretary of State, Judge Chase and Gen. Grant. Mr. Thompson said, on that occasion, or the day before, that the assassination proposed would leave the Government of the United States without a head; that there was no provision in the Constitution of the United States by which they could elect another President. Mr. Welles was also named, but Mr. Thompson said it was not worth while to kill him. My first interview with Thompson on the subject of the assassination was in the early part of February. He had commissions from the rebel authorities for this work, and conferred one on Booth, or would confer one. Thompson told me that Booth had been commissioned, and every man who would engage in it would be.
I had a conversation with Wm. C. Cleary on the day before, or the day of the assassination, at St. Lawrence Hall. We were speaking of the rejoicing in the States over the surrender of Lee and the capture of Richmond. Cleary said they would have the laugh on the other side of their mouths in a day or two. I think this was the day before the assassination. He knew I was in the secret of the conspiracy; it was to that he referred. Assassination was spoken of among us as commonly as the weather Before that, Sanders asked me if I knew Booth very well, and expressed some apprehension that Booth would make a fizzle of it; that he was desperate and reckless, and he was afraid the whole thing would be a failure.
I communicated to the Tribune the intended raid on St. Albans and the proposed assassination of the President, but they refused to publish the letter; I did this in March last as to the President's assassination, also in February, I think—certainly before the 4th of March; Surratt delivered the despatches in Thompson's room four or five days before the assassination; the whole conversation showed that Surratt was one of the conspirators to take the President's life; it was also understood that there was plenty of money when there was anything to be done; the conversation indicated that Surratt had a very few days before left Richmond; I requested Mr. Gay of the Tribune to give information to the Government, and I believe he did so.
I saw Surratt in Canada three or four days in succession in April last; I had a conversation with him personally about Richmond; I was introduced to him by Sanders; there was a proposition before the agent of these rebels in Canada to destroy the Croton dam, by which the city of New York is supplied with water; Mr. Thompson remarked that there was plenty of force, and that the city would be destroyed by a general conflagration, and if they had thought of this sooner they might have saved a great many necks; this was said a few weeks ago; Thompson, Sanders, Castlemain and Gen. Carroll were present; they had arms concealed and a large number of men concealed in Chicago—some 900—for the purpose of releasing the rebel prisoners there.
About the same time, Dr. Blackburn proposed to poison the reservoirs, and made a calculation of the amount of poisonous matter it would require to impregnate the water so as to make an ordinary draught poisonous and deadly; Thompson feared it would be impossible to collect so large a quantity of poisonous matter without suspicion and leading to detection; Thompson approbated the enterprise and discussed it freely; Cleary did the same; three or four days after the assassination, I saw J. H. Surratt in Canada with Porterfield, a Southern rebel, now
<c06>
declared a British subject by the Canadian Parliament; I learned immediately afterward that Surratt was suspected, was pursued, and had decamped
Gen. Corroll, of Tennessee, then said he was more anxious that Johnson should be killed than any case move else; he said if the "prick louse" was not killed by somebody, he would kill him Booth was known in Canada by the nickname of "pet" I think I have heard Thompson so name him-certainly Cleary; Kennedy, who fired the city of New York and was executed, was spoken of as having performed that deed by the authority of the read government, under the direction of Thompson; this was communicated to me by Thompson himself, or in a conversation in his presence.
James B. Merritt testified: Am a physician, and have been in Canada about a year; in October and November last was in Toronto; met George Young there, a rebel from Kentucky, also Col. Steele, from Kentucky; Young said to me, "we have something of much more importance than any raids; he told me it was determined that Old Abe should never be inaugurated, that they had a party of friends in Washington, and called Mr. Lincoln a d—d old tyrant; I afterward. saw George, N Sanders and steel together; Stell said, "The d-d tyrant won't serve another term it he is elected:" Sanders said at the same time "He would have to keep himself close if he does serve another term, "In Montreal, in February last, I heard Sanders name a number of persons ready and willing to remove the President, Vice-President and Cabinet and some of the leading Generals of the United States, and he added that there was any amount of money to accomplish this purpose, meaning the assassination of these persons.
He then read a letter he said he had received from the President of the Confederacy, meaning Jeff. Davis, which justified him in making any arrangement the could to accomplish such an object. There was a meeting at this time of these rebels and a letter was read to them the substances of which was, that if the Southerners in Canada and the States were willing to be governed by such a tyrant as Lincoln, he (Davis) did not wish to recognize them as friends, and that approved of the proposition to assassinate him. At the meeting, Sanders named some persons who were to accomplish the assassination, and among them, J. W. Booth, whom I had seen in Montreal in October. He also named G. Harper, C. Caldwell Randall, and Harrison Herold; there was a person named, whom they called Plug Tobacco; I saw Herold in Toronto.
Sanders said Booth was heart and soul in the matter, that he was a cousin to Beall, who was hanged in New York on the other 5th or 6th of April": I met Harper, who said they were going to the States to kick up the dust row, such as had never been heard of, and added that if I did not hear of the death of old Abe, the Vice-President and Gen. Dix in less than ten days, I might set him down as d—d fool; that was on the 6th of April. He mentioned the name of Booth as one of their friends, and then he said they had plenty of friends in Washington, and fifteen or twenty were going: he had started to go to Washington as early as the 8th, together with others; I communicated this fact on the 8th of April to a Justice of the Peace named Davidson, who, after the assassination, communicated it to the Government; Harper returned to Canada after the assassination.
I had a conversation with Clay in Toronto in February; he spoke of the letter of Davis which Sanders had exhibited:; he said that the end would justify the means. Surratt was pointed out to me in Toronto last February; I saw Booth there two or three times. and sat, at the table once with him at the St. Lawrence, with Sanders, Scott and Steele: they were conversing with Booth and drinking wine with him at Sanders' expense. I saw Herold in Canada in February.
Richard Montgomery testified: I knew J. Thompson and Clay, whom I met in Canada a number of times, also G. N. Sanders, J. B. Holcomb, B. Tucker W. C. Cleary Harrington Hicks, and other under fictitious names; Thompson had several names, one was Carron; Clay was Holt and Lacy and Tracy. J. Thompson said he had friends of the Confederacy all over the Northern States willing to go any lengths, and he could at any time have the tyrant Lincoln and any of his advisers put out of the way; that his friends would not consider it a crime, and that it would be done for the cause of the Confederacy.
In January, Thompson said at Montreal that a proposition had been made to him to rid the world of the tyrants, Lincoln, Stanton, Grant and others; that he knew the men who made it were bold, daring men, able to execute anything they would undertake; that he was in favor of the proposition, but deferred his answer until he had consulted his government at Richmond, and that he was then only waiting for their approval. I have seen Payne (the prisoner) a number of times in Canada; about the Falls in 1864, and also at the Queen's Hotel in Toronto, where I conversed with him.
I had an interview with Thompson; several others had sough an interview while I was closeted with him, and been refused. In leaving Thompson's room, I saw Payne in the passage near the door, with Clay talking to him; Clay stopped me and finished his conversation with this man in an undertone; when he left me, he said, "Wait for me, I will return;" he soon came back and bade me good-bye, and asked me where he could see me after a time; I told him and appointed a meeting. I spoke to Payne in Clay's absence, asked him who he was; he said, "O, I' s a Canadian," which was as much as to say?"!" I don't wish you to ask me anything more." I mentioned him to Clay when I met him:; Clay answered, "That so he is a Canadina," and laughed, and added, "We trust him." Canadian," and laughed, and added, "We trust him." Canadian is an expression for their friends, and his conduct was an indication that their intercourse was of a confidential nature.
I have been in Canada suite the assassination; a few days after I met B. Tucker in Montreal; be said Mr. Lincoln deserved his death long ago, and it was too bad the boys had not been allowed to go when they wanted to; he refereed to the men who were to assassinate him. I had a conversation with Cleary, and told him what Thompson said in January; he said Booth was one of the parties to whom Thompson had referred; he said, also, "It was too bad the whole work had not been done," referring to the assassination:; Cleary, who was a confident of Thompson's, told me so; Thompson said Cleary was a very close-mouthed man; Cleary also said, "They had better look out, we have not done yet," He said Booth visited Thompson in the winter and summer; these parties knew they were suspected of the assassination a few days before and were destroying a great many papers, so they told me.
I acted as a government detective in Canada, and assumed the name of James Thompson, although I never registered it, but always some other name. My whole object was to serve the government. I say this cipher was found among J. W. Booth's effects in Clay's house at St. Catherines, in the summer of 1864. I carried despatches from Canada to Gordonsville, and received a reply, which I carried back. 1 I came through Washington each time, and delivered the despatches to the United States Government; received the despatches at Gordonsville from a man in the rebel State department from their Secretary of State. I carried this paper to Thompson. Clay claimed to represent the war Department; they approved the burning of our Northern cities, and represented themselves as having full power from the rebel government to act, without referring their projects of Richmond; Thompson and Clay both said so; the attempt to burn New York I knew they were engaged in, and went to Washington three days before it happened to communicate it.
IMPROVEMENT IN Championing and Hair Dyeing 
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No.31 WINTER STREET.
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forests.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can but nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTEE,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.

