THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed(POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 50. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1616.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
SUMNER VERSUS WASHINGTON.
Mr. Charles Sumner enlightened the ignorance of the metropolis on Wednesday evening. He informed us of the causes of the war. He instructed us on the way to end the war. He wore the anti-slavery spectacles, and saw only one cause, slavery, and only one cure, emancipation. He wandered off occasionally, took off the spectacles, and saw dimly other causes; he even contradicted himself by saying that the rebellion was the result of a conspiracy, dating back to the formation of the Constitution; but his eyes were sore without, the dark glasses, and he relapsed into the gloom and slavery view. He quoted Tacitus, to remind us of his classical bent of mind, and alluded to Caius Marius, but avoided the quotation from Plutarch which proved such a sore subject for him in Boston.
The speech was a failure, and fell upon the audience with great coldness. The reason was manifest. It was not an effort of frankness. It was a labored but concealed attack on the Constitution and it's its framers. Mr. Sumner did not dare in New York to speak his sentiments fully, and boldly attack Washington and the illustrious fathers. He preferred the insidious course of instilling into the minds of his audience sentiments of hatred to the Constitution, so that they might look complacently hereafter on the abolition revolution which he contemplates.
And there are other reasons why the speech was a failure. Instead of being history, it was fiction composed of detached passages of history, woven together, while the grand truths that would make against him were suppressed altogether. Instead of being a frank, open and manly Union speech, it was an elaboration of the doctrine of” No Union with Slaveholders." Instead of being the voice of a statesman, the object was the special pleading of a not very ingenious solicitor. Instead of being the argument of a substantial mind, firm in the confidence of its own right, it was the sly and untrustworthy appeal of an advocate who has committed himself to a bad cause, which he can sustain only by falsifying fact, concealing truth, substituting declamation for argument; and it leaves on the mind of the reader, a melancholy conviction that the orator may possibly have good sense enough, after all, to see through his own folly, and to be aware of his entire want of success.
We say without hesitation, that this speech of Mr. Sumner, addressed by him to a popular audience, is the elaboration of a series of ideas, which he is not so great a fool as to be willing to lay before those sensible men, in a private conversation. He knows well that the entire reasoning of his speech would be ridiculed; if he were to reduce it to the simple propositions which it goes upon, and present them to any man of ordinary common sense, as a logical argument, he would be laughed at.
He suppresses history. He ignores the fact that the Constitution was made for a nation of Slaveholders. That its provisions were devised to cover the possibility of slavery being as perpetual as the instrument itself. That the long labors over its provisions, the most important and the most difficult points of union in forming it, were caused by that identical expectation on the part of some of the founders, and a willingness on the part of others, to provide for just such a future. While there were men in the convention who believed and hoped that slavery would be in time eradicated, there were others who expected it to last until the end of time, and there was not a man there, who sincerely adopted the instrument as finally agreed on, that did not adopt it on the theory that slavery and the Constitution might be co-existent ad eternitatem. If Mr. Sumner denies this, ignores this, omits this fact, in his statesmanship, he is a child in polities. It stares him in the face whenever he reads the constitutional debates. He knows as well as Washington knew, when he set his glorious name to the instrument, that the United States of America is a Union founded not only on the principle that slavery is permissible, but on the principle that to sustain and keep alive that Union, slavery must be protected, defended, and its rights guaranteed, just so long as one State of the Union desires to preserve it, though it should be for a thousand years. Every minute provision of the instrument was a rock in the foundation of our Union.
Therefore it is that we say Mr. Sumner suppresses history, and we may add that he evinces timidity unworthy a Senator in not daring to follow his own ideas to their conclusion, and charge, as he does in his heart if he is sincere, that Washington and the founders of the Constitution began the wrong by admitting into the instrument a principle which, according to Mr. Sumner, is per se a cause of rebellion!
He says slavery is the cause of the rebellion, and must be eradicated if we expect a cure. Does he prove it? Here is his logic:-
"There is not a community-not a family-not an individual, man, woman or child -who does not feel its heavy, bloody hand. Why these mustering armies? Why thin this drum-beat in your peaceful streets? Why these gathering means of war? Why these swelling taxes? Why these unprecedented loans? Why this derangement of business? Why among us the suspension of the habeas corpus, and the prostration of all safeguards of Freedom? Why this constant solicitude visible in all your faces? The answer is clear. Slavery is the author -the agent -the cause. The anxious hours that you pass are darkened by slavery. The habeas corpus, and all those safeguards of Freedom which you cherish, have been prostrated by slavery. The business which you have lost has been filched by slavery. The millions of money now amassed by patriotic offerings are all snatched by slavery. The taxes now wrung out of your diminished means are all consumed by slavery."
But what proof is here? It is Mr. Sumner's assertion. He knows no more of the logical sequence of cause and effect than a baby, if he is serious in his views. Substitute in the foregoing quotation the word anti-slavery wherever the word slavery occurs, and you convert its falsehood into truth. But it proves nothing to assert either view. No one needs to think twice in deciding that the solar system was not the cause of Galileo's punishment; for the sun might remain motionless, and Galileo not be condemned. Yet Mr. Stunner Sumner has the audacity to charge that slavery is the cause of the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus! And he might have gone further, and argued that slavery was the cause of Charles Sumner inflicting such trash, for reason, on a New York audience!
We say that these remarks will be converted into truth by substituting anti-slavery for slavery. We repeat that the direct active cause, to which the war can be traced, is Abolitionism. The effect is as plainly connected with that cause, as any conflagration with the man who touched the match. We appeal to Washington and the dead fathers to justify the assertion. Did you, oh wise and mighty men, did yon you create this glorious Constitution with an element of rebellion and conspiracy in its very texture, as this modern Solon from Boston tell, us, or is the
<c02>
rebellion the effect of reformers and disorganizers like him, who have gone up and down our streets, and have even stood in our halls of public debate, teaching that your Constitution, sealed with your blood, and sanctified by your prayers, is a covenant with hell, which you made by permitting slavery to exist?
Let the record of Washington and his great companions answer, let the history of their country answer: while Charles Sumner, puny and abashed, with all this rabble of 19th century abolition reformers, shrink into obscurity.
And what perfection of logic is exhibited by Mr. Sumner's method of casting off this charge against Abolitionists! Read his defence:-
“But I hear a voice saying that all this proceeds-not from slavery-oh no! but from anti-slavery; that the Republicans who hate slavery-that the Abolitionists-are the authors of this terrible conflagration. Surely, you may well suspect the sense or loyalty of him who puts forth this irrational and utterly wicked imputation. As well say that the early Christians were the authors of the Heathen enormities against which they bore their martyr testimony, and that the cross, the axe, the gridiron, and the boiling oil by which they suffered were a part of the Christian dispensation."
Is it possible that the man does not see the effect of his illustration on all his previous arguments? If Christianity was not the cause of the massacres of Nero, on what principle is slavery the cause of the present war? Does it shock the sensibilities of the Massachusetts statesman to have Christianity and slavery put side by side, and this question laid fairly before him? Sensibilities have nothing to do with arguments. But if Mr. Sumner were a Roman citizen in the days of the son of Agrippina, he would have danced to the music of the monster, and shouted “to the beasts," “to the beasts," when a Christian martyr was in the arena. Why? Because he would argue that Christianity must be exterminated in order to have an end of the massacres of which its existence was the obvious cause!
Would he though? Is Mr. Sumner so very impervious to reason and common sense, or is he by chance a ranting politician, to whom reason is nothing so he can catch the popular ear by sounding phrases?-New York Journal of Commerce.

WARD BEECHER ON EMANCIPATION.
[From the Newburyport Herald.]
Henry Ward Beecher is one of the able men of this era: he is the ablest of all his family, and that is saying much, for there is not one of them that is not above mediocrity. But Ward Beecher-and we may say the same of all the Beechers-is somewhat erratic-genius always is-and frequently on national topics we should have no sympathy with the man or his words. Ward Beecher, however, has an under stratum of common sense, which appealed to on any momentous question, brings him right. Like many other people who in years past believed themselves in the front ranks of the progressives, he finds in the midst of this revolution, that the fossils have been aroused, and are sweeping far ahead of him; and he-even Ward Beecher-is constrained to lift a warning voice to tell, not Charles Sumner and Wendell Phillips and Lloyd Garrison, that it is time to hold back, but Daniel S. Dickinson and the Hunker Democrats, who only a short year ago broke up the Democratic party because it was becoming Abolitionized, that the proposition to proclaim emancipation, in disregard of law, will end in the destruction of this Republic. We quote below from his sermon, delivered on Thanksgiving day; and commend it both to clergymen and politicians, who, seized with the prevailing mania, are whirling about in the crazy dreams of the day, without one thought of law or Constitution or national compacts, that should be binding on all-who, because the South have gone mad and rushed to rebellion, which must end in their ruin, would themselves go mad, and plunge into the boiling cauldron of violence and anarchy, to whose brink revolutions always lead:-
"Of all the advice that has been given, while it may seem to those who know not the nature of our institutions most rational, there is none that chimes more with the Northern feeling than this-to make a declaration of emancipation to settle this difficulty; and yet neither the popular impulse nor not the foreign advice can be followed. We must conduct this war by and through our institutions, or else we must declare that our institutions have failed, and that we have reverted to original principles. There is only one or the other of these courses. The last we cannot and shall not do. We are not going to say to the world that Republican institutions have so signally failed that we must abandon them, and reestablish other ones. No man will see that. We who boast of our Constitution, must not violate it ourselves in putting down those who violate it. We must not by congressional legislation declare political emancipation. I wish we could. I wish Adam had I not sinned, and his posterity had not been affected; but that does not help the matter. I wish our fathers had stood out against what are called the compromises of the Constitution Better then than now. The serpent just hatched is not half so much to be feared as the serpent full grown. Our troubles have increased with every generation, and what is the use of sighing over what can't be helped? Our fathers signed the bond, and we accepted it. Can we afford to break it for the sake of even so magnificent a result as the emancipation of the slave? Shall we rend the crystal instrument-the joy of the world, and our pride? It is very easy to say,' Now it is a state of war-let us declare emancipation.' The war has not driven us out of our institutions. We are not ourselves in a state of rebellion. We cannot expect by destroying the Constitution to put down the rebellion. If any one ask me whether a law or a constitution are inferior to original principles of morality and justice, I say no; but plighted faith is itself in nature of a sacred moral principle. Our faith, is given, and must be kept! When we cannot abide by our promise, then, in methods expressly provided, we must withdraw the pledge and the agreements of the Constitution, and stand apart as two separate people."
The New York Journal of Commerce notices this sermon of Mr. Beecher in the following terms:-
Rev. H. W. Beecher preached on Thanksgiving-day to his congregation in Brooklyn. On the proposition to proclaim emancipation, in disregard of law and Constitution, he took a decided view, contrasting most favorably with the twaddle of Charles Sumner, and presenting the curious picture of a clergyman teaching sounder political doctrines than a United States Senator.

CONGRESS AND THE SLAVERY QUESTION.
From the Ohio Statesman.
The Abolition faction which assumed a threatening attitude at the time of the President's modification of Fremont's proclamation, and became more violent on his removal, is now bringing its full; force and all its energies to bear upon the Administration to make the war, under cover of a” “War for the Union," in reality and substantially a war for the emancipation of the Southern slaves. The question which these factionists are strenuously laboring to have settled, is not whether the Union shall be restored or preserved as it was formed in 1789; but 
<c03>
whether slavery shall be exterminated in the Southern States, or what would probably suit them equally well, if not better, whether all governmental connection between the free and the slave States shall not be dissolved.
We, allude to these things now to warn loyal Union men of the approaching storm which the Abolition disorganizers are determined to raise. The session of Congress, which commences in a few days, will probably settle the fate of the Union. If a wise, prudent, conservative and yet decided course shall be pursued, on the part of the National Legislature and the Administration, we look for a speedy restoration of the old harmony between the States and the Federal Government, and the return of the halcyon days of peace and prosperity; otherwise, we may well fear the worst.
From the Boston Courier.
We know that every step taken in the direction of emancipation, that every inflammatory address uttered to encourage such an idea, is an absolute obstacle to the very cause in which the Government of the country and the loyal people of the country are so devotedly engaged; and that just so far as sentiments of this sort are propagated in the free States, they neutralize the effect of our contributions, and paralyze the power of our arms. We know that by this means the war may be indefinitely protracted, hundreds of thousands of lives, valuable and dear to us, may be sacrificed, hundreds of millions of treasure may be poured out in vain; for a war so pursued cannot give us victory, peace, or a country.
There is nothing, therefore, more treacherous, more disloyal, more hostile to the Union, more inimical to the hopes of all true men for the future welfare of their country-at best to be reestablished by hard struggles and a conflict of bitter sacrifices-than this new-born effort to make the overthrow of the social institutions of the South, directly or indirectly, the object of the war. Of the consequences to the interests of rebellious slave-owners, resulting inevitably from the conflict in which they have placed themselves with the Government, we have not a word to say. But those who preach up emancipation as a policy to be approved by the people and adopted by the Government, are the worst enemies whom the Government and people have-for they degrade the noble and all-embracing objects of a grand national struggle for the maintenance of incomparable free institutions, into a petty conflict for the impracticable freedom of inferiors and dependents; and with not the slightest possibility of securing even this object, they at the same time betray and destroy their country.
From the Chicago Times.
WHY ABOLITIONISM IS FOR THE WAR. We suspect that Abolitionism does not feel so much assurance as it professes that the war is going to end in the destruction of slavery. The course of events, as we look at them, cannot be altogether satisfactory to it in that respect. President Lincoln stands firm for prosecuting the war legitimately, and so do all his Cabinet, so far as the public knows, save Cameron. The proclamation of Gen. Sherman in South Carolina, and that of Gen. Dix in Virginia, and the general order of Gen. Halleck in Missouri, have not the slightest odor of wool;-quite the contrary. They are, in fact, about as discouraging documents as Abolitionism has encountered in a long while. It sees in them the real policy of the Government. And this is why it keeps up, now more than ever, its everlasting din about slavery.
We are quite well satisfied with things as they stand. We are especially well satisfied with Abolitionism as it stands, for it stands upon very slippery ground.
From the Indianapolis Sentinel.
THE CRAZY ABOLITIONISTS. If we are to have emancipation, we insist that some part of the continent shall be surrendered to the Abolitionists and the negroes, and that they shall in habit it together, and that non-intercourse shall be established between them and the white people of the United States. On these terms emancipation may be practicable. On any other it is not.
From the Cincinnati Enquirer.
To set the four million black slaves free is to unite the white South against us, and seriously divide public opinion at the North, which can never be reconciled to a proposition that would inevitably lead to terrible results, adverse to the prosperity of the whole country. Neither as a military or political measure is emancipation expedient; and we have no idea that the statesmen of the Administration will allow the crazy ultras, who are bereft of sense and discretion, to prevail. Let the President stick to the policy which dictated the proclamations of Gen. Dix in Virginia and Gen. Sherman in South Carolina, and he will have the support of the great mass of the people, who desire conservative views to prevail, and who would be disgusted to see the war for the Union turned into a crusade for negro emancipation.

THE MESSAGE.
The Message has been the subject of conversation since it was delivered. There is no doubt but that there was something like a quarrel in the Cabinet upon the nigger question, and the ultra Abolitionists are trying this evening to quarrel with the Message. Sensible people regard it as a sensible, judicious paper; but those who desire to see the war result in the emancipation of the slaves by the sword of the white men, and firebrands in the hands of the negro, do not like it. Some who have gone over to the party which is attempting to destroy President Lincoln because he will not push forward their emancipation schemes, don't like it. These, with a few impatient but well-meaning spirits,-good, thick-headed philanthropists, who imagine that the man they voted for the Presidency ought to be able to whip the Confederates and crush the rebellion by fulminating a fierce Message against the rebels,-are not satisfied with the address. But it will stand, nevertheless, as a good Presidential Message. It points out clearly the path we must travel under the Constitution, and is in itself a rebuke to the fanaticism of the band which would make this a bloody opportunity to destroy the Constitution which they secretly hate, and bring about the consummation of plans they have long cherished for the sudden and indiscriminate liberation of the slaves. It is somewhat amusing to witness the perplexity of some of these fellows, who cannot comprehend how the President could dodge the” irrepressible conflict," and avoid the everlasting negro so adroitly.-Wash. corr. Boston Herald.
The President not only modified the Fremont proclamation, but it has been stated and not denied, that the proclamation of Sherman was submitted to his revision. Acts are the best interpreters of the President: and as long as the theory announced in his Message is interpreted by such proclamations as those bearing the signatures of Rosecrans, Sherman, Halleck, Dix, and McClellan, the country will be assured that the Abolitionist Abolitionists will be kept at bay-Boston Post.
<c04>
Selections.
SLAVERY, OR THE TARIFF?
[Extract from a remarkably clear and discriminating article, by Auguste Laugel, in the November number of the Revue des Deux Mondes, entitled” The Causes and Characteristics of the Civil War in the United States.” Translated for the Liberator.]
If the election of Mr. Lincoln had been attended with violence,-if the party which put him in power had attacked the laws, violated the Constitution, menaced the rights of the South,-we might hesitate in regard to the characteristics of the secession movement; but we know that never was election more regular, more constitutional. The Republican party did not threaten the South, did not announce the project of emancipating the slaves, even in the most distant future. It confined itself to asserting the authority of Congress in the territories, to restrict the servile institution to its actual limits. Besides, that party had triumphed solely through the divisions of the Democrats; the fragments of the latter party reunited might have frustrated all the plans, all the attempts of their common adversary. In these circumstances, we ask ourselves with amazement why the South was so prompt to raise the standard of revolt, while she could yet seek to profit by her long alliance with the Democrats of the North, and by the advantages which the prestige of her long predominance, the majority in the Senate, and the composition of the Supreme Court (whose members were all devoted to her interests) assured her. Can it be true that all powers, at the moment of decadence, hasten their fall by their own efforts? Or is this step, which at first seems only the product of a frantic pride, explained when we examine thoroughly the cause of the present struggle?
If we admit that this cause is slavery, we shall better understand the motives which have decided the men of the South, for slavery is an institution which can but fall if it does not enlarge; to limit it in space, is to limit it in time. This is perfectly familiar to all those who know how servile labor impoverishes, exhausts the countries delivered to it: it must be able to expand, to seek a soil ever virgin. Now the triumph of the Republicans put an end to slavery's efforts at expansion: Cuba and Mexico had to be renounced; slavery must gradually become extinct in the border States of the South, and so lose one by one its provinces without gaining new ones. Such a prospect was intolerable to those proud slave-masters, who for fifty years had given Presidents to the Union, while directing its policy, maintained in obedience the Democracy of the North, and returned it only contempt for all its compliance. They resolved on war.
We must be fond of arguing against evidence, to persuade ourselves that the slavery question is not the chief cause of the present crisis. In the conflict which for thirty years has been constantly deepening, and has just terminated in civil war, what question has always been growing in magnitude and ended by prevailing over all the rest, if it be not this redoubtable question of slavery? They have not read the speeches of Calhoun, Webster, Seward, Douglas, Clay, and Sumner, who think that the slavery question has only a secondary importance in American politics. They forget that all Virginia rose in arms against John Brown and his twenty-one companions. Here is another fact: who are the belligerents? On one side the free, on the other the slave States; and it is pretended that the slavery question is foreign to the war! Between the Northern and Southern States are frontier or border States, which, without being free, contain fewer slaves than the cotton States, and(strange to say!) their fidelity to the Union is precisely in inverse proportion to the number of slave-owners. Virginia, which has slaves, joins the secession movement; the western part of this State, an oasis without slaves, severed from the rest by the Alleghany chain, remains faithful to the Union and furnishes it with troops. The north of Delaware, which no longer holds slaves, scarce contains a secessionist; the south, which has a larger number of slaves, counts many adversaries of the Union. The six thousand slaves of Baltimore belong to the aristocracy of that city, and we know that this aristocracy is kept in obedience only by rigorous measures. Western Tennessee, which is devoted to slave labor, is a centre of rebellion, while eastern Tennessee, where free labor is greatly in the ascendent, sympathizes with the Union. Kentucky forms no exception to this rule; in the northern and eastern counties, where there are few slaves, there are few secessionists; in the others, where they are numerous, the people pronounce in favor of” neutrality," which is but a phase of treason. In Missouri, the line of demarcation is clearly established between free labor and slave. The Germans abhor slavery, and constitute the most faithful nucleus of the State; the anglo-saxon unionists are rather inclined to neutrality, while the slaveholders are in arms against the Union. Even in western Texas there is some sympathy for the Union, because few slaves and many Germans are to be found there. Which is preeminently the secession State? It is South Carolina, which possesses proportionately more slaves than all the rest. Will it still be said that the cause of the secessionists is not the defence of slavery? If in some minds there yet remains a doubt, let them listen next to the testimony of the Southern people themselves.
The Confederates have not taken the trouble to make extensive changes in the Constitution of the United States; they have modified it slightly, to adapt it to their new union, but only on points relating to slavery. How does Mr. Alexander H. Stephens, the Southern Vice President, express himself in this regard?” The new Constitution has put an end forever to agitation about our peculiar institutions: I refer to slavery, as it exists among us. This question has been the immediate cause of the rupture and of the present revolution. Jefferson, in his foresight, had predicted that this was the shoal on which the Union would founder. He was right. What was for him a conjecture, has now become a fact; but it may be doubted if he fully understood the great truth which underlies our new Constitution. For him, as for almost all the leading statesmen at the time of the establishment of the old Constitution, African slavery was a violation of the laws of nature; they thought it bad in principle, socially, morally, and politically. It was an evil which they knew not how to cure; but the general opinion among the men of that time was, that, somehow or other, the institution was destined, in the appointment of Providence, to disappear. This idea, though not expressed in the Constitution, was the predominant idea of the epoch. The Constitution, it is true, assured all necessary guarantees to the institution, so long as it should last, and we cannot justly make use of the public sentiment of that period to attack those guarantees; but that sentiment and those ideas were fundamentally erroneous: they rested on the belief is in the equality of the
<c05>
races. There was the illusion. The new government is based on an exactly opposite idea; it has for its foundation, its corner stone, this great truth: the negro is not the equal of the white; slavery, that is, subordination to a superior race, is his natural and normal condition."
Such are the new principles which the Confederates would introduce into political law, such the dogma for which they are fighting! They do not contend against the general principles of the old Constitution, since they have accepted it as it is for themselves, without making any other important alterations than those commented upon by Mr. Stephens with such audacious clearness. Can it be said that the North and the Sooth South are two peoples essentially hostile, and that the present struggle is something analogous to a conflict of nationalities? If it were so, this enmity would be very sudden: the enmities of peoples are not exhausted upon a single question, but enter into all the manifestations of political and social life. One must have lived very little in American society to be ignorant that, before the war, the mutual relations between North and South were perfectly courteous, and that, on condition of not alluding to the irritating subject of slavery, the citizen of the North encountered on the plantations the most hospitable reception. To be sure, the political differences of the two sections had embittered the language of the press and the platform; but not yet had the American people been separated into two. Trade, intermarriage, the enterprising spirit of an active, restless race, had knit a multitude of ties between the North and the South; they worshipped the same great men; their churches were the same, and have separated only since the commencement of hostilities. To compare the sentiments which animate them to-day against each other, to the hatred of the Irish race towards the English, of Poland towards Russia, of Italy towards Austria,-is to exhibit an incapacity to penetrate the sentiments of peoples, and to extract the truth from the exaggerations of language. Where do the secessionists send their wives and children, to put them beyond reach of the contingencies of servile war? To New York, to Washington.
If the South fights neither for a peculiar political organization nor for the triumph of a nationality, is it more correct to say that she fights for economic liberty? Such, I know, is the theory adopted by those who would have it believed that the question of slavery is foreign to the war, and wish by this means to avert European sympathy from the cause of the North. We nave reached a moment in history when political economy seems desirous of absorbing everything. Burke was no economist when he said: “A State should not be considered as being nothing more than a social copartnership for the traffic of pepper or coffee, of calico or tobacco, or for any other unworthy object; or an association for some petty temporary interest, which may be dissolved by the agreement of the parties. It should be regarded with more reverence, in that it is not an association which serves only the things which are useful to our animal existence, by nature transient and perishable; it is an association in the sciences, in the arts, in every virtue and perfection; an association not merely between the living, but between those who are alive, those who are dead, and those who are not yet born.”
To-day, a certain school seem to find an easy solution of the rupture of the Union by the Confederate States in the fact that the Morrill tariff is contrary to their interests. To believe the most important of the British press,” the Morrill tariff assimilates the United States to the most retrograde nations in the world." M. Michel Chevalier has even compared it, in a speech delivered in England, to the ichthyosaurs, pterodactyls, and all the most monstrous animals of the antediluvian periods. I am by no means disposed to defend the Morrill tariff, although, in running it over, I did not find it more protective than the new French-English tariff. What I wish to prove is, that the tariff is not the cause of the war. In nineteen years, as many as four different tariffs have been adopted by the American Congress; the Morrill tariff was a political expedient, a sacrifice made by the Republican party to secure the votes of Pennsylvania, which in the preceding election had prevented the election of Mr. Fremont by siding with the Democratic party. I will admit that this tariff is a bad one; but the inconveniences of a system of duties in a free country which is Self-governed, can only be temporary: the evils caused by secession and civil war are irreparable.
Besides, how can we allow that the South has taken up arms against the new regulations, when she had it in her power to prevent their adoption? The Republican party had a majority in the House of Representatives, but was in a minority in the Senate. The Senate could have rejected the tariff, but the secession senators, by withdrawing, voluntarily abandoned the majority to their opponents. The Southern statesmen, again, could easily have induced Mr. Buchanan to oppose the tariff with the presidential veto. Had Mr. Buchanan ever refused them anything? They took good care not to ruin the tariff; they sought to derive advantage from the feelings which it would provoke in England. If economists are disposed to sacrifice the great principle of free labor to that of free trade, they must at least renounce seeing very ardent adepts among the politicians of the Confederate States. Louisiana has always known how to get her sugar protected. The most protective tariff America ever had-that of 1842-was decided at the last moment by the votes of Messrs. Stanley and Andrews, two Southern men, and ratified by President Tyler, to-day among the secessionists. When this tariff was abolished in 1846, Mr. Stephens, the present Vice President of the Southern Confederacy, and Mr. Robert Toombs, who has recently received a command in the army of Jefferson Davis, voted against the law. This same Toombs, who was still in the Senate as representative of Georgia, when the Morrill tariff was submitted to that assembly, voted for the new regulations. In fact, the Southern States are quite indifferent to the question of the tariff, for the simple reason that their importations are very inconsiderable. Will it be believed?-those of Charleston in 1855 were fewer than in the year 1760; they rose in 1760 to$2,662,000, and in 1855 amounted only to$1,750,000, under the rule of the very liberal economic regime that preceded the Morrill tariff. Beaufort, in South Carolina, has an excellent harbor, capable of containing as many ships as that of New York; yet it is scarcely known to foreign vessels, and Beaufort is an insignificant village, while New York is a magnificent metropolis. It is the North which stores almost all the importations. Philadelphia, which occupies only the fourth rank among the commercial cities, received in 1855$21,963,021 worth of merchandise, the little State of Massachusetts alone exported, in 1853,$l616,895,-304, and imported$41,367,956. At New Orleans, the importations in 1843 reached the figure of it$9,320,439, and the same year we find in the official documents, for the city of New, York, the figure (ten times greater) of$94,525,141. Mobile in 1849 received from abroad only $657,147 worth of goods.
<c06>
General Jackson, who had repressed with so much energy the movement of South Carolina, known under the name of nullification, understood well that the outcries against the tariff covered a political design. “The tariff," he wrote to his friend, the Rev. Mr. Crawford of Georgia, “was only the pretext, and disunion and a Southern Confederacy the real object. The next pretext will be the negro or slavery question." His keen glance, notwithstanding, had only revealed to him a part of the truth: slavery was not to be, like the tariff, a simple pretext; it was to be the cause of a revolution. 

THE SLAVERY QUESTION.
It has become a grave question for determination whit what shall be done with the slaves abandoned by their owners on the advance of our troops into Southern territory, as in the Beaufort district of South Carolina. The whole white population therein is six thousand, while the number of negroes exceeds thirty-two thousand. The panic which drove their masters in wild confusion from their homes leaves them in undisputed possession of the soil. Shall they, armed by their masters, be placed in the field to fight against us, or shall their labor be continually employed in reproducing the means for supporting the armies of rebellion?
The war into which this Government has been forced by rebellious traitors is carried on for the purpose of repossessing the property violently and treacherously seized upon by the enemies of the Government, and to reestablish the authority and laws of the United States in the places where it is opposed or overthrown by armed insurrection and rebellion. Its purpose is to recover and defend what is justly its own. 
War, even between independent nations, is made to subdue the enemy, and all that belongs to that enemy, by occupying the hostile country, and exercising dominion over all the men and things within its territory. This being true in respect to independent nations at war with each other, it follows that rebels who are laboring by force of arms to overthrow a government, justly bring upon themselves all the consequences of war, and provoke the destruction merited by the worst of crimes. That government would be false to national trust, and would justly excite the ridicule of the civilized world, that would abstain from the use of any efficient means to preserve its own existence, or to overcome a rebellious and traitorous enemy, by sparing or protecting the property of those who are waging war against it.
The principal wealth and power of the rebel States is a peculiar species of property, consisting of the service or labor of African slaves, or the descendants of Africans. This property has been variously estimated at the value of from$700,000,000 to$ §1,000,000,000.
Why should this property be exempt from the hazards and consequences of a rebellious war?
It was the boast of the leader of the rebellion, while he yet had a seat in the Senate of the United States, that the Southern States would be comparatively safe and free from the burdens of war, if it should be brought on by the contemplated rebellion, and that the boast was accompanied by the savage threat that “Northern towns and cities would become the victims of rapine and military spoil," and that “Northern men should smell Southern gunpowder and feel Southern steel.” No one doubts the disposition of the rebels to carry that threat into execution. The wealth of Northern, towns and cities, the produce of Northern farms, Northern workshops and manufactories, would certainly be seized, destroyed, or appropriated as military spoil. No property in the North would be spared from the hands of the rebels, and their rapine would be defended under the laws of war. While the loyal States thus have all their property and possessions at stake, are the insurgent rebels to carry on warfare against the Government in peace and security to their own property?
Reason and justice and self-preservation forbid that such should be the policy of this Government, but demand, on the contrary, that, being forced by traitors and rebels to the extremity of war, all the rights and powers of war should be exercised to bring it to a speedy end.
Those who make war against the Government, justly forfeit all rights of property, privilege, or security, derived from the Constitution and laws against which they are in armed rebellion; and as the labor and service of their slaves constitute the chief property of the rebels, such property should share the common fate of war to which they have devoted the property of loyal citizens.
While it is plain that the slave property of the South is justly subjected to all the consequences of this rebellions rebellious war, and that the Government would be untrue to its trust in not employing ail all the rights and powers of war to bring it to a speedy close, the details of the plan for doing so, like all other mili­tary measures, must, in a great degree, be left to be determined by particular exigencies. The disposition of other property belonging to the rebels that comes subject to our arms is governed by the circumstances of the case. The Government has no power to hold slaves, none to restrain a slave of his liberty, or to exact his services. It has a right, however, to use the voluntary service of slaves liberated by war from their rebel masters, like any other property of the rebels, in whatever mode may be most efficient for the defence of the Government, the prosecution of the war, and the suppression of the rebellion. It is as clearly a right of the Government to arm slaves, when it may become necessary, as it is to use gunpowder taken from the enemy. Whether it is expedient to do so is purely a military question. The right is unquestionable by the laws of war. The expediency must be determined by circumstances, keeping in view the great object of overcoming the rebels, reestablishing the laws, and restoring peace to the nation.
It is vain and idle for the Government to carry on this war, or hope to maintain its existence against rebellious force, without employing all the rights and powers of war. As has been said, the right to deprive the rebels of their property in slaves and slave labor is as clear and absolute, as the right to take forage from the field, or cotton from the warehouse, or powder and arms from the magazine. To leave the enemy in the possession of such property as forage and cotton and military stores, and the means of constantly reproducing them, would be madness. It is, therefore, equal madness to leave them in peaceful and secure possession of slave property, more valuable and efficient to them for war than forage, cotton, and military stores. Such policy would be national suicide. What to do with that species of property is a question, that time and circumstances will solve, and need not be anticipated further than to repeat that they cannot he be held by the Government as slaves. It would be useless to keep them as prisoners of war; and self-preservation, the highest duty of a government, or of individuals, demands that they should be disposed of or employed in the most effective manner that will tend most speedily to suppress the insurrection
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States whore slavery exists have tab exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
and restore the authority of the Government. If it shall be found that the men. who have been held by the rebels as slaves are capable of bearing arms and performing efficient military service, it is the right, and may become the duty, of the Government to arm and equip them, and employ their services against the rebels, under proper military regulation, discipline and command.
But in whatever manner they may be used by the Government, it is plain that, once liberated by the rebellious act of their masters, they should never again be restored to bondage. By the master's treason and rebellion, he forfeits all right to the labor and service of his slave; and the slave of the rebellious master, by his service to the Government, becomes justly entitled to freedom and protection.
The disposition to be made of the slaves of rebels, after the close of the war,. can be safely left to the wisdom and patriotism of Congress. The representatives of the people will unquestionably secure to the loyal slaveholders every right to which they are entitled under the Constitution of the country.
SIMON CAMERON.
The above straight-forward and common sense view of the subject was a portion of the Report of Mr. Cameron, Secretary of War, as originally written, and sent in advance of publication to the New York Tribune and other journals; but not being satisfactory to our milk-and-water President, the following was substituted in its stead, most unwillingly by Mr. Cameron, as the concluding paragraph of the official document:-
"It is already a grave question what shall be done with the slaves who are abandoned by their owners on the advance of our troops into Southern territory, as at Beaufort District in South Carolina. The number left within our control at that point is very considerable, and similar cases will probably occur. What shall be done with them? Can we afford to send them forward to their masters, to be by them armed against us, or used in introducing supplies to maintain the rebellion? Their labor may be useful to us; withheld from the enemy, it lessens his military resources, and withholding it has no tendency to induce the horrors of insurrection even in the rebel communities. They constitute a military resource, and, being such, that they should not be turned over to the enemy is too plain to discuss. Why deprive him of supplies by a blockade, and voluntarily give him men to produce supplies? The disposition to be made of the slaves of rebels after the close of the war can be safely left to the wisdom and patriotism of Congress. The representatives of the people will, unquestionably, secure to the loyal slaveholders every right to which they are entitled under the Constitution of the country."
ASHAMED TO HAVE A HEART!
Yes, ashamed to acknowledge that we have a heart; ashamed to own that we are moved by the impulses and sympathies of our human nature; apologizing for a deed of justice and mercy. that we do it against our will!
The imbruting influences of slavery on the public conscience of the North are being developed in a way that must startle the world, and excite the profound wonder of the future historian who shall gather up the details of our present degradation, and search out its potent cause The obliteration of the moral sense which has taken place in this Christian nation, has scarcely a parallel in the whole heathen world. In all ages and lands, we have seen men proud of virtue; proud of benevolence, equity, love, and compassion. However miserably they may have failed to realize in practice these noble and generous ideas, they have yielded to them their admiration, and have embalmed them in story and song for the admiration and imitation of posterity. The savage Powhatan was melted, when he saw the tear of pity in his daughter's eye. and her arms thrown around the helpless victim destined to a cruel death. No where but in our boasted civilization is there to be found a state of society in which it is deemed a disgrace to pity and plead the cause of the injured. In other lands, men perpetrate injustice only when tempted by their interests; and when these cease to draw them astray, they are but too ready to claim the credit of being actuated by principle in doing right We, on the contrary, seem indignant at the bare suspicion that we allow ourselves to be controlled by principles of justice in our dealings with the African race. Judging from the disclaimers which everywhere greet our ears, we must conclude that while a large portion of our fellow-citizens are willing to give colored men their liberty, they are not willing to do this on the ground of right, but only on the ground of necessity and compulsion! We find that we must either cease to treat our brother as a chattel, or else cease to be a nation; and it is only to avert the latter calamity, that we will consent to emancipation. We have said before the world that the black man has an inalienable right to liberty, and yet we will fight to the last extremity for the purpose of riveting his chains, provided we can do it without exposing our whole political edifice to annihilation. God commands us to do unto others as we would have them do unto us; and yet, as a nation, we resolve that we will disobey him, so long as we can do it and exist. Over and over have our leading journals declared that they would be in favor of abolition as a last resort, provided every other remedy fail. Impious. God-defying, heaven-daring resolve! Union, with a dark, damning stain, is our first choice; union, without this damning stain, our second choice. If God permit us, we will grind suffering humanity in the dust; we will overwork, scourge, torture, and deprive of their honest wages the colored race; we will not heed their groans or prayers, nor suffer our heart to heave with one sympathetic emotion for our brother man. Only in case it becomes for our own interest to relieve him from his intolerable burdens; only in case the Almighty holds back our armies from victory; only in case the bolts of Heaven fall too thick and too fast for mortal arm to resist, will we put away our oppressions, and execute impartial justice upon all. Not for the plague of the frogs or the lice, not for the hail or the locusts, will we surrender our prey: but when our first-born are taken; when every house has its dead, and it becomes certain that everything must be lost and perish, then will we hearken to the voice of the Lord, and let the oppressed go free!
Gen. Cass reiterates his hatred of abolition, and in the same breath declares that it must be adopted, for nothing else can end the war. Col. Cochrane advocates the arming of the servile population, and yet, lest he should be accused of abolitionism, he declares that it is not the happiness or misery of the slaves that influences him; he cares little what may be their future condition, if so be that the Union can be maintained: he would even allow them to be divided among loyal citizens! And yet, notwithstanding this disclaimer, his old associates, fearful that he will still be misunderstood, rush to the newspapers with their communications, to convince the public that the Colonel did not and could not mean abolition. Equally zealous have been many of these papers to show that Secretary Cameron does not contemplate abolition; that it is not the love of justice and mercy, or the slightest compassion for the poor sufferers in the prison-house of bondage, that nerves his arm or warms his heart. Any man, in either of the old Democratic parties of this city, who should confess himself an abolitionist, on abolition grounds, would be immediately cast out as a traitor to his antecedents. So deeply rooted is the habit of stigmatizing and denouncing the friends of the slave, that the least suspicion of sympathy with the wrongs of black men will ensure for any of our party leaders a storm of persecution. This it is that makes public men so cowardly; so inconsistent with themselves; so timorous in letting themselves down the precipice, by the twig of necessity, into the dreaded gulf of abolition.
But let them come to our ranks in any way they choose. We are glad to see truth prevail, even though it be preached through envy and strife. Whether in pretence or in truth, let emancipation for the bondman be proclaimed in the high places of the nation, and we are content. But what a diseased state of the body politic, what a death-like stupor of the moral sense, does this indifference to the fate of the slave disclose! Take the darkest home of heathenism; take the fiercest band of robbers that ever congregated in a mountain cavern; let them see the lash applied day after day to shrinking woman's lacerated flesh; the poor creatures forced to perform their allotted tasks of severe labor, up to the very hour when the pangs of maternity seize upon them; maidens stripped for the terrible scourging; miserable fugitives torn by the dogs, and thrust, faint and bleeding, into the murderous stocks; and where is the bandit so fierce, or the heathen so brutish, that he will view the scene with complacency? Yet there in this bright land, with our Sabbaths and our Bibles, among our Fifth Avenue merchants, our delicate la-
<c02>
dies who would not adventure the sole of their foot upon the ground, our learned doctors and expounders of the laws of Moses and of Christ, we find hard hearted wretches who tell us it is all proper; that the black man has no rights, that he suffers no sorrows, that he feels no pains, that he endures no agonies, which a white man is under any obligation to respect! And further, that we have no right to interfere; that we have no responsibility in the case; that the Constitution gives us no authority: that the Bible clinches the master's grip on the man he has bought; that no Government, King or Congress has the right to intermeddle with this social relation, and that all we have to do is to mind our own business, and leave others to manage theirs. No right to interfere? Why, the God of our being has implanted this authority in the very instincts of our nature; any man that witnesses the assault of a ruffian on helpless humanity, maiden, wife or child, feels and knows within himself that, in the absence of a legal avenger, he is constituted the rightful protector and deliverer of that helpless one; and he is a craven wretch, a recreant to God and his race, if, having the power, he does not raise his right hand against the oppressor, and deliver the victim, even at the peril of his life. No true man, in such a position, has any need to wait for doctors and lawyers to teach him what is Heaven's high mandate; the voice within speaks instantly, and he acts without a doubt or scruple. No right, on the part of a government, to interfere for the protection of the injured! What a contemptible government must that be which has no power to do the very thing, and the only thing, for which government was created! What heresy fresh from hell are we incorporating into our political creed? Making government, which God ordained for the punishment of evil-doers, an engine of oppression, a combination of society, by which the natural instincts of humanity should be suppressed and extinguished!-American Baptist.
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1861.
SEND IN THE PETITIONS!
Now that Congress is in session, and various propositions have already been submitted to it on the subject, let there be no unnecessary delay in forwarding emancipation petitions to that body. Send them directly to the proper Senators and Representatives from the various States and Districts. They will, of course, go free of postage. Send them in!
THE GUILTIEST OF THE GUILTY
There is some extenuation for the conduct of those who are born and brought up in the midst of customs, institutions and ideas, which, though at variance with sound reason and eternal rectitude, they cling to and defend as a matter of tradition, or inheritance, or personal interest A heathen in Burmah or Hindostan is educationally such, and no surprise is felt when he is seen to resist every effort of Christendom to overthrow his cherished system of idolatry. But if any, claiming to be Christians, should interpose to vindicate his religious views, or even to apologize for them, and should join with him in denouncing and ridiculing missionary labors to subvert heathenism wherever existing, they would justly forfeit all right and title to the Christian name, and be regarded as deserving of far greater condemnation than the deluded idolator himself.
So, there is some allowance to be charitably made for those who,-born on Southern soil, and all their lives surrounded by slave institutions, and having inherited slave property which has been held and recognized as such, legally and religiously, for many generations, and suffering from the inevitable demoralization and blinding nature of such a state of society,- deem it an act of impertinence or of enmity on the part of Northern Abolitionists in seeking the overthrow of slavery, no matter by what means, or at what period however remote. But how utterly inexcusable are those in the free States, who,-loud in their professions! of regard for free institutions and the rights of man, and born and educated where slavery has either been abolished or never allowed to exist,-with brazen impudence and loathsome profligacy volunteer to shield the accursed slave system from every blow aimed at it, and to cover with opprobrium those who are disinterestedly laboring toï¿½ break every yoke, and let the oppressed go freeï¿½! How glaring is their inconsistency, how palpable their hypocrisy, how gross their immorality! Surely, in the day of judgment, it shall be more tolerable for Southern slave-owners and slave-mongers than for them!
At the South, there is not a religious or secular journal that does not either connive at, apologize for, or boldly defend slavery as a rightful institution; and this, we are told, should excite no surprise, for the stream cannot rise higher than its source. Be it so: but why is it that this lamentable fact is not offset by the cheering fact, that there is not at the North a religious or secular journal that does not condemn slavery as an evil institution which ought to be banished from the land? Yet, so far is this from being true, of the hundreds of Northern newspapers there are not half a dozen that dare to avow abolition principles, or advocate the immediate emancipation of the oppressed as an act of justice too long withheld! A large majority of them, even though almost the entire body of slaveholders are in deadly rebellion against the government, are still disposed to throw safeguards around the slave system as such, and to make targets of abolitionists and abolitionism on every occasion!
This is, in the first place, a revelation of character. It shows that the conductors of such journals need only to be located in the South to become actual slave-breeders and slave-dealers; or transported to the coast of Africa, to engage in the slave trade. For,ï¿½ if such things are done in the green tree, what will be done in the dry?ï¿½
It is, in the next place, demonstrative evidence that the malaria of slavery taints the whole nation; that, in consequence of consenting to its existence in the South, the North has thereby become fearfully corrupted, so thatï¿½ the whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint" Liberty, as an immortal principle-liberty, as the birthright of every human being-liberty, as the foundation of all righteous requirements and all democratic institutions-is scoffed at as fanaticism in its universal application, pronounced dangerous in its complete enjoyment, and made subservient to all that is selfish, mean and unprincipled. Scarcely any butï¿½ crazy Abolitionistsï¿½ look upon the scarred and fettered millions in bondage as having any rights or interests of their own, or any title to be considered an equal portion of the human race, having the same essential nature, the same immortal destiny, or the same passions, feelings, desires and aspirations. The proposition to treat them no longer as brutes, but as national and accountable beings,-to break their yokes and snap their chains asunder,-to bring them out of the house of bondage into the glorious liberty of creation, with the chance to develop their faculties and powers,-is every where scouted in the true supercilious-, slaveholding spirit, branded as the most hazard-as of all experiments, sneered at as the offspring of naticism, and made the occasion of an endless amount of pro-slavery scurrility and malevolence!
At the North, generally, no more regard is paid to their claims for justice and mercy than though they were so many cattle or swine. Are any of them received as ï¿½contrabands"? It is for our accommodation, and to punish their rebel masters for what they have done to us! Is it proposed to declare their freedom, and to put arms into their hands? It is not at all with reference to their manhood, but to our necessities, that we may not be driven by the rebels to; the 
wall! In case of their emancipation, it is stupidly asked,ï¿½ What shall be done with them?ï¿½ As if any thing were to be done, except to deal with, them kindly, fairly and honestly-to give them just compensation for their labor-to give them education-to recognized their rights, and atone for past wrong?
<c03>
THE SECRETS OF THE PRISON-HOUSE
We hope, for the sake of humanity-to say nothing of our own honor or reputation as a people-that the recent account of imprisoned colored persons in Washington may, on investigation, prove untrue. The reason assigned for this imprisonment was the suspicion that nearly fifty men, all told, were guilty of this atrocious crime, viz-" they couldï¿½ call no man master." Their masters bad withdrawn their civilizing presence, and joined the rebel army. Of course, nothing but demoralization could ensue in the absence of such wholesome restraint and example. Mingled motives of disinterestedness could alone have actuated their humane pursuers. To save these unfortunate men from themselves, to protect society, and to hold on to this ï¿½property" for the owners till the restoration of peace, under the benign government of Jefferson Davis! Such of the Washington police as were engaged in this very considerate proceeding are surely deserving of-
My ear is pained,
My soul is sick with every day's report
Of wrong and outrage with which earth is filled."
These touching words welled up in their power and freshness, seventy-five years ago, from the depths of one of the sweetest, tenderest and truest of natures. They are no less pertinent now.
We are all familiar with the terrible methods of persecution and destruction invented for heretics and political offenders: - dungeons, prisons, and horrid implements of torture; the persecutions of the early Christians, and the cruelties of the Inquisition. We have all heard of Judge Jeffreys, of the English, and the no less worthy Fouquier Tinville, of the French Revolution; of Haynau, the butcher; of Russian and Austrian despotism; and all this for the detection and punishment of so-called political and religious of fenders. The blood curdles and the lip grows pale? over this dark page of history. At such times, and in these countries, prisons were made to hold malefactors, and persons suspected of crime. In this free country, all over the South and at the Capital, they have an additional use, viz: to hold in their loathsome embrace the poor and innocent, the oppressed and down-trodden slave, the victim of the crimes of others!
Think of it! The foundations of this country have been shaken to their centre by a slaveholders' rebellion, never exceeded in wickedness; an army of six hundred thousand fighting men has been organized; a powerful naval armament has been evoked, as by magic, and now blocks the coast for thousands of miles; traitors in and out of the Capital have been ceaseless in their efforts to overthrow the government; the administration, throughout its departments, has spared no pains to plan and mature measures for our national safety; lynx-eyed provost marshals, and their not less vigilant subordinates, have hunted up the lurking-places, both below and above ground, of all persons tainted with suspicion of treason; forts Lafayette and Warren have swarmed to their utmost capacity with enemies of the country; nothing has been left undone, unsaid or unseen, which could damage the rights and interests of free white loyal citizens in both sections of the country; but there" has been no friendly eye, word, thought or deed for these poor, unoffending persons,ï¿½ guilty of skins not colored like our own," now for the first time, and seemingly by accident, found pining and sorrowing in rags and filth within the loathsome precincts of a Washington prison! Nothing inIn the record of this cruel rebellion exceeds this in its inhumanity. The treatment of our noble prisoners at Richmond, condemned as it is by the usages of war in all civilized countries, pales before this more atrocious crime. Traitors will pretend to a show of reason for the farmer; but the latter is unmitigated cruelty. O, there is a fearful responsibility resting somewhere! It is no exaggeration to say, that in no other country in the world, however despotic, could this have happened.
God grant that the secrets of this prison-house may be dragged to light, and may the authors of this crime not only be visited with condign punishment, but ample restitution made to these unfortunate victims of oppression! How this piece of iniquity could escape the notice of the proper authorities for so long time, is a thing which will not go unreflected upon.
After a twelvemonth more shall have rolled over us, we may be able, if not now, to understand the horrors of the slave system, as practised in this hitherto excruciatinglyï¿½ democraticï¿½ country! Filibustering, land stealing, Dred-Scott decisions, rebellions, and many more deviltries, which have not passed unobserved by sensible people, both at home and abroad, and which, for better or worse, are yet to find their place in history, will soon be traced back by the stanchest hunkers to their true sources. We shall soon know whether we have a country worthy of salvation; whether the two hundred and fifty million of people who are to occupy our places eighty years hence are to be freemen or slaves. W.
The N. Y. Commercial Advertiser says on this subject:-
"Senator Wilson, who has the energy if not the strength of Hercules, has addressed himself to cleaning out one of the most noisome Augean stables existing at the capital; and, we are happy to observe, with the best possible effect. Into a dungeon, unequalled for its general unhealthiness this side of Austria, had been crammed some sixty or seventy colored fugitives, their crime being that their natural protectors had abandoned them to shift for themselves. These released bondmen not unnaturally turned their faces Northward. But they were met by the agents of greedy cormorants, termed Justices, who at Washington fatten upon the number of arrests made by them, whether of innocent persons or those guilty of breaking the law. Does not Uncle Sam foot the bill? Is not every black man pre-supposed to be a slave until he proves the contrary, as every white man is not assumed to be guilty before he has established his innocence? And so long as those wretched pickings from the bones of men, women and children could be had, what mattered it if these were doomed to sit, sleep and eat upon the cold pavement, or were abandoned to filth and vermin? The ends of justice' were fees; our government has always been liberal to the District, and what more could people want, unless they were in search of topics for agitation about the everlasting nigger'?"
LECTURE OF HON. DANIEL S. DICKINSON. The report of this racy, vigorous and outspoken lecture, in another column, as delivered before the Mercantile Library Association, at Music Hall, on Monday evening last, was made for the Post by Mr. Yerrinton, from which paper we copy it. It was re-delivered on Tuesday evening, at Tremont Temple, before the ï¿½Fraternity," occupying two hours; on both occasion the immense audiences enthusiastically cheering its most radical utterances. Mr. Dickinson has hitherto been a highly conservative Democratic politician -the most influential member of the party in the Empire State,-and, therefore, what he now so boldly declares is deserving of special consideration. We wish Messrs. Mason and Slidell could have been present at its delivery!
IMPORTANT LECTURES. It will be seen, by notices in another column, that Rev. Dr. Cheever, of New York, is to deliver a lecture on Sunday evening next, at the Tremont Temple. Subject-" Shall Slavery or the Country be destroyed?" Also, that Hon. George S. Boutwell will deliver an inaugural address, at the same place, on Monday evening next, before the Emancipation League. Subject-" The Justice, Expediency and Necessity of Emancipation." Both lecturers deserve to be, and we doubt not will be, cheered by crowded houses.
Senator Trumbull's proposed confiscation bill provides for the absolute forfeiture of all rebel property which is beyond the reach of judicial process; the proceeds, after paying the expenses of loyal creditors, to be applied to reimbursing loyal citizens despoiled
by rebels, and ï¿½the balance to pay the expenses of the war; the rebels to forfeit their slaves, who become free, the President providing for their colonization. But
the President can have no rightful power to make any
such prescriptive provision. Do justly by them!

<c04>
LECTURE BY HON. DANIEL S. DICKINSON, OF NEW YORK.
On the invitation of the Mercantile Library Association, Hon. DANIEL S. DICKINSON, of New York, delivered a lecture, last Monday evening, on ï¿½The State of the Country," at the Music Hall, to a large and brilliant audience. The platform was occupied by a large number of distinguished gentlemen. Among them we noticed Hon. Edward Everett, Capt. Hudson, Hon. Marshall P. Wilder, Wendell Phillips, Esq., Justices Hoar and Allen, Richard H. Dana, Jr., Josiah Quincy, Jr., Ex-Mayor Lincoln, Franklin Haven, Esq., and several of the reverend clergy.
The Germania Band was in attendance, and their music added greatly to the pleasure of the occasion- the several airs being heartily applauded.
On the entrance of Mr. Dickinson, he was greeted with enthusiastic cheering. He was introduced to the audience by Oliver Richardson, Esq., of the Lecture Committee, in a very complimentary manner, and as he took his place upon the platform, he was received with a fresh outburst of cheers.
After an eloquent exordium on the rise and progress of the nation, under a free government-
How the conspiracy originated, said Mr. Dickinson, is of little practical moment; how it shall be put down, is of almost infinite importance, for put down the rebellion must be; and since it was not crushed in the bud as it should have been, it must be plucked up by the roots, and the confidence of the world reestablished in the strength and perpetuity of free government. (Prolonged cheering.) It is not the case of a people conspiring against the government, but where high officers of government conspired against the people. (Applause.) The ministering spirits of the rebellion were not the ignorant, the thoughtless, or the vulgar, hurried away from their propriety by some sense of wrong, real or imaginary; but the experienced, the educated, the well-informed, to whom a generous and confiding people had committed their most sacred trusts. The train was laid with deliberate and murderous preparation, that the Union might be razed to its foundations, and scattered in fragments.
The rebellion was not inaugurated because any portion of the Free States, or their people, had been unmindful of their constitutional obligations, nor for the reformation of abuses, but it was for the purpose of realizing the romantic dreams of a new empire upon the ruins of this. In every age of the world, and with every people, a traitor has been execrated, loathed and despised by honorable men. Judas Iscariot betrayed the Savior for money, and his name has been a synonym for baseness, for nineteen centuries, though his perfidy was signalized by the redemption of fallen man. But he showed a decent regard for public opinion, and furnished an example which all traitors should copy with alacrity, for he went out and hanged himself. (Enthusiastic cheering) As the vulture, when he stoops for prey, seizes the weak and straggling members of the flock, so the ill-omened buzzard of Secession, with the keen instincts of its nature, seized South Carolina as its lawful booty, and bore it triumphantly away. It hated the Union of our fathers, and sought to destroy it; it scorned the glorious emblem of liberty, and sought to dishonor it; it sowed rebellion, and is now gathering the harvest. Mythology informs us, that when Minerva was born, it rained gold in the island of Rhodes; and South Carolina doubtless believed, that upon the nativity of Secession, if it did not rain sovereigns, it would bring showers of genuine guineas into Charleston, not from any mint, but bearing the image and superscription of the land of Dahomey and Ashantee, beaming in their original lustre increasing without investment, and sometimes growing yellow with re-coinage. (Loud laughter and applause)
The loyal people of North Carolina have been plunged into the ï¿½Dismal Swamp" of Secession by her fretful, restless and conspiring politicians, but are already seeking to secede from Secession; and when they shall have cast off the incubus which has cursed them, and shall have returned to their place in the family of States, all will unite in a festive welcome to those ï¿½who were dead and are alive again, who were lost and are found." (Loud applause) And where is old Virginia, the land of great deeds, and the mother of greater men? In attempting to tear herself from the Union, she has torstorn out her own vitals, and lies prostrate, dismembered and bleeding,-pitied by the compassionate, jeered by the ribald, and scorned and despised by all for the wickedness and folly which brought her to shame. In this connection, Mr. Dickinson described the desolation and ruin which Virginia had brought upon herself by the part she has taken in the rebellion, in language as truthful as strong and eloquent.
The first great practical duty before us, he continued, is to crush the rebellion which threatens us, and to vindicate the Constitution. And to do this, we must treat it as it is, not as the struggle of a political canvass, nor as a government with which we are at war, but as an overgrown, turbulent, irresponsible mob,-tossing, roaring, pillaging, murdering; generated in the foetid hot-bed of a desperate and daring conspiracy, and governed and directed by self-elected dictators, resolved
"Rather to reign in hell than serve in heaven."
-(Applause.)
If we would have an honorable and enduring peace, we must not purchase, but conquer it, though the conflict be as protracted and bloody as that which ended on Bo Bosworth's field, and terminated the War of the Roses. (Great applause) There is not now, nor can there be hereafter, any peace or safety in yielding to the demands of depraved ambition. (Renewed plaudits) We are admonished by the dictates of our holy religion-by the instincts of humanity-by the best impulses of civilization, to put forth the whole power of Government and people to destroy this rebellion-to strike it hardest where it is weakest (Prolonged cheers.) While we should scrupulously respect the rights of the loyal, we should confiscate the property of rebellion, including its ï¿½persons held to service"-(applause)-totally, absolutely, immediately (Tremendous applause.) Put them to labor in the camps, and leave to Congress to make such humane provision for them hereafter as the occasion demands (Renewed cheering.) The recognition of Secession in any form would be the inauguration of anarchy, conferring a premium upon conspiracy, treason and its concomitants-offering a reward for rebellion. Once compromise the power and dignity of Government in the hope of cowardly conciliation, and we shall have no Government to compromise. (Applause) Dynasty after dynasty will rise up-every State and section and city will produce its aspirants for supreme command, and causes of fancied oppression will be found wherever a desire for leadership shall commence the search.
The prime movers of the rebellion were decaying politicians-sapped by base uses, and seedy by wear and tear; Senators, Representatives and Cabinet Ministers, whose terms were drawing to a close; officers in the army and navy, who were looking for increased rank and emoluments; idlers who were seeking consequence and compensation, and bankrupts who longed for a revolution that would cancel old contracts, and give them a credit to make new ones. (Laughter and applause) It is a contest for extermination. It is Constitution or Conspiracy; Government or Guerrilla; Law or Licentiousness. Government must crash and conquer armed rebellion by force of arms, or sink beneath its violence, a helpless, hopeless wreck, and thus perish an empire destined by Heaven to keep the lights of liberty burning during the darkness of the world, (Loud applause.) Every one must determine whether he will aid in upholding or overthrowing, for there can be no neutrals. Those who are not for, without condition or equivocation, are against. Those who are for the Union, and find apologies for the rebellion, or rejoice in the reverses of the Government, are more hurtful than open enemies, either in the Cabinet or in the field. (Cheers.) The people must stand together, with one heart and one accord, in efforts to preserve the Union. Political parties have their uses, but it is
<c05>
not their office to stand in array against each other when the citadel is in danger. The hope of the rebellion has rested in expected sympathy in the loyal States, and it clings to the delusion still. But if we could raise the united voice of the whole people, in a common purpose, regardless of previous political opinions and associations, or party antecedents, it would, at this time, carry more terror to the heart of rebellion, than an army of half a million with banners. (Applause)Let no one ï¿½lay the flattering unction to his soul" that this Union can ever be divided with success or a prospect of future peace. To advocate or assent to division is to favor or consent to destruction, We are not to stay the loss of life, the effusion of blood, the oppression of taxation, or mitigate the harsh features of war, by yielding to, or tampering with rebellion. Whoever counsels division in the hope of purchasing peace, sows heresy broadcast, and will reap a harvest of delusion " Were I charged with the administration of this Government," says an individual, irresolute in principle, and weak in understanding,ï¿½ I would consent to the secession and independence of the Confederate States, and restore peace to our torn and bleeding and distracted country."." And so would we," respond the people,ï¿½ were we as weak, irresolute, and treacherous as you are." (Loud applause)
Although composed of numerous States, the Federal Government is one and indivisible. Not a single stone in this arch of freedom can be removed without endangering the edifice. How could we partition the glorious passages in our history as a nation, or divide the memories of the revolution, around which our souls' holiest impulses linger? The effort would be like parting the raiment of the Savior of men, and casting lots for his vesture. (Applause) What section of the Union is so steeped in degradation that it would surrender its inheritance in Lexington and Saratoga and Yorktown? What son of Revolutionary sire would visit Bunker Hill with Government's permission, or bear a rebel passport to the tomb of Washington? Our great nation is animated by one popular heart, and when that shall cease to throb, the nation will die-die forever; when the darkness of death and night closes over it, no spark shall resume its light of life-
"No sound shall awake it to glory again"
There are those who would compare this rebellion with the glorious American Revolution. The conception is desecration; its utterance treason against Heaven! The Revolution aimed at man's emancipation from the tyranny of man. This cowardly conspiracy seeks to raise its superstructure upon the foundation of involuntary servitude-the Revolution sought to establish for man a more enlarged freedom. Our fathers sought to release-they seek to enslave. Our fathers protected the right of property in servitude on grounds of necessity and expediency; they seek to make servitude indispensable to government. Our fathers founded a system of justice, equality and peace; they seek to subvert it for one of injustice, inequality, and military rule. The doctrine of Secession, that a State may, in withdrawing from the Union, rightfully seize and appropriate to its use all the property belonging to the Government it can find, if approved and sanctioned, would drive the highwayman from the field by its competition, destroy the pursuits of the burglar by more convenient thefts in open day, and reenact the code of Sherwood forest, that
"He may take who has the power,
And he may keep who can." (Cheers.)
We must meet the emergencies of the day as our fathers met theirs. Had they trembled at the thought of blood, or been alarmed by the cry of taxation, we should this day have been the serfs and slaves and colonial dependencies of a foreign power, ruled over by foreign governors, and their decrees enforced by the bayonets of a foreign soldiery. They could have submitted to their fate without dishonor, but we cannot surrender the fruits of their bravery without sinking beneath the contempt of civilization. (Applause) We must neither be misled nor intimidated by the imperious demands and haughty gasconades of rebellion. Tyrants, conspirators, oppressors and usurpers are as cowardly. when firmly met, as they are desperate and cruel when they hold the mastery. When the ferocious monsters who conspired for the destruction of the Union, who planned this rebellion and urged it forward, shall stand before the people in their naked and heinous deformity-not as Presidents, Judges, Senators, Generals, and Ministers of State, but as conspirators, perjurers, robbers, pirates, thieves and cutthroats-an ambulatory conspiracy, a government upon castors-an administration on horseback, like the predatory bands of the Pampas and the gorges of the Andes (laughter and applause)-when they shall see themselves as they will be seen by the masses of their own deluded States, they will call upon the rocks and mountains to hide them from the face of those they have betrayed, and defrauded, and bereaved, and left homeless. Stripped of their disguises, deposed from their mock official stations, disrobed of their stolen in signia, they must fly from the land they have desecrated and disgraced, or submit to the majesty of the laws they have offended, and terminate an ignoble career with the gibbet or the dungeon, and all the people will say, Amen! (Great cheering)
This unnatural and ferocious war, with all its destruction and desolation, will leave some traces of utility behind-will teach us the relative rights of Government and people-of the Union and of the several States-the blessings of peace and the inflictions of war. All Governments claim a perpetuity of existence, and when that existence is imperilled, they may exert every power, even to absolute despotism, to preserve it. The necessity and utility of martial law in times like these has been established and vindicated by numerous and illustrious examples. It has seized and committed to places of confinement spies and traitors,-it has stayed the subtle and insidious poison of a pestilent and treasonable press-it has changed the project of two eminent ministers from the course of foreign to domestic missions,-(prolonged applause)-where, although their field of labor and usefulness may be circumscribed, they will be sure to find more appreciative and sympathizing audiences and congenial associates, and in their ministrations, in one respect, at least, resemble the Apostles of old-preach to spirits in prison. (Laughter and applause)
The arrest of these conspirators by the intrepid Wilkes (enthusiastic cheering) has stirred the currents of the popular heart afresh. It will be hailed with loud acclaim by every loyal citizen of this Union, and approved by the judgment of mankind. It will be sanctioned by the requirements of international law, and vindicated by the justice of Heaven's chancery. If apologies are to be given, or disclaimers made, let them come from that nation which has violated the comity of States by attempting to shield under the aegis of her flag, and speed upon their criminal enterprise, those who were known to be engaged in efforts to destroy this great and good government, of which they were citizens, and to which they owed allegiance; and not from those who, in endeavoring to preserve the government which protects and shelters them, at most, have only copied a long list of British precedents. If this nation shall feel constrained to mourn the loss of her illustrious passengers, let her console her grief that she was permitted to retain a forfeited vessel. If censures are to be bestowed, let them rest upon the miscreant who lent himself to aid conspiracy and rebellion by smuggling its chiefest instruments away to the theatre of their mischiefs, and not on him whose fidelity and watchfulness defied the proud emblem under which they sought exemption from the consequences of their crimes. (Applause)
The Government of the Union, assailed as it is by conspirators and traitors, appears to-day more bright and beautiful than ever, and exhibits a power and energy of which no Government on earth can boast. (Cheers.) When rebellion reared its crest, five hundred thousand armed men, every one a sovereign, leaped to their feet for the defence of the Union, without a single" forced levy, and millions more stand ready for the conflict. The spirit of the people is

<c06>
neither bowed nor broken, but the brand of liberty, fanned by the tireless wing of the American Eagle, burns with a purer and more constant glow than ever.
In conclusion, the lecturer paid an eloquent tribute to woman for her patient endurance and lofty devotion to country. Having referred to the vow of Jeptha and its fulfilment by the sacrifice of his daughter, he said,-Though the lofty cause of the Union demand no bloody sacrifice except upon the field of battle our maidens may inspire us to loftier conceptions, of duty, and the commission of nobler deeds, by chanting the triumphs, of the faithful to the music of Christian liberty and law, of woman's resignation to the Divine behests, and of her love of country, in the spirit of the last song of the doomed and devoted-
"Though the daughter of Salem lament,
Be the judge and the hero unbent:
I have fought the great battle for thee,
And my father and country are free!
Though this blood of thy giving has gushed,
Though the spirit thou lovest is hushed 
Let my memory still be thy pride,
And forget not I smiled when I died."
FREDERICK DOUGLASS IN BOSTON.
The regular lecture in the Fraternity Course was delivered on Tuesday evening, Dec 3d, by Frederick Douglass. The Fraternity is the outgrowth of the life and teachings of Theodore Parker, at once the legacy he has left to humanity, and the monument to his memory. Meet and fitting is it, then, that Frederick Douglass, the representative of the much-abused colored race, should be among the speakers, that it, welcomes to its platform.
At an early hour, the spacious Tremont Temple was filled to overflowing, and the welcome which the speaker received upon coming to the platform was deep and hearty.
Mr. Douglass began by thanking the audience for their presence, and the Fraternity for the invitation to speak, modestly saying he trusted more to the indulgence of his hearers than to any ability of his own If ever a man, standing before a great audience of refined and cultivated people, has the right to their indulgence, surely he whose early years were spent in slavery, whose spelling-book was the soft sand at his feet, and who took his degree of the sign-boards over the doors, might claim such indulgence; and yet, as Frederick Douglass stood there, his form dilating with conscious power, his eye flashing, and his whole face glowing with enthusiasm, while his clear silver tones rang like a trumpet, all who saw and heard him must have felt that he was not an object of indulgence, but of admiration. His very presence gives the lie to the oft-repeated assertion that the negro is incapable of elevation, and only fit for a menial condition. The lecture, which was calledï¿½ Pictures and Progress," was elegant in diction, and full of fine, poetic passages, but its chief excellence consisted in a manly and fearless utterance of the great truths which underlie all poetry, and constitute the very essence of all that is heroic and beautiful in humanity; nay, which go to make up all our ideas of that Divine Nature whose throne is established in justice. He claimed for his race equal rights with their white brothers, and showed conclusively that as slavery is the cause of the war, so only freedom can put an end to the war. His logic was irresistible, and he completely swept away that net-work of sophistry which has entangled so many, catching even Henry Ward Beecher in its web, that as slavery is constitutional; therefore it cannot be abolished constitutionally. He said he trusted less to the virtue of the North than to the villany of the South, and that the government would yet be brought to a position where, instead of catching fugitive slaves, it would arm them.
But it is not in a lecture such as this that Frederick Douglass shows his greatest power-that he is really himself. At the close of the meeting at Tremont Temple, he went directly to Rev. Mr. Grimes's church, on Southac street, which was packed to its utmost capacity to receive him. Here the exuberance of his nature found expression in the glowing imagery of his imaginative race; his wit and drollery were inimitable; and his rollicking good humor, blended with a vein of pathos, took all hearts captive.
A.F.R.
COLORED YOUTH IN BOSTON SCHOOLS.
At the meeting of the Boston School Committee, on Tuesday last, Charles W. Slack, Chairman of the Everett School, embodied in his quarterly report the following allusion to the colored children of this city in the public schools. It will be remembered that Mr. Slack submitted the report and bill to the Legislature of 1855, by which ï¿½separate schools" were abolished in this State:-
"Six years have elapsed since the Legislature abrogated the last distinction which this State has made in the education of her children-the separate colored school; and though Boston was the last to come under the sway of this advancing idea, she seems destined to be the first to bestow an appreciative meed upon the deserving colored child. Within this period, a new generation of colored youth has risen to receive the great boon of impartial school education; and it has been witnessed with satisfaction, that a colored girl of the Bowdon School was designated, two years since, a prominent medal scholar, and that one of the 
brightest of the graduates of the Phillips School, a colored boy, was received with commendation into the English High School at the annual examination, the same year. Elsewhere, with gradual but steady progress, this race is reaching forward for the highest prizes of academic honor. In the Everett School, there are some six or eight of these children. A recent gathering in the hall of the school-house showed, on one side of the room, a white slave girl ransomed a few years since, through the efforts of a Massachusetts Senator, and on the other, a sable daughter of one of the isles of the Southern Ocean, while between were youth of almost every nation and clime-Celt and Teuton, African and Asiatic-in happy emulation with the children of our more favored Anglo-Saxon race That they were taught without prejudice, each stimulated by a proper competition with the other, and all cordially welcomed to the advantages of our inestimable system, it is not necessary that I should here assert."
MUNICIPAL ELECTION
The annual choice of municipal officers took place in this city on Monday last, and Boston again disgraced herself by the re-election of her mob-inciting and lawless Mayor, Joseph M. Wightman-he receiving 6765 votes, and Edward S. Tobey, Esq 5795-Wightman's plurality being 970 although his relative loss, compared with last year's vote, is upwards When 2000. which affords some satisfaction, at least  When the result was ascertained, the partisans of the Mayor gathered at the City Hall, and clamored for his appearance. He soon came out on the balcony, and made a meanly characteristic harangue, in the course of which he said-
"Your suffrages have stamped the seal of disapprobation upon the vile slanders and falsehoods of the Abolition press, which has tried to destroy, by poison and malice, that which they could not accomplish by any other means."
Theï¿½ Abolitionï¿½ press here referred to, means the Daily Advertiser, the Transcript, and the Traveller! Abolition, forsooth! What impudence and slang! As to the charge made against the Mayor by those journals, of extravagance in the use of the city funds by sundry ï¿½junketings," &c., and of misdirection of certain charitable donations, (intended for our own sick and wounded soldier,) for the benefit.of the rebel prisoners at Fort Warren, we had nothing to say. Our issue was of a wholly different nature-relating exclusively to his infamous conduct last December and January, in regard to freedom of speech and the safety of public meetings-an issue which none of the papers alluded to had the courage to refer to at all, probably thinking it politic not to do so.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
CONFISCATION OF SLAVES.
EDITOR LIBERATOR:
Will you or any good lawyer please inform the reader how the act of Congress for the confiscation of slaves actually engaged in rebellious service can to any material extent. be operative, when the ownership and every identical act of such slaves, under such a vague law, must be proved? To instance: Who threw up the embankments and fortifications around Charleston harbor from which issued the firs shot to shatter our national flag, and which served to thwart any effort to relieve the handful of brave and faithful men who would fain defend that flag of the well-tried ship "Union," even to the point of starvation, rather than trust themselves to so leaky and treacherous a craft as a" Southern Confederacy"? Who amassed the extensive earthy battlements in the face of Fort Pickens, with the same designs to baffle and destroy its defenders?. Who dug the trenches and threw up the its three or four miles of masked batteries between Fair fax and Manassas, to say nothing of Vienna, Big Bethel and the line of the Potomac, which have repelled our troops. It is a fact not to be denied, that this immense labor, for the most part, was performed by slaves. One of the first persons who escaped from the enemy into our ranks at the battle of Bull Run was a slave, who informed that there were whole regiments of slaves engaged behind the batteries in loading and manning the guns, in waiting upon and supplying the enemy with food and water, and in doing all the laborious drudgery, while the enemy were thus relieved and husbanding their strength to perform more effectually the nicer stratagems of warfare, and without which slave labor the enemy could not have been so well drilled and prepared for war. 
Now, it is but the conclusion of common sense, that if we cannot reach the enemy, we cannot take the identical slaves employed in the aforesaid service, and in the mean time, they (the slaves) will or may be employed in the same kind of rebellious labor in hundreds or thousands of different places. The same slaves that today are engaged in building a fort or mounting a gun, may to-morrow be engaged in the "loyal" service of hoeing corn or adding to the material power of" King Cotton," at whose sovereign command we from the beginning have been threatened," England is to break the blockade." If raising food and cotton for the rebels, while they are drilling, is regarded as "loyal" service, and we know that there may be seasons when even these may be employed in rebellious work, how are they to be taken, in the very act? who is to inform the government and prove the time-the work-their identity and their ownership-whether they have been forced into such service from Union-loving masters, or whether they belong to genuine, "Simon-Pure" rebels?
How is the Federal Government ever to assort and select out the slaves who have performed the work which has thus far proved an obstacle, if not the very means of defeat, to our armies? and how are we to know and point out the individual slaves and their masters, whether they are loyal men or not, who are now at this very hour employed in making forts and defences in Virginia, on the Atlantic and Gulf coast, and along the Mississippi from the Ohio to the Balize, and directly and indirectly in rebellious works, as in foundries, workshops, etc., throughout the entire South? For the risk or fear of freeing one slave belonging to one loyal master, who has at no time been engaged in rebellious work, (as raising cotton, wheat and hemp, even for rebels, is not deemed rebellious though the ability of a rebel to live without food and raiment has not as yet been proved,) are we not only not to meddle with, but by force of our arms to keep in the bonds of slavery nine slaves belonging to nine rebellious masters, who at this very moment 
may be, or who at some time or other may have been used in rebellious labor, either directly or indirectly? Before we could reach and catch and prove such slaves as are only engaged in specific acts to the aid of rebellion, their appointed evil work for our destruction may all be done, and they hypocritically be directed to seemingly loyal business; and thus the present law of confiscation, where and when it would be of any advantage to our cause, would fatally remain a dead letter!
The fact of it is, the rebels (and those who are not rebels in slavedom are" like angels' visits, few and far between") are most earnestly and desperately united to break up this government, on the principle of" rule or ruin," and it should be deemed necessary to throw out of the way every obstacle (whether it may be a stone wall or a slave) to our earliest and most certain success, and by so doing, with the least sacrifice of precious lives and property. We are fighting an enemy that is pursuing and will continue to pursue an ambuscade, Indian mode of warfare, behind bushes, trees and entrenchments, and in all their conduct are not one whit less, but even more savage, as instanced by their’ firing hospitals and murdering our wounded men, the burning and sawing apart of railroad bridges to precipitate into one common destruction men, women and children, and most barbarously lynching peaceable citizens, who will not unite in their Satanic cause. And are we to prolong a war with such an enemy (who have heretofore been the sole aggressors, and who burglariously began the war merely because their evil course was checked) by the strictest and most scrupulous observance of every technicality of law, while the same traitorous enemy, in practising such a mode of warfare, scruples not to violate, every constitutional and humane law to effectuate the ruin of the benign government which has ever acted the part of a careful paternal protector on every, side of their vast domain? And by the careful guardianship of a certain sacred “institution," on the touch not and perhaps taste not policy, are we compelled to send forth our young men in still greater myriads to bring these remorseless rebels into subjection to the laws, while at the same time they are using this same" sacred institution" to subserve their base purposes to overcome us?
If, then, the present slave confiscation act is practically a nonentity, and slavery is an obstacle in the way of our armies in extinguishing this causeless rebellion, and of the final preservation of this Republic, by which as one nation we have prospered beyond all others, is not the Fremont policy, both in a military and political point of view, of the confiscation of all slaves of all rebels, the least that should be adopted; and if there should be such a" misfortune" as the inclusion of the slaves of tried and proved loyal men, that they should be paid for? The burden of proof certainly rests far easier on the loyal master than for our side to prove the ownership and to trace out the specific acts of rebellious labor of individual slaves. Then again, in a civilized and humane point of view, will there not be a rather better phase? for as the acts of Congress now stand, as proclaimed by the President, rebel masters are allowed the priority to hold property in human beings (not actually caught in rebellious labor) over and above that of all goods, chattels, wares and merchandise, whether coming from or going into the disloyal States, and whether belonging to rebellious or loyal owners, and all ships and vessels belonging in whole or in part to any citizen or inhabitant of any of said States, found at sea or in any part of the United States, as the same will be forfeited to the United States." In accordance with this law, vessels in whole or part belonging to the seceded States, engaged in the most peaceful and loyal business, as for instance, the bringing coal from Philadelphia or salt from Cadiz to our Northern ports, are, confiscated. This will do very well if human chattels are placed on the same footing, at any rate, as far as relates to openly confessed and plotting rebels; for to make slaves exceptional to the general rule is, in a mere moral point of view, practically making slaves more soulless than ships or cattle, and in a military point of view, the severe lessons of Fort Sumter, Vienna, Big Bethel, Pensacola and Bull Run, (which were surely" most potent arguments,") remain unheeded and profitless, with the probability to be followed as our armies march into the intricate South, by still severer experiences of a similar sort, when
<c02>
encountering the ever hidden and entrenched mode of warfare of the rebels, who will be aided as with active allies by at least a half million of the four millions of slaves, without any essential measures of prevention or protest on our part, but, on the contrary, apparently with the most complacent encouragement and consent. Therefore we say again, EVERY OBSTACLE should be cleared away, to the early and most complete overthrow of a most unprovoked, unscrupulous, unmerciful rebellion for the overthrow of the most precious and sacred rights of man, as have been fully tested and proved by their enjoyment for a period of eighty years, and to the envy and aspiration of all observant nations.
GENERAL OBSERVER.
THE CAUSE OF THE WAR 
MR. EDITOR:
Questioning, lately, certain persons of every political complexion, and degree of intelligence, whom I chanced to meet with, as to what, in their opinion, was the cause and meaning of the present war, what its probable results would be, &c., I received, in the way of reply, every conceivable reason, running up and down the scale of sense and nonsense, and in a manner
"From grave to gay, from lively to severe." 
Answering, as each questioner did, from his own stand-point, I was the recipient of a greater variety of opinion than I could conveniently digest. I noticed, however, they all possessed in common this singular trait-indefiniteness; indeed, in this respect alone was there any similarity, the only sense in which they resembled each other. Thinking upon so unusual a circumstance with regard to what, as individuals, we have and hold such decided opinions, and, as we fondly trust, such well-established views, the mystery seemed all the deeper and darker that none were able to determine, with any measure of success, what Government really purposes to do. Can you, my dear sir, inform me whether the" powers that be" have been acting upon any settled line of policy-and, if so, what it is? 
What do the people know as to the real intentions of the administration in regard to this war? Do the Cabinet see their way, as to the removal of the cause of it? Is it known, by anybody, whether they have any clearly defined plan of procedure, commensurate with the spirit of the age and the demands of the times? What does government mean to do with the subject of slavery? Is it not evident they intend to disturb it as little as possible-virtually to let it alone, if the people will permit it? 
My faith in the future, in a general sense, is unlimited; in another and a special sense, it rests upon the efforts put forth by man in the present. Hence, I do not consider the cause of the slave so hopeful to-day as some of your correspondents, nor do I see that cause for rejoicing which many of the more prominent friends of freedom have publicly expressed. I read the signs of the times somewhat differently. If our soldiers are not to go into winter quarters, as has been semi-officially announced, and if it is fully determined to break the back of this rebellion before many more weeks roll away, will not the Union be likely to remain as it is, or rather as it has heretofore? Even if not so, the way will be again open for reconciliation and further compromise-and the golden opportunity of settling, or hastening the settlement of this paramount question of the age, the only practical subject for constant consideration by our people, will be again indefinitely postponed; and again will our hearts be made sick by having our hopes again deferred. If such is to be our experience, after so favorable a combination of circumstances as this war has developed, each in turn tending to facilitate affairs, and bring events to a most desirable crisis; if, after the very object of all our toiling is within our reach, we decline to put forth and pluck the ripened fruit; if, when the blessed boon of Freedom seeks admittance to our dwellings, we deliberately refuse her entrance; when the greatest of national blessings is vouchsafed to us, and we go out of our way to avoid accepting it; if, when the path to Peace, and the right-of-way to Justice is open to us, and we perversely refuse to walk therein; if, after all our windings, wanderings, journeyings, we are permitted to enter the Promised Land, and yet idolatrously turn aside; if we continue to insult the very favors of Providence, as it were-trampling upon our heaven-bestowed principles-we justly deserve to become a warning to all other nations, and God himself ought never to forgive us!
While the cause of the slave will necessarily receive a mighty impetus, growing out of our present difficulties, the fruition of the friends of freedom, I fear, will be delayed till another rising of the tide.
I look in vain for any vital earnestness on the part of President Lincoln and his Cabinet to wage this war for the maintenance of a principle; on the contrary, their public proclamations, private professions, and only rallying. cry, has been merely-to preserve the Union intact-and everybody knows what this means.
Notwithstanding the feeling is daily increasing, on the part of the Federal army, everywhere, in favor of emancipation, and the miraculous conversion of well-known zealous Conservatives, Democrats, Hunkers, et id omne genus, in New England, in the Middle and Western States-together with the official instruction from the War Department-I fear the friends of freedom, anti-slavery men everywhere, are doomed to bitter disappointment. I cannot, perhaps, satisfactorily say why-I can only record my impressions and convictions, and let them stand as a warning. May my fears prove groundless!
Boston, Dec, 2, 1861. G. A. B.
WHAT WILL THE END BE?
MR. EDITOR:
When the country was startled by, the report of the fall of Fort Sumter, seven months ago, with the sense of indignation came also a secret joy, that the wanton and unprovoked attack had rendered all further compromise impossible. It seemed to me that the North, aroused from its lethargy of three-quarters of a century's growth, and awakened to a sense of the diabolical schemes of the slaveholding conspirators, would demand of its leaders to strike a death-blow to the prime cause of the gigantic rebellion: but spring lengthened into summer without any decisive blow being struck. Then I said, When Congress assembles, it will lose no time in abolishing slavery. But Congress met, and adjourned; summer passed, and autumn came; and now autumn is almost gone, and still nothing has been done towards closing the war, by adopting the only means that can ever end it. Still fugitives are sent back, despite the action of Congress; and the administration seems inclined to turn the whole grand army into a posse for catching and returning slaves. So far the public action has retrograded, instead of advancing. Up to date, the greatest anxiety of the President and Cabinet seems to have been, how to preserve slavery intact; and any injury which has been done to the institution, or any benefit extended to individual slaves, has been done contrary to the wishes of the administration, or at least without its orders. In all this truckling and political huckstering there would be no gleam of hope, were it not manifest that slowly, hesitatingly and unwillingly the administration was yielding to the demands of the people; and that the people were becoming educated by the atrocious spirit of slavery, which this war is rapidly evolving. But there is hope for the slave, and for the country, in the growing sentiment of anti-slavery throughout the North. There is abundant reason to rejoice when such men as Dickinson and Cochrane so far recognize the humanity of the colored race as to propose to arm them. And yet the utterances of such men are but straws to show which way the wind blows. Thousands and tens of thousands of men, who one year ago had decided pro-slavery feelings, mummies of the Bell-Everett party, and hyenas
<c03>
of the Breckinridge party, men who cared nothing about slavery, and men who believed it to be a" divine institution," now say, "Let slavery perish!" “Wipe it out!" The masses care not how much Seward longs for the White House, or what principle of humanity he is ready to sacrifice to attain the object of his ambition, they love their country, and mean that it shall be saved. They hate slavery for the crimes it is committing against the country, and mean that it shall die. We to the aspirant who comes between slavery and the people; he will be ground to powder. An aspiring Cabinet may remove those who come between it and the object of its hopes; it will not be the first time in history that men have been hurled into oblivion by the very means by which they thought to raise themselves to glory and power. We know that the popular heart beats true for freedom by the shock of pain and indignation that ran through the length and breadth of the land upon the modification of Fremont's proclamation, and his subsequent removal. It matters not whether he had expended money lavishly or not, or that he has chosen some officers that the administration do not consider suitable the popular mind associates his removal with the modification of his proclamation, and the deeds he did for Freedom.
Whether the Government intends it or not, the developments of the times hasten the doom of the demon, slavery; and the inevitable result must be its entire overthrow. The Christian sentiments of the civilized world demand it; all the dictates of humanity demand it; the terrible necessities of this nation, rent in sunder, demand it; and the people are rapidly coming to demand it. All these combined forces cannot be withstood. Such an end will be glorious. Such an end will amply repay those who have striven against slavery for thirty years; and, too, it will repay those who are fighting against it now. When the foul vampyre, which, for seventy years, has been drawing the life-blood of this nation, shall be killed, the people will do justice to those who, for thirty years, have stood on the watch-towers and of warned them of their danger; then they will admit that, though hating the blood-stained Constitution, and sternly rebuking every villanous administration, and detesting the Government in all its relations to the colored race, the Abolitionists loved the country better than they all. M. L. WHITTEN.
Etna, (Me.) Nov. 17, 1861.

TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.
WORCESTER, Dec. 7,1861.
At a meeting of the Anti-Slavery and Temperance Society, the following resolutions were passed:
Whereas, by the will of an all-wise Providence, FRANCIS JACKSON of Boston, a devoted friend of the slave and the oppressed, one of Freedom's noblest champions, whose door was ever open to the fleeing fugitive, and whose purse was never closed upon the poor, has been removed from among the living to a rest from his labors-to his rewards, richer than man can bestow; therefore,
Resolved, That this Society most deeply sympathize with the friends of humanity, freedom and equality, in the loss of one of their most devoted advocates.
Resolved, That for his untiring devotions, his ready pen, his willing voice, his fortune and his life-all of which he freely gave in defence of the rights of his fellow-man-he is deserving of a reward so great that none can repay.
Voted, That a copy of these resolutions be sent to the family of the deceased, and also to the Daily Spy, (Worcester,) for publication.
Per order, ISAAC MASON, President.
A. E. PERRY, Scc'y.
CONGRESSIONAL PROCEEDINGS.
In the U. S. Senate, on Monday last-
Mr. Sumner presented several petitions from citizens of Rhode Island and Vermont, calling on Congress under the war power to legislate on the subject of
the emancipation of the slaves of rebels.
Mr. Collamer presented several petitions of the same character.
The President of the Senate also presented a petition from citizens of Wisconsin of the same character. All the petitions were referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
Mr. Sumner presented a resolution, that all memorials and papers on the files of the Senate, relating to the recognition of Liberia and Hayti, be taken from the files, and referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Agreed to.
Mr. Clark offered a resolution requesting the Marshal of the District to inform the Senate by what authority he keeps slaves of the District in Jail because they are refractory. Agreed to.
On motion of Mr. Fessenden, it was resolved that the Committee on the District of Columbia be requested to report the number of fugitive slaves that have been confined in the Government jail in Washington, during the last one and a half years, by whom claimed, whether any of these fugitives have been returned to their claimants, by what authority, and to whom, and also specifying what number, if any, have been returned-since the order of Secretary Seward in reference to alleged fugitives, to whom and by whom delivered.
In the House of Representatives-
Mr. Lovejoy, of Illinois, introduced the following point resolution:-
Resolved, That the Secretary of War be requested to revoke the first section of the general order dated Nov., 26th, 1861, of Major General Halleck, commanding the Western division of the army.
The section alluded to in the above resolution is as follows:-" As it has been represented that information of the number of our army and condition of our affairs has been conveyed to the enemy by means of fugitive slaves who have been allowed to enter the lines, therefore, in order to remedy the evil, no such persons shall hereafter be permitted to enter the lines of the army, and any now within them shall be excluded therefrom." 
Mr. Cox, of Ohio, moved to lay the resolution on the table, which was disagreed to, yeas 63, nays 68.
Mr. Lovejoy then moved the previous question.
Mr. Olin, of New York, moved that the House adjourn. Lost by a large majority.
Mr. Lansing, of New York, offered a substitute, characterizing the order of Gen. Halleck as inhuman and cruel, and respectfully requests the President to direct Gen. Halleck to recall said order, and cause him (Halleck) to conform to the practice in other departments of the army. 
Mr. Lovejoy accepted the substitute, and the subject was postponed.
A bill was offered repealing acts and parts of acts authorizing the commitment of negroes as runaways, and being sold to pay expenses, &c., and to punish for such practices.
A bill confiscating the property of rebels, and liberating and colonizing their slaves, was referred to the Military Committee.
A bill abolishing slavery in the District of Columbia was referred.
The traitor John C. Breckinridge has been expelled from the Senate-yeas 36, nays none.
Mr. Stevens, of Penn., has modified his resolution so as to read that there can be no solid and permanent Union so long as slavery exists, and that all slaves be proclaimed free, full compensation to be made to loyal masters.
Gov. Moore, of Louisiana, reviewed on the 24th ult. a force of 28,000 soldiers, among whom were 1400 fine colored men. Just think of a Northern Governor reviewing a regiment of colored Unionists! It would be denounced as" abolitionism" here. It is the sole prerogative of the rebels to employ colored men. Sambo may in the rebel ranks shoot down our soldiers, but he must not be permitted to shoot down theirs. There's logic for you! This is pursuing folly for the sake of being foolish.-Salem Observer.
The Richmond Enquirer contains an advertisement for three hundred negro men-slaves or freemen -to be employed in the construction of military roads for the use of the army of the Potomac. Twenty dollars per month, and one ration per day, are offered to each man.
Thirty-one "contrabands" have arrived in Washington. Many of them were women and children, and were brought over from Mathias Point by Col. Graham during his recent reconnoissance. The men among them were employed as laborers. These slaves had been deserted by their masters, and were in a destitute condition when discovered by our troops.
John Tyler's house, near Hampton, Va., which. is large and well built, now comfortably shelters a large number of contraband negroes. That house was never put to such good uses before.
<c04>
EXCITEMENT IN ROCKPORT, MASS.
A correspondent (says the Boston Herald) writing from Rockport, informs us that on Sunday evening last, the notorious Parker Pillsbury was allowed the use of the Church to deliver a lecture therein, although-the permission was objectionable to a large portion of the congregation. The excitement attending the delivery of the lecture is described by our correspondent, as follows:-
"The speaker began his remarks in the usual style. He had said but little, however, and was finishing an appeal to fathers and brothers on the Potomac's shore, exposed to the shot and bombs of the enemy,' when a fire-ball was thrown directly through the window, breaking the glass in its passage, and falling into a pew; and though at first it caused some alarm, under the soothing influence of the speaker, it soon subsided. Soon after a peculiar 'fiz' was heard, and a light wreath of smoke began to ascend, when some one exclaimed,. ’A bomb!' Instantly a stampede took place, women, men and boys struggling to gain the doors, and a scene of the wildest terror was enacted. One person jumped on to the offensive article, crowding it together, when a small quantity of powder exploded, filling the church with smoke and a very peculiar odor, not to be described.
This, of course, did not do much towards making things agreeable, but as the audience was not over-delicate, they managed to hear him out. Some damage was done to the church in the shape of pew doors unhinged, &c., but nothing of much account. A kerosene lamp was broken, doing some damage, which, with bruises and contusions, made up the list of damages. The audience was small, or the rush would have been attended with serious results. The affair is very unfortunate for this Society, as it has disaffected a large number of parishioners, some of whom commenced on Monday morning to strip their pews of cushions and books. There was probably no riot intended, but all through the day an uneasy feeling prevailed, which showed that there needed but a slight provocation to bring one on."
The Anti-Slavery cause and its advocates have had, from the beginning till now, naturally and instinctively arrayed against them the low, abandoned, lawless and cowardly-to their praise and credit. The time is coming when "the notorious Parker Pills-bury" will be remembered with honor, and classed among the truest of patriots and best of citizens.
THE SLAVE TRADE PENALTY.
It must be a cause of rejoicing in every truly Christian heart that we have now a government under which this vile traffic is meeting a check, and those engaged in it beginning to taste its due penalties. A trial of Capt. Gordon, of the slaver Erie, has been sometime pending in New York. It has resulted in his conviction, and agreeably to the provisions of the law, he is sentenced to be hung.
Judge Nelson made a very impressive address in announcing the verdict. After recounting the horrors of the middle passage, and picturing the crimes flowing from the traffic, he thus concludes the sentence:-
" As you are soon to pass into the presence of that God of the black man as well as the white man who is no respecter of persons, do not indulge for a moment the thought that He hears with indifference the cry of the humblest of his children. Do not imagine that because others shared in the guilt of this enterprise, yours is thereby diminished; but remember the awful admonition of your Bible' Though hand join in hand, the wicked shall not go unpunished.' Turn your thoughts toward Him who alone can pardon, and who is not deaf to the supplications of these who seek His mercy. It remains only to pronounce the sentence which the law affixes to your crime, which is, that you be taken back to the City Prison, whence you were brought, and remain there until Friday, the seventh day of February next, and then and there, the place of execution, between the hours of twelve o'clock at noon and three o'clock in the afternoon on that day, you be hanged by the neck until you are dead, and may the Lord have mercy upon your soul."
Another case has been before the court in this State. A man by the name of Samuel P. Skinner, has been for some time past working in this business in New Bedford, either on his own hook, or playing into the hands of one Oak smith, of New York. We are glad to know that his career is stopped at last. Having been convicted of fitting out the" Margaret Scott," of which he was owner, as a slaver, he was brought up on Friday before Judge Clifford, of the U. S. Court, for sentence. A motion for arrest of judgment was argued and overruled, and sentence of $1000 fine, and five years imprisonment in Taunton jail, was imposed. -Christian Register.
LETTER TO GENERAL M'CLELLAN FROM
WILLIAM H. SEWARD.
No More Slave-Catching for Rebels-Confiscation Practically Illustrated-Negro-Hunters to be Punished.
The following order has been issued from the State Department:-
DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, Dec. 4, 1861.
To Major-General George B. McClellan, Washington:
GENERAL: I am directed by the President to call your attention to the following subject: Persons claimed to be held to service or labor under the laws of the State of Virginia, and actually employed in hostile service against the Government of the United States, frequently escape from the lines of the enemy's forces, and are received within the lines of the army of the Potomac. This Department understands that such persons, afterward coming into the City of Washington, are liable to be arrested by the City Police, upon the presumption arising from color, that they are fugitives from service or labor, by the fourth section of the act of Congress, approved August 6, 1861, entitled an act to confiscate property used for insurrectionary purposes, such hostile employment is made a full and sufficient answer to any further claim to service or labor. Persons thus employed and escaping are received into the military protection of the United States, and their arrest as fugitives from labor or service should be immediately followed by the military arrest of the parties making the seizure.
Copies of this communication will be sent to the Mayor of the City of Washington, and to the Marshal of the District of Columbia, that any collision between the military and civil authorities may be avoided. I am, General, your very obedient servant,
WILLIAM H. SEWARD.
REBEL HATRED. The following letter from a celebrated Kentucky character exhibits the fiendish hatred of a rebel:-
" ABINGTON, Va., Oct. 2, 1861. My Dear Wife,- I have left you and our children in the land of the despot; but God grant that I may soon be able to make the Union men of Kentucky feel the edge of my knife. From this day I hold every Union traitor as my enemy, and from him I scorn to receive quarter, and to him I will never grant my soul in death; for they are cowards and villains enough. Brother Henry and I arrived here without hindrance. I have had chills all the way, but I hope to live to kill forty Yankees for every chill that I ever had. I learn that Hardee is still in the Arkansas lines inactive, and if it proves to be true, I will tender my resignation and go immediately to Kentucky I hope that I will do my duty as a rebel and a freeman. Since I saw the Union men of Kentucky I intend to begin the work of murder in earnest, and if ever I spare one of them, may hell be my portion. I want to see Union blood flow deep enough for my horse to swim in.
Your husband, JAMES BLACKBURN."
ANTI-SLAVERY MEETING IN LENOX, OHIO. The adjourned meeting on Friday last was well attended, and a very interesting discussion was had upon the form of a petition for the abolition of slavery. The question at issue was, whether a compensation should be proposed for emancipated slaves, or that unconditional emancipation be asked for. After a very full and earnest discussion, the following form of petition was decided upon, and adopted by an almost unanimous vote of the meeting:-
PETITION.
To the Congress of the United States:
The undersigned, citizens of Ashtabula county, State of Ohio, -
Believing that slavery is the original and real cause of the present rebellion, and that the country can have no reliable peace so long as slavery exists, respectfully petition your honorable body immediately to institute measures for the speedy termination of slavery throughout the country.
And whereas, the whole colored population are to become sharers with us in the liberties and rights for which we are contending, we ask you to have ablebodied colored men received as volunteers to aid us in arms, in crushing this wicked rebellion, and restoring peace to our land.
Col. Turchin, of the 19th Illinois, at Elizabeth-town, Ky., is in command of a brigade composed of his own regiment, the 18th Ohio, and the 37th Indiana. A member of the 37th, writing of their march through Elizabethtown, says:-
" A venerable daughter of Ham was so enchanted with the music and the appearance of the troops that, pacing up and down, she cleared a space of about ten feet, by swinging her arms, shouting, ‘Dar comes de Unionists! Bress de Lord for de Unionists! I jes knows de Unionists! gwine to gain de day! Glory to de Lord!'" Everybody laughed, but I said within myself,' Dinah, you're a twitting on facts’ “
<c05>
THE REJECTED STONE, OR INSURRECTION vs. RESURRECTION IN AMERICA, by a native of Virginia, (Walker, Wise & Co., Boston; James Miller, New York,) is the title of a very able and trenchant pamphlet-perhaps the best, on the whole, which the war has brought forth-advocating the overthrow of slavery as the only legitimate or possible mode of ending the present cruel and sanguinary war. Its chapters have piquant headings. It is copiously illustrated by classical references, bits of history, anecdotes of biography, Scripture allusions, gems from all literature; and it keeps the morale of the question clear of cotton-bags, money-tills, and caucuses. The ground taken by the writer will seem to be extreme, to many; but time and reverses, and the grand march of thought, are effecting numerous and rapid conversions; and the time is not far distant when the great American people will tolerate no more delay or faltering, but will demand that a death-blow, full and final, shall be struck, not only at this rebellion, but at all future possible rebellions, by prostrating to the earth that pestilent tree from which this poison of treason has been distilled. The pamphlet will everywhere be read with eager interest, as coming from a son of the" Old Dominion."-N. Y. Christian Inquirer. 
FREMONT'S BODY-GUARD. A correspondent of the New School Presbyterian writes respecting the Body Guard of Fremont, who routed the rebels at Spring-field, Mo., as follows:-
" This corps is composed of the elite of the land; and it contains young men from nearly all the Northern States, East and West. Seven of them are from Virginia; and almost a whole company of them came from Kentucky. I have been with them daily for about three months past, and a more orderly, sober and excellent set of young men I have seldom seen. Many of them are members of Christian churches, and sprung from choice families. A great portion of them are well educated, cultivated and promising young men. They have spent days and nights, the past three months, in fatiguing drills on foot and horse-back. And their late glorious success is only the fair meed of merit in themselves and their accomplished officers."
HENRY WINTER DAVIS ON THE WAR.. This gentleman gave a lecture, in Brooklyn, on Tuesday evening last, when he ventilated his views on the war. In the course of his remarks he alluded, in sneering tones, to the deeds of manumission signed by John C. Fremont. This was greeted with applause, hisses, and a few cries of" Shame." Then a voice in the audience called out for" Three cheers for John C. Fremont," which were given with a heartiness which apparently somewhat surprised Mr. Davis. He believed that ample power had been given Government to deal with the rebellion in any emergency that had or might arise, without transcending the Constitution.
SERVED'EM RIGHT. We refer to the two deputy marshals and one slave hunter, who caught a colored man near Delaware City, Kansas, on the 9th ult., and attempted to return him to his rebel owner in Platte county, Missouri. Having secured their prey, the trio crossed the river, but had scarcely reached the Missouri shore when they were set upon by a party of armed Secessionists, who exclaimed -"Shoot the d-d Jayhawkers!" Tableau: A volley fired' by the Missourians; slave catcher receives a charge of buck-shot in his breast and face; deputy marshals run away, and are pursued by Missourians, whose horses unfortunately get mired in a quick-sand; colored party breaks for the river, and swims across." Shoot the d-d Jayhawkers!"-Chicago Tribune.
EMANCIPATION LEAGUE.. A society has just been established in this city under this title, the object of which is declared to be in the Constitution," to urge upon the people and the government emancipation of the slaves as a measure of justice and as a military necessity; it being the shortest, cheapest, and least bloody path to permanent peace, and the only way of maintaining the integrity of the nation." The funds of the League are to be expended under the direction of an Executive Board," for the promotion of this object by publications, lectures, circulars, petitions to Congress, and other such means as they may deem proper and useful." The officers will be chosen as soon as a reasonable number of names are signed to the constitution. A similar society has lately been organized in New York, and the movement, unless frustrated by events, seems likely to attain considerable importance. -Boston Traveller. 
There are two remarkable instances of the character of our Northern troops that are worth noticing, which have recently come under observation, in regard to the troops sent South with the great expedition. This first is the fact that there were sent to New York from Port Royal 15,000 letters, being, on an average, one letter to each soldier. We venture to say that in no army of the world is there such a degree of intelligence and social and intellectual refinement, as in the hosts of freedom gathered, from the Northern States. The other fact, as creditable to their hearts as the former is to their heads, is that they have already been paid $300,000, and have sent home to their wives and children more than two-thirds of this sum. With such men, intelligent and loving, never forgetting the ties which bind them to their homes in the Northern States, who can doubt of the final issue of the great question now in process of solution?-N. Y. Tribune.
WESTERN VIRGINIA. The Convention of Western Virginia has taken steps toward making that a free State. On the day the Convention met, the Wheeling Intelligencer said:-
"We do not wish to be connected any longer with the miserable one-idea negro policy that has cursed us all the days of our lives thus far. That policy is always arrogant, selfish and absorbing. It hangs upon the steps of progress, and hobbles both its feet. We have had enough of it. We have had a sore experience. Let us not repeat the folly. Let us have a natural State."
The Wilmington (Del.) State Journal, after referring to the movement in Maryland to abolish slavery, adds:-
"People of Delaware, how much longer will you be content to linger in the deadly shadow which slavery throws athwart your path to greatness and prosperity? How much longer will you permit the barbarous relic to hang like a millstone around your necks to drag you down to shame and reproach, when a single blow would hurl it from your presence, and raise our noble little State up to an equality of power and influence with her free sisters of the North?"
A correspondent of the Philadelphia Inquirer, writing from Fort Monroe, says:-
"Several hundred contrabands were to-day supplied with winter quarters near the Fortress. An immense frame building was erected, and the interior partitioned off in the manner of a steamboat cabin, with rough white pine berths. Ebony and chocolate-colored men and women took possession of these amidst a most terrible clatter. Each man shouldered his bed of straw husks, and marched through the door with the air of a hero, no doubt thanking the Government for having been so careful in providing accommodations.
Upwards of eighteen hundred contrabands are located in the neighborhood of Hampton. They receive rations from the Government, and do work in return. They are as happy, careless and easy as though all their life accustomed to the scenes of the present day. The houses which they occupy are in a miserable condition, and the health of the inmates is said not to be all that could be desired."
The annual report of the Phillips School, Boston, mentions a bequest from the late Charles F. Hovey, of a complete set of the Encyclopedia Brit-tanica to the library of said School.
The Charleston Mercury says Gen. Ripley has ordered every pound of cotton likely to fall into the hands of the enemy to be burned.
S. P. Sewell, a Yankee school teacher at Memphis, Tenn., has been arrested by the committee of safety as a person inimical to the South.

OBITUARY.
Died, in Coventry, (R. I.) Nov. 10th, after a lingering illness, CALES KILTON, in the 81st year of his age. He was a pioneer in the Anti-Slavery movement-was a member of the Convention which organized the Rhode Island Anti-Slavery Society in February, 1836, and was one of the directors. He was one of the fifteen subscribers to the Liberator in his vicinity about that time, and at his death, was one of the three that continued their subscriptions through the storm of 1840, and subsequent political and ecclesiastical trials. His faith was never shaken in the righteousness of the cause, not in the fidelity by which, it was conducted. Many of the Anti-Slavery agents and lecturers will long remember the Kilton family, which consisted, a few years ago, of the deceased and his six maiden sisters, all Abolitionists of the right stamp. They have been dropping away, one after the other, nearly in the order of their ages, until the two younger are all that remain.
P. C
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children. 
References,-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
<c06>
THE TWENTY EIGHTH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSURIPTION
ANNIVERSARY.
The time for the ANNUAL. SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY again draws nigh, and we look forward to it with pleasure, as the means of meeting familiar, friendly faces, and listening to earnest words of counsel and encouragement. Some say that other agencies are now in such active operation, that "the old Abolitionists," as they are called, can well afford to rest upon oars their oars, while others carry forward their work to its completion. We cannot view the subject in this light. Our mission is the same now that it was thirty years ago. Through many and strange changes, we have slowly but steadily advanced toward its fulfilment; but there are many indications that our work is not yet in a state to be safely left to other hands. We have been, and we must still be, a fire to warm the atmosphere of public opinion. More than a quarter of a century ago, the fire was kindled with generous zeal, and year after year it has been fed with untiring Industry and patience. Not all the cold water that politicians, merchants, and ecclesiastical bodies could throw upon it has sufficed to extinguish the flame, or even to prevent it from spreading. The moral thermometer can never again fall to the old freezing point. In view of this, we thank God, and take courage. But who that observes passing events, and reflects upon their indications, can arrive at the conclusion that the fire is no longer needed? 
It is true that blood and treasure are lavishly expended to put down a most wicked and sanguinary rebellion, the proclaimed purpose of which is to extend and perpetuate SLAVERY. But the government of the United States manifests, in every possible way, a vigilant carefulness to protect the claims of Slavery, and politicians are continually announcing that the war has nothing to do with the cause of the war. There are now very few slaveholders who condescend to profess allegiance to the government; yet, small as is the remnant of that powerful and unprincipled oligarchy, they still appear to govern the counsels of the nation. The honest expression of THE PEOPLE'S wishes is required to be suppressed, lest the utterance should prove offensive to this arrogant minority, so long accustomed to rule the majority. The people are full of generous enthusiasm for their country, If the polar star of a great idea were presented to them; they would follow it with eager courage through suffering and death. But it seems to be the aim of politicians to create a fog so dense that neither star nor sunlight shall glimmer through it to guide the millions, who are longing to be led in the right direction.
Is this a time to let the sacred fire smoulder on the altar of freedom? On the contrary, there has never been a time when it was more necessary to watch it with vigilance, and feed it with untiring activity. 
We, Abolitionists, still have unwavering faith that" a straight line is always the shortest, in morals as well as in mathematics." Politicians are always in need of being convinced of this obvious truth; and they are peculiarly in need of it now. Let us, then, continue to work for the good old cause in every way that is consistent with our own conscientious convictions. Let us meet together, that our hearts may be cheered and our hands strengthened for whatsoever work the God of the oppressed may call upon us to do.
All those who have faith in the principles of ree dom, all who believe that the effect of righteousness would be peace and security for our unhappy country, are cordially and earnestly invited to meet us at the usual time and place in Boston, in January next,. [Particulars hereafter.]
Contributions, and expressions of sympathy, from friends at home or abroad, in person or by letter, will be most thankfully received; for we have great need of both at this most momentous and trying crisis. 
L. Maria Child, Mary Willey,
Mary May, Ann Rebecca Bramhall, 
Louisa Loring, Sarah P. Remond,
Henrietta Sargent, Mary E. Stearns,
Sarah Russell May, Sarah J. Nowell,
Helen Eliza Garrison, Elizabeth Von Arnim,
Anna Shaw Greene, Anne Langdon Alger,
Sarah Blake Shaw, Eliza Apthorp,
Caroline C. Thayer, Sarah Cowing,
Abby Kelley Foster, Sarah H. Southwick,
Lydia D. Parker, Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Augusta G. King, Sarah C. Atkinson,
Mattie Griffith, Abby Francis,
Mary Jackson, Mary Jane Parkman,
Evelina A. Smith, Georgina Otis,
Caroline M. Severance, Abby H. Stephenson,
Elizabeth Gay, Abby F. Manley,
Katherine Earle Farnum. 
A. T. FOSS, an Agent of the American Anti-Slave Society, will speak in
Orland, Maine, Friday, Dec. 13.
Ellsworth,, Sunday, Dec. 15.
AARON M. POWELL, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at
Greenfield, Ulster Co., N. Y., Friday, Dec. 13.
Ellenville, Ulster Co., N. Y., Sunday, Dec. 15.
Homowack, Ulster Co., N. Y., Monday, Dec. 16.
Milton, Ulster Co., N. Y., Friday, Dec. 20.
Poughkeepsie, Ulster Co., N. Y., Sunday, Dec. 22.
NOTICE.-The Essex Co. Anti-Slavery Society will hold its quarterly meeting in the Silsbee Street Chapel, Lynn, on next Sunday afternoon and evening, (Dec. 15th,) commencing at 2 o'clock in the afternoon, and at half-past 6 o'clock in the evening.
WM. LLOYD GARRRISON, PARKER PILLSBURY, C. L. REMOND and others are expected to take part in the meeting. Let there be a cheering attendance.
C. LENOX REMOND, President.
LYDIA M. TENNY, Sec'y.
SOUTH DANVERS AND DANVERS.-PARKER PILLSBURY and CHARLES L. REMOND will address meetings in South Danvers, on Monday evening next, 16th inst., at the Town Hall; and on Wednesday evening, 18th inst., at the Town Hall in Danvers. Subject: The War- Its Myteries, and their Interpretations.
Meetings to commence at 7 o'clock.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will address the citizens of MILFORD, (Mass.) in the Town Hall, on Slavery and the War, on Friday evening, Dec.13th.
REV. DR. GEORGE B. CHEEVER, of New York, will preach at Tremont Temple, next Sunday evening, at half-past 7 o'clock. Subject: "Shall Slavery or the Country be destroyed?"
EMANCIPATION LEAGUE.-Hon. GEORGE S. BOURTWELL, will deliver the Inaugural Address before the Emancipation League, in Tremont Temple, on MONDAY EVENING, Dec. 16th, upon "The Justice, Expediency and Necessity of EMANCIPATION."
The doors will be open at half-past 6 o'clock. The Address will commence at half-past 7 o'clock.
The public are invited to attend.

PRIVATE TUITION.
IT having been deemed advisable to suspend, temporarily, the Hopedale Home School at the expiration of the present term, announcement is hereby made, that Mrs. A. B. HAYWOOD, one of the Principals, will be pleased to receive a few Young; Ladies into her family for Instruction in the English, Branches, French, Drawing and Painting,. and Music. The term will commence on WEDNESDAY, Jan. 1,1862, and continue FIFTEEN WEEKS. 
For particulars, please address 
ABBIN.B, HAYWOOD. 
Hopedale, Milford, Mass., Dec. 10, 1861.
Diseases of Women and Children.
WM. SYMINGTON BROWN, M. D., and
MRS. MARGARET B. BROWN, Accoucheuse,
HAVE opened an office at 274 Washington Street, Boston, and will devote special attention, to the treatment of the above diseases.
Office Hours, from10,A.M.,to 4,P. M. 
Boston, Oct 4,1861 
3m
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
TO THE MEMORY OF FRANCIS JACKSON.
"Oh! thy gentle smile of greeting,
Who again shall see?
Who, amidst the solemn meeting,
Gaze again on thee?
Who, when peril gathers o'er us,
Wear so calm a brow?
Who, with evil men before us,
So serene as thou? "
Passing away are the loved and the trusted,
Passing away to the spirit-land;
Earnest and faithful, with courage unfaltering,
How can they be spared from the noble band?
From that band who, 'gainst falsehood and wrong contending,
In the contest for freedom have still led the van,
And boldly proclaimed, while the nation derided,
The right of the vassal his manhood to claim:
But, alas! all unheeded the voice of their warning!
Our people believed not-they loosed not the chains-
Till now we are plunged in the red sea of carnage,
And the demon of war stalks abroad o'er our plains.
And now, when all earnest and true souls are needed,
To strive 'gainst the wrong, and the right to defend,
We shall miss thee, our brother, so brave and true-hearted,
Who wast ever the weak ones' defender and friend.
We shall miss thee: but sadly, more sadly, he'll mourn thee,
Thy brother, the bondman, who, fleeing for life,
Ever trusted in thee as a faithful protector,
When traitors betrayed him, and danger was rife.
And when in that land where the Lion of England
From our Eagle's strong talons has rescued the slave-
Where the man-hunter, baffled, in vain seeks his victim,
And the flag of Britannia for Freedom doth wave-
They shall hear the sad tidings, the tears of true sorrow
Will fall to thy memory, thou friend of their race!
And ne'er from their hearts, while the life-pulse is beating,
Will time, change, or distance, thine image efface.
Then, farewell to thee, brother! though no more we behold 
thee,
Or tread the rough paths of the world by thy side,
Yet we feel that thy spirit even now may be with us,
Since 'twas only the earth-form, the mortal, that died.
November, 1861. CARRIE.
For the Liberator.
LINES,
Written 2d Dec., 1859, on the Execution of John Brown.
Oh, day of doom! oh, day of fears!
Oh, day of wailing and of tears!
Day when th' oppressor's lawless hand
Shall execute his dire command;
Day when justice-right-have fled,
And Freedom, wailing, bows her head!
Day when the ruthless man of blood
Triumphant stands amid the flood
Of prayers, and sighs, and stifled groans,
Uprising in a thousand tones,
Which love and sympathy unite,
To recognize the common right
Which God hath given full and free-
The right of all to liberty!
Oh, day of gloom! oh, day of wrath!
Long will thy shade obscure the path
Of that tyrannic, evil power,
Which triumphs now, but for an hour!
Long will the page of history mourn
Thy solemn, sad, unblest return!
Long will the martyred hero's name
Flash on the eye with vivid flame,
And light a fire in every breast,
Ever to blaze till it find rest
In freedom for the poor oppressed!-
And strife, and woe, and wild commotion,
Fierce billows on life's stormy ocean,
Lash wildly till the sun of peace
Shall bid all strife and turmoil cease!
Oh, day of darkness and of woe!
When widow's tears, and orphans', flow;
Day of sorrow and of dread,
When bleeding hearts mourn for the dead;
Day of wrath and day of fears;
Day worthy of a nation's tears;
Day of strife, and day of gloom,
We leave thee to thy well-earned doom!
Ellsworth, Me. S. R. D.
For the Liberator.
LINES TO R. HINCHOLLIFFE,
In answer to " Is there Hope? "
Sweet bard! there's hope for liberty!
Thy own great heart must feel it;
The Muse, so dearly lov'd by thee,
Must to thy soul reveal it.
Poetic souls God's prophets are,
The watchmen on the tower;
They look into the future far-
Discern " the coming hour."
The blackness of Oppression's night
Is past-there comes the morning:
Behold the streaks of ruddy light!
Fair Freedom's day is dawning!
Then strike again thy tuneful lyre,
And sing in lofty numbers;
Let this grand truth thy soul inspire-
God's justice never slumbers!
G. N. ADAMS.
"The Coming Hour," a poem by Mr. Hinchcliffe, recited at an Anti-Slavery meeting in Reading. Will the author send it to the Liberator?
From the New York Independent.
TO CHARLES SUMMER
We thank thee, Sumner! Thou hast spoken the word
God gave to thy safe keeping; thou hast set
Life, Death, before the nation; thou hast hurled
Thy single pebble, plucked from Truth's pure stream,
Into the forehead of a Giant Wrong,
And he doth reel and tremble. Men may doubt,
But the keen Sword of Right shall finish well
Thy brave beginning.
Courage, then, true soul!
Not vainly hast thou spoken; angels heard,
And shook from their glad harps a gush of joy
That the One Word was uttered in men's ears,
The "Open Sesame" by which alone
True Freedom and true Peace might enter in,
Making earth like to heaven.
Then bide thy time;-
What thou hast spoken as 't were in the ear,
Shall be proclaimed on housetops. God locks up,
In his safe garner, every seed of Truth,
Until the time shall come to cast it forth,
Saying, "Be fruitful, multiply, and fill
The broad earth till it shouts its 'harvest-home.'"
His purposes are sure; who works with Him
Need fear no failure. By my hopes of heaven,
I'd rather speak one word for Truth and Right,
That God shall hear and treasure up for use
In working out his purposes of good,
Than clutch the title-deed that should insure
A kingdom to my keeping!-so, in faith,
I speak my simple word, and, fearing not,
Commit it to His hands, whom I do serve.
And thus it is, O friend, that I have dared
To send thee greeting and this word of cheer.
God bless thee, Sumner! and all souls like thine,
Working serene and patient in His cause;
God give thee of the fruit of thine own hands,
And let thine own works praise thee in the gates
Of the new city, whose foundation-stones
Thy hands are laying, though men see it not.
Fitchburg, Mass.
CAROLINE A. MASON.
ON SLAVE HUNTING.
General Hunter delivers up runaway rigs,
But confiscates a cow, mule, or grunter:
He had better be cautious in running such rigs,
Or he'll soon get the name of-" Slave Hunter!"
<c02>
The Liberator.
REPENTANCE ALONE CAN SAVE US.
Extracts from an impressive and faithful discourse preached in the Church of the Messiah, Syracuse, N. Y., on the National Fast Day, by Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY, from the following texts:-
ACTS I. 37.-Men and brethren, what shall we do to be saved? Repent.
ISAIAH LVIII. 6.-Loose the bands of wickedness, undo the heavy burdens, let the oppressed go free, break every yoke.
I have not the slightest expectation, now the spell of peace is broken, that it will ever be permanently restored between the slaveholding and non-slaveholding communities in this country, until this root of bitterness is extirpated; this fountain of discord dried up; this cause of war removed-slavery abolished. I dare not pray or wish peace should be restored upon any other condition. For, if it were, like " the dog to his vomit, or the sow to her wallowing," we should return to our iniquity, trampling upon the dearest rights, outraging the tenderest feelings of humanity. Then would the petty tyrants of the South rivet still stronger the chains upon their bondmen. Then would the Northerners bend again, and perhaps lower still, in compromises with the slaveholders; and the devoted friends and persistent advocates of human rights-of impartial liberty-would be more relentlessly persecuted than ever at the North, as well as at the South. No! no! Now that the leading slave States, notwithstanding the long forbearance, the mistaken indulgence, the criminal acquiescence, the too many and too great concessions of the free States, have, in their madness, taken the sword, (because they could not make the Republic wholly subservient to them,) let them perish by the sword, until they repent, quench the evil spirit-the fratricidal, parricidal passion, that has seized them; and agree to renounce that system of iniquity which has so long corrupted them and us; agree to abolish that " peculiar institution," for the sake of which they have sacrificed truth, honor, their plighted faith, and now seem eager to overturn our glorious Republic, the hope of the civilized world.
But the slaveholders will never see the necessity of abolishing slavery, so long as the General Government of the loyal States continues to uphold it for them. They will never feel the enormity of the sin of holding man as property, so long as our Republican Administration persists in treating it as the most sacred of all species of property-to be exempted even from that disposition which the necessities of war require us to make of men and things. How can we reasonably hope that victory will declare for our Northern armies, so long as they drive from their protection the wretched beings who fly to them from the despotism of the petty tyrants that have banded themselves together to overthrow our Republic; or, so long as they scornfully repulse the aid of the willing hearts and stalwart limbs of those men, who must needs feel the greatest interest in making our whole country a land of freedom? What is there to be hoped, so long as the administrators of our government persist in paying more deference to the demands of the oppressors than to the rights of the oppressed; persist in showing more respect to an alleged compact, from which the rebels themselves have exonerated us by their wanton violation of it, than to the Higher Law, the Royal Law of Him who devised and established the Constitution of Man, upon every part of which slavery commits the most flagrant outrages? How can any one expect that our government should carry on this war successfully against the hosts of rebels and traitors that have risen up against her, if she persists in " relying upon one hand-her white hand," alone, and refuses to use the other because it happens to be more or less colored? Nay, (for this is not the extent of her infatuation,) how can our government succeed in this war, so long as she is madly wasting half the strength of the one hand, on which she chooses to rely, in holding down the other hand that is struggling to give her its aid?
Away with this tremendous blunder! this suicidal policy! Let our rulers gladly avail themselves of the dread necessities of war, to do that for all the colored population in the land, bound as well as free, which they have not felt themselves authorized to do, in time of peace, under the Constitution, as it has been generally interpreted, and from the first administered. Let them now honestly and fearlessly recognize the rights of all men, black not less than white, especially their right to recover and maintain their liberties. Let them proclaim that this war, which has been forced upon our nation by that Southern oligarchy which we have too long vainly endeavored to conciliate by compromises and concessions,-this war, which exonerates us from all civil obligations to those who have waged it,-this war, which is the offspring of that evil spirit we have cherished in our bosom; let them proclaim that this war shall be a conflict for freedom, for humanity-a war for the re-establishment of these United States upon the generous and deep foundations laid in the Declaration of Independence and the preamble to the Constitution-a war for the reconstruction of our Federal Union upon the glorious evangelical principles which Washington, Jefferson, Adams, Franklin and their illustrious contemporary co-patriots, South as well as North, loved, and meant should be the basis of our political fabric. Let our rulers now proclaim that we are for Liberty, and not for Slavery; declare our abhorrence of those pseudo-democratic, anti-christian, inhuman assumptions which have obviously controlled the legislation of our Republic for more than forty years; prejudiced the decisions of our Supreme Court; insinuated themselves into the interpretation of the Constitution; and at last plunged us into the horrors of civil war. Now is the day and now the hour for the re-declaration of the rights of man. Let the love of liberty be the test by which our friends shall be known. Better that all, in every State, who favor slavery, should now be driven over to the rebels, and the true lovers of impartial liberty, of every complexion, should come to our side, than that this conflict of irreconcilable principles should be hushed up; some new compromise between sin and holiness (noon-day light and mid-night darkness) be devised; and this war ended without the removal of its cause. Such a peace would be nothing better than a plaster upon a festering ulcer that would ere long burst out again with greater virulence. This must not be a war merely to restore our Republic to the condition it was in at the close of the last administration,-a body politic rotten to its very core, and covered all over with wounds, and bruises, and putrifying sores,-but it must be a war for the restoration of our nation to the condition it was in when it came from the hands of our fathers, instinct with that life and love of freedom which they infused into it, to be developed in accordance with that almost divine plan which they sketched out and ever kept before them as their ideal of a true human government. It was justly the admiration of the world. Oh! what a delusion, what infatuation, what fatuity was that which induced them, for any consideration, to allow the leaven of slavery, however covertly, however little it then seemed, to be lodged in the midst of the large measures of civil and religious liberty which they had provided for the whole people! We live to see and deplore their vital mistake. We have lived to see that little leaven gradually but surely permeating the whole lump-the poison of slavery pervading every member of our body politic. Yes, we have lived to see our proud Republic, which had vaunted itself the home of the free, the asylum of the oppressed,; standing before the civilized world pledged to uphold the most cruel system of slavery that humanity has ever groaned under; and subjected in every department of the Federal Government to the predominance of the master spirits of this lowest form of despotism.
Surely, we have only too great reason for humbling ourselves as a nation before God, and hiding our head from the civilized world for very shame. If the principles avowed by us had not been so exalted, if our professions had not been so lofty, nor our boast
<c03>
ing so loud, our unfaithfulness would have been less signal, and our present predicament would not be so mortifying.
It is not, however, so much what men may think of us-how the world regards us-that we should especially consider and care for to-day, or any day, as how we appear in the sight of Almighty God; for, my countrymen! We are just what we appear to Him to be. When, therefore, we reflect that He is the impartial Father of the whole human family, that he is no respecter of persons, and regardeth not the rich more than the poor, we are overwhelmed by the consciousness that the course our nation has pursued, and the attitude in which she has stood in relation to the inalienable rights of man, must have been, in His sight, the most unworthy, the basest, that can be charged upon any nation that has ever had a place upon the earth. For it was precisely in behalf of those rights that the people of these then British Colonies arose in unison against that mighty power. It was in the inspiration of that generous faith in man as well as God-set forth in their Declaration-that our fathers dared, in their human weakness, to defy and encounter the mightiest nation of earth. It was the sympathy and assistance which their Declaration called out from the civilized nations of Europe, (not excepting a weighty portion even of the mother country,) that cheered and sustained them through their long, unequal contest; and it is the boon of American Liberty, so dearly purchased, so generously proffered to all men, (without an intimated exception,) that has brought the oppressed and the stinted of every land, by hundreds of thousands, to people our almost unlimited domains, and now generously give up their limbs and their lives in defence of this " Home of the Free."
How glaring, then, is the inconsistency, how passing all words of condemnation is the wrong of which, from the beginning, our Republic has been increasingly guilty, in that she then consented to the continued enslavement of four hundred thousand, and now holds more than four millions of the children of men in a subjection more entire, more debasing, than has ever been endured in any age of the world, in any part of the earth. Genius of America! Spirit of Freedom! Angel of the Declaration! how art thou fallen! " O, Lucifer, son of the morning, how art thou fallen from heaven! Hell from beneath is moved for thee, to meet thee at thy coming! The tyrants of the earth cry out to thee, Aha! aha! thou art become like unto us! "Yes, as it respects the colored population of the land, our government has been the most ruthless, cruel of tyrants. And the God of the oppressed has come down to avenge them.
It were impious, it were atheistical to presume, that we could be permitted to go on in such wickedness with impunity forever, without some signal manifestation of the divine displeasure. God has never left us without warning of the coming day of wrath. From the beginning He hath spoken, and all along to the present day hath He repeated his admonitions by men who were moved by his spirit of impartial liberty. The wisest and best men of the Revolution protested, warned, entreated. Washington, Jefferson, Madison, Patrick Henry, Professor Tucker, all of Virginia; Dr. Buchanan of Maryland, Pinckney of South Carolina, and others, uttered words that now seem prophetic of what we witness and deplore. And at the North, the men most eminent for their wisdom, philanthropy and patriotism-Franklin, Adams, King among the civilians, Stiles, Edwards and Hopkins among the clergy, testified of the wickedness of slavery, and foretold the evil, the ruin it would bring upon our nation. But <illegible> than all, for the last thirty years, a voice has been resounding throughout the land-a voice that has thrilled the nation from centre to circumference-a voice as imperative, if not as highly authorized, as that of Moses, a voice crying in the ears of all the people, " Break every yoke! let the oppressed go free! "
But, alas! the evil spirits of pride, prejudice, avarice and political partyism have prevailed. We "have killed the prophets, and stoned them that have been sent unto us: and, behold," now are we given up to a civil war-the most terrible punishment that could be inflicted upon a nation. The ministers of religion who should have taught the people better have been recreant to God and Humanity; and the churches of our Lord have harbored and sanctified the iniquity which they were unitedly bound to expel from the land. They had the power, if they had had the will to do this. Moral, religious, ecclesiastical means were in their hands, which, duly plied, would long since have removed " the peculiar institution "-" the sum of all villanies " from our land, and have brought the oppressors and the oppressed to live together as employers and employed, in mutual regard for each other's welfare. But, alas! those who should have been fellow-laborers with our Lord have worked assiduously for " the enemy of all righteousness." Nothing in the history of our nation is more true than that "the American Church has been the bulwark of American Slavery." Until a few years ago, as Dr. Albert Barnes then declared, " there was no power out of the Church that could have sustained slavery, if it had not been upheld by the Church." Fearful is the responsibility for the present state of our country that rests upon the ministers and professors of Christianity. Our ambitious politicians and reckless demagogues are not more to blame.
The Almighty Father hath waited long and patiently for us to repent, and avert the natural consequences of our national wickedness. But we have allowed the day of grace to pass unimproved. The day of judgment has come. The hand of retribution is now upon us. The infliction may be terribly severe.
Repentance is still the only condition upon which this calamity can be entirely removed from us. Fighting alone, however mighty may be our armies, how-ever skilful and brave their commanders, and successful their conflicts, fighting alone, without repentance, cannot, will not save our nation. For although we should put down this rebellion, and punish condignly the instigators of it, yet, if we repent not of the sin which has impelled them to this impious undertaking, our worst enemy will still be left in our midst to work us mischief continually. We must exterminate the root, or the bitter, poisonous fruits will continue to drop over the land, and spread disease and death.
Even repentance will not now avert from us the horrors of civil war. It can only shorten the day of their continuance, and lessen some of their enormities. The loss of tens of thousands of lives; the maimed bodies, ruined health, depraved morals of hundreds of thousands more, and the destruction of an inestimable amount of property are now inevitable. But if we now " repent, and do works meet for repentance," all these sacrifices will not be for nought. If now we " loose the bands of wickedness, if we undo the heavy burdens, let the oppressed go free, and break every yoke," we shall receive an accession of strength that will enable us soon to overwhelm our rebellious enemies. The tens of thousands of colored men now bond or free, who would rush to the standard of the Union, if allowed so to do, would bring with them not only powerful limbs, impassioned hearts, and bodies inured to exposure and privation, but physical systems (many of them) acclimated in the Southern States, and withal a familiar acquaintance with the parts of the country that have been, and are likely to be, the seat of the war. Such men in our armies would render service inestimable; services that would soon decide the contest in favor of the rights of all men; services which, if our commanders do not appropriate them, will in the last extremity be appropriated by the rebels, and made to turn the fortune of this war against the complicated, inexplicable " cause " which our Government would fain persuade us is all we are fighting for.
I am not a prophet, nor the son of a prophet, but I am sure the course I have now marked out is plainly indicated by a wisdom far higher and a benevolence far purer than my own. Our nation must repent of the sin of slavery-must abolish slavery, or perish.
<c04>
From the Cleveland (Ohio) Leader.
THE REMARKS OF REV. GEORGE GORDON TO THE U. S. COURT.
Below we publish the remarks to the U. S. Court of Rev. George Gordon, principal of the Iberian College, who was tried for "obstructing the process" of the Fugitive Slave Law in that place. Mr. Gordon was convicted and sentenced to a fine of $300 and six months' imprisonment in Cleveland jail! That he does not respect and will not obey the Fugitive Slave Law, Mr. Gordon frankly admits, but the severity of the sentence is beyond all reason. It is a pure act of cruelty and vindictiveness upon the part of the presiding Judge, for it rested with him to determine the amount of fine and imprisonment. He could as well, so far as compliance with the law is concerned, have given Mr. Gordon twenty-four hours' as six months' confinement. At a time when the life of the country is assailed by the slave power, the people are not ready to look with leniency upon any servile or extra-judicial bowing down to worship the god of slavery:-
YOUR HONOR: Some things in my situation would seem to commend silence. The form of a trial has been passed-my counsel has been heard in a defence of marked ability-and a verdict of guilty has been brought in by the jury. Nothing, therefore, remains for me but to receive the sentence and endure it to the bitter end. I cannot say anything that will modify or mitigate its severity. Yet I stand before the court in the full consciousness of rectitude, without any sense of guilt or abasement. I utter no apologies, make no confessions. Why, then, do I stand branded as a criminal before the court, and yet enjoy feelings of innate rectitude? Two reasons contain the answer. First, the principal witness in this prosecution has given a testimony in some points utterly false, in others immensely exaggerated. This put me in a false position before the jury, Had I received a new trial, as was requested, much of this false impression could have been removed. The second reason is, that my conduct was guided by the express will of God as revealed in the Scriptures, a standard clearly opposed to the fugitive slave enactments, and not recognized by this tribunal.
The two slave hunters were neither threatened with hanging or shooting, or if they were, I never heard of it, till testified by them in court. The statement is a mere fabrication-even the raw material manufactured. My arrival on the ground was not ten minutes before the whole thing was over. One of our colored young men had twice been shot at, and wounded by them, or part of their company. One claimed as a slave had been seized and violently dragged away. Under all this provocation the company acted. When I arrived, I was told they had received a few stripes. Some ten or fifteen more were laid on, whilst I was present and with my consent. The men begged forbearance, and the matter ceased. I handed no one a stick with directions to lay on more-told no one to suppress my name-struck no one myself-nor did I administer an oath to any. I did stand by with consent, whilst ten, perhaps fifteen, lashes were laid on. I did not know whether they were slaveholders, marshals, deputies or assistants, and it is but candid to say, I did not care. I then told one of them that the chastisement he had received had been inflicted by some of the best men in the community, men who would not hurt a hair of his head, but protect him to the fullest extent in any decent business. But that slave catching we could not tolerate. His reply was, " This will be a lesson to me. I knew it was a mean business when I went into it, but thought I could not well help it. I will go home and resign my office, and never do so again." Had I consented to one-half the severity, or been capable of consenting to it, as testified by the deputy, I would despise myself, and merit the reprobation of all good men. Neither the false testimony of the witness, nor the point given it in the bitter pleadings of the attorney, will be believed by any who know me. What I did do, I thought then, and still think, was fully right. For the chastisement inflicted on these slave-catchers, I was not on trial. That belonged to the jurisdiction of another court. I am convicted of "obstructing process" in the hands of a United States Deputy Marshal, in his attempt to capture and return to bondage a fugitive slave. That act was towards a judicial kidnapper, armed with the authority of a wicked and diabolical statute. By the law of the Almighty, the slaveholder was capitally punished. The law given amid the lightings of Sinai was, " He that stealeth a man, and selleth him, or if he be found in his hand, he shall surely be put to death." Three forms of the crime are named: kidnapping, slave-trading and slaveholding. In other capital offences the sentence was, he shall die-but in this, he shall surely be put to death.
All slavery begins with some form of man-stealing, and retains its essential element in its forms of descent or transmission. Men can neither buy nor inherit a better title than the pretended owner has to sell or bequeath. A hundred sales of a stolen horse don't make the title good; nor can that of a stolen man be better. Then, can a marshal or deputy, acting for a slaveholder to reclaim a stolen man, be less guilty? Is he not by the same law an official kidnapper? If God required the parent transgressor to be put to death, is it sinful and a crime to give his proxy a few stripes? Was it not merited by these men, when they were trying their utmost to drag back their victim to perhaps two hundred lashes and life-long bondage? Job was declared by his Maker to be " a perfect and upright man, one who feared God and eschewed evil"-the best on earth in his day. Yet the good man says, "The cause that I knew not I searched out, and I brake the jaws of the wicked, and plucked the spoil out of his teeth." Did we do anything more severe?
Again, by the Psalmist, God says, " Deliver the poor and needy, rid them out of the hands of the wicked." And again he says, "Thou shalt not return to his master the servant that is escaped from his master unto thee" To the same purport is all that class of texts by which we are commanded "to feed the hungry, clothe the naked, hide the outcast, betray not him that wandereth." Now, by all these, and uncounted texts not quoted, what the fugitive slave enactment requires is expressly forbidden, and is therefore null and without moral force.
And again, by the best law authority, it has no legal force. From Blackstone, who declares that " all laws derive their force from the laws of nature, and those which do not are accounted no laws," to the noble New England judge, who refused to give up the fugitive to his claimant, until he would bring " a bill of sale from the Almighty himself," the best authorities speak one language. What force, then, has the fugitive enactment? Simply the force of muscle, handcuffs, bowie knives and pistols, used in its execution. Compliance with such a statute is crime. " We must obey God rather than men."
Civil Government with its legitimate powers (only) is of God. He exercises it through the people. Their voice is in theory, and should be in fact, the voice of God. Hence every enactment that contradicts the Divine will is without either moral or legal authority, and can only be carried out by brute force. All the constitutions ever made, and all the oaths ever administered, can give it no higher authority. Can anything be plainer than this? Or anything more absurd than its opposite? Has not Jehovah a right to govern the world he made, and the people he placed on it? Ought He not to do it? Is it not His duty? Can He confer on men a right to violate at pleasure His own law? Does he give any legislative or judicial body power to absolve the individual from obedience to His will, and make it his duty to observe their enactments? Will he bow to acts of wickedness because the majority decree them? If so, the prophets were fools, the apostles nullifiers, and Christian martyrs madmen. If so, Christianity in its first principles is treason, and Jehovah's claim to rule the world intensified presumption! The truth is, that all this ridicule of the " higher law " by drivelling politicians and knavish hunkers is sheer bold atheism. It makes majorities omnipotent, and sinks their Maker into nothing. But whilst I claim to have acted in conformity with the will of God, I utterly deny that I violated, either the letter or spirit of a single article of the Constitution. That it don't name a slave all agree. That its framers kept out deliberately every word or phrase that might express the condition of a slave, is matter of history.
It speaks of a " person owing service "-but a slave is not a " person " in the language of (so-called) Southern laws, but a " chattel," or a thing. Neither can he well owe much to the man who has robbed him of life-long wages. It speaks of returning persons to those to whom "labor is due"; but nothing was due the slaveholder by the laws of Israel's God except the labor it took to stone him to death; and nothing is now due five-sixths, perhaps nineteen-twentieths, of the slaveholders of this land, even in public opinion, except the amount of shot or shell required to kill or capture them. I therefore stand before you clear of any violation of the Constitution, 
<c05>
or constitutional law. If the people don't believe this now, they soon will.
But again: If the framers of the Constitution had a right to make the compromises claimed, and if they actually had made them, still, the frequent, flagrant, and outrageous violations by the South would long since have; cancelled our obligations. It is a common principle of justice, morals, and perhaps of law, that where the conditions of a contract are broken by one party, they are of no binding force on the other. Now, the slaveholders have violently and persistently trampled down every provision of the Constitution, and the laws of Congress under it, whenever their interests, inclinations, or passions, led them to desire it. Who can number the Northern citizens who have been mobbed, maltreated and abused, from the Hon. Mr. Hoar to the last sentinel stealthily shot! And finally, these violations by slaveholders have gone to seed, in the most diabolical rebellion the world has ever seen. And now, sir, after our public property has been plundered to the amount of millions, our forts and arsenals seized, our flag insulted and struck down, and our soldiers slain on a hundred battle-fields, by slaveholders and the slave power, this court is dealing out its sentence on my head, because I " resisted process" in the hands of these minions, when they were trying to drag back a defenceless man to cheerless and return-less bondage. Imprisonment, fines and costs, which for a time will remove my liberty, and sweep away my little property, and reduce me to the lowest poverty, are to fall upon me for performing this duty to God and humanity.
But I shall be told the meeting that did this was a mob. I deny it. Whenever a government steps out of its legitimate business, and instead of protecting human rights, crushes them out, it becomes the mob power. Truth and equity, and the revealed will of God, all proclaim it such. It will also be said, good order cannot be maintained without obedience to existing enactments. I answer, all these can be secured without slaveholders? or slave-hunters; and then, good men will not come in collision with the courts.
But the slave power still rules, and I must suffer. Then be it so. "The beginning of the end has come." Though slavery yet rules, it is only in the death throes, and last contractions of its mighty heart. The iron logic of events is changing public sentiment, and few look on slave-catching as anything but a mean and infamous business. The slaveholder himself despises the man who catches his fugitive. He looks on him as he does his bloodhound-calls him up, and scents him on the track-doles out to him his reward-and then looks on him with utter contempt.
A few words more, and I shall have done. In the charge to the jury, I cast no reflections on the Court. In so far as I had ability to judge, it was fair and candid. My counsel made an able, eloquent, and manly defence. Though I was put in a very untrue position before the jury, still I think they need not, and know they ought not, to have convicted me. Some of them will not retain the remembrance of the act among their cherished memories.
We are all passing to another tribunal, where the fugitive enactment will be at a discount. To have " resisted process " in the hands of a judicial kidnapper will not there be regarded as a crime. The blessing of the Judge will fall upon such as fed him when hungry, took him in when a stranger, and visited him in prison; and all this he will acknowledge to have been done to him-if done to his poor. To another class he will say, " Inasmuch as ye did not these things unto the least of my brethren, ye did them not unto me." If Grandson Marten be a Christian, the so-called crime for which I am now to be sentenced is for resisting an attempt to drag back Christ himself to the crucifixion of perpetual slavery, in the person of his chattelized representative. If he was not a Christian, still it was resistance to the crime of reducing God's image to a slave, and crushing out his aspirations to be a man.
And now, sir, apart from the defence of the rectitude of my conduct, I have no favors to crave-no mercy to implore. I stand erect, in conscious integrity and manhood. My house has ever been a home for the fleeing fugitive, and shall be so still. If my dwelling be reduced to a cabin, he shall be welcome to a corner. All the devils in hell, and slave-catchers out of hell, shall not close my door again him. I cannot repress the hope that, in this line of persecutions, I may be the last victim of the Slave Power. Whether this be so or not, I wish when " all that's mortal" of your humble prisoner shall be in its last resting-place, it may be with truth written on my grave-stone, " Here he the remains of one who in life was faithful to God's poor."
ANOTHER POUND OF FLESH WEIGHED OUT.
The Cleveland Leader of Saturday brings us intelligence of the conviction of Rev. GEORGE GORDON, Principal of Iberia College, in Morrow county, of resisting the Fugitive Slave Law, and his sentence by Judge WILSON to a fine of three hundred dollars and six months' imprisonment. It will be a matter of astonishment to many to learn that a man is to be punished to the extent of the law, for violating the Fugitive Slave Act at this time. But such is the fact-damning and disgraceful as it is. About two years ago, a gang of U. S. Marshals went to Iberia in search of a fugitive slave, whom they failed to find. Some of the sympathizers with the fugitive, however, administered a little wholesome chastisement to the marshals, and sent them away. Mr. GORDON was knowing to these facts, but took no part in what was done. He was made a mark of by Marshal JOHNSON and his hounds, as a suitable subject for punishment. But he kept out of the way till after LINCOLN'S election, supposing that no prosecution would be attempted in the midst of our death-struggle with slavery. But we had in the Republican ranks a Marshal mean enough to do the dirty work of Judge WILSON; and a District Attorney, who had the right to enter a nolle and dismiss the case at any time, was ready to do this dirtiest of all jobs. Mr. GORDON was accordingly brought to trial, found guilty of violating a statute that would disgrace hell itself, and sentenced to suffer the full vengeance of the infernal power, into whose hands he had fallen!
On this case we make no more comments. Language is a failure in expressing a just idea of it. From the Judge no more was expected. He was infamous already by the Oberlin case. But for ROBERT F. PAYNE, the District Attorney, we have a record to make. He was once a loud-mouthed, anti-slavery man, and has enjoyed the confidence of such men. He could have let Mr. GORDON off perfectly free; but he has prosecuted him to the extent of the law. We will not disgrace Judas Iscariot by a comparison; for he was pressed by fear and temptation. But BOB PAYNE betrays the right for nothing, and from the love of the foul and loathsome service, crowns himself with an infamy that will distinguish him in the regions of the damned.
Let no man name him henceforth but for execration and cursing.-Ashtabula Sentinel.
A VISIT TO WASHINGTON JAIL.
WASHINGTON, Dec. 2, 1861.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
The weather not being suitable for a gallop to the pickets of the army to-day, I have improved the opportunity to visit the Washington jail, to take a look at the slaves now lodged there, who have been taken up by the District of Columbia police. I ask your readers to accompany me, for there is something of interest to be seen. I do not mean by that, that the jail itself is an interesting place; far from it. Much has been said about the Washington jail-about its ill-arranged rooms, the want of all accommodations, the absence of everything that can give comfort to those incarcerated; but draw the picture as terrific as language can make it, and you will not greatly exaggerate it. The jailer informed me that a gentleman from France, who has visited the prisons of Europe under a government commission, after passing through the wards a few days since, remarked that he had seen but one meaner jail, and that was in Austria. Efforts are making to have it demolished, and a new one built. It is to be hoped that it will be done, for the present one is a disgrace to the country.
The building, as many of your readers are aware, stands on the lot north-east of the city hall. The ground is damp, and in rainy seasons or in long storms the moisture hangs in drops upon the walls, oozing from the bricks as if the edifice itself was in pain, or severely exercised. Passing through a gate into a yard surrounded by a close board fence, we enter the jailer's rooms. It is the hour for dinner, and the stewards are carrying up rations to the two hundred inmates who are peeping at us through the iron bars. If your readers accompany me, they must leave all fastidiousness behind, for already we are in a close, stifled, fetid, feverish, malarious atmosphere
<c06>
The breeze freshly blowing to-day does not find its way through the narrow passage. The building has been lately whitewashed, the jailer remarks, but it grows dirty very quick. It is not, however, to see the building, but the fifty or more of its inmates, and to talk with them for the enlightenment of the Journal readers, that we have come.
CONTRABANDS.
Ascending the stone stairway to the third story of the building, entering a dark corridor and passing along a few steps, we came to a room about twelve or fifteen feet square. Here are about twenty colored men. They are still at their dinner of boiled beef and corn cake. Here is one old man sitting on the stone floor, silent and sorrowful. He has committed no crime Around, standing, sitting or lying are the others, of all shades of color from jet black to the Caucasian hue, the Anglo-Saxon hair and contour features. They are from ten to fifty years of age. Some are dressed decently, others are in rags. One bright fellow of twenty has on a pair of trowsers only, and tries to keep himself warm by drawing around him a tattered blanket. A little fellow ten years old is all in rags. There is no chair or bed in the room. They must stand, or sit, or lie upon the brick and granite floor. There is no mattress or bedding; each has his little bundle of rags, and that is all. It is no exaggerated picture, but a plain statement in simple language. There is nothing for their comfort, nothing for their convenience. They look up inquiringly as I enter the room, as if to make out the object of my visit. They are not criminals. They are not all slaves. Why then are they here? I will answer the inquiry by writing out a few notes taken from the lips of the men, and corroborated by the jailer, who, from all I can see, is a kind-hearted man.
MEMORANDA.
James Munro. Sixteen years old. A bright, intelligent boy. Owned by Captain Dunnington was captain of the Capital police during Buchanan's administration. Left Washington for Virginia in April last. Is now commanding one of the rebel batteries on the Potomac. A letter written by him was published in one of the Richmond papers last week. When he went away, he left James behind. James has committed no crime. He was arrested by the city police because he had no master. He has been in jail five months. He is a good, well-behaved boy, the jailer says.
Charles Jackson. From Fairfax county. Owned by William Dulling, now under arrest by the Federal authorities. Lived in the vicinity of Fairfax Court House. About fifty years old. When the army advanced to Falls Church, his wife and children were sold, and sent South. He fled to the Union lines, came into Washington, was arrested by the police, and has been in jail nearly three months. He is sick; cannot eat the prison fare. He came to the jailer, and begged that he would do something to help Kim out. It was touching to hear him. After pleading with the jailer, he turned to me and said "Ye see, sir, when they sold my wife and children, it broke me all up. My mind is almost gone. I don't expect to live long, but I don't want to die here." He has committed no crime. He was around the city, and the police arrested him, presuming him to be a runaway slave.
George Washington. Owned by Benjamin Walker, of Oak Grove, Orange county, about 80 miles from Richmond. His master is a Secessionist. He ran away once last year, reached Washington, was arrested, lodged in this jail, and was taken back by his master. He says liberty is sweet to him. Has been here eight months. He don't want to go back.
-Curtis. A free negro of Alexandria. Has committed no crime. Was in Washington, and was arrested by the police on the supposition that he had been a slave. Has no one to pay his jail fees.
William Call. Twenty-one years old; from Northumberland county. His master is Thomas E. Harding, a Secessionist. He was a hand on a Massachusetts schooner playing on the Potomac. Was in Washington, and taken up by the police on the presumption that he was a slave.
Robert Paine. An intelligent man; owned by George Silkman, near Occoquan Mills. His master is in the rebel army. He took a boat on the Occoquan, and sailed to Washington. He was employed on the fortifications. He boarded in Georgetown. Worked forty days at $1 25 per day. Government owes him for fourteen days' labor. He was arrested one night by the Georgetown police, and has been in jail ten weeks. He has committed no crime. The jailer speaks highly of him. All of the negroes respect him.
-A little boy in rags; ten years old. Lived near Miner's hill. Was arrested by our pickets, in company with others, brought to Washington, and put in jail by the police.
John H. Parker, of Alexandria. Owned by Daniel Howe, who is in the rebel army. Came up to Washington; was employed in the government stables, in the first ward, at $1 a day; worked one month; was arrested by the police because he was a slave; has committed no crime; the government still owes him.
Charles-, from near Mount Vernon. His master is in the rebel army. Came to Washington; worked for the railroad company at $1 per day; was arrested by the police ten days ago, while at work, on the presumption that he had been a slave; is not charged with any crime.
These are all from Virginia, and there are ten or fifteen more from the same State. About thirty are from Maryland. I give the memoranda as noted down on the spot. It is the declaration of the negroes-whether true or not I have no means of knowing. It is certain, however, that no crimes are charged against them. They are imprisoned because negroes about town without a master always have been dealt with in that manner. The police, when the slaves have been reclaimed, have been sure of their pay, or if they were sold, their pay came from the auctioneer. I cannot dwell upon the scenes I witnessed within the walls of that prison. When they saw me making notes, they imagined that I was doing something for their deliverance, and with eagerness they crowded round me, saying, " Please put down my name, sir," "I do want to get out, sir," and similar "expressions. They followed me into the passage, gazed at me through the grated door, and when I said "Good by, boys," there came a chorus of "Good byes" and "God bless yours" through the bolted door.
I had not dreamed that there were such inmates within the walls of that jail. It was only to-day that I was informed of it. Well-informed gentlemen of Washington were ignorant of the fact, as I have this evening ascertained. When I called upon the deputy marshal for permission to visit the jail, he assured me that there were no negroes from Virginia there, but that they were all from Maryland, and I believe that he was sincere in his belief.
There is need of immediate action by Congress in this matter. The whole thing must be investigated.
Since writing the above, I have laid the matter before a Senator, who expresses his astonishment at the state of things. Your readers may rest assured that the Washington police will have a thorough overhauling. It cannot be that this government will permit such outrages upon humanity.
CARLETON.
COTTON, COFFEE AND SUGAR IN LIBERIA. A colored man named Anderson, formerly a slave in Delaware, but now a planter in Liberia, is on a visit to New York for the purpose of selling his cotton, sugar and coffee. The Evening Post says:-
"The samples of Liberian cotton which he exhibits compare favorably with the best qualities of the Southern article, and he has received favorable offers for the purchase of all the stock procurable in Liberia. The coffee is also of an excellent quality; the bean large, the crop raised at a low price, and the yield very abundant. The best index of the market value of this coffee is the price obtained for it, which is twenty-five cents per pound by the quantity. Mr. Anderson has also about one hundred acres of sugar cane under cultivation, and has brought with him some 25,000 pounds, the qualities of which range from, good to prime, selling for eight and a half cents per pound. The experiments in the manufacture of syrups and molasses have been equally satisfactory.
"Mr. Anderson emigrated to Liberia some years since. He has had remarkable success in his agricultural enterprises, and makes strong representations of the capacity of Liberia for the culture of those staples which formerly came from the South. He states that the climate and soil are admirably adapted to the growth of coffee, cotton and sugar, that labor is cheap, and the resources of the country abundant."
It is true that a slave ferried our soldiers to the Maryland side in a skiff on the dreary night after the Edward's Ferry repulse. If, instead of befriending our men, he had been "used against us"-that is, had stabbed each one he found-he might have been set free.
