THE LIBEBRATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNIGN
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL,
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are be directed, (POST PAID) to the General Agent. 
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR. 
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:- FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor 
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 17. BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1859 WHOLE NUMBER, 159Q.
<c01>
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
SATANIC DEMOCRACY.
Mr. Muzzey, of Berrien country, offered in the Senate of the Legislature of Michigan the following atrocious document as a report from the Committee on Expiring Laws. It is signed by Senator Broad-head, but was written by Senator Muzzey, a newly-fledged Democrat, of the most malignant sort:
The Committee on Expiring Laws, to whom was referred a bill to repeal section 2,338 of the complied Laws, relating to qualified voters in school meeting, having considered the same, ask leave to report.
The question involved is simply, whether it is advisable to admit negroes to participate equally with white citizens in school district meeting. 
Your committee are astonished that a proposition of that nature should ever have elicited a difference of opinion in a civilized community. Yet as a diversity of opinion does exist, they will briefly state some of the reasons which occur to them, why a descendant of the African race should have no fellowship, social or political, with white persons.
History, sacred or profane, has failed to furnish any evidence that he negro sprung from the same origin with the white man. Plausible naturalists have maintained that he is not strictly man or beast, but a sort of hybrid, or connecting link between man and the lower animals,. Without pausing to settle this vexed question, your committee are of the opinion that, as he is an inferior being, he is not entitled to the privileges and immunities of the superior. As a race, the African has made no progress, except through the remote or immediate agency of slavery. Upon his won continent, as no time or place, has he advanced in civilization.
Commencing at the point of the most abject barbarism, the race sinks lower and lower till they approach the brutes that roam their forests. Nothing but slavery, as yet, has been able to shed a ray of intelligence or humanity into their benighted mind. Yours committee confess and deplore these truths.
An eminent English writer, who concurs in many of the views entertained by modern abolitionists, in speaking of the intellectual and physical organization of the African, says:
‘In all the particulars just enumerated, the negro structure approaches unequivocally to that of the monkey.'
‘It not only differs from the Caucasian model, but is distinguished from it in two respects. The intellectual characteristics are reduced, the animal features enlarged and exaggerated. This inferiority of organization with corresponding inferiority of faculties may be proved, not 60 much by the unfortunate beings who are degraded by slavery, is every fact in the past history and present condition of Africa."
Such may be regarded as the universal opinion of mankind. By the English common law, 'the negro had no rights which the white man was bound to respect.' Every State in the Union (New Hampshire especially included) has upon her statute book laws which directly, or by unavoidable implication, derive the negro of the rights, privileges and franchises of a citizen. Governed by the same principles, all the States formed out of the territory embraced in the ordinance of 1787 have imposed upon him political disability; and to secure and perpetuate the dividing line between the negro and a citizen, according to the highest ordinances of Heaven, each of them has incorporated such disability in her organic law, by a nearly unanimous vote of the people; and so strong has been this sentiment, that some of them have gone so far as to forbid him a resting place upon their soil.
Tempted by the foregoing inveterate precedents, the Supreme Court of the United States has lately decided that a descendant of the African race can have no status in our federal courts.
Although that court, from its habitually conservative character, is far behind those formed under the aegis of the great magna Charta of 1786, yet your committee think it is plainly discoverable, in the opinion alluded to, that if the point had been at issue, the court would have decided that the negro is not, and for the credit of humanity ought not to be a citizen of the United States. If motives of policy required, the decision of that august tribunal might be disregarded, as not being applicable to this sovereign State, in her police regulations touching this unfortunate race. Yet the fact cannot be disguised that the paramount judicial tribunal of this State, moved by the settle maxims of the law, and impressed with a lively sense of the inferior and degraded character of the negro, has lately solemnly adjudged that he is not entitle tot he privileges of a citizen and a man, but that, from his inherent offensiveness, he may be excluded from his presence.
Whatever might be their private opinion, your committee feel hound to defer to that decision till the same he reversed.
Were the black equal tot eh white race in point of intellect, your committee would still be compelled to admit that, in every refined white man, there is implanted, by his Creator, an invincible repugnance to fellowship with the negro. To disregard the impulse of our nature is to violate the laws of our social and moral being, and to remove it by legislation is to repeal the will of Heaven by mortal laws.
Your committee are not unmindful of the fact that political parties have risen and flourished for a while upon negro sympathy. Yet, in their opinion, they can be regarded only as periodical social excrescences, which a returning sense of decency will soon slough from the body politic: nor are they unmindful that members of legislative bodies have, sometimes, so far forgot their duties to their race, as to present the social equality, and make strenuous efforts to place themselves on a level with the petitioners. To such legislators, your committee most devoutly exclaim, Thank God, that they are not as such men! It is hoped that such as are panting, with groans unutterable, for negro association, will be contented with special laws granting to themselves exclusively a monopoly of that luxury
It is considered by statesmen that the presence of an inferior race is injurious to the superior; that it tends more to degrade the latter that to elevate the former. Hence, it becomes the duty of the superior, as a mode of preservation and self-elevation, to take every step justified by humanity to remove the obnoxious race, or at least to see that the dividing line between the races can be maintained.
‘Evil communications corrupt good manners.' This sacred admonition is strikingly exemplified in the fact that there are white persons among us, bearing the image and superscription of white men, who are literally debauched by an unhallowed affection for a race upon which Heaven, after stamping it with inferiority, pleased on a remote continent, and marked the object of divine indignation with a degrading color, as if to preserve and perpetuate His inscrutable foreordination. Against such morbid affections your committee protest, and therefore report the bill and recommend its passage, and that they be discharged from further consideration thereof. 
All of which is respectfully submitted. 
T.F.BROADHEAD, Chairman
<c02>
A'PROFESSIONAL' BLACKGUARD.
At the trial of the Wellington Slave Rescue Gas at Cleveland, Ohio-thirty-seven citizens of Oberlin and Wellington being under indictment by the United States, on the charge of having illegally rescued an apprehended fugitive slave-the closing argument for the iniquitous prosecution was made by Judge Belden. The following were his opening remarks, indicating a low and depraved mind and heart:-
I do not know whether I shall address myself to you, sir, to you, gentlemen of the jury, or to this audience. Why, sir, the audience and the multitude in the house have been the tribunal to which the gentlemen of the defiance have talked. Here are a number of saints from Oberlin,-Saint Peck, Saint Plumb, Saint Fitch and sub-Saint Bushnell,-gathered here, and their counsel have, as a fit beginning and a fit ending of a bad beginning, set aside the Judge and Jury, and spoke to a multitude alone. One of the gentlemen says he has but little reverence and small opinion of the merits of the Supreme Court, and as for Judge MCLEAN, he was but a small port of man who had hut little legal knowledge. Why, was this the same Judge McLean that Mr. Spalding wanted to make President a few years ago? (.Wanted to get him off the bench'-Judge Spalding.) Look at the ‘constitutional arguments' which have been brought forward, such as the boy who was exhibited here before the court, with the Probate, Crow bait Judge, who took a seat beside your Honor upon the bench. What sort of an argument was that? Again, the gentleman reads a series of resolutions, which purported to be sanctioned by your Honor. But it was known, or should have been known by him, that this placing of your Honor's name to those resolutions was a libel upon your name. At this meeting, the name of your Honor was placed to these resolutions without authority and without permission. I have now a note from one of the most prominent members of the bar in this city, by which I learn that this law was referred, at the meeting, to a select committee, to examine and report upon. Judge Hitchcock, who was chairman of that committee, reported upon it that it was entirely constitutional. ('I think, Judge Belden, that this matter is foreign to the subject'-Judge WILLSON.) I think so too, and will drop it, having been forced into it by the defence.
This Oberlin 'higher law'-which I call ‘Devil's law,’ as interpreted by the Oberlin saints-is just what makes every man's conscience his criterion as to right or wrong. The true 'higher law' is the law of the country in which we exist, and there would be no safety for the whole world or community, a perfect hull upon earth would prevail, if this law was carried out. It gives all to the black man, hut the devil take the white man! It places no constraint upon any human being, save his own free will, and takes all power from the law.
The ordinance which reminded fugitives to slavery is within the letter and spirit of the Constitution, and there are always means for peaceably and quietly executing these laws. Until this higher, this devil's law was acted upon, the law for the recovery of fugitives was in force. It was for modern wisdom to find out that this law is unconstitutional. Daniel Webster believed it to be constitutional the statement of the gentleman for the defense to the contrary notwithstanding. But disunion and opposition arose, and spread through the land, because this does away with habeas corpus and trial by jury. (Read from Webster in support of the law.) The counsel for the defense has said, ‘Liberty, or no Union.' Oh! what anestimate of Liberty! Wipe out the Union, and you blot out Liberty. Break down the law, and anarchy stalks through the land, while' devil law' reigns supreme.
I advise our friends of Oberlin, Saint Peck, Saint Plum and the rest, to go to some good church, where the Bible is preached, and not politics; where women do not point to your church spires as hell-poles because the Bible sanctions slavery-for it does sanction it, in the case of Paul and Onesimus. Paul preached obedience to servants. If these Oberlin Saints had about one half as much piety as the Southern masters and mistresses have, it would be well as between them and their God. The slaves are no more fit for liberty than our children at the age of 12 or 14. You find but few, even in the North, who are worthy of their liberty, and prepared to use it. How many, or rather, hate few there are in Europe who are capable of taking care of themselves The' higher law' people appeal to the passions, and not' to common sense. To go to the South now, and set the slaves free, would be a horrible crime, throwing them into a condition far worse than they are now placed in. You may as well say to this community,' Throw away your marriage relation,' because it is sometimes abused. I am a Northern man with National principles, and I say that those living in slavery cannot be set free, if it is wished to preserve the Union. Oh! you craven-hearted, stingy crew, who point to England's free laws, why do you not do as they do there, and train the slaves; until they are ready to take care of themselves? Same men let their philanthropy take the 'higher law' road until it leads them to perdition. There was no special enactment by which slavery existed here in early times. It results from the eternal law of races. The black race is not equal to the white.
Not in one single one of the many conventions which met in the various States of the Union was there any objection or action passed against this provision for the recovery of fugitives. (Read and quoted from high sources relative to this matter, especially from opinions of Daniel Webster.) In these times they had not the higher law. They made law, and abided by it.
In both the act of 1793 and that of 1850, the slave is to be removed to the State from which he fled, and there tried. His recovery is merely a preliminary proceeding. You may charge the Southern courts with corruption, but I should rather be tried in Kentucky than by all the saints you can collect in Oberlin for forty years.

THE INFAMOUS BLACK LAW OF OHIO.
The bill of James E. Chase, of Stark county, to prevent persons' reputed to be in whole or in part of African descent' from voting at any election in' Ohio, is now a law. That its infamous features may be fully understood, we present the law entire.
AN ACT to prescribe the duties of Judges of Elections in certain cases, and preserve the Purity of Elections.
SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Ohio, That the Judges of any election held under the authority of any of the laws of this State, in determining the question whether any person offering to vote at such election is a -white person, shall ascertain, by proper inquiries addressed to such person, to be answered under oath, or by other legal testimony to be adduced before them, whether such person is reputed to be in whole or in part of African descent, and if the said Judges are satisfied that such person is reputed so to be, they shall reject his vote.
SEC. 2. Any person who is reputed to be in whole
<c03>
or in part of African descent, who shall vote at any such election, shall, on conviction thereof, be imprisoned in the county jail of the proper county not more than three months, nor less than one month.
SEC. 3. Any person who shall procure, aid, assist, counsel or advise another to give his vote at any such election, knowing that such person is reputed to be of African descent, either in whole or in part, shall, on conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not exceeding five hundred dollars, and he imprisoned in the county jail, of the proper county, not more than six months, nor less than one month.
SEC. 4. Any Judge of any election who shall volute the provisions of the first section of this act, shall, on conviction thereof, he fined in any sum not exceeding five hundred dollars, and be imprisoned in the county jail, of the proper county, not more than six months, nor less than one month.
SEC. 5. All prosecutions under this act shall he by indictment in the Court of Common Pleas, of the proper county; and it shall be the duty of the Judges of the Court of Common Pleas to give the act specially in charge to the Grand Jury at each term of the Court.
SEC. 6. This act shall take effect from and after its passage. 

CARL SHURZ.
The Republican party are about to give Mr. Carl Schurz of Wisconsin a public reception at Faneuil Hall on Monday evening. The claims of this adventurer upon the gratitude and admiration of the people of Massachusetts are founded mainly upon the fact that he has been instrumental in inducing the State and the Supreme Court of Wisconsin to nullify a law of the United States, and the State to put itself in an attitude of treason and rebellion, passive not active, against that common government to which every public functionary there has, we suppose, sworn allegiance. The fugitive slave law has been declared by the (elective) Supreme Court of Wisconsin to be unconstitutional, and thus of no effect within the territory of the State. The legislature has sustained the Court, by the passage of a series of resolutions which-like so many other resolutions which have from time to time been fulminated, or rather pop-gunned, by State Legislatures whenever they have had an attack of State rights fever-are simply a rehash of the Virginia and Kentucky resolutions of 1708, which were an embodiment of curtain speculative notions begotten by the political Ixions of that day upon a cloud of metaphysics, the practical result of which would have" been to make the Constitution an instrument of about as much efficiency as the Articles of Confederation. The passing of resolutions is a harmless way of opening an escape-pipe for State pride or sectional fully; but if the issue over took a practical form, the State of Wisconsin would be obliged to yield.
Mr. Carl Schurz told the citizens of Massachusetts who were assembled to eat and drink in honor of Thomas Jefferson, at the Parker House, on Wednesday, that the arguments which he and the other disorganizes, nullifiers, and traitors of Wisconsin had been obliged to meet, and had met and triumphantly demolished, were drawn exclusively from the writings of Daniel Webster; and we are informed that the announcement was received with laughter and applause. Verily, we are getting on here in Massachusetts, under the benignant beams of Republicanism. What a pity it is that that ignorant constitutional charlatan, Daniel Webster, died before the sight of this political Gamaliel, Carl Schurz, at whose feet he would doubtless have been proud to sit, and taken easy lessons in constitutional construction! It is too late for him to reform his errors, but not too late for us. What a cause of gratitude it is for us that the great political geniuses of Germany, after having reared so symmetrical and lasting an edifice of constitutional liberty in their own country, should condescend to visit us, benighted Western barbarians, to teach us how to interpret our own laws, construe our own constitutions, and govern our own citizens! Renouncing the political opinions of Washington, and the religious doctrines of the Puritans; putting ourselves under the guidance of Schurz in things temporal, and of Strauss in things spiritual-we shall secure all the blessings promised to the saints in this world, and the world to come.-Boston Courier.
When we consider what Wisconsin is, and what Massachusetts is, we must say that to our poor apprehension, Mr. Schurz, with his transcendental declamation about humanity and equality and the rights of man, is one of those superfluous blessings for which the most devout mind is not called upon to return thanks. He is as unseasonable as a fish dinner in a Catholic household the first day after Lent. His sphere of duty is that of the domestic missionary, and not the foreign. Let him preach his gospel to the heathen at home, for we are more advanced Christians than they. If that sensible and well-bred Turkish officer, who visited us some months since, had advertised to lecture on the rights of women, we should have thought it rather intrusive and in bad taste; but he was quite as much entitled to enlighten us on that subject as Mr. Schurz, coming from Wisconsin, is to take any airs of superiority over us in Massachusetts upon the subject of human rights.
We conclude with one more quotation from Mr. Schurz:
‘No, I will not meddle with your home concerns. I will, however, say a word for the West. Strenuous advocate of Slate rights and of local self-government as I am, if you ever hear of any movement in the West against the integrity of the fundamental principles underlying our system of government, I invite you, I entreat you, I conjure your come one and all, and make our prairies resound and our forests shake, and our ears ring and tingle with your appeals for the equal rights of man.' (Loud and continued cheering.)
We have no power to make prairies resound or forests shake, but in face of the stubborn facts which we have above cited, and the deliberate falsehoods with which they brand Mr. Schurz, we should like to ask him whether his ears tingle; and of the silly people who went to Faneuil Hall to applaud him, we should like to ask whether their ears tingle; and if so, whether they tingle throughout their whole length at one and the same time.-Ibid.
MORE SATANIC DEMOCRACY. The following view I of human rights, and illustration of the satanic spirit of American-Democracy, is from the Boston Ledger:-
‘As we are nationally made up, and with our political professions, we cannot refuse the white men who come to our shores the privileges of citizenship; but the radically inferior race of blacks changes the question altogether. We need not stop to argue a matter which every man's common instincts readily argue for him. The Almighty has settled it beforehand, and it is a sham philanthropy that seeks to cross His purposes by crossing races thus opposed to one another.'
Who but the filthy slaveholding amalgamators of the South are busily at work in crossing races,' in unrestrained licentiousness?
<c04>
SELECTIONS.
EQUAL RIGHTS FOR ALL-NO COMPROMISE OF PRINCIPLE.
Extract from the eloquent speech of the distinguished German orator, CARL SCHURZ, of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, at the Reception Meeting in Faneuil Hall, on the evening of the 18th instant:-
Another danger for the safety of our institutions, and, perhaps, the most formidable one, arises from the general propensity of political parties and public men to act on a policy of mere expediency, and to sacrifice principle to local and temporary success. (Great sensation.) And here, sir, let me address a solemn appeal to the consciences of those with whom I am proud to struggle, side by side, against human thralldom.
You hate kingcraft, and you would sacrifice your fortunes and your lives in order to prevent its establishment on the soil of this republic. But let me tell you, that the rule of political parties which sacrifices principle to expediency, is no less dangerous, no less disastrous, no less aggressive, of no less despotic a nature, than the rule of monarchs. Do not indulge in the delusion, that in order to make a government fair and liberal, the only tiling necessary is to make it elective. When a political party in power, however liberal their principles may be, have once adopted the principle of knocking down their opponents, instead of voting them down, there is an end of justice and equal rights. (Applause.) The history of the world shows no example of a more arbitrary despotism than that exercised by the party which ruled the National Assembly of France in the bloodiest days of the great French Revolution. I will not discuss here what might have been done, and what not, in those times of a fearful crisis; but I will say that they tried to establish liberty by means of despotism, and that in her gigantic struggle against the united monarchs of Europe, revolutionary France won the victory, but lost her liberty.
Remember the shout of indignation that went all over the Northern States when we heard that the Border Ruffians of Kansas had crowded the Free State men away from the polls, and had not allowed them to vote. That indignation was just, not only because the men who were thus terrorized were Free State men and friends of liberty, but because they were deprived of their right of suffrage, and because the government of that territory was placed on the basis of force instead of equal rights. Sir, if ever the party of freedom should us their local predominance for the purpose of disarming their opponents instead of convincing them, they will but follow the example set by the ruffians of Kansas, although legislative enactments may be a genteeler weapon than the revolver and bowie-knife, (Cheers.) They may perhaps achieve some petty local advantage, they may gain some small temporary advantage, but they will help introduce system of action in our politics which will gradually undermine the very foundations upon which our republican edifice rests. Of all the dangers and difficulties that beset us, there is none more horrible than the hideous monster whose name is 'Proscription-for-opinion's-sake.' (Cheers, and cries of ‘Good.') I am an Anti-Slavery man, and I have a right to my opinion in South Carolina just as well as in Massachusetts. My neighbor is a Democrat; I may be sorry for it, but I solemnly acknowledge his right to his opinion in Massachusetts as well as in South Carolina. You tell me, that for my opinion they will mob me in South Carolina. Sir, there is the difference between South Carolina and Massachusetts. (Prolonged cheering.) There is the difference between an anti-slavery man who is a freeman, and a slaveholder, who is himself a slave. (Continued applause.)
Sir, our present issues will pass away. The slavery question will be settled. Liberty will be triumphant, and other matters of difference will divide the political parties of this country. What, sir, if we, in our struggle against slavery, had removed the solid basis of equal rights, on which such new matters of difference may be peaceably settled? What if we had based the institutions of this country upon the difference of rights between different classes of people? What if, in destroying the generality of natural rights, we had resolved them into privileges? There is a thing which stands above the command of the most ingenious of politicians: that is the logic of things and events. It cannot be turned and twisted by artificial arrangements and delusive settlements: it will go its own way with the steady step of fate. It will force you, with uncompromising severity, to choose between the social organizations, one of which is founded upon privilege, and the other upon the doctrine of equal rights.
Force instead of right, privilege, instead of equality, expediency, instead of principle, being once the leading motives of your policy, you will have no power to stem the current.' There will be new abuses to be corrected, new inconveniences to be remedied, new supposed dangers to be obviated, new equally exacting ends to be sub served, and your encroachments upon the natural rights of your opponents now will be used as welcome precedents for the mutual oppression of parties then. Having once knowingly disregarded the doctrine of equal rights, the ruling parties will soon accustom themselves to consult only their interests where fundamental principles, are at stake. Those who lead us into this channel will be like the sorcerer who knew the art how to make a giant snake. And when he had made it, he forgot the charm-word that would destroy it again. And the giant snake threw its horrid coils around him, and the unfortunate man was choked to death by the monster of his own creation.
On the evening of the 2d day of November, 1855, there stood on this very platform a man known and loved by every true son of Massachusetts, who, unmoved by the whirlwind of a proscriptive movement howling around him, spoke the following words:-
‘It is proposed to attaint men for their religion, and also for their birth. If this object can prevail, vain are the triumphs of civil freedom in its many hard-fought fields; vain is that religious toleration which we all profess. The fires of Smithfield, the tortures of the inquisition, the proscriptions of nonconformists, may all be revived. Slowly among the struggling sects was evolved the great idea of the equality of all men before the law, without regard to religious belief: nor can any party now organize a proscription needy for religious (and I may add political) belief, without calling question this unquestionable principle.'
The man who said so was Charles Sumner. (Long continued applause, and three hearty cheers ‘for Charles Sumner.') Then the day was not far off when suddenly the whole country war startled by the incredible news that his noble head had dropped under the murderous blows of a Southern fanatic, and that his warm blood had covered the floor of the Senate Chamber, the noblest sprinkling that ever fertilized a barren soil. (Immense applause.)
<c05>
And now I tell you, when he lay on the lounge of the ante-chamber, his anxious friends busy around him, and his cowardly murderess slinking away like Cain-if at that solemn moment, the first question addressed to his slowly- returning senses had been-Shall those who support your dastardly assailants with their votes be deprived of their suffrage? he would have raised his bleeding head, and with the fire of indignation kindling in his dim eye, he would have answered: No! In the name of my country, no! For the honor of Massachusetts, no! For the name of the principles for which my blood is flowing, no! Let them kill me, but let the rights of man be safe!' (Tremendous applause.)
Sir, if you want to bestow a high praise upon a man, you are apt to say he is an old Roman: But I know a higher epithet of praise: it is-He is a true American!
Aye, Charles Sumner is a true American; he is a representative of the truest Americanism, and to him I pay the tribute of my most enthusiastic admiration. (Enthusiastic cheering.)
Sir, I hope to see the day, when his noble bust, crowned with the love of a grateful people, will stand there! [pointing to the bust of Webster behind him.] (Great applause.)
Sir, I am coming to the close of my remarks. But I cannot refrain from alluding to a circumstance which concerns myself. I understand it has been said, that in saying a few words on the principles of Jeffersonian democracy a few evenings since, I had attempted to interfere with the home affairs of this State, and to dictate to the Republicans their policy, Ah, sir, is there a man in Massachusetts, except he be a servant of the slave power, who cannot hear, me advocate the equal rights of man, without feeling serious pangs of conscience? (Laughter.) Is there a son of this glorious old Commonwealth, who cannot hear me draw logical conclusions from the Declaration of Independence; who cannot hear me speak of the natural right of man to the exercise of self-government, without feeling a blush fluttering upon his cheeks? If so, sir, I am sorry for him; it is his fault, not mine.
Interfere with your local matters! how could I? What influence could I, an humble stranger among you, exercise on the action of Massachusetts? But one thing I must tell you. It ought never to be forgotten that this old Commonwealth occupies a representative position. Her history is familiar to the nation; even South Carolina knows it. (Laughter and applause.) The nation is so accustomed to admire her glorious deeds for freedom, that with this expectation its eyes are turned upon her. Massachusetts can do nothing in secret; Massachusetts can do nothing for herself alone; every one of her acts involves a hundred-fold responsibility. What Massachusetts does, is felt from the Atlantic to the Pacific. But Massachusetts need only be herself, in order to be great. This is her position among the free States, recognized by all. Can there be a more honorable one? Sons of Massachusetts, you may be proud of it Do not forget that from her greatness you cannot separate your responsibility.
No, I will not meddle with your home concerns. I will, however, say a word for the West. Strenuous advocate of State rights and of local self-government as I am, if you ever hear of any movement in the West against the integrity of the fundamental principles underlying our system of government, I invite you, I entreat you, I conjure you, come one and all, and make our prairies resound, and our forests shake, and our ears ring and tingle, with your appeals for the equal rights of man! (Loud and continued cheering.)
Sir, I was to speak on Republicanism at the West, and so I did. This is Western Republicanism. These are its principles, and I am proud to say its principles are its policy. These are the ideas which have rallied around the banner of liberty not only the natives of the soil, banner innumerable host of Germans, Scandinavians, Scotchmen, Frenchmen aye, and a goodly number of Irishmen also. And here 1 tell you, they are mistaken who believe that the Irish heart is devoid of those noble impulses which will lead him to the side of justice, when he sees his own rights respected and unendangered. (Applause.) Under this banner, all the languages of civilized mankind are spoken, every creed is protected, every right is sacred. There stands every element of Western society, with enthusiasm for a great cause, with confidence in each other, with honor to themselves. This is the banner floating over thaw glorious valley which stretches from the Western slope of the Alleghenies to the Rocky Mountains -that Valley of Jehosaphat, where the nations of the world assemble to celebrate the resurrection of human freedom. (Tremendous applause.) The inscription on that banner is not 'opposition to the Democratic party for the sake of placing a new set of men into office;' for this battle-cry of speculators our hearts have no response; nor is it 'restriction to slavery and restriction of the right of suffrage;' for this-believe my words, I entreat you-this would be the signal of deserved, inevitable and disgraceful defeat; but the inscription is: 'Liberty and equal rights, common to all as the air of heaven -liberty and equal right a, one and inseparable!' (Enthusiastic cheers.)
With this banner we stand be/ore the world. In this sign-in this sign alone, and no other-there is victory. And thus, sir, we mean to realize the great cosmopolitan idea upon which the existence of the American nation rests. Thus we mean to fulfil the great mission of true Americanism-thus we mean to answer the anxious question of down-trodden humanity: 'Has man the faculty to be free and to govern himself?' The answer is a triumphant' Aye,' thundering into the ears of the despots of the old world, that 'a man's a man for a' that;' proclaiming to the oppressed that they are held in subjection on false pretences; cheering the hearts of the despondent friends of man with consolation and renewed confidence. This is true Americanism, clasping mankind to its great heart. Under its banner we march; let the world follow! (Loud applause, and three cheers for the champion of freedom in Wisconsin.) 

IS ENGLAND RESPONSIBLE FOR SLAVERY IN AMERICA?
To the Editor of the Liverpool Northern Times:
SIR,-To the question of an Englishman in the Northern Times of 23rd inst., 'Is England responsible for Slavery in America?' I respectfully beg leave through your kind indulgence to answer-No. England is no more responsible than God was for Noah's drunken imprecations on Canaan, when his father lay helplessly' exposed under the influence of wine; and, by the way, I would remind those champions for enslaving the negro race, that Canaan's case as a justification for enslaving the African has become threadbare, and is therefore no argument. England is no more responsible than God was for His friend Abraham's conduct with his maid-servant Hagar; if it proved anything, it was an evidence of the wickedness of the system then in its infancy. No more responsible than God was for Lot's incest with, his two daughters, notwithstanding their miraculous escape from Sodom and Gomorrah, No more responsible than God was for David's conduct in the matter of Irish and Bath Sheba. No
<c06>
more responsible than God was for Solomon's vile system of polygamy and concubine. Under the old dispensation, God suffered, as he does now, those evils to exist, viz: Idolatry, human bondage, polygamy, concubine, and human sacrifices; but always denounced these monstrous sins with prophetic judgment, all of which were structurally fulfilled-'In those days God winked at your sins, because of the hardness of your hearts; but under this new dispensation,' God now commands all men everywhere to repent.'
England is no more responsible than she is for the disgusting human sacrifices as now practiced among savage heathens in different parts of the world, because, forsooth, in the days of their heathenism, 1900 years ago, the ancient Britons painted their bodies, lived in caves, enslaved each other, and offered human sacrifices. No more responsible than the Reformed Protestant Religion is for the adulterous reign of King Henry VIII., who to a certain extent (though not always approvable) promoted the overthrow of the temporal and spiritual authority of the Pope of Rome, over the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.
England is no more responsible for negro slavery in America, than Spain, Portugal, France, Holland, Denmark, and all civilized Europe; all were at that time particles criminals, all equally guilty. Negro slavery was the illegitimate offspring of Romish theology. In order to alleviate the condition of the aborigines in the New World, who would- not consent to be made slaves, but rose upon their Spanish invaders, and successfully secured their liberty-Father Peter, a Roman Catholic Jesuit, found a substitute within the lids of the Bible, namely,-'Cursed he Canaan, &c.' Las Casas also advocated this inhuman, unchristian doctrine. Hence the introduction of African slavery.
The first class of laborers introduced into the colony of Virginia were white convicts, from the mother country, composed principally of the denizens of Negate, as also criminals from all parts of the United Kingdom. In 1620, a Dutch ship landed twenty Africans at James's River. Soon after, Sir John Hawkins landed a cargo of Africans, ac the same place.
England is no more responsible than France, who first planted negro slavery in Louisiana,-subsequently purchased by President Jefferson for $15,000,000:-no more responsible than Spain, who also established negro slavery in Florida, afterwards purchased by the United States government for $5, 000,000.
But why should England alone be singled out, arraigned, and put on trial before the whole world, and adjudged guilty fur the sin of slavery as it now exists in America? In common law, the receiver is as bud as the thief' Let him that stealth, steal no more.' Does England fit out ships, as the Americans are now doing, in open defiance of existing treaties, to re-open the abominable African slave trade? On the contrary, she is now doing all she can to break up the infernal system. There was not only repentance made and received, but the thief on the cross was promised by the Redeemer that he should that same day be with Him in Paradise; if scripture be true, and who will dare to doubt it? How much more justified does England stand, before high Heaven, the world's jury, and her accusers, than the thief on the cross?
Two hundred and thirty-nine years ago, England joined hands with Christian pirates, and robbed Africa of more than 200,000,000 of her children. Less than one hundred years ago-as a nation that had grievously sinned before God and the world's humanity-she humbled herself as it were in sackcloth and ashes, and abolished the infamous African slave trade-twenty-five years ago. In order to make her ‘repentance not to be repented of’ doubly sure, England, at a sacrifice of $20,000,000, seta another example worthy to be imitated by America, by abolishing chattel slavery throughout all her West and East India possessions. Other nations have nobly followed her example. We have only now the mortification of seeing negro slavery, with all its enormities, upheld by Spain and the United States.
We deny that England is responsible for negro slavery in America. In 1776, when the thirteen colonies separated from the mother country, why did they not abolish slavery, as forced upon them by British authority? On the contrary, aid they not claim indemnification for 30.000 slaves escaped to British territory during the wars of 1776 and 1812?
It is too late at this stage of the world's history-in this age of progressive humanity and civilization -for Americans, and their apologist, an English-man, to come before this world's court to file in their plea to a general issue, or a plea of justification for the existence of American slavery. England has washed her hands, and brought forth fruits meet for repentance, and she now stands before all Christendom, pre-eminently great, glorious, and free, as the invincible, uncompromising, firm and devoted champion of universal freedom.
I am, sir, yours, &c.,
YOUNG AFRICA.
Liverpool, 26th March, 1859.

AMALGAMATION.
During the year 1858, in Boston, nine colored males were married to white women, exactly the same number that occurred in the year 1857. There is not an instance reported of the marriage of a white man with a black woman.-Boston Traveller 
It is singular that any negro man of good sense would wish to marry a white woman, for the white female who would marry a negro must be among the lowest and most degraded of her sex. In such a case, we pity the negro. No matter how low he has fallen, he will fail to find that lower depth to which the white woman who consents to marry him has already reached.-National Democrat.
It is singular that the Editor of the Democrat should rant against amalgamation, when he favors that institution which practices the system without even being satisfied by marriage. The Editor of the Democrat knows that a majority of the slaves are mulattoes, who must of course have had a white parent. And, what is still worse, many of these mulatto slaves can boast of having blood of the first families of the Democratic amalgamation State of Virginia running in their veins: and these are often sold into slavery by their own Democratic; fathers. Does the Editor of the Democrat favor this damnable system in Virginia? If not, why does he not denounce the ten thousand cases of amalgamation that exist at the Democratic South, instead of picking oat solitary and isolated cases that may exist at the North? This much may be said in favor of these isolated Northern cases; they are invariably sanctified to some extent by marriage, while at the South the system is the result of the whites forcing the helpless female slaves to submit to their brutal lusts.
The remarkably consistent Editor of the Democrat is ever flooding his paper about these rare cases of Northern, amalgamation, when he himself voted for that practical amalgamationist, the late Richard M. Johnson, for Vice President!-Cleveland Ledger.

NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell'
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed m other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other. States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke, On this subject, OUR FATHER, IN FARMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been, tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.' -WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
WELLINGTON SLAVE RESCUE CASH.
At the trial of the Wellington Slave Rescue Case, at Cleveland, Ohio-thirty-seven citizens of Oberlin and Wellington being under indictment by the United States, on the charge of having illegally rescued an apprehended fugitive slave-the case for the defence was opened by Mr. RIDDLE. In the course of his masterly plea, he said:-
Let us look at the matter of the 'higher law.' I am a votary of the ' higher law,' and I believe that the man who has no higher moral sense than obedience to the penal laws of his country, is neither a good citizen nor a moral man. (Applause.) The principle of right and wrong is older than the laws of men; and although you may outlaw it, and enact laws in its place, it matters little. You can ask no more than that a citizen shall quietly obey the laws, or submit to the penalty. He may be wrong; but if he should happen to be right, and afterwards be found so, then the dungeon to which you would send him comes to be a luminous sanctuary, and the grave to which you would consign him comes to be a shrine to be visited as a holy spot. John fled, but from whom? By virtue of what compact does he owe service to this man, John G. Bacon? It is alleged that he owed service to this man, not by any compact, but with no contract save what Bacon entered into with himself. He was a slave because his mother was a slave. He escapes to Ohio, and is pursued. By fraud they gain possession of him. A company pursues, and rescues him from those who have thus seized him. What moral obligation have these rescuers violated?
<illegible> boy John who was destined by the great Creator to a life of slavery, ran off in direct violation of all the eternal principles which bind this glorious Union together, thus kicking his foot direct through the porcelain of the Union of this confederation. Jennings came to Oberlin in search of John. He says he has known him in Kentucky, and yet he has to send back to Kentucky for Mr. Mitchell to identify the boy. Mitchell saw him but once at Oberlin, and had never seen him before since he left Kentucky. Let it be borne in mind that at that time there existed in Oberlin a great excitement in regard to the danger in which the colored citizens of the place were living, through fear of being kidnapped. John escaped at the age of eighteen, when his personal appearance was changing every day, and yet this man Mitchell recognized him from the window of Wack's tavern after nearly three years. He was copper colored when he left Kentucky, but black when he was found at Oberlin. He was 5 feet 8 or 10 inches in Kentucky, but 5 feet 4 or 5 inches in Oberlin. He would weigh 170 pounds at Kentucky, but 135 or 140 at Oberlin. How do these points of difference allow the supposition of the identity of the two? They claim that the boy frequently said himself that he was the slave of Bacon, but what he said can only be used as the statements of any body else could be, and not have any undue prominence. Mitchell says that at first John did not know him; but, gentlemen, when his right hand suspiciously approached his left side where a revolver was carried, then John received a sudden enlightenment, like an animal of old, of whom we read, although I admit that John was not quite an ass, and surely Mitchell was not quite an angel.
We express no evil intent toward the State of Kentucky, which holds the grave of one Clay and the home of another. Should that State be invaded tomorrow, our gallant sons would cross the Ohio to the rescue, as did the noble Kentuckians when we were in danger in olden times; but we cannot agree to their mode of recovering their fugitives, and cannot turn to and help them in the carrying out of their schemes, which we consider nefarious. The prosecution talks of disunion, and charges you with designs against the existence of this confederation, if you do not now support (whether for right or wrong) the Fugitive Slave Law. As for me, so help me the great God, if a panting fugitive should come to my house, and ask for aid, he should have it. 
(Tremendous applause through the Court room.) 
Judge Belden hoped that if such manifestations were repeated, all those concerned might be committed. 
Judge SPAULDING said, ' Then you will have a large committal, and include some of the Counsel in the case.'
Judge BELDEN-'Why, you do not pretend to uphold it, do you?'
Judge SPAULDING-' I do uphold and countenance it.'
Judge BELDEN-' Then you would be included in the committal.'
Judge SPAULDING-' I should be most happy to be included in such a committal before this Court.'
Mr. RIDDLE closed with a brilliant peroration, having spoken about four hours and three quarters.
Judge SPAULDING continued the argument for the defence by saying that, some forty years ago, he took upon himself the oath to support the Constitution of the United States-took it as did Andrew Jackson, who declared he would support it, not as others might read it, but as his own good judgment should dictate. Had Jackson done or said nothing else, he would by that have deserved eternal remembrance.
I stand here to defend a citizen who is indicted for doing what? Why, for obeying the precept of Jesus, who said, ' When ye see a brother in prison, visit him.' This defendant has but visited a fellow-being who was in chains; and for aiding him to gain his freedom, he is liable to incarceration in the penitentiary. The law provides that any violation of the Fugitive Slave Law shall be punished with imprisonment, and it rests within the breast of the presiding officer of this Court, should the jury render a verdict of guilty, to say whether that imprisonment shall be in the County Jail or the State Prison. 
We are to-day assembled in this city of 60,000 people, and in a district where there is a majority of 30,000 against the General Government; but yet, all of these must not be considered as enemies to the country. For years I trod the steps of the Democratic party, and never left it until I refused to assent to this law under which we try this case to-day. 
The defendant is said to come from Oberlin, the harbor of fugitive slaves; yet you are not here to try the people of Oberlin for their peculiar opinions. You are not to try Simeon Bushnell because he is a citizen of Oberlin, but upon the Simple question of right and wrong. The gentleman (Mr. Bliss) says with a sneer, that Oberlin is a 'higher law' town. I do not propose to go into a theological discussion, but there is an old adage that 'man proposes, but God disposes,' and not the genius of Napoleon, who blasphemously altered it to the expression, ' I propose, and 1 dispose,' could avert the destruction which God brought down. Jefferson, the Father of Democracy, said-' When I reflect that God is just, I tremble for my country.' Was not that 'higher law'? And does Judge Bliss think that we can scout the law of God-can carry into effect laws directly opposed to his, and say that the 'higher law ' is nothing, when we know that we all must, ere long, bow to this same ' higher law '? Although I do not expect to reverse the decisions which have been issued from Federal and Superior Courts, on this question, I deem it my duty to utter at all times my views against such decisions. I take issue with the learned Judge McLean on the subject, and declare that the Constitution would never have been adopted, had the Northern people known one half of the evils that flow from it; and it was adopted under protest.
It is claimed that an excitement prevailed in the town of Oberlin in relation to the matter of returning slaves, fugitives from service. In these latter days, the words 'owing service' are omitted, and the negroes are called simply 'slaves.' But, sir, I know very well that no man could hold the office which you do, unless he would agree to return fugitives to slavery; and my friend Judge Belden would not hold his position, unless he had made the same agreement. He has changed rapidly in his views; for a few years ago, at a meeting at Columbus, he told me that he was a candidate for the Governorship of the State of Ohio, on the grounds of having voted for Martin Van Buren, while I, a better Democrat than he, voted for Lewis Cass.
Judge SPAULDING here read the following resolutions, reported to an indignation meeting held in Cleveland, soon after the passage of the Fugitive Slave Law, Judge Wilson being on the Committee on Resolutions:-
1. Resolved, That the passage of the Fugitive Law was an act unauthorized by the Constitution, hostile to every principle of justice and humanity, and, if <illegible>, fatal to Human Freedom. 
2. Resolved, That law strikes down some of the dearest principles upon which our fathers predicated their right to assert and maintain their <illegible>, and is characterized by the most tyrannical exercise of power; and that it cannot be sustained without repudiating the doctrines of the Declaration of Independence, and the principles upon which all free governments rest.
<c02>
3. Resolved, That tyranny consists in the wilfully violating, by those in power, of man's natural right to personal security, personal liberty, and private property; and it matters not whether the act is exercised by one man or a million of men, it is equally unjust, unrighteous, and destructive of the ends of all just governments.
4. Resolved, That regarding some portions of the Fugitive Law as unconstitutional, and the whole of it as oppressive, unjust and unrighteous, we deem it the duty of every good citizen to denounce, oppose and resist, by all proper means, the execution of said laws, and that we demand its immediate and unconditional repeal, and will not cease to agitate the question, and use all our powers to secure that object, until it is accomplished.
5. Resolved, That we recommend that a meeting of the citizens of this county be held at Cleveland on the 26th day of October instant, to consider said law, and take such action thereon as may be deemed expedient.
(These resolutions created quite a sensation in the court-room, being thus indorsed by Judge Wilson.) 
After referring to the power invested in the Federal Courts, Judge SPAULDING concluded a long and very able defence by eloquently saying:
'And had I the distinguished honor, sir, to occupy the seat which is so eminently filled by your Honor, full long should I hesitate from declaring that to be law which so clearly contravenes the solemn compact of the Constitution, as well as the earlier Ordinance of 1787, violates every right of free citizens, and stains with an ineradicable blot the statute books of our country, not to say defies the laws of Him who is higher than the highest. Nor should I hesitate to pronounce the infamous act of 1850, what it most clearly and unquestionably is, utterly unconstitutional, null and void, though thus doing I should risk an impeachment from the Senate of my country. And, sir, should such an impeachment thus fall to my lot, I should proudly embrace it as a greater honor than has ever been bestowed upon any officer of these United States.' 
The case of Bushnell went to the jury on Friday night, and, as might have been expected, (being a packed jury, composed exclusively of Border-Ruffian Democrats!) they returned a verdict of guilty!
As soon as the case of Bushnell was disposed of, the Court proceeded to take up the next case. The District Attorney called the name of James Langsston. Judge Spaulding objected that they were not ready in that case, and suggested that of Prof. Peck. District Attorney Belden insisted on Langston.
Judge Spaulding then objected that the jury was a struck jury for the particular case of Bushnell. and claimed a new jury.
Judge Wilson said the jury was selected for the term, and it is proper they should try all the cases.
Mr. Backus insisted that the jury had made up their minds on all the propositions, and to send the other accused to such men for trial was monstrous. He never saw a case in which the defendant had to go to a jury which had just disposed of a precisely similar case. If forced to go into a trial before such a jury, no one of the defendants would so stultify himself as to defend his case before men who had already made up their minds. It was unheard of injustice, and an outrage on the sense of justice of the civilized world.
Judge Spaulding announced the determination of the accused neither to defend themselves nor appear by attorney before such a jury. They surrendered themselves to the Court, and asked that their recognizance's be struck off. Refusing to accept the offer to let them go on their word, they were committed to jail, but were treated with great consideration. The Court, on Monday, granted a new jury, which was empanneled to try the case of Langston.

ANOTHER FUGITIVE SLAVE CASE. 
A United States Deputy Marshal Arrested for Kidnapping.
On Friday last, United States Commissioner Brown remanded a negro, claimed us a fugitive slave, to the custody of the Marshal and his alleged master, and he was taken across the river, and lodged in jail at Covington. On Saturday, the Commissioner had a similar case to dispose of, but which did not appear so clear upon its face, and which excited some feeling on the part of the colored people of the city, many of whom attended the examination. It appears that in April, 1856, a negro named Lewis Early left the premises of George Killgore, of Cabell county, Va., and came to Ohio, and has since been at work in this State, a part of the time for Mr. Robinson, a relative of Mr. Killgore's, residing in Ross county, in this State. On the 17th of January last, Mr. K. gave to his son, James Killgore, residing in Kentucky, a power of attorney to pursue and bring back the fugitive. With this view, a new warrant was procured from Commissioner Charles C. Brown, of this city, armed with which document Deputy United States Marshal Manson, accompanied by Mr. Killgore and another party, proceeded to Ross county, and effected the arrest. The negro was found chopping wood for a farmer in company with another colored man, who immediately mounted a horse, and gave the alarm that Lewis had been kidnapped, and was about being conveyed out of the State by force of arms.
The party then started on foot for the nearest station, and travelled some fifteen or twenty miles through mud and mire, bringing with them abundant evidence, upon their clothes, of their intimate ' free soil' associations. Arrived in Buckskin township, Ross county, they were met by a constable and a large posse of men, armed with a warrant issued by Robert Coyner, Justice of the Peace, upon the oath of James Furnow, charging that ' three strangers' had kidnapped a colored man named Lewis Early, and commanding the officers to bring said ' three strangers' before his tribunal at once.
The Deputy Marshal had no idea of contending against a foe so much superior, and, with his companions, immediately submitted to the authority of the warrant, and proceeded to the office of the Justice, where he found a crowd of several hundred persons assembled. Justice Coyner demanded by what authority they sought to convey to other parts the body of the said Lewis. The warrant issued by the U. S. Commissioner was exhibited, and its genuineness satisfactorily proven, when Justice Coyner stated to the crowd that he felt bound to recognize the broad seal of Uncle Sam, and as his was an inferior Court, he should dismiss the charge of kidnapping, and set the prisoner free. This was accordingly done, and the Marshal, with the negro, succeeded in reaching this city by the train on Saturday morning.
The case is now in course of examination before Commissioner Brown of Cincinnati. The testimony, as far as taken, tends to show that the negro had been emancipated by a man to whom Killgore some years since gave a bill of sale of him.-Cincinnati Gazette.

THE VIRGINIA SEARCH LAW.
The annoyances to which our Northern coasting vessels are subjected in consequence of this obnoxious law, are continually growing more and more flagrant. Several cases have recently come to our knowledge, in which the masters of our Cape vessels have been put to great inconvenience and expense in consequence of that villanous statute.
The schooner C. C. Comstock, of Dennis, was recently seized in Tangier Sound, and Capt. Curtis compelled to pay a fine of $500 or forfeit his vessel. 
Schr. Edith, of Harwich, Capt. West, two or three months ago left Virginia without being searched. Capt. West states that he waited in Hampton Roads forty-eight hours, and no inspecting officer came on board, and as a fair wind sprung up, he weighed anchor and went to sea. On returning to Norfolk, a month or so afterwards; in another vessel, the Mary Hawes, he was seized, thrown into jail, and was obliged to pay a fine and costs to the amount of $140 before he could go free.
It is contended by the apologists for this law, that it is a police regulation required to prevent slaves from being taken away from Virginia, and is a necessary and proper statute. But, even admitting that some regulation should be necessary, it will be seen that this law is needlessly vexatious and annoying. For instance: The master of a vessel, when leaving, is compelled to look up an officer to make the search. It would seem bad enough to be obliged to submit to a search, when called upon. But this is not all. The vessel can not be searched before leaving Norfolk, but must wait in Hampton Roads the pleasure of the searching officer. That functionary can take his own time about complying with the summons, and if, in the meantime, a fair wind comes up, and the impatient master goes to sea, be will, on his next return to the State, be treated to the hospitalities of the ' chivalrous' Virginians, such as were dispensed to Capt. Baker, Capt. West, and other Cape Cod captains. Such a law is not merely an outrage on civilized society; it would disgrace a barbarism.-Yarmbuth(Mass.) Register.
<c03>
The Liberator
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, APRIL 29, 1859.
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Twenty-Sixth Annual Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society will be held in the city, of New York, in the City Assembly Rooms, Broadway, on Tuesday, May 10th, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M.; and continued, by adjournment, at the same place, on Tuesday evening, and Wednesday forenoon and afternoon.
The sublime and beneficent object for which this Society was organized yet remains to be fully consummated. No matter how numerous the difficulties? how formidable the obstacles, how many the foes to be vanquished-slavery must cease to pollute and curse the land. No matter, whether that event be near or remote, whether the taskmaster willingly or unwillingly relinquish his arbitrary power, whether by a peaceful or a bloody process-slavery must die. No matter, though, to effect it, every party should be torn by dissensions, every sect dashed into fragments, the national compact dissolved-still, slavery must be abolished. If the State cannot survive the Anti-Slavery agitation, then let the State perish. If the Church must be cast down by the strugglings of Humanity to be free, then let the Church fall. If the Union cannot be maintained, except by immolating human freedom on the altar of a bloody tyranny, then let the Union be dissolved. If the Republic must be blotted out from the roll of nations, by proclaiming liberty to the enslaved, then let the Republic sink beneath the waves of oblivion, and a shout of joy, louder than the voice of many waters, fill the universe at its extinction. Against this declaration, none but traitors and tyrants will raise an outcry. It is the mandate of Heaven, and the voice of God. It has righteousness for its foundation, reason for its authority, and truth for its support. It is simply asserting the supremacy of right over wrong, of liberty over oppression, of God over man.
There must be no compromise with slavery-none whatever. Nothing is gained, every thing is lost, by subordinating principle to expediency. The spirit of freedom must be inexorable in its demand for the instant release of all who are groaning in bondage, nor abate one jot or tittle of its righteous claims. By one remorseless grasp, the rights of humanity have been taken away; and by one strong blow, the iron hand of usurpation must be made to relinquish its murderous hold. The Slave Power cannot be conquered by compromise, stratagem, or bribery. Its dying throes will convulse the land. The conflict admits of no parley. No flag of truce must be sent or received; no quarter must be given or taken.
Animated by these sentiments, let there come up to this anniversary a large and spirited gathering of the members and friends of this Society, resolved upon a fresh consecration, and still more effective efforts to accomplish their mighty undertaking.
Among the speakers who are confidently expected to be present, and to address the Society during its sessions, are WM. LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., LUCRETIA, MOTT, Rev. Dr. FURNESS, Rev. O. B. FROTHINGHAM, Judge CULVER, E. GILBERT, Esq., EDMUND QUINCY, Esq., J. MILLER McKIM, PARKER PILLSBURY. CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, E. H. HEYWOOD, Rev. A. M. MILLIGAN, (of the Covenanter Church in Pennsylvania,) WM. WELLS BROWN, ANDREW T. Foss, JOSEPH HOWLAND, and others. In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
SYDNEY H. GAY,
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Secretaries.

NEW PUBLICATIONS.
' A TRACT FOR THE TIMES, on the question-Is it right to withhold fellowship from churches or from individuals that tolerate or practise slavery? Read by appointment before The Congregational Ministers' Meeting of New London County, Conn., by Rev. HENRY T. CHEEVER.' pp. 23. New York, 1859.
This tract has the very great merit (a very rare merit also, considering that it was written by a clergyman, and read before a body of ministers) of declaring slaveholding a sin, and the withholding of church fellowship from slaveholders a duty. Its clear and full utterance of these important truths, so generally denied or ignored by ministers and churches, makes it worthy of frank criticism, and our acknowledgment of these merits makes it incumbent on us to point out such errors in the work as impair its efficiency and diminish the value of its testimony. We are, moreover, encouraged to do this by the important truth which the author presents to us in the following sentence, p. 19-' It is a remark of Hardcastle, that God does not allow us to part with an inch of his ground, though we might thereby gain the peaceful possession of all the rest.' And the author makes the application of this general truth to the particular 'subject of slavery by saying-' All attempts to abolish or pare away the difference between right and wrong,... or to compromise with the spirit of slavery by withholding an expression of its inherent sinfulness, will end in utter defeat and ignominy to the compromising party.' 
Who would expect, after this, to find compromise in this very pamphlet? Yet, here it is! Not the particular method or specification of compromise above censured, but one materially interfering with the soundness of its position and the efficiency of such action as it suggests, and therefore open to the censure which Mr. Cheever quotes from Hardcastle.
The Tract Societies at New York and Boston retain a fraternal ecclesiastical relation with slaveholding ministers and church-members by refusing to declare slaveholding a sin. The inference is plain, that complicity with this system furnishes no bar to the recognition of its practitioners as Christians, and these Societies are thus far consistent with themselves, however unsound in principle and faulty in practice. Mr. Cheever's tract seems to have cut itself off from the recognition of slaveholders us Christians by the position, taken at the very commencement, and several times repeated, that slaveholding is sin-sin per se-and that it necessarily involves both doctrinal error and sinful practice; nevertheless, by the easy process of virtual self-contradiction, by opening a postern door for the admission of certain cases of 'apparent slaveholding,' after conspicuously placarding the front avenue with ' No slaveholder admitted!'-the peculiar institution is still allowed a footing in the bosom of the Church. Special cases of men who look exactly like slaveholders, and who seem to all their neighbors to be slaveholders, are admitted, under protest; they are unpleasantly stigmatized, pointed at, warned, rebuked, disciplined; but what do they care for these little annoyances, while they have the concession of Christian character? This is to them the one thing needful. 
Here are some of the expressions of concession, alluded to:-
'There may be cases of apparent slaveholding, in which there is no sin per se' p. 18.
A man may be a nominal slaveholder, for the moment, from necessity, and yet be guiltless, before God, for the crime of slaveholding.' Ib
When a man holds slaves for gain or service to himself, without wages, it is essential injustice and fraud, and that slaveholding is sin per se.' Ib.
'He who holds slaves for his own gain, as his property, to increase his own wealth thereby, or in any way to promote his own selfish and personal ends. he is <illegible> truly guilty of injustice and of sin per <illegible> if he were a convicted and common thief.'
p. 19.
Moreover, these expressions are fortified, throughout the pamphlet, by the constant use of the terms
<c04>
Christians, breathren, and Christian breathren, in reference to persons thoroughly pro-slavery. 
It is curious to see how nearly identical are the above ideas and expressions-honestly used on the part of Mr. Cheever, and apparently resulting from the habit of presuming the professor of religion to he of course a Christian-with ideas and expressions dishonestly and hypocritically used by Rev. Selah B.
Treat, (by direction of the Prudential Committee of the 'American Board') in reply to that letter of the Choctaw missionaries in which they had expressed their determination still to admit slaveholders to the church. Mr. Treat says (speaking of the slaveholding candidate for church-membership, and silly insinuating how he may be received without the implication that slaveholding generally is right)-
'Perhaps he can show that his being the owner of slaves is involuntary on his part; perhaps he can show that he retains the legal relation at their request, and for their advantage; perhaps he can show that he utterly rejects and repudiates the idea of holding property in his fellow-men. If so, let the facts be disclosed, and let him have the benefit of them.'
The resemblance between the language of Mr. Treat and of Mr. Cheever should warn the latter of the necessity of resisting the beginnings of compromise.
But justice to Mr. Cheever requires that we should show, in his own language, not only to what result he comes, but how he comes to it. Here we give one of his statements (above quoted) in connection with his own explanation or paraphrase of it:-
'There may be cases of apparent slaveholding, in which there is no sin per se, because there is no real slavery, inasmuch as the apparent slaveholder, acknowledging that he cannot, in the sight of God, hold property in man, is really an emancipator, only subject to the relation of slaveholder in the eye of the law, while he is seeking to place those called his slaves under the protection of the laws of freedom, and fully endow them with all the liberties which he acknowledges are theirs by right.' p. 18.
Here the man who remains an ' apparent slaveholder'-who even still holds 'the relation of slaveholder in the eye of the law'-is assumed to be guiltless, on the ground of his 'acknowledging that he cannot, in the sight of God, hold property in man.' But to whom is this acknowledgment made? It is not made to his associates of the privileged class, who are also apparent slaveholders, because he continues an 'apparent slaveholder.' It is not made to any legal tribunal, because he still holds 'the relation of slaveholder in the eye of the law.' Apparently this acknowledgment is only made to himself, in reply to the accusations of his conscience, or to God, in his private prayers. And how much better off is the slave for that? Suppose Mr. Pierce Butler had done that, and had done' no more. Would his slaves have been sold any the less? Suppose any insolvent Southerner had been in the habit of making that private acknowledgment every morning and night for ten years before his property was levied on by the sheriff! Would the slaves of whom he was the apparent owner be any the less seized and sold to pay his debts?
The American Anti-Slavery Society wishes to put an end to the appearance of slaveholding as well as the reality, and it will never consider the reality extinct while the appearance remains. It wishes to deliver the slave from that very 'relation in the eye of the law,' which Mr. Cheever's language implies to be comparatively a trivial thing, if only the white man designated by that law as his 'owner' consents to make some sort of acknowledgment, somewhere, that God does not so regard him. The abolitionists wish to exterminate ' the relation,' both in reality and appearance, in substance and shadow. We wish to put it out of the power of any oppressor to lay the weight of his least finger upon a human being with the claim that even the lower law recognizes him as property. But how is this ever to be done if a set of apparent slaveholders, living among the real slaveholders, looking just like them in the eyes of men, and treated in the administration of Southern law just like them, are to receive excuse, toleration, and the allowance of Christian character from the very men who think it needful to treat them with church discipline?
One thing more. Mr. Cheever-in a paragraph speaking of the men in whose hands 'the church has tamely left not merely the working oar, but the very rudder and reins of certain necessary reforms of the day'-(we understand him to mean the persons most prominent in the American Anti-Slavery Society,) asks the following question, and makes the following assertion:
'What will become of our religious organization when irreligious men get ahead of the Church in morals, and the practical work of Christianity? In some instances they are already a long ways ahead of the very oracles of Orthodoxy.' pp. 20, 21.
We ask Mr. Cheever if, by the ' irreligious men' 'whom he declares to be a long way ahead of the Church in the practical part of Christianity, he means Garrison, Phillips, Pillsbury and Foster? If he does not mean them, will he have the kindness distinctly to say so, and distinctly to say who he does mean?
If he does mean them, will he have the kindness to designate anything irreligious in their anti-slavery action, which is the point now under consideration?-C. K. W.
Extract from a letter of an intelligent citizen of Connecticut, dated April 18, 1859. 
'Our election resulted in securing the government to the Republicans, but there is no hope for our bill this year, for it requires a two-thirds vote, which cannot be got; so we must wait and. work, work and wait; but they shall not have any peace so far as I am concerned.
' To those unacquainted with Connecticut, it is a wonder why she does not give her colored inhabitants their full and just rights; but when they get acquainted with the narrow-souled captains of the coasters who get their hog and hominy out of the slaveholders, there is no surprise; and their vessels are owned in shares throughout the State.'
I do not like the action of certain persons in New York relative to colonization. They are gilding, sugaring and deceiving the people. I am well aware that our burden here is hard to bear, but when I contrast my condition with that of my father, I thank God and take courage. I have a better armament for fighting the enemy than he had.'
We have devoted a large portion of our last page to another racy extract from an unpublished Anti-Slavery Work-a copyright of which has been secured. The author is a Baptist clergyman, of Scottish birth, but for many years a resident in this country, and intelligently and experimentally posted in regard to anti-slavery matters, especially in the denomination to which he was attached. We understand it is his intention to sail for England next month, with a view to the publication of his work in that country-the appearance of which, judging from the extracts we have given, cannot fail to make a lively sensation on both sides of the Atlantic.
DANIEL WEBSTER SAFE IN CANADA. Rev. J. W. Loguen, U. G. R. R. Agent at Syracuse, says that he passed through Rochester, a few nights since, with Daniel Webster, and saw him safe on free soil. Daniel, he says, is a noble man.
In South America, there have been earthquakes and revolutions. The city of Quito is in ruins. From two to five thousand lives are lost, besides an immense amount of property. It has been destroyed twice before. Other towns along the coast have suffered, though to what extent is not known.
The Derby Ministry has been beaten on the Reform question, <illegible> British Parliament is to be dissolved, and an appeal made to the people. If the liberals shall choose to unite, the new Parliament must be with them.
<c05>
LETTER FROM THEODORE PARKER. 
The following letter of Mr. PARKER to FRANCIS
FRANCIS JACKSON, Esq. was read to the congregation at Music Hall, on Sunday morning last, by MR. PHILLIPS Though a private letter, the wide-spread interest that is felt in Mr. PARKER'S case will justify its publication. That portion of it which relates to emancipation will be particularly interesting to our readers.
WEST END SANTA CRUZ, March 21, 1859. 
FRANCIS JACKSON:
DEAR FRIEND-Here we all are, on one of the handsomest little islands in the world, about as big as Suffolk county, though different in shape.
We have the weather of dog-days, yet the heat is quite uniform day and night, varying commonly from 80 degrees at noon to 78 at sun-down, and 76 at sun-rise. I have not seen the mercury higher than 82 by day, or lower than 72 by night. The air is drier than I ever knew it in New England in the longest drought. 
Only at night I feel a little chill in the atmosphere, and pull a thin blanket over my shoulders.
If I don't get well here, you must make up your minds to let me go; for if the air of Santa Cruz does not help me, nothing will or can. The atmosphere is so clear that I can see the island of Porto Rico from the wharf here, though it is seventy miles off! I live out of doors all I can, but am yet too lame to walk or ride with much pleasure.
The houses are only a little piece of out doors with a roof over it. It is a queer place, this little town of one thousand inhabitants, living in (or out of) houses which have no glass and no chimneys. You would laugh to see the fuel exposed for sale; a handful of brush charcoal on a board, a few little bundles of brush, not so large as a bundle of parsnips in Boston market. You who filled up the South Cove (I wish you had made it six feet higher) would stare a little to see six men and women at work (!) repairing the highway; they hoe the earth into trays, take them on their heads, and carry them to a cart, and pitch in their contents; then three persons pull the cart, and three more push from behind, while the seventh oversees the whole concern, and walks behind till they come to the place of deposit, where they dump down the ten bushels which make the load. Carpenter work is a sight to behold; a boy holding a board for a man to saw it, and another boy helping both by looking on. I think you would wonder at the plants and trees, not one that you ever saw before. But, what would interest you much is the condition of the colored people; so a further word on that matter. Slavery continued here until 1848, when all over the little island the blacks rose, took possession of all, except the two forts, and demanded their freedom. There were 3000 whites and 25,000 blacks on the island. The negroes did not shed a drop of blood. They burnt a few houses, but destroyed very little property, and took no man's life.
Imagine the consternation of the whites, who knew what they would do under like circumstances! The Governor declared the Negroes all free, and advised them to go back to the estates and work. Most of them did go. But soon a Spanish regiment was brought over to secure order. The Danish King confirmed the freedom of the negroes, but had a commission to inquire into the matter. See how the whites paid the blacks for their lenity. They put 400 or 500 in jail, and shot 13 in cold blood. The price of labor was fixed by law, the laborer protected in certain particulars, but still the chief protection was given to those who were best able to take care of themselves. It is always so. At present, laborers on estates are divided into three classes; first, second, third. They are thus paid: all have a hut to live in, a little patch to raise vegetables and fruits, (which grow with no care,) to keep a pig,
poultry, &c. They all work five days a week, except certain feast days of the Lutheran church; nine hours a day, i. e., from 7, A. M., to 12, and from 2, P. M., to 6. The third class, consisting chiefly of children, have only their support, food and clothes, which cost little. The second class has thirty cents a week, four quarts of corn meal, and four herrings. The first class has fifty cents a week, six quarts of meal, and six herrings. Such is the pay. For work in extra hours and on Saturday, they all have extra pay. Of course, in a slave country labor is despised. A poor white woman who keeps a boarding-house would feel degraded by clearing out a drawer, and so leaves it for her rich New England lodgers, who think work an honor as well as a duty. Of course, the blacks share this feeling; they did not work so much for the planters after they obtained their freedom; so the productive power of the island declined; the sugar crop of the island went down from 30,000 hogsheads to 20,000. 15.000, 12,000, 8000, to 6000 in this year. About half the decline must be charged, (first,) to the bad conduct of the owners of estates, and, (second.) to a long series of excessive drought, occasioned by stripping the hills of the trees which used to catch the waters of heaven, and woo them down to earth to fertilize and bless it. The other half let me put down to freedom. Suppose an average crop under slavery was 20,000 hhds., and now is 12,000; then freedom costs 4000 hhds. sugar, (that is, one half of the difference, which is 8000.) Suppose a hogshead of sugar here worth $521/2, then the freedom of 25,000 men costs $250,000 a year; that is, ten dollars a-head. So much for that side of the question. Now look at the other side.
The Negroes marry one man to one woman, and are about as faithful as ' the rest of mankind.' They wear clothes at work, and neat and tidy clothes on Sundays. They work better than before. They have learned this of late, and are improving continually in industry. They save money, and buy little houses in the town, move them, and become mechanics, traders, lumpers, &c. &c. They send their children to the free school, some of them travelling four miles for that blessed privilege. They go to meeting on Sundays, which I fear would not be worth much to you or me, but it is of a deal of service to them. They respect themselves, and are getting humanized, moralized and civilized. I think 
that is worth ten dollars a-head. I wish somebody would undertake to elevate the New Englanders at twice that cost. The same thing goes on here for the African which in Boston takes place with the Irish; a degraded people lifting itself up; only at Boston it has nobody to oppose it, except the Irish Catholic priest and the American political demagogue, each the worst of their kind; but has schools, ministers for the poor, benevolent societies and the like, to help on the work; while here, alas! the spirit of the white man opposes the elevation of the blacks. Yet here are noble men and women at work, seeking to uplift the fallen. Here is an Episcopal minister working mightily in their behalf, in the midst of the prejudice of ' aristocracy,' (for even Santa Cruz has its aristocracy as well as Boston, and the West Indies are as funny as Boston.) And here is a Catholic priest, a noble-hearted Dutchman, who has been fixed in the island of Saba but nine months, and yet has established a school for the blacks at his own cost. I heard of it, and made acquaintance with a man who has a religion that is humanity.
But here is the end of my paper. We all desire to be remembered to everybody. I should like to take tea with you to-night, and with the Maya besides, but you don't ask me.
Yours, THEODORE PARKER.
A private letter from Paris says that Senator Sumner, at last accounts, was in a very bad state of health, and had gone to Rome.
Sickles, who shot Keyes dead at Washington on suspicion of criminal intimacy with his wife, has been acquitted by the jury!
<c06>
WENDELL PHILLIPS AT MUSIC HALL.
On Sunday morning last, WENDELL PHILLIPS Esq., spoke at the Music Hall, by invitation of Rev. THEODORE PARKER'S Society, The large hall was crowded with a highly intelligent and profoundly interested audience, whose hearts were stirred and thrilled by the earnest and glowing utterances of the speaker. 
The Bible, said Mr. Phillips, is a record of the religious history of the Jews. It is a record of the struggle, as all history seems to be, between the 
conservative and the progressive elements in society; between the element which believes, and the element which distrusts; between the element which reaches forward, and the element which is contented with the present; between the element that eats its, bread in selfishness, and the element which seeks to raise itself and its fellow by sounding out and on in the great ocean of living thought. It has two sides-the priesthood and the prophets; and although the word people is sometimes used in a general sense, yet both Testaments, taken together, represent the struggle betwixt the established and the progressing-between the priesthood and the prophets. I want to read you, this morning, the description which God gives of both.-partly in words, partly in action.
Mr. Phillips then read one or two passages from the Old Testament, and said:- If you have heard of a church where a man could say, after a quarter of a century of experience, "I lived a life of worldliness and trickery; I stood in the market-place, and let out my gift of persuasion to shield the guilty, and throw dust in the eyes of the judge, to turn the murderer out into society, and make black crime look like white justice; and I went into the church, and heard nothing of it, and the next day I went out into the world to do the same deeds in the week to come, and remembered nothing that I had heard "-to such a church the language of the Lord is-"Hearker, not unto the words of the prophets that prophesy unto you; they make you vain; they speak a vision of their own heart; they steal every one words from his neighbor. Is not my word like as a fire; saith the Lord like a hammer that breaketh the rock in peace.
The other side of the picture, Mr. P. said, was found in such passages as this:-Think not I am come to send peace on earth; I am not come to send peace, but a sword,' &c. I stand, said he, if with one exception,
then only one, in the only Christian church in the city. I stand in the pulpit from which, I varily think, the ear of God has listened to more Christian truth, within a dozen years, than from any or all of the pulpits of Boston put together. I stand in the place of one whose great offence was the practiced what he preached. He dared to take his torch, and flare it in the face of the public and recognized creeds. He differed but little, at the outset, from the faith of the Unitarians that he saw around him; but he pronounced the word ' LIBERTY,' and Unitirianism vanished, with a shriek! He found himself alone, with God's sky above him, and the world for an audience. They said-' He is a reekless man-he tells all he knows. He is a rash man he utters all he thinks.' If he were, I should say, with the old divine, when divinity meant something, 'Thank God for a rash man once in a quarter of a century!' They said, ' He shall not have the sounding-board of Brattle street, nor the walls of Chauncy place for an audience': and when they denied him these, they gave him the Rocky Mountains for a sounding-board, and the heart of every hopeful and oppressed 
man for an audience.
Further on in his discourse, Mr. Philips said-'You and I are called" Infidels." For twenty years, the Church has known no other name for us than
"Infiels"-which means, merely, that we do not submit our necks to yokes. But, men and women, brothers and sisters, if your gathering here has don't no other good, it has done this:-what was the New England Church, in its ideal, has come to be <illegible> yoke, in which the awakened religious life was and fastened, and it became a spiritual slavery, so that all the machineries of outside life were brought to bear <illegible> for the manufacture of hypocrites. It has becomes the outer shed of the factory, the appendage of the shop, the rich man's kitchen. It contents itself with the policeman's duty of blinding the eyes of the working men, and striving to make them contented. The
undertone of its preaching is the clink of the dollar. I have studied the history of the N. E. Church; I know what the world owes to Calvinism, to the pulpit; I have no wish to tear a leaf from its laurels; its history is written and sealed; but God knows that, with in the last thirty years, the ecclesiastical machinery of New England has manufactured hypocrisy just as really as Lowell manufactures cotton. The Pope himself, with all the ingenuity of a succession of the most astute intellects that Christendom has known,
could not have devised machinery more exactly suited to crush free thought, and make each man a sham. It was never more plainly shown than in an article published in one of the papers of the day, which arrogates to itself a semi-religious rogates to itself a semi-religious character-the Boston Traveller of the 13th of April. It refers to Dr. Kirk'a sermon on 'Infidel Philanthropy,' What a title! ' Infidel Philanthropy! Black white, moist dry; hot cold! 'Infidel Philanthropy'! There was a man once who said, ' By their fruits ye shall them.' The beloved disciple said, ' He that <illegible> not his brother, whom he hath seen, how shall he love God, whom he hath not seen?' Philanthropy
means loving your brother. 'Infidel loving your brother'! The writer in the 
Traveller says:-
'We have not unfrequently thought that the combination bination of infidel philanthropy, angry political violence and religious devotion which has been enlisted against slavery, was the cause of the ill success which has thus far befallen this work.'
We hardly know how to speak in fitting terms, in the brief space which is allotted to our editorial column, of the theoretical and practical infidelity of the present day. It certainly presents an entirely different phase from that which was witnessed in the days of Paine and Voltaire, and their associates. Instead of the ribaldry, sensuality and blasphemy of that day, it presents to us now seriousness, philanthropy and religion.'
When Paul 'reasoned of righteousness, temperance and a judgment to come, Felix treambled.' When Infidelity reasons of 'seriousness, philanthropy and religion,' the Felix of the day has a right to tremble. But how blind must be the writer! As if the Church of God was a place, and not a power! why, when the news of this great experiment in the West <illegible> came to this country, as your preacher preacher tells it, the Infidels asked, 'Is the man temperature? Does he love his brother, and not shed his blood? Does he respect his wife? Does he teach his children; <illegible> And the Chnrch Church asked, 'Does he make as much run as rum as he did before? Are there as many hogsheads <illegible> of sugar exported from Jamaica? Show me the <illegible>.statistics!" God said, 'Justice! When I founded the <illegible> Iuniverse, I saw to it that right should be protitable. <illegible> said, Profitable.' Infidelity said, 'Amen! I cannot see, but I believe.' The Church said,' 'Prove it!'
The discourse, the whole of which we should is be glad to print did our space permit, was a very <illegible>able one, the purpose of the speaker being to <illegible>show that the Church of God is a life, and not a form. It abounded in varied and beautiful illustrations, which charmed the audience by their pertinency, and the felicity of the diction in which they were presented.
A Nebraska paper states that slavery is already established in the Pike's Peak region-that the Mexicans are there with peons, and that Southerners are on their way with slaves from every Southern States.
Lewis Early, the fugitive slave who was recently remanded into slavery by Commissioner Brown of Cincinnati, was sold in Louisville last week for $1500.
The communication of H. T. C. is on file for insertion next week.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
RHODE ISLAND A. B. CONVENTION.
The call for this Convention, issued by the Anti-Slavery Committee appointed in 1856, was made under circumstances that might well have disheartened any but Abolitionists. To the usual indifference concerning the wrongs of the slave, to the manifest frowns of both Church and State, was added the excitement of a political contest engaging the sympathies of almost the entire people, and producing, as such an influence always does, a state of the public mind in which the principles of justice and humanity are freely sacrificed upon the altar of an unrighteous expediency.
As the day drew near, those on whom the responsibility of the Convention particularly rested, could not but feel some anxiety for the results; but, being old in these experiences, and knowing 'no such word as fail,' they took counsel of their hope and faith, rather than of their fears; and at the appointed hour, they rejoiced to find that their summons had met with a response in many an anti-slavery bosom throughout our little State.
 This Convention assembled in Franklin Hall. Providence, on Thursday, the 21st inst., at 10 o'clock, A. M., and the following officers were elected:-
President-Dr. PELEG CLARKE, of Coventry.
Vice Presidents-Benjamin H. Wilbour, Asa Fairbanks, Francis B. Peckham, and Darius P. Lawton.
Secretaries-David F. Thorp, Mrs. Elizabeth B. Chase, and Caroline Putnam.
A Business Committee was appointed, consisting of the following persons:-Samuel May, Jr., C. C. Burleigh, Mrs. Elizabeth B. Chase, Mrs. Anna T. Fairbanks, Dunbar B. Harris, E. H. Heywood, Effingham L. Capron, George T. Downing, Wendell Phillips, and Miss. Phebe Jackson.
A Finance Committee was also appointed, consisting of A. R. Janes, Miss Sally Holley, and Miss Susan Anthony.
Prayer was offered by Mrs. Sophia L. Little, of Newport.
Mr. E. H. Heywood then addressed the Convention. He expressed, what was universally felt, disappointment and regret at the absence of the great leader of the anti-slavery enterprise. He congratulated the friends on the many evidences found in the movements of political and religious bodies, indicating the progress of the cause. Still, he assured us, there is no less need of our labors,-no time for any relaxation of the efforts of the only thorough anti-slavery instrumentality in the land. While giving due credit to other movements as attempts to satisfy the awakening consciences of the people, he criticised, very efficiently, their proceedings.
He was followed by Samuel May, Jr., who spoke of the support which the North gives to slavery, in recognizing, as it does, the equal position and honorable character of slaveholders. While the North does this, it is in vain to hope that their protests against slavery will be effective. This social countenance given to the slaveholder, in politics, in all the intercourse of society, and especially in religious affairs, is the sin of the North, which calls for immediate repentance. Mr. May referred, in illustration, to the invitation given, not long since, by the R. I. Consociation of Evangelical Ministers, to Rev. Drs. Poore and Rice, the delegates from the Presbyterian Church, to administer the Communion to them, at their Annual Meeting.
By this act of pro-slavery fellowship, said he, the R. I. Consociation utterly destroy the value of all their anti-slavery professions, and convict themselves of hypocrisy.
E. H. Heywood again took the floor to show the position of the Rhode Island Consociation towards slavery; it having refused for many years to cease from its relations with slaveholding bodies.
Rev. Samuel Wolcott, of Providence,-saying that he did not consider himself a member of the Convention,-replied to these strictures upon the R. I. Consociation, by stating the action of the body in question. In the estimation, it is believed, of the members of the Convention generally, he fully substantiated the conclusion of the previous speakers, which was that, although after discussing and laying over for several years a resolution, which the gentleman himself had offered, to disfellowship slaveholders, the Consociation did finally, adopt it, in a somewhat modified form to be sure; yet they entirely failed to establish an anti-slavery character for themselves, by receiving to their councils the defenders of slaveholding, in the persons of the Rev. Dr. Rice, of Missouri, and the Rev. Mr. Poore, of New Jersey, and by inviting these very men to dispense the Lord's supper. (This was probably done with a view to remove the little point that was left in the resolution.) Mr. May rejoined, and was followed by C. C. Burleigh, E. H. Hey wood, and Rev. R. H. Conklin, in reference to the subject. Mr. Conklin spoke somewhat in defence of the Consociation, of which he was a member, but in conclusion expressed his disapprobation of its course in regard to the slaveholding apologists before mentioned, and stated that he had refused at the time to partake of the communion at their hands.
After some remarks by Francis Haswell and Mrs. Sophia L. Little, the Convention adjourned until half-past 2, P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION. The Convention was called to order by the President, at the appointed time. Rev. Samuel Wolcott took the platform, and read from the proceedings of the R. I. Consociation. He made some earnest remarks in defence thereof, and in deprecation of the term 'hypocritical' as it was applied to them in the morning.
Mr. May answered, in unwavering fidelity to the truth, that the language which covers up the sin of slavery in the eyes of the people by anti-slavery professions, and is followed by pro-slavery acts, deserves no better name than hypocritical.
Mr. May, as chairman of the business committee, then submitted the following resolutions for discussion:-
Resolved, That the full and faithful proclamation of the whole truth of God, with regard to American slavery, is the imperative duty of every friend of freedom, and was never more a duty than it is at this day; that all compromise and temporizing should be shunned, as full of peril to the people and to the cause of liberty; and that no present, partial and temporary success should be sought, at the expense of that vital truth and thorough principle, by which alone the right can ever become victorious over the wrong.
Resolved, That our anti-slavery shafts are not levelled at the 'church of Christ,' but against the 'American church,' between which two churches there is all the difference that there is between good and evil. The former denounces, while the latter apologises for and upholds slavery.
Resolved, That the South is emboldened in its advocacy of slavery, not only in the South, but in Kansas, Oregon, and other places, because of a lack of consistency on the part of the North in and proscribing and depressing, as does this State, the colored men of the same; that when this and other Northern States shall act consistently in all its relations to all of its citizens, 
irrespective of color, then will its moral weight against slavery tell.
Resolved, That the State of Rhode Island, not-withstanding section 4, article 1, of the Constitution, declares that 'slavery shall not be permitted in this State, is nevertheless a pro-slavery State, because it tolerates and maintains slavery within its borders, by depressing and virtually enslaving a portion of its citizens because of their color, in the matter of public education.
Resolved, That the silence of the church in this State, on this subject, as well as upon slavery in other States, as an evil to be immediately put down, without compromise, Constitution or no Constitution, is but evidence of the hypocrisy of the church in claiming to be the church of Christ.
Resolved, Whether the Fugitive Slave Law be
<c02>
constitutional or unconstitutional, whether the United States Constitution be pro-slavery or anti-slavery, that the presence of any person of any sex or color in the State of Rhode Island shall be an irrevocable title to freedom, and that on no consideration shall the land of Roger Williams ever again be desecrated by the polluting foot of the slavehunter.
Resolved, That it is an important part of the work of the true church of Christ to preach in word and life the gospel of deliverance to the captive, and the opening of the prison to them that are bound; and the church which refuses to do this testifies to its own deviation from the example of Jesus, and its unworthiness of the name of Christian.
Resolved, That holding a man as property, in other words, sustaining the relation of master to slave, as that relation is defined in the American slave codes, is a flagrant violation of the Christian law; and, therefore, the church which is the pillar and ground of truth can give, in deed or doctrine, no support to the falsehood that 'the legal relation' of master to slave is not necessarily at variance with Christian duty. 
Resolved, That to treat slavery as sinful is quite as plain a duty as to call it so; and to hold religious fellowship with slaveholders or those who fellowship slaveholding, is practically to deny the sinfulness of slavery, and is therefore to act a pernicious falsehood. 
Resolved, That we have a painful proof how much harm the Republican party can do to the cause of liberty when we see so many of its members opposing the Personal Liberty Bills of the Legislatures of Massachusetts and of New York, and effecting the defeat of those bills: that we have seen, with both sorrow and indignation, the treachery of many prominent members of that party when this question of saving our Northern soil from the tread of the kidnapper was presented to them; and that we call upon all the anti-slavery members of the Republican party of Rhode Island to watch their leaders closely, and to suffer no such desertion of the cause of the slave (the cause equally of every freeman of the land) to disgrace the State.
Charles C. Burleigh then addressed the Convention, and, in his usual clear and logical manner, adduced overwhelming proof that the American Church, as a body, is to-day on the side of slavery. The mere fact that it is a debatable question is positive proof thereof; for, when the Church is decidedly opposed to slavery the monster will lie prostrate at its feet. Do we not know that the religious sentiment of a country is always the controlling influence of that country? If politicians know that this sentiment is positively hostile to slavery, they will not dare to construct their political machinery to work out the principles of that system. It being unquestionable that the Church controls the public sentiment, when we see that slavery decides all political questions, it is positive evidence that 'the American Church is the bulwark of American slavery.' He continued, in a speech of unrivalled eloquence and power, to pronounce, upon unquestionable evidence, that the pulpits of this land, with but rare exceptions, instead of crying aloud and sparing not to show the people their transgressions and the, American Church its sins, are all on the side of slavery. The picture which he drew of slavery itself, the converting of a human being into a chattel, no words can adequately describe. He defended the personal directness of the Abolitionists, of which complaint is sometimes made; adducing the ten commandments and the prophet Nathan as examples, which it is right to imitate.
Mr. Heywood in a very able manner exonerated the Abolition platform from the charges sometimes preferred against it of teaching infidelity, and clearly pointed out where practical infidelity to the teachings of the great Master could be found. He declared his belief, that when a faithful history of these times is written, the only true Christianity of the age will be found to be with the Abolitionists; and that, when the future Plutarch or Tacitus of this age shall write, for the generations to come, the lives of its great and its good, the Abolitionists will be those whose heads will be touched by the fire of immortality.
Throughout this address, as well as all others offered by this young and eloquent advocate of our holy cause, the hearts of those around him, which have for many years beat in sympathy with the poor slave, and the minds which have labored so long for his redemption, and have often asked one of another, 'Where are they to be found who are to fill the vacant places which must ere long occur in the ranks of those who have grown old in the slave's defence?’ thanked God and took courage; and some of us said in our hearts, if our old Rhode Island University has sent out many sons to labor in the world of whom she is justly proud, surely there are none among them of whom, were she true to the principles of Humanity, she might so much exult over, as this brave youth, who now takes his stand so nobly, despite her frown and that of the Church, beside the poorest and most injured of Christ's brethren.
Mrs. S. L. Little expressed her faith in the true Church of Christ, and that its principles would finally prevail.
Rev. E. Scott wished the Free-Will Baptist church to be freed from implication with the slaveholding churches. He hated a pro-slavery minister as he hated the devil.
Rev. A. B. Burdick, a Seventh-Day Baptist clergyman, of Westerly, R. I., cheerfully accepted an invitation to address the Convention, and spoke in a very eloquent and impressive manner. He began by expressing his great disappointment at the absence of Mr. Garrison. He found abundant reasons for encouragement, as well in the present appearance and action of the Slave Power as in the condition of the Anti-Slavery movement at the North, and he exhorted the friends of freedom to be bold and truehearted, relying implicitly upon the justice of their undertaking. He regretted that he should not be able to attend all the meetings of the present Convention, but warmly assured us that the sympathies of his soul were with the cause of the down-trodden. It was the earnest wish of many that so noble an advocate would consecrate himself more fully to the good work he so manfully and eloquently sustained. The Convention then adjourned to half-past 7 o'­clock, P. M.
The evening session was occupied with a discussion of the resolution offered at the close of the afternoon session. Able and dignified speeches were made by Rev. S. May, Jr., Geo. T. Downing, and C. C. Burleigh. The attendance was quite large, and the approbation of the audience was frequently manifested.
Adjourned to 10 o'clock, Friday morning. 

A. T. FOSS AND THE WEST.
MR. GARRISON:
After a successful tour in Northern Illinois the present winter, Mr. Foss came to Clinton, Iowa. This is a new town, due west of Chicago, on the opposite bank of the Mississippi. It is the terminus of the Chicago, Iowa and Nebraska Railroad, now built 80 miles west, and in process of construction northerly towards St. Paul's. The Mississippi is now being bridged at Clinton, and in twelve months, cars are expected to cross from Illinois to Iowa at this point. Clinton has some 1500 people. Lyons and Fulton and other considerable towns are near.
As a resident of the vicinity, we believed that, new as is the field, it was a good point to hoist the true Anti-Slavery colors. Accordingly, Mr. Foss was invited. He spoke in Fulton, Ill., (the western terminus of the Air-Line Railroad-a direct route from Chicago,) holding two meetings-the first of the kind ever held there. Republicans and Spiritualists abound in Fulton; but no Liberator, Standard, or even Era is taken there. But Mr. Foss's meetings were wel attended, and by an intelligent class-with the single exception, perhaps, of a quondam Bostonian, who disputed Mr. F.'s statement that colored people
<c03>
walked arm in arm with whites in. Boston, Mr. F. finished that business in his usual ready way, by replying that he Foss) himself had walked with a colored lady in Boston within the last year. (Applause.)
Mr. Foss next spoke in Lyons, two miles north of Clinton, on the same side of the river. Here, Mr. F. had held a meeting two years before, with Mrs. Colman-and a very successful one; the first, I believe, Lyons had had of true Abolition. But at this time, the weather was severe, the night dark and forbidding, which, with other meetings at the same hour, and the pro-slavery spirit of the town, prevented a large gathering; but Mr. L. spoke well, to attentive ears, and faithfully set forth the principles of a 'Garrisonian Abolitionist,' as he advertises himself in his posters.
His great meeting, however, was at Dewitt, the capital of this (Clinton) county-twenty miles west of the river. Mr. F. spoke in the court-house three consecutive evenings, commencing the 7th inst. We are indebted to the Hon. E. D. Graham for initiating the way for these meetings. Though a Republican, Mr. G. has shown the liberal gentleman, and I am told is friendly to a free discussion of the most radical questions of the age. In this instance, certainly, his influence is to be credited for a crowded house of the honorable and intelligent of Dewitt, to whom Mr. Foss spoke with great power. None chose to use his free platform and reply; one previously proposed to do so, but wisely concluded that he would not 'make a-fool of himself, as Foss was posted, and knew what he was about.'
The result of this meeting must be good, as you will infer from the notice of it by the Clinton County Journal, wherein this Democrat speaks of friend Foss as a 'British hireling, spitting forth the corruption of his fallen and depraved spirit upon the Constitution of our glorious country,' &c.; dealing largely in the words 'traitor,' 'tar,' 'wretch,' 'feathers,' 'vomiting ' to a ' respectable audience.' (I enclose the whole printed article, as worthy of the ' Refuge of Oppression,' if you can be supposed to fail of material for that column.) Leading citizens of Dewitt, however, and Republicans, heard this new doctrine of 'No Union with Slaveholders' from friend Foss with respectful attention, and cordially invited him to come again.
He held meetings here (Clinton) subsequently, which have at least planted the seeds of freedom. The old adverse influences are against us-such as clergymen refusing to read our notices, the tearing down of our handbills in some towns, and leading men of parties and churches slily operating against anti-slavery meetings. But a point has been gained; your agents coming West will now know of this field, and a growing one it is.
By invitation, Mr. Foss was our guest for two weeks, we enjoying (we feel) the better part of the visit. Cheerful, happy, hopeful amid his pioneering fight for Truth and Humanity,-and no ' gingerbread man,'-what better ' Agent' for the West? May we see more of his ' kith and kin.'
It is due to friend F. to say, that though he confines himself to the slavery question mainly, he does not hesitate to speak a bold word for the religious aspect of the question, as occasion may offer, and thus strikes at the cords of bigotry that so fearfully bind the American soul.
On the 14th inst., Mr. Foss left for Central Illinois, with our many good wishes for himself and the slave.
C. B. CAMPBELL. 
Clinton, Iowa, Feb., 1859.
In pending us the following rejected communication, (which we have had on file for some time,) our esteemed friend AMOS GILBERT says-'The editor of the Spiritual Telegraph was notified that a copy was taken, so that if he thought it better policy to advocate the theory of Spiritualism, without denouncing palpable wrong, the wrong might be pointed out where he was not responsible.
Charles Partridge has my hearty esteem for much of what he says. and for what I hear he does. but if his notions of prudence and propriety require him to keep silence regarding unmitigated injustice and oppression, (and I think they do not, but in that which is most glaringly wicked,) mine do not restrain me.'

SPIRITUALISM AND SLAVERY.
FRIEND PARTRIDGE:
In a short article over my signature in a recent number of the Telegraph, I miss what I thought an important suggestion at the time of writing, nor does it appear different now. Not having a copy of the article, its phraseology is not at my command; even the train of thought cannot be recalled. The leading idea is remembered, namely, a query on the part of my brother Benjamin, and not less a query with me, why the editor of the Telegraph never uttered a thorough, outspoken condemnation of earth's greatest wrong, United States chattelism? 
We could not admit, for a moment, that the intellect of C. P. could fail to see its monstrous enormity, and it would have been a sad thought, that, seeing the evil, he would withhold a solemn and earnest protest against it. We essayed to place our souls in his soul's stead, and the case stood thus: 'Spiritualism is paramount among reforms; indeed, it underlies them all. When the world embraces it, all earth's evils will disappear, like dead leaves before the autumn wind. Be it my labor, then, to diffuse it to the extent of my ability; and be it my care to avoid every thing tending to prevent its universal diffusion. The inebriate, the warrior and slaveholder are among the most erring, hence most need to have the best light. It requires great prudence and caution so to act as to undermine or cut off the tap-root of the wrong that each is prone to. As an abstraction, it may be spoken of freely; make it concrete, and the accused is apt to go off at a tangent.
"Whom thou woulst instruct, beware that thou offend not;
Men must be taught as though you taught them not."'
As a matter of policy, this is wise. A question comes up: Is this the soil and atmosphere in which Truth and Right germinate and progress to maturity? The prophet Nathan would have given a negative answer; so would the Nazarene Reformer, and so would every zealous, intelligent humanitarian to the present hour. They cannot blink or compromise with glaring evil. When have they done so?
Now, if the spirits of the departed are commissioned or permitted to visit the dwellers in this sphere, it must be for some purpose, and that purpose must be for good or evil. We can scarcely suppose the latter. If the former, it must be effected either by instructing us in some undiscovered truth or duty, or by earnest promptings to act up to the highest truth and duty known to us. If it be true that the disembodied who come to us are diversified in character, being grave and gay, veracious and untruthful, virtuous and vicious, how are we to discriminate? Must we not test their communications by enlightened reason, conscience, or however it be named, which has shown us the unquestionable verity of truths which we know to be true? Should they tell us that drunken revelry and devastating war are essential agencies in the world's progress, or that to interfere with the established condition of owner and owned would unsettle other relations with which society cannot dispense without great loss-should they say, in general terms, meddle not with established wrongs, as you deem them, but rely upon us to point out your duties here, and inform you of the harmonies and the beauties of the sphere to which we are elevated, and to which you are hastening, who among the thoughtful would risk his destiny by adopting such views and acting on such counsel?
Here, friend P., let us pause, and inquire of what use can Spiritualism be to us, if it does not reveal higher truths than we can discover without its aid, or furnish us with stronger, more abiding motives to act
<c04>
out her highest convictions in relation to practical duties pertaining to this life? Do the spirits say, 'Witness the physical manifestations, and believe in immortality'? What of Signor Blitz? Do they say, 'Be at peace with slavery. Will not the joys of an eternity compensate for the bondman's privations and pains, endured through a brief existence?' The Bible, Tract and Missionary Associations are making the experiment-cannot Spiritualism transcend these? If not, why should it be preferred? If it cannot elevate man to a higher plane than he is wont to stand upon, many honest, ardent disciples of this faith will feel fearfully destitute.
AMOS GILBERT.
EDEN, Lancaster county, Pa.
Since the foregoing was written, your paper, containing the article of D. H. P., has come to, hand, and I hesitate not to pronounce it a superlative specimen of cant and perversion. Is it to be received as an effort of enlightened Spiritualism? If so, a total eclipse, not mentioned in the almanacs, may be anticipated, and that soon. Do not suppose that I object to the publication of the article. Let all sides be heard. It would, however, have been more honest and manly if the writer had written an article in praise of Spiritualism, another avowing his sympathy with the oppressed producer, a third against bank swindling, and a fourth in favor of the 'peculiar institution,' where the well-fed, contented and indolent African is secure against 'murder and rape' (!)-against 'arson,' having no property to burn, and against 'civil war,' with all the artillery, musketry and bayonets of the United States to prevent it. Had the writer thus divided his article, it would have given readers a chance to decide on the merits of each division. C. P. might then have endorsed his views on the former three, and dissented from the fourth, if he does dissent, and readers of less discernment would not be confused, misled and stultified by his studied blending of them. We cannot refrain from inquiring how it is that C. P., so just that he gives employees their share of the profits, with moral courage sufficient to assail our system of commerce, and purity enough to attack 'Free Love' in its strongholds,' should be mute regarding that commerce where human beings are the articles of trade, where the producer, so far from sharing the profits of his labors, is denied the ownership of wife, children and himself, and where every woman is liable to coercion from chivalrous lust, without even the pretence of 'Love,' free or restrained. A. G.

PLEA OF A SON OF AFRICA.
PLYMOUTH, April 5, 1859.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR FRIEND,-The following article, selected from the 'Massachusetts Say,' or Thomas's Boston Journal,' of February 10, 1774, is the same to which I referred when in conversation with you recently. I think it is well worth reading, considering the time of its production and other circumstances connected with it. Yours, for the cause,
THOMAS B. DREW.
For the Massachusetts Spy.
MR. THOMAS:
You are desired to insert the following in your paper, by your humble servant,
AN AFRICAN.
I rejoice to see that there is in this and the neighboring provinces such a spirit for liberty, for life without it is of little worth. Liberty is one of the greatest blessings the human mind can enjoy. Its sweets yours and our forefathers have enjoyed, and have fallen asleep therein. But there is a cloud, and has been for many years, and it is blackness and darkness itself; but rejoice that the rays of light faintly break through, and pray that it may shine like the sun in his meridian luster. Sir, do you apply for you liberty in a right way? You are taxed without your consent, (I grant that a grievance,) and have petitioned for relief, and cannot get any. Pray, sir, what can you impute it to? Are the Britons' hearts harder than yours? Are not your hearts also hard, when you hold men in slavery who are entitled to liberty by the law of nature, equal as yourselves? If it be so, pray, sir, pull the beam out of thine own eye, that you may see clearly to pull the mote out of thy brother's eye; and when the eyes of your understanding are opened, then will you see clearly between your case and Great Britain, and that of the Africans. We all came from one common Father, and He, by the law of nature, gave every thing that was made, equally alike to every man, richly to enjoy. If so, is it lawful for one nation to enslave another? The law of nature gives no such toleration. I grant that, for wise reasons, God suffered the Jews to have servants-but no slaves, but those who had their ears bored to the post by their own consent. I cannot think that one of the sons of Africa, who hath tasted the sweets of freedom in his own country, and the heavy yoke in this, would consent to have his cars bored to a post; for the Africans are a free people, born free, and were never conquered by any nation. Pray, sir, what people under heaven have a right to enslave them? None! because it is contrary to the laws of God and the laws of Great Britain. But you say, We bring them from their own country to make slaves of them. I should rejoice if there was as much pains taken with the Africans as there is with the Indians, by sending missionaries among them and Christianizing them in their own country; but for masters of vessels to fetch them to the West Indies, and sell them to the greatest villain that appears to purchase him or her, if he will give two bits more than an honest man. So, sir, Christianity is made a cloak to fill their coffers and to screen their villany. View these poor creatures in this miserable situation, a father fighting for his bosom friend, a mother for a beloved son, a brother for a sister, a friend for a kind companion-I say, to view them in this situation, I should think would make a heathen blush and a Christian shudder. And now, sir, to boast of your liberty, when we are all upon an equal footing by nature-for I am convinced that no man has a right to enjoy another man's liberty and property, when it is unlawful to hold that property-I thought men were to be governed by law and reason, but where no law is, the law of reason determines in such cases. Now, where conscience is free and unbiassed, it makes the law of Christ its rule. What saith Christ in this case? 'Whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, do ye even so to them; for this is the law and the prophets.' Christ gives his sentiments freely, and then refers us to the law and the prophets. In the law, we do not find the word slave; but suppose it were to be found there, it won't appear from thence that the Americans have a warrant from God to make the Africans slaves, as the Jews had to hold servants. But, as I hinted before, for wise reasons, God suffered the Jews to have servants, and no slaves but such as would willingly be made so. I cannot see by what new invented law they pretend to hold the African, without it be custom. A custom to hold any man does not make it lawful for him to be held, without there is an express law made to hold that man in the place where he lives. Now, I am informed that there is no law in the kingdom of Great Britain, nor in this province, to hold a man in perpetual slavery. Whatever is contrary to the law of God and the English Constitution must be deemed unlawful; for I always thought the constituted laws of England were drafted from, and founded on, the laws of God; and if they be, then it follows that your laws, by charter right, are founded on the laws of England; for your charter expressly says that you have a right to make laws, but not repugnant to the laws of Great Britain. Now, the Americans can't make a law to enslave the Africans without contradicting the law of God and the law of Great Britain. A SON OF AFRICA.
<c05>
FAIR IN AID OF THE PRISONER'S FRIEND.
NOW OPEN AT MUSIC HALL. 
A Fair will be held in the Music Hall, Boston, commencing April 27th, and to continue four days.-The direct object will be to obtain means for the establishing Rooms to aid the poor, discharged prisoners, and to carry out all the various objects connected with the Prison Mission. Rooms are now occupied for this purpose in the building well known as Boylston Hall, corner of Boylston and Washington streets. These are used for offices, for meetings, and as a home.
Those friendly to the work are requested to aid us Flowers, refreshments, clothing, and various articles are wanted, or donations in money to meet the expenses of the Fair.
Among other features of the Fair will be specimens of convict labor in prisons. Persons having any curiosities made in Dartmoor prison, or in any prison, are requested to furnish them for the Fair.
Works of art to adorn the Hall are respectfully solicited. There will also be exhibited a fine collection of paintings in connection with the Fair. The Germania Band will perform each evening.
NOTICE.-The Salem Female Anti-Slavery Society propose holding a Fair in that city, about the 1st of June next, and would respectfully solicit contributions for the same. Please direct to the care of the President, Mrs. WM. IVES, Essex st., Salem, Mass.
E. H. HEYWOOD acknowledges the following sums received by him for the Anti-Slavery cause:-
Rhode Island.-Valley Falls, $3 18; Manville, Mr. Cook 1 90, others 1 03-2 93; Arnold's Mills 2 17; Pawtucket 2; Newport, A. Parmenter 4 50, Mrs. S. L. Little 50c, others 4 25-9 25; Portsmouth 2 50; Tiverton 94c; Bristol 48c; Providence, (R. I. Convention,) 20.
Massachusetts.-Abington, Old Colony A. S. Society 13 51.
SARAH P. REMOND desires us to say that her Post Office address is Warrington, England; and letters, &c. for her may be sent to the care of William Robson, Esq., of that place.

WOMAN'S RIGHTS.
The Ninth Anniversary of the National Woman's Rights Association will be held in MOZART HALL, Broadway, New York, on Thursday evening, May 12th, at half-past 7 o'clock.
Addresses by LUCRETIA MOTT, ERNESTINE L. ROSE, CAROLINE H. DALL, Rev. ANTOINETTE BROWN BLACKWELL, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
A meeting for business and general discussion will be held at half-past 2, P. M., of same day, at same place.
Communications should be addressed to Susan B. Anthony, Anti-Slavery Office, No. 5 Beekman street, New York.
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, President.
SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Sec'y.
ESSEX COUNTY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.-A quarterly meeting of the Essex County Society will be held, on Sunday, May 1st, at the Town Hall in WEST NEWBURY; and will be attended by CHARLES L. REMOND and PARKER PILLSBURY.
All friends of freedom, all haters of slavery, all who desire to make the soil of Massachusetts truly free, are invited to come.
In behalf of the Society,
MOSES WRIGHT, Secretary.
SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will speak as follows in Rhode Island:-
Newport, Saturday, April 30.
Providence, Wednesday, May 4.
East Greenwich, Friday, May 6.
RALPH WALDO EMERSON will read a lecture to the Congregation of Rev. Theodore Parker, at Music Hall, on Sunday morning next, May 1st.

THE ROVING EDITOR;
OR,
TALKS WITH SLAVES 
IN
THE SOUTHERN STATES,
BY
JAMES REDPATH, (FORMERLY OF KANSAS.) 
One neat vol. 12mo., 375 pages: Illustrated.
This Book is the record of Three Journeys, afoot, In the Southern States, between Washington and New Orleans. It contains extended reports of confidential conversations with the Slaves in Virginia, the Carolinas, Georgia, Alabama, and Louisiana: INSIDE VIEWS of the Social System of the South, as seen, felt and described by the Bondmen themselves. It thus covers a field never hitherto entered by any other American traveler or author.
It contains, also, three original
SKETCHES OF KANSAS LIFE.
I.-THE HISTORY OF THE FIRST FEMALE SLAVE IN KANSAS-an unvarnished exposure of the "Domestic Institution" in Kansas and Missouri, with the real names and addresses of the actors in this lowly life-drama:
II.-FELONS IN FODDER-an Historical Sketch of the Federal Officeholders in Kansas; their crimes and their rewards:
III.-SLAVEHUNTING IN KANSAS: a narration of one of the most thrilling incidents of unwritten Territorial history.
In addition to the author's matter there are three able contributions:-
I. SCENES IN A SLAVE PRISON: By DR. S. G. HOWE, of Boston:
II. THE DEATH OF ISAAC, THE INSURRECTION CHIEF OF SOUTH CAROLINA: By HON. JOHN C VAUGHAN, of Kansas, formerly of South Carolina:
III. LIFE IN THE DISMAL SWAMP: By A FUGITIVE SLAVE; Reported by Mrs. KNOX, of Boston: and
IV. A POSTHUMOUS REPUBLICAN POEM: By the late WILLIAM NORTH, author of "The Slave of the Lamp."
FROM THE PREFACE.
"In this volume alone, of all American anti-Slavery or other Books, the Bondman has been enabled, in his own language, (if I may employ a familiar phrase of political essayists and orators,) "to define his position on the allengrossing topic of the day." Almost every body has done it. Why, then, should not he? Surely he has some interest in it, even if it be "subject to the Constitution;" even if his interest is unfortunately in conflict with "the sacred compromises of the Federal Compact." 
From II. R. HELPER, Esq., author of "The Impending Crisis of the South."
"In 'The Roving Editor' Redpath has given us a very vigorous and correct sketch of society in the Slave States. On every page of the book is unmistakable evidence that the author was not content with a superficial view of Human Slavery, but that he has penetrated its very heart, and unfolded in an exceedingly interesting and graphic manner, the terrible mysteries of its wicked and desolating functions." 

AGENTS WANTED.
A copy will be sent, postpaid, by mail, to any part of the United States, on receipt of ONE DOLLAR, by 
JAMES REDPATH, 
3 Winter Street,
BOSTON.
P. S-REDPATH & HINTON'S HAND BOOK OF KANSAS AND THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS' GOLD REGION (pronounced by the New York, Boston, and Kansas press to be the best ever issued,) will be sent by mail, prepaid, for 85 cents, to any part of the country. It has three large and accurate maps by J. H. COLTON.
The above works are for sale by R. F. WALLCUT, 21 Cornhill Price, one dollar. Forwarded by mail to any part of the country for $1, and six three cent postage stamps. A28 6t
J. R. ANDREWS,
Gilder, and Picture Frame
MANUFACTORY,
No. 3 1/2 BEACH STREET,
(Near Washington Street,) BOSTON.
PICTURE FRAMES made of every variety, plain and ornamental, for Oil Paintings, Engravings and Photographs.
Gilding, in all its branches, executed with neatness and despatch.
Oil Paintings cleaned and varnished. 
Old Frames handsomely re-gilt. A28 6w
<c06>
'HE, BEING DEAD, YET SPEAKETH.' 
IF the above can with propriety be applied to any man of modern times, that man is Dr. WM. A. ALCOTT, whose recent death has sent a pang of sorrow; through thousands of hearts; but 'As yet speaketh,' and his works do follow him. Perhaps no man has done so much for the cause of Physical Education as he. Feeble in body, yet ever active with a heart overflowing with benevolence and love for universal man, he wrote, and lectured, and counselled the young and old, and those of middle life, with untiring perseverance for a long series of years and tens of thousands, who have been made wiser and happier by his teachings, will ever fondly cherish his memory.
His last three and most popular works are the following:
THE PHYSIOLOGY OF MARRIAGE,
COURTSHIP AND MARRIAGE,
-AND-
THE LAWS OF HEALTH: 
Or, SEQUEL TO THE 'HOUSE I LIVE IN.'
The prices of the first two are 75 cents each, and the last $1.
THIRTY THOUSAND COPIES 
of these books have been sold, and the demand is increasing from day to day.
A copy of each should be in every household. We can offer uncommon inducements to TRAVELLING AGENTS, both MALE and FEMALE, to engage in the sale of these valuable PHYSIOLOGICAL WORKS. You can not only make money, but do good. Copies sent, post paid, by mail, when the cash or postage stamps are sent to us, covering the price of each book.

JOHN P. JEWETT & CO,
PUBLISHERS,
No 20 Washington Street, Boston.
P. S. We shall put to press, immediately, one or two volumes, which Dr. Alcott had been many years in preparing, one of which will contain and embody his experiences from childhood to (we may almost say) the day of his death, for he died with his harness on. This will be an Autobiography of uncommon interest and value.
April 15. 3wis

BLAKE;
Or, The Huts of America.
A Tale of the Mississippi Valley, the Southern 
United States, and Cuba.
BY MARTIN R. DELANY.
THIS interesting Story, unique in character, and unsurpassed in thrilling interest of historical and real incidents, is now being published in
THE ANGLO-AFRICAN MAGAZINE.
The scene is laid in Mississippi, the plot extending into Cuba; the Hero being an educated West Indian black, who, being fraudulently deprived of his liberty when young, and brought to the United States, in maturer age, at the instance of the maltreatment of his wife, who, being sold from him, he sought revenge through the medium of a deep-laid scheme and secret organization for rebellion.
THE ANGLO-AFRICAN MAGAZINE
Is published monthly, at the low price of One Dollar per year. It is the exponent of the rapidly growing and advanced intelligence of
THE COLORED RACE
of the present day, and should be in every family in the country.
THOS. HAMILTON, PUBLISHER,.
48 Beekman Street, New York.
April 15.

THE OXYGENATED BITTERS.
Nature, in her great laboratory, has stored some remedy adapted to every disease which 'flesh is heir to.' But it requires the investigation and research of the philosopher to discover and apply this remedy. Such research and investigation have succeeded in discovering a remedy for that most afflictive dispensation, the
DYSPEPSIA!
with all its lesser and numerous evils; and it may be safely asserted, that until the appearance of the Oxygenated Bitters, a case of Dyspepsia cured was a rare experience in medical practice. Now, under the influence of these Bitters, the rule is to cure, the rare exception, failure to cure.
Read the following, which the subscriber requests us to publish for the benefit of the afflicted:
An Obstinate and Inveterate Case of DYSPEPSIA Cured by the Oxygenated Bitters. 
The following, from a gentleman well known in the region in which he lives, ought to satisfy all those of little faith:
WATERTOWN, N. Y., July 28, 1858. 
S. W. FOWLE & Co., Boston: SIRS-Nine years since, I was attacked by that curse of all diseases, Dyspepsia, which so affected me as to cause great oppression, fulness, and bloating of the bowels immediately after eating, accompanied with terrible pains in the stomach, often occasioning nausea, vomiting, acidity, and headache, together with general debility and suffering, altogether rendering life a burden. 
After having tried every known remedy without effect, and despairing of ever regaining my lost health, I was induced to make use of the Oxygenated Bitters, the good effects of which were immediately visible on my health and system. Before using a whole bottle, I was entirely cured; and I feel a pleasure in inducing all like sufferers as myself to make use of this remarkable remedy. 
THEO. CALDWELL.
Prepared by SETH W. FOWLE & CO., BOSTON, and for sale by dealers in Medicine in nearly every town in New England. March 25-4tis

HOPEDALE
HOME SCHOOL.
THE next (Summer) term of this thoroughly Reformatory and Progressive Institution will commence on Wednesday, May 4th, and continue ten weeks. For Circulars, containing full information, address 
W. S. HAYWOOD,
A. S. HAYWOOD, Principals.
Hopedale, Milford, Mass., April 4, 1859.
The Boston Investigator
WILL commence its Twenty-Ninth Volume on the 27th of April, in quarto form, and, as heretofore, will be devoted to the promotion of Universal Mental Liberty, and opposed to every form of Priestcraft and Superstition, whether under the guise of Modern Theology, or the pretensions of an ancient Divine Revelation. HORACE SEAVER, Esq., Editor. Now is the time to subscribe. Price, $2.00 a year. Address J. P. MENDUM, 45 Cornhill, Boston, Mass. A3 3t

The Cheapest Reformatory Book 
EVER ISSUED!
The Publishers of the Report of the
Rutland Convention,
Having issued another edition, in order to place it within the reach of all interested in the various Reform movements of the day, offer it for sale at greatly reduced prices, as follows:-In paper covers, 30 cts.; cloth, 50 cts. Postage, (in paper,) 6 cts.
The volume comprises nearly 200 pages, large octavo, and contains speeches by 
S. B. BRITTAN, ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
HENRY C. WRIGHT, Rev. A. D. MATO,
GEORGE SENNOTT, Esq., Rev. Joel TIFFANY,
PARKER PILLSBUTY, STEPHEN S. FOSTER,
Elder MILES GRANT, Elder F. W. EVANS,
Mrs. ERNSTINE L. ROSE, Mrs. F. D. GAGE, 
Mrs MARY F. DAVIS, Mrs. ELIZA FRANHAM,
Mrs. JULIA A. BRANCE, and many others,
UPON SUCH SUBJECTS AS 
The Bible-Marriage-Slavery-Spiritualism-Free 
Trade-Shakerism-Education-&c. &c,;
The whole forming a store-house of facts and arguments of great value and interest to every live man and woman throughout the land. Any one of several of the speeches is alone worth the price of the book.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON,
April 29-tf 21 Cornhill, Boston,
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
OUR' ANGEL IN THE HOUSE.'
Sitting patient in the shadow
Till the blessed light shall come,
A serene and tranquil presence
Sanctifies our troubled home.
Earthly hopes, and joys, and sorrows,
Break like ripples on the strand
Of that deep and solemn river
Where her feet now stand.
Gentle pilgrim, first and fittest
Of our little household band,
To journey trustfully before us,
Hence into the' Silent Land';
First to teach us that love's chain
Grows stronger being riven;
Fittest to become the angel
That shall beckon us to heaven.
Oh! my sister, passing from me,
Out of human care and strife,
Leave me, as a gift, those virtues
Which have beautified thy life.
Oh, bequeath me that great patience
Which had power to sustain
A cheerful, uncomplaining spirit,
In its prison-house of pain.
Give me-for I need it sorely-
Of that courage, wise and sweet,
Which has made the path of duty
Green beneath thy willing feet.
Give me that unselfish nature,
That, with charity divine,
Forgiveth wrongs for love's dear sake-
Oh, meek heart, forgive me mine!
Sitting, in the solemn midnight,
In the silence of that room,
Often comes a faint, low murmur,
Sounding softly through the gloom-
Blithe old ballads mingle sweetly
With the dropping of the rain;
'Tis our patient shadow singing
In oblivion of pain.
Ah! the voice is low and broken,
Yet her heart sings unto mine,
Till the sweet old songs are lifted
Into melodies divine.
All her life, so pure and steadfast,
Seems recorded in that strain,
All her faithful love and labor,
All her discipline of pain.
All the beauty of her nature
Shining on me these few years-
Ah! I never knew my sunshine
Till I saw it through my tears!
So I listen in the midnight,
Listen to that brave, sweet psalm,
Till my year yields to its music,
And grows patient, strong and calm.
Thus the parting, rawing nearer,
Loses half its bitter pain,
And, while learning God's hard lesson,
My great loss becomes my gain;
For the touch of grief will render
My wild nature more serene-
Will give to life new aspirations,
And new faith in the unsee...
Watching her, Death seems no longer
A phantom full of gloom,
But a mild, benignant angel,
Sanctifying that still room.
Henceforth, over life's broad ocean,
I shall see forever more
A beloved household spirit,
Waiting for me on the shore.
While Hope and Faith, born of my sorrow,
Guardian angels shall become,
And the sister, gone before me,
By their hands shall lead me home.
L. M. ALCOTT.
From the New York Independent.
THE OVER HEART.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
For of Him, and through Him, and to Him, are all things, to whom be glory forever!-PAUL.
Above, below, in sky and sod,
In leaf and spar, in star and man,
Well might the sage Athenian scan
The geometric sings of God,
The measured order of His plan.
And India's mystics sang aright
Of the One Life pervading all,
One Being's tidal rise and In soul and form, in sound and sight,
Eternal and recall.
God is: and man in guilt and fear
The central fact of nature owns;
Kneels, trembling, by his alter-stones,
And darkly dreams the ghastly smear
Of blood appeases and stones.
Guilt shapes the terror: deep within
The human heart the secret lies
Of all the hideous deities;
And, painted on a ground of sin,
The fabled gods of torment rise!
And what is He? The ripe grain nods,
The sweet dews fall, the sweet flowers blow,
But darker signs His presence show:
The earthquake and the storm are God's,
And good and evil interflow.
Oh, hearts of love! Oh, souls that turn
Like sunflowers to the pure and best!
To you the truth is manifest:
For they the mind of Christ discern,
Who lean like John upon his breast!
In Him of whom the Sybil told,
For whom the prophet's harp was toned,
Whose need the sage and magian owned.
The loving heart of God behold,
The hope for which the ages groaned!
Fade pomp of dreadful imagery,
Wherewith mankind have deified
Their hate and selfishness and pride!
Let the scared dreamer wake to see.
The Christ of Nazareth at his side!
What doth that holy Guide require?
No rite of pain, nor gift of blood,
But, man a kindly brotherhood,
Looking, where duty is desire,
To Him, the beautiful and good.
Gone be the faithlessness of fear;
And let the pitying heaven's sweet rain
Wash out their altar's bloody stain,
The law of Hatred disappear,
The law of Love alone remain.
How fall the idols false and grim!-
And, lo! their hideous wreck above,
The emblems of the Lamb and Dove!
Man turns from God, not God from him,
And guilt, in suffering, whispers Love!
The world sits at the feet of Christ,
Unknowing, blind, and unconsoled;
It yet shall touch His garment's fold,
And feel the heavenly Alchemist
Transform its very dust to gold.
The theme befitting angel tongues
Beyond a mortal's scope has grown:
Oh, heart of mine! with reverence own
The fulness which to it belongs,
And trust the unknown the known!
<c02>f
The Liberator.
AMERICAN COLORPHOBIA.
[Extract from an Unpublished Anti-Salvery Work.]
Mrs. Byron Kilso makes her visit to the wife of Deacon Carpo, while the deacon himself is bearing the cross at the Cuttlefield Convention. The two ladies are in close converse; Mrs. Kilso is eloquent, Mrs. Carpo is obstinate, and for a long time it was doubtful on which side victory would fall. 'He won't be gone but a short time,' said Mrs. Kilso, 'only about ten days, or two weeks, at most.'
'It's not the time, sister Kilso, it's the business that I object to. I'm sure Mr. Carpo is the last man in Boston that I should expect to find meddling with abolition.'
'There is no abolition about it,' said Mrs. Kilso. It is purely a matter of business, as far as the deacon is concerned; he has nothing to do with the merits of the case.'
'But the merits of the case may have to do with him. You know the deacon is a public man, upon his reputation. What would the society say?'
'Just nothing at all,' said Mrs. Kilso; 'neither church nor society need to know any thing about the matter.'
'I hope I shall be able to possess my spirit in patience. I wish I had more patience, sister Kelso. It is vexing that a Christian people should be worried with negroes all the time. There is always some trouble with the creatures; I wish they were all where they belong. I want none of them near me; though, mercy knows, I don't want to despise them if they are humans. Do you really think the blacks have souls, sister Kilso?'
'I have never doubted upon that point, sister Carpo. I have always regarded them as God's human creatures, though very unfortunate.'
Well, perhaps they are; but some think it quite doubtful, and even Mr. Carpo's mind is not settled upon that subject. He says he is sure that the church thinks it doubtful about negroes having souls.'
'Why, Mrs. Carpo, I am astonished; you cannot be in earnest.'
'Yes, I am in earnest, and it stands to reason, the way the deacon looks at it.'
'How does he look at it?'
'Just as the church looks. It's very natural he should do so. Having been a deacon for over twenty years, he knows what the church thinks upon all subjects-knows what she is now doing and means to do. The church, Mrs. Kilso, means to convert the world. Now, the negroes are a part of the world, if they are human, and here we have four millions of them without missionaries, without tracts and society books, which are all needed for salvation. If the church knew of a certainty that they had souls, don't you think they would send them Bibles, missionaries and tracts, so that they might be saved?'
But you forget that the laws of the country forbid all this, sister Carpo. The law says the negro shall not be taught to read the Bible.'
'No, I don't forget; and Mr. Carpo calls that presumptive evidence against their having souls. A Christian government could never make such laws, if the point was clear; and a Christian church would never obey such laws, if they should be made. The church is commanded to preach the gospel to every creature-that is, to every creature that has a soul to be saved or damned; so you see, sister Kilso, both a Christian government and the Christian church have their doubts. Mr. Gibbs-Professor Gibbs, you know-thinks they are a link below the human; thinks the negro don't come a bit nigher to the white man than the great baboon comes to the negro. So, if the white man allows the negro a soul, because in many points he resembles himself, then must the negro, for the same reason, make the same allowance to the baboon, and the baboon to the monkey, and the monkey to the link below, and so down to the bottom of the chain. I really wish you could hear Mr. Gibbs deliver a lecture; I think you would be pleased.'
'I don't think I should be very much pleased, nor much edified by such reasoning. I think it is an evidence that the professor himself is far down in the chain -somewhat deficient in the article called "soul." If, however, the humanity of the negro does really remain an unsettled point with the church, how comes it that Bibles and missionaries are sent to Africa-to the negro in his lowest and most hopeless state?'
'There may be a difference between the African in his own country, and that portion whom God hath brought into slavery, though we, by looking at them, may not be able to tell the difference. The Bible itself talks about slaves, and souls of men, but it says nothing about souls of slaves; and Mr. Carpo thinks that more than inference may be drawn from that passage of holy writ.'
'Perhaps the translation is not very correct,' said Mrs. Kilso. 'I should sooner doubt in that direction than in the other. But we are getting away from the business in hand. I want to get your consent for Mr. Carpo to accompany me, and knowing your kindly Christian spirit, I feel confident you will say-Go.'
'I can't say Go, sister Kilso. It don't, however, depend upon my say; it depends upon a higher power. I believe God has foreordained whatever comes to pass. This comforting doctrine has sustained me, Mrs. Kilso, ever since I met with a change, and knew what religion was.'
'Then you say the deacon may go?'
'I only said, that what is to be, is to be. If the deacon is to go, flesh and blood can't prevent him.'
'Thank you,' said Mrs. Kilso, 'I hope what is to be will be for good.'
'The dispensation is dark, sister Kilso, but it's a blessed thing to have religion to lean upon. If the Lord would take the Abolitionists and the niggers, and put them into some place by themselves, it would be a great relief to the Christian church. Do you know where I could get a trustworthy girl, sister Kilso? I have been without help for nearly a week, and am all worn out, clear run down.'
'Has Dinah left you?'
'I had to discharge her, and I feel determined never to have a wench about me again. You can't make any thing of them, they are so saucy.'
'I'm sure Dinah was a very good girl all the time that she lived with me.'
'Had she got religion then, sister Kilso?'
'I don't know. I never heard her say much on the subject, but she used to be very attentive to meetings.'
'I guess she got it after she left you. Religion just spoils niggers, and makes them feel as big as you please, and you can't do any thing with them. I don't want them about me. Twice every week Dinah must go out to an evening prayer meeting, but I guess more of a nigger gathering than a prayer meeting. I told her it was something that I could not allow-I would not have it. Well, she looked as if she meant to give it up, but it was all deceit; for two nights after that she went out, and I should think,-well, I should think,-it was two o'clock in the morning before she came home. In the course of the forenoon, I went down into the kitchen, in the very best of humor, but determined to give her a plain talk. "Well, Dinah," said I.
'"Well," said she, " you think I have done wrong."
'"I am sure you have," said I; "very sure there is not a woman in Boston could or would put up with such conduct."
 you knew the reason of my staying out so, you would not be angry, Mrs. Carpo." She had the impudence to speak just so.
<c03>
"'No reason, Dinah," said I, "no reason. I don't want to hear a string of lies. I would not believe one word, because I know niggers will and I know they will, sister Kilso; it seems natural for them to lie.'
'You might have heard her story, at all events,' said Mrs. Kilso.
'So I did. She made me hear it; but she could not make me believe it. She told it just as bold and just as saucy as only a negro knows how. Well, when she got through, "Now," said she, 'I am ready to leave whenever you please; I have done nothing that I am ashamed of." Think of that, Mrs. Kilso! Out till two o'clock in the morning, and not ashamed of it! I guess she left my house in a hurry.'
'What was her story?' said Mrs. Kilso. 'I should like to hear it, for I really thought a good deal of Dinah. She left me on account of her mother's sickness, or I should not have parted with her.'
'She has changed since then, Mrs. Kilso; she has become a very impudent nigger since that time. I don't know, but I don't think that religion was ever made for niggers; they don't seem able to stand its power.'
'But what did Dinah say for herself? I must go soon, and would like to know what excuse she had to make.'
'Well, I can't tell it just as she told it, for I paid but little attention to what she said; I can give you the substance of it, however.'
'That is enough,' said Mrs. Kilso.
'Yes, you will think it enough, when you come to hear it. But, as I live, there goes Dinah herself,' continued Mrs. Carpo, looking from the window. 'I'll call her in, and let her tell her own story.'
Dinah was called, and was received very kindly by her old employer, Mrs. Kilso, who, after inquiring about the health of her mother, and her own, said she would like to know the reason why she left Mrs. Carpo.
'Tell it just as it was now, Dinah,' said Mrs. Carpo;' tell it as it was. Remember it was two o'clock in the morning when you returned; remember I never spoke an angry word to you, though I do not believe your story.'
'No, you did not believe me,' said Dinah,' and perhaps Mrs. Kilso will not believe me.'
'I think I shall believe you, Dinah. You never to my knowledge told me a lie, and I think you won't now.'
'No, Mrs. Kilso, I never told you a lie, and I never told Mrs. Carpo a lie; and nobody can say that I tell lies.'
'I suppose I can believe just as much as I please,' retorted Mrs. Carpo. 'It is well known that niggers will lie, and I am satisfied of it. But you can tell your story, Dinah; perhaps others may believe you, and I'm sure I have no objections if they do. I know what I know myself.'
'Well, Mrs. Kilso,' said Dinah,' you see I went to prayer meeting at eight o'clock. I told Mrs. Carpo, when I came to live with her, that I must go to prayer meeting two evenings in the week, from eight to ten o'clock; but I should always do the work up before I went. Did I not always do the work up before I went to meeting, Mrs. Carpo?'
'Oh, I suppose you did, after a fashion.'
'Well, I went at eight o'clock, and found the meeting just begun. In about half an hour, sister Stover came in, sobbing and crying as if her heart would break. The pastor asked her what made her cry so- what great trouble was upon her. "Oh," she said,"she was 'fraid to tell-'fraid the walls had ears." The pastor goes to the door, turns the key, and says, "Now sister Stover may speak softly, and tell the cause of her mighty grief." "Mighty grief it is," said sister Stover; "the bloodhounds are on the track of our dear sister Barry.'
'When she said this, we all gathered round her, and the pastor told her to be calm, and tell us all she knew. So she was a little calmed down, and told us. "That morning," she said, "when sister Barry was going out to market, she saw a man on the other side of the street, who seemed to be looking very close at the house. Sister Barry drew back, and peaked out at the window. The man walked back and fore two or three times. Sister Barry knew him the second time he passed, and all her blood rushed straight to her heart. She crept up into a corner of the room, and tried to pray, but she could not think of any thing but the man. "Oh, Lord-n-mercy, Lord-a-mercy," was all she could say. Well, she peaks out at the window again, and the man was gone. Now is the time, she thought; so, taking her two boys and little girl, she started, and goes right straight to sister Stover's.'
'But what was all this for?' said Mrs. is this sister Barry?'
'I was just going to tell you,' said Dinah. 'She ran away from Maryland twelve years ago; she was just sixteen years old then. She got safe to Boston, and being a mighty smart girl, got into service right away. She joined the church next year, and next year after that, she married brother Barry. A very smart, respectable man, brother Barry is; been for eight years steward on the packet-ship 'Liberty,' that sails to Liverpool. Well, they have three children,-live comfortable, and very respectable; have every thing good and nice, and sister Barry very happy until the law pass, and they begin to hunt up the poor slaves. She live in much fear after that law pass, and brother Barry say, that after another voyage, he quit the sea, go to Canada, and buy a farm. Well, the ship Liberty was expected just at the time the man from Maryland came; but the ship did not come for six days after. The slave man from Maryland went to the house with officers, but found nobody there that lie was looking after.
'The man watched about the house all day for sister Barry to come home. Sister Stover's little Tommy looked after the man all day, and saw him sneaking about after dark. Now, you see, Mrs. Kilso, this was the circumstance that troubled sister Stover so much, 'fear that, after all, sister Berry might be catched.
When she had told all the story, the Pastor, first thing, kneeled down, and we all kneel down, and pray for more than an hour; but all pray in heart, not loud, for fear some outside hear, and find out the trouble. We all felt sure, after prayer, that God would help us. The brethren consult, and it was agreed that one get a carriage, and bring sister Barry and the children to the pastor's house, and that a the sisters should go straight home, and get some clothes and things for sister Barry, for she must leave. Boston that very night. I went home to mother's, and got something-got all I could. When I got back to the pastor's, it was past eleven o'clock: sister Barry was there, and the other sisters. Soon two brethern who had been sent to look out for a ship returned, and said that the arrangements were all was to leave with the morning tide, about three o'clock, for Greenock, and a passage was taken and paid for. We all now prayed for our dear sister, and for poor brother Barry, who would find all his treasure gone when he returned. We thanked God for all his many mercies in the darkest times, and we prayed that the slaveholder might be enlightened, not to hurt and drive God's dear children from the face of the earth. Then we all kiss sister Barry, and the children, and in the name of the Lord bid them farewell. They were taken in a coach to the vessel, and the old Scotch captain say some mighty profane words about American region and American liberty. So all that was the reason why I stayed out so long on that night.'
Did Barry return?' said Mrs. Kilso, who was inclined to believe all that Dinah had stated.

'Just six days after his family had gone, and he went right straight back with the first steamship. They are all safe now; we have had a letter; the pastor read it to us the other evening. Brother Barry
<c04>
thanks the Lord, in his letter, that all the world ain't America.'
'I don't see but what Dinah's story looks true enough,' said Mrs. Kilso.
'It's God's truth,' said Dinah.

'There, there now,' said Mrs. Carpo,' you have sworn to it; any one that will swear will lie, that's certain.'
Mrs. Kilso saw it would be dangerous to vindicate Dinah, as Mrs. Carpo was determined to have it all a nigger story. 'Have you any place now, Dinah?' she inquired.

'No, ma'am, I have not been able to get a place, as Mrs. Carpo would not give me a character.'
'How dare you say so, Dinah? Did not Mr. Carpo write you a character?'
'Yes, ma'am; but when I showed it, ladies said they did not want me-all said so.'
'I presume Mr. Carpo did not mean to deceive any body. A Christian man must tell the truth without respect of person. I suppose he told nothing but the truth, did he?'
'I don't know, ma'am; I can't read.'
'Well, Mr. Carpo is well known in Boston; I guess few will dispute his word.'
Mrs. Kilso whispered in Dinah's ear as she left the room to call upon her, and she would find her employment. 'The deacon will be home to-morrow,' she said, turning to Mrs. Carpo, whose brow had become quite dark, though not black, 'and I hope you will hasten his departure; I feel anxious to be on our way.'
'Well,' sighed Mrs. Carpo, 'what is to be, is to be, I suppose, but it is a very dark dispensation. Those niggers-but I won't say a word about them; they are just what they are, and every body knows it. I suppose they were made for some purpose; maybe to try the faith and patience of the saints. I hope I shall let patience have its perfect work.'
'Just so,' replied Mrs. Kilso; 'we ought to be patient with all. I am glad to see you resigned; I will now hurry home, and prepare for the journey.'
'Well,' said Mrs. Carpo, when left alone, throwing herself into an arm chair,' this is a "pretty how-do-you do. Mr. Carpo's a fool, an old fool,' and she began trotting her foot-a habit she had when her wrath was up. 'He never told me a word about all this. Mr. Carpo knew it all before he went to Cuttlefield. I don't care where he goes!' and she trotted her foot.'I don't care if he never comes back, if he is going to be a sly Abolitionist.'

Here she trotted her foot very hard and long. The fact is, sister Carpo was not possessed of a very meek and quiet spirit; her early education had not been of the very best description-she was not over-polished. Yet sister Carpo had many good traits; she was greatly zealous for the peace and up building of our Zion; a woman of strong will and considerable powers of speech, so that the deacon himself had to be very careful. But we must leave the good lady with the 'dark dispensation' upon her, until the deacon returns from Cuttlefield.

Mr. Carpo returned from Cuttlefield, but how he settled matters with his better half, we have never been able to learn. We find him, however, on the following day, with Mrs. Kilso, fairly under way for foreign parts, as he called it. After a short ride, they exchange the car for the steamer. It was late in the day when they embarked, a heavy rain had begun to fall, and the prospects for a blustering night were very fair. Men, women and children thronged the saloon of the gallant steamer, that ploughed her way' gainst wind and tide, and mountain wave. The awnings, though they could not entirely protect the deck passengers from the weather, still greatly helped those who had no right to enter within the aristocratic circle of the saloon-the plebeian in coat or color. Comfortable looking place that saloon! Here a gentleman sits with his right foot resting upon his left knee, his cane grasped with both hands, while the ivory top is buried deep in the fashionable goatee that adorns his chin. There a group of politicians have got together, and if the Union ain't safe in their hands, then patriotism don't mean any thing. The ladies are making themselves happy, according to the established usage of Ladyism, while Deacon Carpo is trying to realize his position-trying to assure himself that he is on board a steamer, and going he knows not where.
A lady closely veiled had taken a seat at the door of the saloon; she had in her charge two little girls, apparently about the ages of three and five years. They were very beautiful children, richly and tastefully dressed. For a time, the children kept close by the side of their mother, for such she proved to be; but as they became more familiar with things around them, they ventured to take little strolls, sometimes approaching a lady, then a gentleman, and then returning in haste to their mother.

Their beauty and sprightliness were not unnoticed, particularly by a young miss, who seemed to be journeying under the protection of papa and mamma.

'What lovely little cherubs they are!' said the young lady to her mother; 'perfect angels. Brunettes, I should call them, the youngest inclined to blonde, were it not for the glossy blackness of the hair. I wonder if that veiled lady is their mother. She appears to be all alone: I think I will go make her acquaintance.' So saying, she at once seated herself by the side of the stranger, begging that her impertinence might be excused, 'but really, ' 'I must compliment you on the beauty of your children; they remind me so much of two dear little cousins who reside in Charleston; they are such beauties.'

'They are very affectionate little creatures,' replied the lady, 'and as to beauty, that is a small matter, not worthy of praise when possessed, nor of blame when deficient.'
'Very true, madam, but we all love the beautiful; it is so pretty to look upon; and I think we ought to cultivate a love of the beautiful.'
'Yes,' said the lady, 'there can be nothing wrong in loving the beautiful, but a love of the good ought to be always paramount.'
'Well, I always think that whatever is very beautiful must be good, and thus I love the good in the beautiful.'
'And perhaps you think that without beauty there can be no goodness.'
'Oh, why-no-that is, not exactly so; but perhaps I don't take time to think enough; I can't wait to think. I tell mamma, that when I get to be a grandmother, and sit in the corner, then I'll do up my thinking. We have been travelling for six weeks in the North. I never was North before, and don't want to be again.'
'Don't you love the North?' said the lady.
'I love it well enough in some things,' was the reply; 'but there is such a lack of refinement in some respects-a want of dignity in society-a lack of proper distinctions-a kind of mixing up of every body without proper regard to position; I don't like it.'
'I am not much acquainted with either North or South,' said the veiled lady, 'but I should think there was considerable attention paid to class and caste-at least, as much as is consistent with Republicanism.'

'You are a foreigner, then?' said the young miss. 'I thought I could detect the foreign accent on your tongue. English, I presume?'

'I have lived in England since my earliest recollection, but I was born in America.'
'Indeed, I'm glad of it. Now I shall claim kin with you, and with my pretty little coz here,' she said, as she lifted the eldest of the children into her lap.
At this moment, the youngest child, who had ventured half way up the saloon, alarmed at its own boldness, hastily turned, and hurrying back to its mother, caught its foot in an unfastened edge of the carpet-it stumbled and fell. As was natural, a
<c05>
scream followed, and the mother, forgetting the blood of her ancestors in the love of her offspring, threw aside the long veil that had thus far protected and concealed her guilt, and rushed to the assistance of the prostrate child. Unfortunately, the full blaze of the chandelier threw its strong light on her face, revealing to the eyes of the whole company that the mother was a bright mulatto!

'Good heavens!' said the young lady, as she dropped little coz upon the carpet, 'good heavens! she is a nigger!' And the next moment she was by the side of mamma, 'mortified,' she said, to death.'
Had it been announced that the steamer was on fire, or had sprung a leak, greater consternation could not have been created among the passengers. It was awful! A nigger in the saloon! Was it a deliberate insult? Did the captain know it? Call him-call the captain! We shall see what this means.
The mulatto mother had returned to her seat by the door, and while laboring to soothe the frightened child, the gentlemen were holding a council at the further end of the saloon. The greater portion of the ladies were speechless; which showed how unspeakable their mortification was. Deacon Carpo appeared greatly troubled. 'I fear a storm,' he whispered to Mrs. Kilso, 'but we must be careful.'
The deacon walked backwards and forwards, getting a little nearer and nearer to the men in council, until his ear caught some propositions of a violent nature, when he ventured to speak. 'Gentlemen,' he said, 'I lament this unfortunate, circumstance, but I think that it must be a mistake somehow; I think we ought to be careful. My advice would be just to call the steward, and have her coaxed out carefully, and the thing all blow over.'

This pacific counsel was received with but little favor. A committee of three was appointed to wait upon the wench, give her to understand that she had mistaken her place, and to intimate the possibility of harsher measures, if she did not immediately leave the saloon.
'And I move,' said a gentleman who sat near the council, 'I move that the captain have this here cabin fumigated. Mercy on us! I can hardly breathe, the atmosphere is getting so thick and strong; feel quite tissicky already, and if the air is not purified, I shall pass a resolution against the boat, and break down the company. We shall see whether travellers are to be murdered, and not know it. I'm glad my dog had to be left upon deck,' cause Trusty can't bear had smells; as like as not, it would have made him sick.'

All this was said in a half comic, half serious manner, making it doubtful whether it was the truthful utterance of a simpleton, or the bitter irony of a mind overflowing with supreme contempt. A short study of the speaker would have enabled any discerning mind to settle this question satisfactorily. He was a strongly built man, somewhat above the middle height, and held up bravely one of those heads that one never gets tired looking on,-a broad benevolent smile lighted up his deeply-marked features, while his quick, though calm eye bespoke self-possession, fearlessness and resolution. Major Landon-for we may as well give his name first as last-was a native of Rhode Island, but long settled as a farmer in the State of Ohio. It was his custom to return every two or three years to visit his aged father and mother, still living in his native State. On the present occasion, he was accompanied by his daughter, a young lady about eighteen, who seemed greatly amused, if not pleased, at witnessing the sufferings and wounded dignity of her fellow-travellers.

The committee waited upon the lady-or, to speak more properly, the wench. Their chairman delivered himself of the message, which was replied to by a look of unutterable scorn, mingled with pity. She remained waiting the harsher means.
A messenger was now despatched for the steward, who soon made his appearance, in great alarm.
Pointing to the door of the saloon, he ordered the woman to make herself scarce, or he should take the liberty of assisting her. 'How dare you,' said he, 'how dare you to have the impudence to hide your face, and impose upon the captain? Out with you! The deck is the place for you.'
'But it rains, sir,' said the lady.
'Ah! you are afraid it will wash away your beautiful color, are ?
'I fear for my children, sir.'
'No fear of them; they are dyed in the wool; they can stand it.'
'I think I shall not go out, sir; I paid my money, and bought a right to the place I occupy.'
'I'll send the captain,' said the official, turning to the passengers;' he will start her, and no mistake.'
'The audacious wench!' said a sharp visaged dame, dressed in deep mourning. 'The horrid creature!' said some half dozen of mothers and daughters.
The captain came-a calm, benevolent looking man; but it was evident he had a full knowledge of his position. The credit of the boat, the interests of the owners were at stake; to consult his own feelings would be out of the question. He acknowledged the indignity offered to the passengers, through the woman's deception, but hoped they would overlook the matter, as neither himself nor any of his officers were to blame.
'The weather is quite stormy,' he said, looking at the woman and children, 'and here are two little children; perhaps the ladies and gentlemen would be willing to allow her to occupy this seat by the door, if she will keep her children by her, and not allow them to run about. The ladies will soon retire to their state-rooms, and the gentlemen to their berths; I would therefore ask it as a favor done to myself, that she be allowed to remain, in consideration of the storm.'
'Captain,' said deacon Carpo, 'I think your request is reasonable, and'-
'And who are you,' said a bull-dog looking fellow, 'who are you that takes the liberty of speaking for the'-
'I'm a man from Boston,' retorted the ; 'a citizen of no mean city.'
'An Abolitionist, I suppose,' replied the bully.
'You ought to be careful in your suppositions,' said the deacon, 'men get mistaken sometimes.'
'True, true,' said the man, forcing a ; ' did not mean to offend. I love Boston and Boston men.'
'And I,' said Major Landon, 'love right and righteous men, if they, should hail from the Cannibal Islands-I love them. But as the company here don't seem to fall in with the captain's proposition, I'11 just take the responsibility.'
The major stepped to the door of the saloon, gave a shrill whistle, and the next moment a singularly fierce looking dog was by his side. 'Trusty,' said the major, addressing the dog, 'we have got into trouble here, and you must help us out. I know you are not an Abolitionist, Trusty; you have too much regard for the credit and respectability of the whole doggish race to be an Abolitionist, but you have the feelings of honor and love, Trusty, in your heart, and I commend to your watch-care this lady and her little ones. Let no man come within three feet of them, on the peril of life. You understand me, Trusty?'

The dog, who had looked in the face of his master steadily, while receiving his instructions, signified by a peculiar movement of the tail that he comprehended the whole matter. Stretching himself at the feet of the lady, his broad, powerful muzzle resting upon his fore paws, while his eyes, like moving balls of fire, turned every way, to guard the avenues of approach.
'There, gentlemen,' said the major, 'this here thing is got along with; the man who goes within three measured feet of that lady may die as the fool dies.'
'Shoot the dog,' said a young exquisite, looking daggers through his glass.
'And the master too,' said a man who sat near deacon Carpo.

<c06>
'Careful, careful,' said the deacon; 'argry words stir up strife.'
'As you please about shooting,' said the major; 'that happens to be a game that two can play at,'-and he began drawing something from a side pocket which had the appearance of a revolver. 'Shooting,' he went on, apparently speaking to himself, 'shooting is a mere circumstance with me. It don't for ever to knock the conceit out of hair and soap; and <illegible> the fit should come on me now, what a slaughter <illegible> would make!'
As he said this, he began to grit his teeth and <illegible> his eyes in a very appalling manner. Every eye was now turned upon him, and the conclusion was readily arrived at in every mind, that the man was mad-a dangerous maniac. Not a word more about the <illegible> wench,' not a word about the 'horrid creature,' and in a few moments, ladies began to breathe freely in their state rooms, behind bolt and barricade. The gentlemen slipped away in twos and threes, giving, as they left the saloon, a wide berth to Treaty, Very soon, the major, with his daughter, the mulatto and her children, were the only occupants of the saloon. Having returned to his pocket what locked very much like one of 'Colt's,' although only a pocket steel-yard, the major said to the woman, who still sat under the guardianship of the sagacious animal, 'Come, madam, take a seat by the table, and let me introduce you to my daughter. She ain't a bit refered, my daughter ain't-got nerves just like her father; she won't faint; don't be afraid of that.'
The woman came forward, and was about to express her gratitude to Mr. Landon, when the major interposed by saying:-
'Not a word, not a word; it's my country that ought to give me thanks for trying to save its credit. You are a stranger, and don't know our fashions: we are a peculiarly republican people, in our own way.'
Here the captain entered the saloon, and, with a knowing wink, said, 'Well, major, got over the fit?'
'Yes, sir,' said Mr. Landon, got over it, and nobody killed.'
The captain had watched, from a position near the door of the cabin, the whole affair. He knew Major Landon well, and instantly comprehended his object and, if the boat should be suspected of abolitionism, we must say that the captain was pleased, did shake hands with the mulatto woman, and gave her a comfortable state-room.
Ayer's Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an affective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:-
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, ERUPTIONS AND ERUPTIVE DISEASE, ULCERS, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCAND HEAD, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCUREAL DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC DOULOURECK, DEBILITY, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION,ERYSIPELAS, ROSE OR ST. ANTHONY'S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPERITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that season of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul cruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse cut the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.
PREPARED 
DR. J. C. AYER LOWELL, 
Price, $1 per Bottle; Six Bottles for $3.
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery. Foul Stomach, Erysipelas, , Rheumatism. Eruptions and Skin Diseases, <illegible> Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and salt Rheram Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best a patient in the world for all the purposes a family physic. 
Price, 25 cents per Pox: Five boxes for $1.00.
Great numbers of Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis ALMANAC, in which they are given; also full descriptions of the above that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & CO., BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N. H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine 
John Quincy Adams
JUST PUBLISHED, by BELA MARSH, 14
Bromfield Street. Boston, in one large handsome octavo volume of 459 ' Messages from the Spirit JOHN QUINCY ADAMS,' thought Joseph. D Stiles, Medium, to Josiah Brigham, Quincy-written in the peculiar handwriting of Mr. Adams. 
This unique work contains the autographs of . Adams, Mrs Adams, and George Washington -first, as recorded by themselves when in the body-and second, as written by them through mediumistic
Price $ 1,50. Jan 9.
