THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscription for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLYOD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 51. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1715.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE FREEDMEN.
For months and years the Northern abolitionists, in newspapers and by agents, have been holding out to these poor wretches the glittering temptations of a life of liberty. Since the war began, the country has been ringing from end to end with efforts to induce the colored people to run away from their homes, and embrace the offers of the abolitionists. The grand object of the war, in the minds of the radicals has been to induce the negroes to abandon their comfortable quarters and "escape" to the condition in which we now find so many of them. It was in that sensible, far-seeing men warned the reckless abolitionists of the murder they were about to commit. They have pone on with their work, and the result thus far reached is before us. All the horrors of the slave trade arc re-enacted by the abolitionists, on the banks of the Mississippi. The men whom they have led into their trap they are destroying by fevers, by exposure by starvation. Poor old women, whom the laws had provided with abundant protection and comfort for the whole period of life, are lifting their thin fingers to God in the anguish of cold, and know not where, to-night, to find a morsel of food to keep life in their worn old bodies. Children that cannot yet care for themselves, who would never have known pangs of hunger but for this catastrophe of deceit that has overtaken them, lie moaning on the ground, uncovered, dying. Hot sun or told night finds no change for them. They are perishing by thousands, literally perishing off from the face of the earth, and even burial uncertain when their souls at length leave their bodies. It is verily a subject for charity. Let the warm heart (!) of the Northern conservative man (!) open to these poor victims of radical folly and wickedness. Think of them. It is hard to be a slave, and long for freedom; but how much harder to be free, and long for slavery or death, as do these poor victims of the deceitful abolitionists! At least since they have been led into this condition by promises never fulfilled, and never to be fulfilled by those who have misled them, let us accept them as a charge on the people of the country, and endeavor by charity to undo some of the wrong done them by their betrayers. It is but one of the works of repair and restoration which conservative men must undertake. It is not worth while to shrink from any of these works. We cannot say, "Let these negroes perish," neither can we say, "Let the abolitionists take care of them" An abolitionist is wholly reckless of the condition of a negro after be gets, him away from his master. It is not the good of the negro that the abolitionist seeks, it is the injury of the slave-owner, If be could deprive all slave-owners of slaves, at the risk of the starvation of the entire race of slaves, he would not hesitate at the course, but pursue it at once.-Journal of Commerce, Dec. 3.

JUBILEE OF THE ABOLITIONISTS-WHAT THEY HAVE ACCOMPLISHED.
During the part week, the abolitionists have been holding a sort of jubilee at Philadelphia. According to all accounts, they have had a pretty good time of it. The abolition press has felicitated them, and they have felicitated themselves, upon the great work they have accomplished, and the great success they have achieved. The Tribune claims for them that they elected President Lincoln in 1860, and states that "posterity will do them justice." Contrary to its usual habit, the Tribune is altogether too modest. The abolitionists have accomplished a good deal more than the election of Lincoln, and, in the matter of doing them justice, we shall proceed to anticipate posterity.
In 1860 the American abolitionists, pure and simple, numbered about one hundred thousand persons. In 1840, when they ran Mr. Birney for President, the abolitionists polled seven thousand votes. In 1844, with the same candidate, they polled sixty-two thousand votes. In 1848, they intermingled with the soldiers, and gave Van Buren three hundred thousand voles. From that time forth the pure abolition vote is so mixed up with the free soil vote, and the Republican vote, that we cannot get at it with much accuracy. Still, we believe that one hundred thousand is a fair estimate of the number of true, radical abolitionists who have followed the flag of Garrison and Phillips, and who are entitled to share in the credit of the abolition work, and in the glory which now crowns their labor. In this number we include all such old women as Greeley, and such young women as Tilton.
What these one hundred thousand abolitionists have accomplished may be stated in a very few words. They have accomplished the present war. They have worked for it thirty years, and here it is. They have wrecked a powerful, peaceful and happy They have arrayed brother against brother, father against son, children against parents. They have filled the land with widows and orphans. They have transformed the country into a vast grave-yard. They have shed an ocean of blood and squandered mountains of money. They have made the air of the dying, and the lamentations of the mourners. They have devastated the fields and plantations of the South, and destroyed the commerce of the North. They have given a check to the progress of civilization and democratic institutions, from which it will take years to recover. All this they have accomplished in thirty years. One hundred thousand fiends let loose from the lowest hell, and inspired by the most infernal malice, could not hare accomplished more mischief in the same space of time. If this be anything to rejoice over, let the abolitionists rejoice. If they desire to raise a monument to perpetuate the remembrance of their triumphs, our battle-fields will furnish them with enough human skulls for a pyramid, and Wendell Phillips or Beecher would be only too happy to deliver the address at the laying of the corner skull.
During this abolition war, at least one hundred thousand men have been killed, four hundred thousand have been disabled for life: thus half a million have been subjected to death, wounds, and to sickness worse than wounds, in the armies of both sides. What amount of human misery has occurred beyond and behind the armies, we shall not now inquire. The amount of property destroyed daring the war may be roughly estimated at five hundred millions of dollars. The injury inflicted upon our commerce and carrying trade may be stated at one hundred millions of dollars. This is rather under than above the mark; for the rebel Maffit asserts that he alone has destroyed eleven millions of dollars worth of ships and cargoes, and Semmes has certainly destroyed much more. The war debt of the North and South amounts to about five thousand millions of dollars. If the war end by the abolition of slavery, we shall have to keep a standing army of hundred thousand men, and support two or three millions of indigent negroes for several years. But we will leave that probability out of the account, and
<c02>
will also refrain from estimating the millions and, billions of dollars which the now impeded industry of this country would have produced, had not the abolitionists caused this war. We wish to confine ourselves to facts and figures of indisputable authenticity. And what do these facts and figures show? Estimating the white population of the United States in 1860 at twenty-six millions-and this is within a few hundreds of the official figures-we find that the abolitionists have been instrumental in causing the death of one man out of every two hundred and sixty people, and the crippling or otherwise disabling of one man out of every fifty-two people. Also, that the abolitionists have caused the destruction of property valued at six hundred millions of dollars, and a war expenditure of about five thousand millions. If these are things to be proud of, let the abolitionists hold a perpetual jubilee.
Taking the above statistics as a basis, a very simple process of arithmetic will demonstrate that each one of our one hundred thousand abolitionists has caused the death of one man, and the life-long disability of four men, and has already cost the country fifty-six thousand dollars. What are the cruelties and the expenses of slavery when compared to this? It is very evident, however, that the loss of life and limbs and money, during this war, should not be so equally divided among our one hundred thousand fanatics. Individual abolitionists have been more or less guilty, according to their opportunities and their influence. Garrison, for example, should have more than one dead man, four wounded and crippled men, and fifty-six thousand dollars worth of destroyed property set down to his account. Wendell Phillips is in the same case. Greeley has probably caused the death of at least a thousand men, and the remainder of the injury which he has inflicted upon the nation and upon humanity must be increased in proportion. The same remark will apply to Beecher, Cheever, Tilton, and such prominent abolitionists. Sumner, Wilson, Chandler and other abolition politicians have even a larger share for which to answer. This sad account will certainly have to be settled some day-not in this world, perhaps, but certainly in the next. Then, if the abolitionists can find any food for gladness in these facts, it will be when they enter Hades, and discover that the worst fiends receive them with respect, and that Satan, Mephistopheles, Beelzebub, Moloch and the other devils vacate their thrones to offer the new comers all the insignia of pre-eminence in evil. The jubilee in Philadelphia will be nothing in comparison to this grand satanic reception.-New York Herald, Dec. 7.
Selections.

THE ANTI-SLAVERY ANNIVERSARY AT PHILADELPHIA.
Thirty years ago to-day, a few men met in Philadelphia to form the American Anti-Slavery Society. The Convention was not only small in numbers, but with rare exceptions its members were unknown beyond their own neighborhoods. The most conspicuous were the Rev. Beriah Green, then recently Professor of Sacred Literature in Western Reserve College; Lewis Tappan, an enterprising merchant of this city; John G. Whittier, the Quaker poet; Wm. Lloyd Garrison, then as now the editor of the Boston Liberator; Dr. A. L. Cox, a skillful physician of this city; Samuel J. May and Amos A. Phelps, clergymen of Massachusetts; William Goodell, then editor of the Genius of Temperance; Elizur Wright, Jr., since known as the translator of La Fontaine; the Rev. S. S. Jocelyn of this city, and Dr. E. A. Alice and J. Miller McKim of Philadelphia. The Convention numbered 62 persons, from 10 States. Prof. Green officiated as President, and Messrs. Tappan and Whittier as Secretaries. A Declaration of Principles and Purposes, from the emphatic and eloquent pen of Mr. Garrison, was adopted, and "The American Anti-Slavery Society," based on the doctrine of immediate emancipation without expatriation, organized. The officers of the Society were then chosen. Its President was Arthur Tappan, the senior partner of one of our oldest mercantile firms, and widely known for his munificent contributions to the religious and benevolent institutions of the country. Among its other officers were Samuel Fessenden, the head of the Maine bar, and the father of the present able Senator in Congress from that State, the Rev. Dr. Lord, President of Dartmouth College, Professors Fitch and Ives of Yale College, Benjamin Lundy, one of the earliest Anti-Slavery pioneers, Joshua Leavitt, the editor successively of the New York Evangelist, The Emancipator, and The Independent, Professor Shepard of Bangor Theological Seminary, Theodore D. Weld, and Ellis Gray Loring, David Lee Child, and Samuel E. Sewall, members of the Boston bar. Looking confidently into the future, the Declaration of the Convention, signed by all its members, proclaimed: "Our trust for victory is solely in God. We may be personally defeated, but our principles never. Truth, Justice, Reason, Humanity, must and will gloriously triumph." In a sketch of the proceedings of the Convention, a leading delegate, through an Anti-Slavery periodical, said: "The members of the Convention and their associates will never cease from their labors till their cause is triumphant. The God of Truth and Justice is with them, and will finally prevail."
No reflecting man can doubt that the historian of the conflict between Freedom and Slavery which has convulsed this nation for the last thirty years, will assign a very important part in the great movement to the Society whose organization we have briefly sketched. From the start, it entered upon its seemingly almost hopeless work with an energy and a will that nothing could discourage or dismay. In the language of Mr. Garrison, "it would be heard."
Its first battle was for freedom of speech and the press. And, in the face of riots and Lynchings, and murders even, and while its meetings were broken up by mobs, and its presses thrown into rivers, and its orators and editors shut up in prisons or shot down at their posts, it fought out this fight during five or six years, with a persistency and a courage which have few parallels in the annals of progress and reform. The heroism of this small body of proscribed men and women wrung plaudits from their opponents. The late William Leggett wrote of them twenty-eight years ago: "It would seem as if God had winnowed the population of the country to select a choice few whom nothing can drive from the exercise of their right to discuss the question of slavery." Commenting upon the anti-abolition riots that disgraced this city in 1834, during which the house of Lewis Tappan was sacked and his furniture reduced to ashes, Mr. Charles King, then editor of the New York American, said, "Fire cannot burn their convictions out of these men." Nor did it! Unreduced by blandishments and undeterred by violence, the abolitionists keep straight on, urging their obnoxious doctrines upon public attention, not always in the mildest terms nor with the
<c03>
sweetest temper, but with stern facts and sturdy arguments, until they compelled the nation to stand still and listen.
Mingling with this contest for free speech and free printing, though initiated at a little later period in the conflict, was the memorable struggle for the right of petition. In 1835 and 1836, the Anti-Slavery societies began to petition Congress for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, and the inhibition of the inter-State slave trade, and kindred measures. Though few at the outset, the number of petitioners swelled during the next two or three years till it reached in one Congress three-fourths of a million. It would belie obvious facts to call all these petitioners "Abolitionists." In the defence of the right of petition, as also that of the freedom of speech and the press, it became evident to considerate men that not alone was the right to discuss and petition in regard to slavery involved, but that vital constitutional principles were at stake, and that these must be defended against their assailants, irrespective of the merits of the particular subject over which the battle was waged, or the popularity or prestige of the persons whose privileges were put in peril.
It was upon these broad grounds that the venerable John Quincy Adams early became the champion of freedom of debate and the right of petition in the House of Representatives, where, for twelve years, he grappled with the Slave Power, making not America only, but the civilized world, resound with the clash of the conflict. Doubtless posterity will regard this as the most honorable and brilliant chapter in the long and eventful life of this extraordinary man. The service he rendered to the cause of Freedom during these years was of incalculable value. The exalted positions he had held, his multifarious learning, his world-wide renown, lent lustre to the cause, while his exhaustless resources, his skill in debate, his dauntless courage and indomitable will, were a tower of strength to its friends, and a never-failing source of mortification and discomfiture to its foes.
The freedom of speech and debate, and the right of petition, had hardly been secured, before the subject of the annexation of Texas, and the consequent enlargement of the area of slavery, arrested the public attention. While thousands of our best and wisest men of all creeds and parties early took alarm at this attempt to commit the country to a policy of aggression upon the rights of foreign States, it is due to truth to say that the abolitionists and their immediate coadjutors were the only classes who resisted annexation upon purely anti-slavery grounds. This contest, opening in 1837, continued with occasional lulls until the Presidential campaign of 1844, when it largely mingled in the discussions of the two parties that divided the country, the conspirators against national honor achieving a triumph in the election of James K. Polk over Henry Clay.
It was now eleven years since the American Anti-Slavery Society was formed. During this period, kindred societies had been organized in every considerable town and village in the free States, whose members numbered scores of thousands. These associations had employed hundreds of agents, who had traversed the country delivering addresses in all the principal centers of population. They had established newspapers in all the Northern States, and had circulated pamphlets and tracts by the million. Not only had they petitioned Congress, but they had besieged the Legislatures of the free States, demanding that they themselves memorialize Congress in behalf of Emancipation, and protest against the abridgment of the right of debate and petition, and the annexation of Texas to the Union. Vermont and Massachusetts responded favorably to their demands in 1837, and other States subsequently copied their example, till at one period the Legislature of every State not hopelessly bound in the letters of a pro-slavery democracy spoke words more or less emphatic for the slave and his champions. The Abolitionists had also made their power felt at the ballot-box, either by voting for the most acceptable candidates of the Whig and Democratic parties, or by bringing out candidates of their own. Their principles had likewise made a strong lodgment in the leading religious denominations of the country. Indeed, at the period of the inauguration of Mr. Polk, and the consequent consummation of the Texas villainy, neither House of Congress, no State Legislature, no ecclesiastical body, no educational convention, no benevolent society, no political assemblage, could meet without finding itself launched upon a wide sea of discussion concerning slavery. The most superficial observer could not fail to see, nor the most indifferent spectator to feel, that the principles of the Abolitionists, after passing through the ordeal of long years of reproach and persecution, had taken fast hold upon the intellect and conscience of great masses of the American people.
The annexation of Texas was followed by the Mexican war, which brought in its train large accessions of territory. The whole nation was now compelled to stand face to face with the long dreaded and much avoided subject of slavery. Congress and the country were convulsed. The greatest minds of the times were forced to grapple with the agitating theme. The discussion summoned to the forum the loftiest statesmanship. It sent to the closet the ripest scholarship. It levied contributions upon the eloquence, the learning, the genius of the Senate, the Synod and the School, until all ranks and conditions of men were involved in the agitation.
After the advent of the Wilmot Proviso in 1847-8, the slavery agitation passed beyond the pale of the Abolitionists. Yet, from that important epoch onward till secession reared its treasonable crest, not a fundamental argument was employed against slavery, nor a vital principle enunciated, nor a sound view of the Constitution exhibited, nor an important fact presented, nor a prime objection answered, nor a glowing appeal in behalf of liberty uttered, which had not been previously employed, enunciated, exhibited, presented, answered, and uttered by the Abolitionists. So true is this, that to minds familiar with the anti-slavery literature of the era, the speeches and perfections of those statesmen and orators who, for the last twelve or fifteen years, have fulminate in the Senate and on the rostrum, while spurning the imputation of being "Abolitionists," have seemed to be but the cast-off robes, furbished up for the occasion, of the very class whom they affected to repudiate, if not despise.
During the Wilmot Proviso struggle, and its closely following contest over the compromise measures of 1850, the radical anti-slavery politicians of the country organized the Free-Soil party, the voting Abolitionists generally rallying to its support Four years later, the Slave Power dictated the repeal of the Missouri Compromise, which speedily bore its natural fruit in the raids and rascalities, the frauds and felonies perpetrated in Kansas. These crimes stimulated to action the spirit of Northern freemen. They combined to resist these outrages upon Liberty and Law, and gave body and form to their determination by organizing the Republican party. At the election of 1856 the Slave Oligarchy triumphed, and triumphed, thank God, for the last time in a Presidential contest not heeding the ominous
<c04>
gathering in the Northern skies, the conspirators celebrated their triumph by endeavoring to sacrifice Human Freedom oh the altar of the Dred Scott infamy, and to crucify Representative government on the Lecompton swindle. The sequel is known. The Anti-Slavery sentiment of the country was equal to the exigency. It consolidated its ranks. Douglas revolted, split the Democracy in twain, and Abraham Lincoln took the Presidential chair. 
Throughout the series of great events we have noticed, the course of the Abolitionists was marvelously direct and straight-forward. They aimed their blows right at the core of slavery, denouncing it as a sin whose only appropriate remedy was immediate and unconditional repentance. Amid convulsions that made the continent tremble, this small band of reformers pursued their line of policy with a directness that finds its fitting illustration in the parallel of attitude which crosses wide oceans, climbs high mountains, penetrates deep valleys, and traverses broad plains, without variableness or shadow of turning. Yet, notwithstanding this, it requires no spirit of divination to perceive that the organization of the Anti-Slavery Society in 1833, and the election of a Republican President in 1860, bear to each other be relation of remote cause and ultimate effect. 
We utter no eulogium upon the Abolitionists, Posterity will do them justice, awarding praise and blame with impartial hand. Like other reformers, some of them have sometimes been impatient if not intolerant of those who were less quick to see, less keen to feel, less prompt to act, than themselves. Their great work hastens to completion. We venture the prediction that if any of those who aided in forming the Society of 1833 shall live till a third of a century shall have passed since that event, they will greet a day whose rising sun will not shed his beams upon a single negro slave in all our broad and.-New York Tribune.

IMPORTANT CORRESPONDENCE.
LEAVENWORTH, KANSAS, Nov. 23d, 1863.
DEAR JUDGE:-You attempt to reconcile your speeches logically. In that, in my judgment, you fail.
I never classed yon with Vallandighams or Seymours. I believed when your second speech was delivered, as when I heard your first speech read, that your whole soul was in the cause of freedom.
But this is the difficulty-the break in your logic -you believed, as did (so report says) the Secretary of the Treasury, Senator Sumner, the able editor of the N. Y. Tribune, and others, that the best way to serve the cause of freedom was to separate, or as one of them said, to "let the South go." It was not, then, on your part, sympathy with despotism in any form which caused you to take the ground you did in your second speech.
Furthermore, you counted, as they counted, upon an absolute defeat in the North. It was said by one and all of your class of thinkers, "that dragging along as the war did, not a free State would sustain the Administration." You said then, as they said, better let us have freedom sure-unadulterated-in the free States, than subject ourselves to a reunion which would make the slave power as strong as before, or even stronger than it ever had been.
I had more faith. I thought the copperhead uprising one of the best events that had occurred. For thirty years the free States had been actively educated on the side of slavery; and some of our best friends feared the result more than they trusted in truth itself. I felt otherwise. The woodman never fears the snake when he hears its hiss. We heard the copperhead's hiss, and we measured its strength.
The result has proved, as I told you it would, the utter downfall of the copperhead party in the North, and a crushing influence upon the South.
Besides, I realized another fact, which our Northern friends do not always consider. I refer now to the poor whites of the South. To leave them under the control of rebel despotism would be to sink them lower than the slaves themselves. This was a wrong I never would consent to.
From the time the first gun was fired from Sumter, I believed that the death-knell of slavery itself had been sounded. I felt that freedom must be the result. I resented it, therefore, on your part, and on the part of friends named, almost as an insult, when you, hating despotism as I did, proposed, or thought of proposing, a separation.
This is the difficulty. Explain that-remove that -and there is not a man who loves freedom in the land who will not hail you as a brother.
Very cordially yours,
J. C. VAUGHAN.
M.F. CONWAY.
LAWRENCE, KANSAS, Nov. 27th, 1863. 
MY DEAR SIR:-I am in receipt of your kind favor of the 23d inst., and have read it with no little interest. I know how thoroughly you comprehend the principles involved in our great national struggle, and how devoted your life has been to the cause of freedom, and I entertain for your views a sincere and profound respect. I therefore deeply regret that it is my misfortune to have cherished convictions (if in reality I have) which have not entirely met your approbation. But, after all, it seems to me that the most important difference between us has grown out of the circumstance that you have been more willing to look upon passing events with the eye of faith than I have. Indeed, it is true that in respect of faith, I am not largely endowed. I do not disown the overruling agency of Providence in deciding the fate of nations; yet I find it difficult to persuade myself that I have no responsibility for the result of things.
You are mistaken in supposing that I attempt to reconcile my speeches. I have no pride of this kind. I leave them to reconcile themselves, or go unreconciled. I believe, nevertheless, that my speeches are in harmony, because they belong to one system of thought on the subject of the war. My theory is that the war was developed in order to enable the North to make a revolution in the Government, by which the South should be divested of its power, and that section organized on a new basis. In this view I have recognized in the war an instrument of Divine Providence; but not in any other. Whatever, therefore, has proceeded on this side, I have been for; whatever has not, I have been against. My speeches and actions have all been to this intent and purport, and to none other whatsoever. I have been for making the anti-slavery North the nation, and the pro-slavery South something else-anything else-a separate State or a conquered State-or a belligerent power-or whatever else in God's world It might be necessary to make it, in order to make the American nation an anti-slavery power, pledged to freedom, and free labor, by its organic system, and powerful enough to shape the destinies or the American Continent in behalf of its own civilization.
It is true that, at one time, I was opposed to the war, because I was afraid it might suppress the rebellion; which, if it had done any time in the first two, years, would have restored the people of the
<c05>
South to their federal relations, which included slavery as a State's rights institution, and was in fact nothing but the "Union" over again, or "as it was." 
I do not think that I ought to be accounted particularly lacking in a rational faith for entertaining this apprehension, when it is remembered that the President and his advisers supposed, at first, that it was only necessary to call for 75,000 militia to put down the rebellion with; and that hardly a public man in the North thought the thing would last over sixty days.
But I was also a little adverse because the war was conducted on a principle to make me fear its successful issue, when, in my judgment, it might better have been conducted otherwise. The authorities of the country assumed the rebellion to be a mere insurrection long after it had ceased to be such, when it was a fully recognized belligerent power-the offspring of a revolutionary movement. The war was waged simply to effect an unobstructed execution of the federal constitution and laws, as they were then written: when it might have been to reclaim the Southern territory to the sovereignty of the Union. On the former ground it was necessarily unacceptable to such an anti-slavery man as myself; while on the other, nobody could have had reason to fear its success but the enemy and its allies. I felt provoked that the war should be prosecuted on a principle, which would make any true patriot reluctant to see it brought to a speedy and triumphal issue. But there was another difficulty about the subject. I was also afraid that if the war was not successful-that if we did not put the rebellion down-the Democrats would put us down; that, as you say, they would carry the elections all over the country, and, coming into power, would not even be content with restoring the people of the South to their federal relations, but would make new relations with them which would not include slavery as a State's rights institution merely, but as a national, constitutional institution-not the Union as it was, but a great deal worse than it ever was. Nor do I regard this, at that time, as a visionary fear. It was a serious peril. There can be little doubt that, in ordinary circumstances, such would have been the event. My mistake was in not foreseeing that military exigencies would render virtually inoperative principles upon which otherwise such results are controlled. The reason, therefore, why I "proposed or thought of proposing a separation" was because, first, I was afraid the rebellion would some day collapse, and consequently we should have to confront the leaders of the Southern army on the floors of Congress, and a resurrected Democratic party at the polls; and, secondly, because I was afraid that, even if it did not some day collapse, the reactionary party would come into power; and, operating with the South on the theory of unbroken federal relations, change the Government in a manner to make it theirs more completely and securely than ever before.
These were my views. I present them to you as my explanation for having differed with you and most of my political friends. I offer no apology for having entertained them. I believe I had good reason for doing so; and it is my rule to adhere to my own convictions of duty at all times, regardless of consequences to myself or to others.
Yet, as my fears have not been realized-as we have not suppressed the rebellion upon the theory of the impeccability of the Union, and as the Democrats have not carried the elections-but, on the contrary, as the rebellion has maintained itself, and we have, in my view, virtually recognized the seceded States as having no federal relations whatever, but only foreign belligerent relations, and as, therefore, we pursue the war not on any theory of "Union" rights or "State's rights," for Southern slaveholders, but in behalf of a regenerated nation for conquest-that is to say, for confiscation, emancipation, and reorganization on the principle of freedom-I am entirely reconciled to it, and shall stand by it to the end. 
I am furthermore free to say that if I had known before hand the undercurrent of loyalty in the North to the idea of freedom involved in the struggle-if its long period of pro-slavery education to which you refer had not led me to believe that the North would give way under the accumulated pressure to which it was subjected-I should not have wavered for a moment in my support of the policy of the Administration. For, although I might have preferred a different one, I should have remained content with this, in view of its ultimate results.
Thanking you for the friendly candor of you communication, to which it has given me no little pleasure to respond, I remain most truly,
Your friend and obedient servant,
M. F. CONWAY.
To J. C. VAUGHAN, ESQ.
We publish elsewhere a recent correspondence between Colonel J. C. Vaughan and Hon. M. F Conway.
We do this in justice to the latter gentleman whose peculiar views upon the war and upon the Union, heretofore entertained, have made him the object of recent assaults, and, as he claims, of gross misapprehension. We give publicity to his letter for the further and more cogent reason that we would unite all lovers of freedom, without reference to past views or errors.
The Judge manifestly sees the contest in a clearer light now than heretofore. His language is emphatic:-
"I am, furthermore, free to say, that if I had known beforehand the undercurrent of loyalty in the North to the idea of freedom involved in the struggle-if its long period of pro-slavery education, to which you refer, bad not led me to believe that the North would give way under the accumulated pressure to which was subjected, I should not have wavered for a moment in my support of the policy of the Administration."
We have now given Judge Conway the full benefit of our columns. We have done this for no political considerations, for no political ends, but simply as an act of justice to an anti-slavery man who in days past, has been in the front with the anti-slavery men of the nation, and who has played a prominent part in making Kansas a FREE STATE.-Leavenworth Daily Times.

PRESIDENT LINCOLN'S MESSAGE.
We print; below, all that portion of the Message referring to the war, slavery, and kindred matters.
PROGRESS OF THE WAR.
When Congress assembled a year ago, the war had already lasted nearly twenty months and there had been many conflicts on both land and sea, with varying results. The rebellion had been pressed back into reduced limits; yet the tone or public feeling at home and abroad war not satisfactory. With other signs, the popular elections then just past, indicated uneasiness among ourselves, while amid much that was cold and menacing, the kindest words coming from Europe were uttered in accents 
<c06>
of pity that we were too blind to surrender a hopeless cause. Our commerce was suffering greatly by a few armed vessels built upon and furnished from foreign shores, and we were threatened with such additions from the same quarter as would sweep our trade from the sea and raise our blockade. We had failed to elicit from European governments anything hopeful upon this subject.
The preliminary emancipation proclamation issued in September was running its assigned period to the beginning of the new year. A month later, the final proclamation came, including the announcement that colored men of suitable condition would be received in the war service.
The policy of emancipation, and of employing black soldiers, gave to the future a new aspect, about which hope and fear and doubt contended in uncertain conflict.
According to our political system, as a matter of civil administration, the general government had no lawful power to effect emancipation in any State; and for a long time it had been hoped that the rebellion could be suppressed without resorting to it as a military measure.
It was all the while deemed possible that the necessity for it might come, and that if it should, the crisis of the contest would then be presented. It came, and, as was anticipated, it was followed by dark and doubtful days.
Eleven months having now passed, we are permitted to take another review. The rebel borders are pressed still further back, and by the complete opening of the Mississippi, the country dominated by the rebellion is divided into distinct parts, with no practical communication between them.
Tennessee and Arkansas have been cleared of insurgents, and influential citizens in each, owners of slaves and advocates of slavery at the beginning of the rebellion, now declare openly for emancipation in their respective States; and of those States not included in the emancipation proclamation, Maryland and Missouri, neither of which three years ago would tolerate restraint upon the extension of slavery into territories, only dispute now as to the best mode of removing it within their own limits. Full one hundred thousand are now in the United States military service, about one-half of which number actually bear arms in the ranks, thus giving the double advantage of taking so much labor from the insurgents' cause, and supplying the places which otherwise must be filled with so many white men. So far as tested, it is difficult to say they are not as good soldiers as any. No servile insurrection or tendency to violence or cruelty has marked the measures of emancipation and arming the blacks. These measures have been much discussed in foreign countries, and, contemporary with such discussion, the tone of public sentiment there is much improved.
At home the same measures have been fully discussed, supported, criticised, and denounced; and the annual elections following are highly encouraging to those whose official duty it is to bear the country through this great trial. Thus we have the new reckoning. The crisis which threatened to divide the friends of the Union is past.
Looking now to the present and future, and with reference to a resumption of the national authority within the States wherein that authority has been suspended, I have thought fit to issue a proclamation, a copy of which is herewith transmitted.
THE PROCLAMATION OF AMNESTY.
On examination of this proclamation, it will appear, as is believed, that nothing is attempted beyond what is amply justified by the Constitution. True, the form of an oath is given, but no man is coerced to take it.
The man is only promised a pardon in case he voluntarily takes the oath. The Constitution authorizes the executive to grant or withhold the pardon at his own discretion, and this includes the power to grant it on terms, as is fully established by judicial and other authorities. It is also proffered that if, in any of the States named, a State government shall be in the mode prescribed set up, such government shall be recognized and guaranteed by the United States, and that under it the State shall on the constitutional conditions be protected against invasion and domestic violence.
THE RECONSTRUCTION POLICY.
The Constitutional obligation of the United States to guaranty to every State in the Union a Republican form of government, and to protect the State in the cases stated, is explicit and full. But why tender the benefits of this provision only to a State government set up in this particular way?
This section of the Constitution contemplates a case wherein the element within a State, favorable to Republican government in the Union, may be too feeble for an opposite and hostile element external to or even within the State; and such are precisely the cases with which we are now dealing.
An attempt to guarantee and protect a revived. State Government constructed in whole or in preponderating part from the very element against whose hostility and violence it is to be protected, is simply absurd.
There must be a test by which to separate the opposing elements, so as to build only from the sound, and that test is a sufficiently liberal one, which accepts as sound whoever will make a sworn recantation of his former unsoundness.
But if it be proper to require as a fest of admission to the political body an oath of allegiance to the Constitution of the United States and to the Union under it, why not, also, to the laws and proclamations in regard to slavery?
These laws and proclamations were enacted and put forth for the purpose of aiding in the suppression of the rebellion. To give them their fullest effect, there had to be a pledge for their maintenance. In my judgment they have aided and will further aid the cause for which they were intended.
To now abandon it would be not only to relinquish a lever of power, but would also be a cruel and astounding breach of faith. I may add, at this point, that while I remain in my present position, I shall not attempt to retract or modify the emancipation, proclamation, nor shall I return to slavery any person who is free by the terms of the proclamation, or by any of the acts of Congress.
For these and other reasons, it is thought best that support of these measures shall be included in the oath, and it is believed that the executive may lawfully claim it in return for pardon and restoration of forfeited rights, which he has clear constitutional power to withhold altogether or grant upon, the terms he shall deem wisest for the public interest.
It should be observed, also, that this part of the oath is subject to the modifying and abrogating power of legislation and supreme judicial decision.
The proposed acquiescence of the national executive in any reasonable, temporary State arrangement for the freed people, is made with the view of possibly modifying the confusion and destitution which mast, at best, attend all classes by a total revolution of labor throughout the whole States.
It is hoped that the already deeply afflicted people in those States may be somewhat more ready to give up the cause of their affliction, if to this extent
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so for from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF TEH ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, is EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON ACCORDING TO THE LAW OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies arts set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have, power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
his vital matter be left to themselves, while no power of the National Executive to prevent an abuse is abridged by the proposition.
The suggestion in the proclamation as to maintaining the political framework of the States on what is called reconstruction, is made in the hope that it may do good without danger of harm. It will save labor and avoid great confusion. But why any proclamation now upon this subject?
This question is beset with the conflicting views that the step might be delayed too long or be taken too soon. In some States the elements for resumption seem ready for action, but remain inactive apparently for want of a rallying point—a plan of action.
Why shall A adopt the plan of B rather than B that of A, and if A and B should agree, how can they know but that the general government here will reject their plan? By the proclamation, a plan is presented which may be accepted by them as a rallying point, and which they are assured in advance will not be rejected here. This may bring them to act sooner than they otherwise would.
The objection to a premature presentation of a plan by the National Executive consists in the danger of committals on points which could be more safely left to further developments. Care has been taken to so shape the document as to avoid embarrassment from this source, saying that on certain terms certain classes will be pardoned with rights restored.
It is not said that other classes or other terms will never be included. Saying that reconstruction will be accepted if presented in a specified way, it is not said it will never be accepted in any other way.
The movements by State action for emancipation in several of the States not included in the Emancipation Proclamation are matters of profound gratulations, and while I do not repeat in detail what I have heretofore so earnestly urged upon this subject, my general views remain unchanged, and I trust that Congress will omit no fair opportunity of aiding these important steps to the great consummation.
In the midst of other cases, however important, we must not lose sight of the fact that the war power is still our main reliance. To that power alone can we look yet for a time, to give confidence to the people in the contested regions, that the insurgent power will not again overrun them.
 Until that confidence shall be established, little can be done anywhere for what is called reconstruction. Hence our chiefest care must still be directed to the army and navy, who have thus far borne their harder part so nobly and so well.
And it may be esteemed fortunate that, in giving the greatest efficiency to these indispensable arms, we do also recognize the gallant men from commander to sentinel who compose them, and to whom, more than to others, the world must stand indebted for the home of freedom disenthralled, regenerated, enlarged and perpetuated.

PROCLAMATION OF AMNESTY.
The following proclamation is appended to the message:
PROCLAMATION.
Whereas, in and by the Constitution of the United States, it is provided that the President shall have power to grant reprieves and pardons for offences against the United States, except in cases of impeachment; and, whereas, a rebellion now exists whereby the loyal State governments of several States have for a long time been subverted, and many persons have committed and are now guilty of treason against the United States; and, whereas, with reference to said rebellion and treason, laws have been enacted by Congress declaring forfeitures and confiscation of property and liberation of slaves, all upon conditions and terms therein stated, and also declaring that the President was thereby authorized at any time thereafter by proclamation to extend to persons who may have participated in the existing rebellion in any State or part thereof, pardon and amnesty, with such exceptions, and at such times, and on such conditions, as he may deem expedient for the public welfare; and, whereas, the Congressional declaration for limited and conditional pardon accords with well established judicial exposition of the pardoning power; and, whereas, with reference to said rebellion, the President of the United States has issued several proclamations with provisions in regard to the liberation of slaves; and whereas, it is now desired by some persons heretofore engaged in said rebellion to resume their allegiance to the United States, and to reinaugurate loyal State governments within and for their respective States. Therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do proclaim, declare and make known to all persons who have directly, or by implication, participated in the existing rebellion, except as hereinafter excepted, that a full pardon is granted to them and each of them, with restoration of all rights of property except of slaves, and in property cases where rights of third parties have intervened, and upon the condition that every such person shall take and subscribe an oath, and maintain said oath inviolable, and which oath shall be registered for permanent preservation, and shall be of the tenor and effect following, to wit:
THE OATH OF ALLEGIANCE.
I—do solemnly swear, in the presence of Almighty God, that I will henceforth faithfully support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States and the Union of the States thereunder, and that I will in like manner abide by and faithfully support all acts of Congress, passed during the existing rebellion with reference to slaves, so long and so far as not repealed or modified, or held void by Congress or by decision of the Supreme Court; and that I will in like manner abide by and faithfully support all proclamations of the President, made during the existing rebellion having reference to slaves, so long and so far as not modified or declared void by the Supreme Court. So help me God.
EXCEPTIONS FROM THE BENEFIT OF THE AMNESTY.
The persons excepted from the benefits of the foregoing provisions are all who are or shall have been civil or diplomatic officers or agents of the so-called Confederate government; all who have left judicial stations under the United States to aid rebellion; all who are or shall have been military or naval officers of said so called Confederate government, above the rank of colonel in the army or lieutenant in the navy, and all who left seats in the United States Congress to aid the rebellion.
All who resigned commissions in the army or navy of the United States, and afterwards aided the rebellion, and all who have engaged in any way in treating colored persons, or white persons in charge of such, otherwise than lawfully as prisoners of war, and which persons may have been found in the United States service as soldiers, seamen, or in any other capacity.
PLAN FOR THE REORGANIZATION OF STATES.
And I do further proclaim, declare and make known, that whenever, in any of the States of Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee, Alabama, Georgia, Florida, South Carolina and North Carolina, a number of persons not less than one-tenth in number of the votes cast in such States at the Presidential election of the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty, having taken the oath aforesaid, and not having since violated it, and being qualified voters under the election law of the State, existing immediately before the so-called act of secession, and excluding all others, shall reestablish a State-Government, which shall be republican, and in no wise contravening said oath, such shall be recognized as the true Government of the State, and the State shall receive these under the benefit of the Constitutional provision which declares that the United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a Republican form of Government, and shall protect each of them against invasion on application of the Legislature, or the Executive where the Legislature cannot be convened, against domestic violence.
I do further proclaim, declare and make known, that any provisions? which may be adopted by such State government in relation to the freed people of such State, which shall recognize and declare their permanent freedom, provide for their education, and which may yet be consistent, as a temporary arrangement, with their present condition as a laboring, landless and homeless class, will not be objected to by the National Executive.
And it is suggested, as not improper, that in constructing a loyal State government in any State, the name of the State, the boundary, the subdivisions, the Constitution and the general code of laws as before the rebellion, be maintained, subject only to the modifications made necessary by the conditions herein before stated, and such others, if any, not contravening said conditions, and which may be deemed expedient by those framing the new State government.
To avoid misunderstanding, it may be proper to
<c02>
say that this proclamation, so far as it relates to State governments, has no reference to States wherein loyal State governments have all the while been maintained.
And for the same reason, it may be proper to further say, that whether members sent to Congress from any State shall be admitted to seats constitutionally rests exclusively with the respective houses, and not to any extent with the Executive; and still further that this proclamation is intended to present to the people of the States wherein the National authority has been suspended; and loyal State governments have been subverted, a mode in and by which the National and loyal State governments may be established within said States, or any of them.
And while the mode presented is the best the executive can suggest with his present impressions, it must not be understood that no other possible mode would be acceptable.
Given under my hand at the City of Washington, the eighth day of December, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the eighty-eighth.
(Signed) ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
By the President, (signed) WM. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State. 

The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders! 
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1863.
THE DECADE CELEBRATION.
We had high and pleasurable anticipations of this Celebration at Philadelphia, on the 3d and 4th inst., but they were exceeded by what we saw and heard on the occasion. The attendance was large throughout,—the closing evening session attracting a very crowded assembly, the aisles, seats and galleries of the spacious Concert Hall being closely packed,—and all apparently animated by the same liberty-loving spirit. We felt awed in the presence of so much intellectual force and moral worth: it was worth taking the longest journey to look into such faces, and to mingle in such an interchange of heartfelt feeling and sentiment. And what a change in the ruling spirit of Philadelphia on the subject of slavery,—contrasting 1833, the year of the formation of the American Anti-Slavery Society, with 1863!! It was neither an empty compliment nor an invidious assertion of Senator Wilson, in his speech at the meeting, when he awarded to Philadelphia the palm of being, at the present time, the most anti-slavery city in the country. Much credit is due to the "Union League" for helping to effect so remarkable a change in public opinion, by its multitudinous publications, lectures, and agencies, all bearing powerfully upon the great issue between Freedom and Slavery.
A large portion of our second and third pages is devoted to the proceedings of the celebration; but, to complete them, we shall be obliged to largely occupy two more numbers of the Liberator, in consequence of the numerous interesting letters received from prominent friends of the anti-slavery cause, who were unable to be present Among those were one from Hon. M. F. Conway, of Kansas; one from Hon. George W. Julian; and one from John Jay, Esq., of New York. When the letter of John G. Whittier was read, an electric burst of applause followed the noble avowal—"I am not insensible to literary reputation; I love, perhaps too well, the praise and good will of my fellow-men; but I set a higher value on my name as appended to the Anti-Slavery Declaration of 1833, than on the title-page of any book." That is a sentence deserving to be recorded in letters of gold.
It appears by the letter on our last page from our early friend and coadjutor, ORSON S. MURRAY, that he was not at all satisfied with the meetings or their arrangements. He entirely misjudges, however, in supposing there was any wish or design to treat him unfairly, especially on account either of his resolutions (forty-five in number!] or his theological opinions. His imputations and insinuations are very unjust.

CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR.
RUTH'S SACRIFICE; or, Life on the Rappahannock. By Mrs. Emily C. Pearson. Boston: Charles H. Pearson, 67 Cornhill, and Graves and Young, 24 Cornhill.
By all anti-slavery persons, and especially by the multitude whom the events of the war are compelling to look, for the first time, into the condition of Southern society and the daily workings of the slave system, this volume, composed of letters written at the South, full of graphic delineations and grave and amusing incidents, will be perused with lively interest. The accomplished author says—"We have let our men and women, whether white or black, rich-white or poor-white, do their own talking. We took some pains, during our residence in Virginia, as our voluminous note-books attest, to secure accuracy in the nondescript vernacular of the cabin and the hut. The 'poor whites' are not an accident of the slave system, but a necessary result, bound to it by the immutable law of cause and effect. No picture of Southern ‘institutions’ is complete, in which this is not seen distinct in the back-ground." The work will prove attractive equally to the young and the old, and will be a very acceptable Christmas or New Year's gift. [See advertisement in another column.] The story now publishing from week to week in the Liberator, by Mrs. Pearson, entitled "Plantation Pictures," will, when completed, make a highly meritorious and interesting volume.
ART AND ARTLESSNESS. By Mrs. Madeline Leslie, Author of "Minnie and her Pets," Little Agnes," "Tim the Scissors-Grinder," &c. Boston: Lee & Shepard, 1864.
This is a gift-book for the season, in which the characters are well delineated, and which, while possessing the interest of a novel, conveys a salutary moral admonition to those who are young, beautiful, thoughtless, or headstrong. Appended to it is a story, entitled "THE LYNN BRIDE, a Tale of Real Life." Mrs. Leslie successfully aims to please and instruct her readers in all her publications.
RICH AND HUMBLE; or, the Mission of Bertha Grant. A Story for Young People. By Oliver Optic, Author of "The Boat Club," "All Aboard," "Now or Never," "Try Again," "Poor and Proud," "Little by Little," "The Riverdale Story Books,” &c. Boston: Lee & Shepard, 1864.
As this is the season when the "young people" are anticipating their Christmas or New Year's gifts, they will be sure to be highly gratified if they can be favored with this story of "The Mission of Bertha Grant." It illustrates some of those sudden and trying vicissitudes of family fortune which are continually taking place, and ends in a very pleasing manner. Oliver Optic has established his reputation as a writer for the young—all his stories being deservedly popular, and eagerly sought after.
THE PRESIDENT'S AMNESTY. We have barely space to say, that we regard this Amnesty as uncalled for, and anti-republican and perilous in some of its features. It puts the freedom, safety and happiness of the liberated bondmen at the mercy of one-tenth of the number of voters who were at the polls in any rebel State in 1860, and recognizes that fraction (one-tenth) as competent to constitute a bona fide State; and while it allows those who have been in bloody rebellion to vote, it disfranchises the whole body of loyal freedmen! It opens the way for duplicity and perfidy to any extent, and virtually nullifies the confiscation act of Congress, a measure next in importance to the abolition of slavery. Mr. Lincoln's magnanimity is weakness, and his method of disposing of those who have been emancipated by his proclamation that of giving over the sheep to the guardianship of wolves. This must not be tolerated.
<c03>
THIRD DECADE
OF THE
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
[Phonographically Reported by HENRY M. PARKHURST.]
THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY celebrated the completion of its Third Decade, at Concert Hall, in Philadelphia, December 3d and 4th, 1863, commencing at 10 o’clock, A. M.
The Hall was decorated with the beautiful banners of the Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Society, on which were inscribed appropriate mottoes from the writings of Whittier, W. H. Burleigh and others. In the rear of the platform, the American flag, now at length the symbol of Liberty, hung in beautiful festoons, extending each way from an Eagle and National Shield in the centre, and surmounted by a white banner or band, on which were inscribed in conspicuous black letters the words, "UNION AND LIBERTY." At different points large white cards were displayed, on which were inscribed appropriate sentences from Washington, Jefferson, Madison, Monroe, Randolph, Clay, and other eminent men of the past.
The Hall was filled at an early hour, and some time was spent in mutual greetings and congratulations on the part of friends of the cause from different parts of the country, who all appeared to share one common feeling of thanksgiving and hopefulness.
Among those, who were present all or a portion of the time were the following persons:—
Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Frederick Douglass,
James Mott, James McCrummell,
Lucretia Mott, Margaretta Forten,
Thomas Garrett, Eusebius Barnard,
Rachel Garrett, Sarah M. Barnard,
Thomas Whitson, Alice Jackson,
Martha Whitson, Frederick Frothingham,
Dr. Bartholomew Fussell, J. Longshore,
Samuel J. May, Henry Ward Beecher,
Levi Coffin, Hon. Henry Wilson,
Rev. Wm. H. Furness, John T. S. Smith,
Theodore Tilton, Wm. Hall,
J. Miller McKim, Wm. H. Love,
Oliver Johnson, Alfred H. Love,
Edward M. Davis, John Jolliffe, Esq.,
Stephen S. Foster, Ann Rebecca Bramhall,
Charles C. Burleigh, Col. Wagner,
Enoch Mack, Col. Friblee,
Samuel May, Jr., Wm. S. Pierce, Esq.,
Samuel D. Moore, Wm. B. Thomas, Esq.,
James N. Buffum, Passmore Williamson,
Henry C. Wright, George A. Coffee, Esq.,
Jane Elizabeth Jones, Grace Greenwood,
Lucy Stone, Andrew T. Foss,
Sarah Pugh, Edwin H. Coates,
Mary Grew, George Sunter,
Susan B. Anthony, Edward Hopper,
Robest Purvis, Anna Hopper,
Harriet Purvis, Misses Newbold,
Abby Kelley Foster, Frances D. Gage,
Margaret J. Burleigh, Wm. S. Bailey,
Abby Kimber, Mary L. Cox,
Mattie Griffith, Jacob Paxson,
Maria M. Davis, Eliza W. Osborne,
Sarah Russell May, Thomas McClintock,
Sarah A. McKim, Mary Ann McClintock,
Isaac Winslow, Hannah W. Haydock,
John T. Sargent, Wm. Still,
Mary Ann W. Johnson, Caleb Hood,
Cornelius Bramhall, Col. N. P. Hallowell,
Frank and Emily Taylor, Jacob Pierce,
Joseph Carpenter, Allen Agnew,
Joseph Moore, Maria Agnew,
James Pierce, Mary Richards,
Esther C. Pierce, Aaron M. Powell,
Pliny Sexton, Elias H. Corson,
Benjamin C. Bacon,  Tho. and Mary Lightfoot,
John Cox, Thomas Hambleton,
Hannah Cox, Charles Hambleton,
Orson S. Murray, Eliza Yarnall,
Amy Post, Huldah Justice,
Eben. D. Draper, Cyrus Pierce & daughters,
Anna T. Draper, Charles Pierce,
Chandler Darlington, David A. Morey,
Mahlon B. Linton, Esther Hayes,
Samuel Aaron, Agnes Crane,
Elijah F. Pennypacker, Martha Corson,
William Chace, Mary W. Cook,
Sarah E. Wall, R. W. Cushman,
Ed. Wetherell and sisters, Rachel H. Jones,
Benjamin Fish, Elizabeth W. Phillips,
Abraham L. Brooke, James and Mary Truman,
Josiah Hayward, Sarah T. Child,
Caroline R. Putnam, Anna Brown, (daughter of 
Abraham Folsom, Capt. John Brown,)
James A. Wright, Wm. and Mercy Lloyd,
Robert Lamborn, J. Williams Thorne,
Lydia White, Isaac Mendenhall,
Wm. L. Garrison, Jr., Dinah Mendenhall,
Wendell P. Garrison, Dr. Joseph Gibbons,
Anna E. Dickinson, Thomas Borton,
Daniel Neall, Maria J. Dennett,
Erasmus D. Hudson, Rachel Eastburn,
Joseph Hood, Rachel E. Shaw,
Samuel Sellers, Rachel Wilson,
Nathan W. Ellis, R. I. Sellers,
Rev. J. M. Walden, M. Lewis,
Joseph Fussell, Eliza Agnew,
Lukens Pierce, Joseph Lewis, Jr.,
A. E. Hambleton, M. A. Evans,
Sarah Palmer, Henry Bowman,
John Palmer, Hannah Ellis,
Joshua Hooper, Samuel Pennock.
The meeting was called to order by WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, the President; and on motion of J. MILLER McKIM, to complete the organization, AARON M. POWELL and WENDELL PHILLIPS GARRISON were appointed Secretaries pro tem.
Mr. McKim also moved the appointment of a Business Committee of twelve, to prepare work for the meeting, and to receive resolutions and other papers, and report them at their discretion.
The motion was agreed to, and the following were appointed as such Committee:—James Miller McKim Mary Grew, Aaron M, Powell, Lucretia Mott, Robert Purvis, Oliver Johnson, John T. Sargent, Sarah Pugh, Theodore Tilton, Abraham L. Brooke, Alfred H. Love Samuel May, Jr.
Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY offered a very appropriate and impressive prayer.
Introductory Remarks by the President.
BELOVED FRIENDS AND COADJUTORS:—This is the Third Decade since the formation of the American Anti-Slavery Society in this city. It will, in all probability, be the last one that we shall hold; for who now believes that slavery is to continue ten years longer in our land, rendering necessary ten years longer of anti-slavery effort for its overthrow? We trust that we are a very near the jubilee. We know that we are a great deal nearer to it than when we first believed. What was sown in weakness is raised in power; what was sown in dishonor is raised in glory. All the signs of the times, in regard to our glorious cause, are cheering in the highest degree. It is no longer a question confined to a few humble individuals, as against a mighty nation; but it is a nation rocking as by an earthquake, in travail with this tremendous issue. And now, instead of words, the question is debated upon the battle-field, at the cannon's mouth; and, undoubtedly, through this war of judgment, God means to vouchsafe deliverance to all in bondage.
Welcome and benediction, upon this thrilling and joyous occasion, to those who entered earliest into the field of labor; who have gone through with all its toils, its sufferings, its sacrifices, its perils; and who have been graciously permitted to live to see this gladsome day! Welcome and benediction to those who came in at a later period, and to the still newer converts to our cause! Welcome and benediction to all! We may now confidently hope that our labors are drawing near to an end, so far as the abolition of slavery is concerned; but our labors in the field of a common humanity, and in the cause of reform, are never to terminate here, except with our mortal lives With the liberation of the millions in bondage, we are to have a new field of philanthropy opened to us on a colossal scale, that will tax our means, our generosity, our sympathy, our efforts, to the utmost extent, to meet the solemn demands upon us, on the part of those houseless, homeless, penny less millions, who are coming forth from the house of bondage. This is a work of mercy and benevolence, in the doing of which we believe the great mass of the people of all denomination, and parties, and sects will flow together, and be glad to make a common atonement, though at so late a day, for the wrongs and outrages that have been heaped upon those held in brute servitude for so man generations.
One of the Secretaries will now read some of the numerous letters which have been received from those whose circumstances or engagements prevent
<c04>
their being here. Of course, if all who would like to be here could be gratified, it would be the largest meeting ever convened in the city of Philadelphia. Thousands and tens of thousands are regretting that they cannot be with us on this occasion,
The first letter I hold in my hand is from one who deserves to be held in honorable and lasting remembrance for his early, devoted, and long-continued services in our cause; I mean the first President of the American Anti-Slavery Society, once the distinguished merchant-philanthropist of the city of New York, ARTHUR TAPPAN; the benefactor to whom I owe my liberation from the Baltimore prison in 1830; and but for whose interposition at that time, in all probability I never should have left that prison, except to be carried out to be buried. I think it is some twenty years since I had the pleasure of looking him in the face: But I could do no less than to send him a letter of invitation to be present at this commemorative meeting, renewing my expression of gratitude for all his kindness to me personally, and my admiration for all he had done in the cause of the oppressed; and I was glad to receive this letter in reply.
The letter was read, as follows, by Wendell Phillips Garrison, one of the Secretaries:—
NEW HAVEN, NOV. 17, 1863.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON—Dear Sir:—Few events could give me so much pleasure as the receipt of your note of the 12th inst. During the years that have intervened since we last met, I have often recalled the time when we were united in working for the slave, and regretted that any occurrence should have estranged us from each other.
I shall be glad to attend the meeting at Philadelphia, but my advanced age (78th year) and growing infirmities may prevent.
I am truly your friend,
ARTHUR TAPPAN.
THE PRESIDENT—The next letter is from one of the signers of the Declaration of Sentiments, a name known and honored throughout the civilized world, the poet of America, JOHN G. WHITTIER, (applause,) who has done so much by his writings as a poet in aid of our glorious movement, that I have no words to express my sense of the value of his services. There are few living, who have done so much to operate upon the public mind, and conscience, and heart of our country for the abolition of slavery, as JOHN GREEN-LEAF WHITTIER:—
AMESBURY, 24th 11 mo., 1863.
MY DEAR FRIEND:—I have received thy kind letter with the accompanying circular, inviting me to attend the commemoration of the Thirtieth Anniversary of the formation of the American Anti-Slavery Society, at Philadelphia. It is with the deepest regret that I am compelled, by the feeble state of my health, to give up all hope of meeting thee and my other old and dear friends on an occasion of so much interest. How much it costs me to acquiesce in the hard necessity, thy own feelings will tell thee better than any words of mine.
I look back over thirty years, and call to mind all the circumstances of my journey to Philadelphia, in company with thyself and the excellent Dr. Thurston, of Maine, even then, as we thought, an old man, but still living, and true as ever to the good cause. I recall the early grey morning when, with Samuel J. May, our colleague on the Committee to prepare a Declaration of Sentiments for the Convention, I climbed to the small "upper chamber" of a colored friend to hear thee read the first draft of a paper which will live as long as our national history. I see the members of the Convention, solemnized by the responsibility, rise one by one, and solemnly affix their names to that stern pledge of fidelity to freedom. Of the signers, many have passed away from earth, a few have faltered and turned back, but I believe the majority still live to rejoice over the great triumph of truth and justice, and to devote what remains of time and strength to the cause to which they consecrated their youth and manhood thirty years ago.
For, while we may well thank God and congratulate one another on the prospect of the speedy emancipation of the slaves of the United States, we must not for a moment forget that, from this hour, new and mighty responsibilities devolve upon us to aid, direct and educate these millions, left free, indeed, but bewildered, ignorant, naked and foodless in the wild chaos of civil war. We have to undo the accumulated wrongs of two centuries; to remake the manhood that slavery has well-nigh unmade; to see to it that the long-oppressed colored man has a fair field for development and improvement; and to tread under our feet the last vestige of that hateful prejudice which has been the strongest external support of Southern slavery. We must lift ourselves at once to the true Christian altitude where all distinctions of black and white are overlooked in the heartfelt recognition of the brotherhood of man.
I must not close this letter without confessing that I cannot be sufficiently thankful to the Divine Providence which, in a great measure through thy instrumentality, turned me so early away from what Roger Williams calls "the world's great trinity, pleasure, profit and honor," to take side with the poor and oppressed. I am not insensible to literary reputation. I love, perhaps too well, the praise and good-will of my fellow-men; but I set a higher value on my name as appended to the Anti-Slavery Declaration of 1833, than on the title-page of any book. Looking over a life marked by many errors and short-comings, I rejoice that I have been able to maintain the pledge of that signature; and that, in the long intervening years,
"My voice, though not the loudest, has been heard 
Wherever Freedom has raised her cry of pain.”
Let me, through thee, extend a warm greeting to the friends, whether of our own or the new generation, who may assemble on the occasion of commemoration. There is work yet to be done which will task the best efforts of us all. For thyself, I need not say that the love and esteem of early boyhood have lost nothing by the test of time; and
I am, very cordially, thy friend.
JOHN G. WHITTIER.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President A. A. S. Society.
The reading of the above letter was interrupted by the arrival of a delegation of colored soldiers from Camp William Penn, who, as they advanced to the platform, were greeted by a general outburst of applause.
THE PRESIDENT—The next letter is from a very near, and dear, and revered friend, Hon. SAMUEL FESSENDEN, of Portland, Maine, father of Hon. William Pitt Fessenden, who is one of the leading Senators of the United States. He is now, of course, advanced in years; and, having nearly lost his eyesight, is compelled to use an amanuensis in order to have his sentiments recorded. Among a host of friends and coadjutors, I hardly know of one whom I esteem and reverence more than I do Samuel Fessenden, of Maine. The circumstances in which I became acquainted with him are to me peculiarly touching, as they are certainly enduring in my recollection. I trust he will be spared to witness, before his removal, the utter extermination of slavery from our country, and to join in the song of jubilee.
PORTLAND, NOV. 23d, 1863.
MY EVER DEAR FRIEND:—It was with very great pleasure that I received your kind notice of me of the 12th of November. You do me but justice in believing that I entertain the same views as I ever did in regard to that dreadful curse, the system of Southern slavery as it has existed and been practised in the great Southern section of our country, and which we are combatting in the present war. That system, in my judgment, most entirely embodies the cruelty of Moloch, the brutality of Belial, and the avarice of Mammon; and while, with you and others, I entertain the same views as to its enormity, I entertain the hope, and I believe I may now say the expectation, that God is about to bring this dreadful enormity,—a sin which, next to the crucifixion of the Savior, I esteem the most heinous ever committed by any of: the human race,—to a speedy and final end. 
I might almost say that I regret that the infirmity of eighty years' pilgrimage on earth has made me unable to attend the coming meeting of the Anti-Slavery Society; but I am almost totally blind, and it might well be supposed that, trembling upon the extreme verge of four score years, I perceive myself that the powers and faculties of my mind, such as they were, have so far failed as to render me incapable of doing any more for the benefit of the cause which you have so ably advocated—that of the total abolition of slavery in our country.
I shall not probably live to see the total destruction of this accursed system, but feel assured that it must soon take place, and that I now see those glimpses of its approaching end, which enable me with confidence to say, "Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, for mine eyes have seen of thy salvation," the glory of the people of God and the returning happiness of our suffering country, in the firm establishment and perpetuity of our free institutions.
With sentiments of the most cordial esteem, I am, in the sacred cause of liberty and humanity, truly and faithfully your friend,
SAMUEL FESSENDEN.
To WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
<c05>
THE PRESIDENT—The next letter is from one who was not with us in the early part of our struggle, but who has done a noble service since he joined us some years ago, in the common effort for the emancipation of those in bondage—JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE, of Boston.
JAMAICA PLAIN, NOV. 26,1863.
DEAR SIR:—It would give me great pleasure to accept your invitation, which I feel honored in receiving. Unhappily, I can hardly hope to be able to visit Philadelphia at that time. But whether there or elsewhere, I shall in spirit be with you., and shall sympathize with your satisfaction and pride in feeling that the result for which you have labored so long and so earnestly is almost attained. That slavery in America is virtually at an end, I cannot doubt. The great act of emancipation by the President, under his power as Commander-in-Chief—a power given him by the Constitution—is an act proceeding directly from the Constitution itself, and is therefore a part of the highest law known in the land. The Border States, exempted from the operation of that great edict, will themselves, following Missouri and Maryland, decree emancipation as a measure of public policy. Thus slavery is like a tree taken up by the roots—the life not wholly out of it, the leaves perhaps yet green —but its roots are out of the ground, and it must die.
The Society over which you preside has not only reason to congratulate itself that its labors have contributed largely to this great end; but that it has also given a historical proof that no evil, however mighty, no abuse, however deeply rooted, can resist the power of truth and righteousness clearly uttered and perseveringly witnessed to. Every advocate of justice henceforth, however humble he may seem to be, will be encouraged by your success to believe that God by him will fulfil the prophecy which declares that "He shall smith the earth by the rod of His mouth, and by the breath of His lips shall He slay the wicked." So that by your fidelity, you have not only helped to put out of the land this gigantic evil and sin, but have also contributed to destroy every other evil and sin which in all time to come shall be brought to an end by the power of truth and justice.
Very truly and faithfully yours,
JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE.
THE PRESIDENT—We hoped to have had the pleasure of seeing with us, upon this occasion, three of the most devoted friends of our cause which the struggle has brought forth; I mean THEODORE D. WELD, ANGELINA GRIMKE WELD, and SARAH GRIMKE. The letter which they have jointly sent to us expresses their feelings in regard to this celebration. I need not pass any eulogium upon these devoted friends; for you all know, who know anything: of the anti-slavery movement, what they have done for it.
WEST NEWTON, DEC. 1,1863.
BELOVED FRIENDS:—The letter of your Committee invites us to be present, either in person or by letter, to celebrate with you our third Decade. In place of ourselves, we send a few words of earnest greeting, as our proxy.
The fittest celebration of the past is to gird ourselves anew for the present and the future. The crisis that is upon us speaks its own word. To us that word is this:—
This Conspiracy is Slavery. The fiend that planned it, that ripened the plot, and now reeks with its perfidies, perjuries and myriad murders, is Slavery—Slavery in arms—the whole of it, and nothing else; its body soul, and spirit; the focus of its life and the furnace of its rage; its mad brain and heart, with all their greeds, plots and hates, ablaze with the fires of their own hell—every muscle and nerve-fibre on the rack—thought and will strained into spasms, and raving in frenzy. By its own act, by God's decree, Slavery's last hour has come, if the Nation will have it so. Up from the whole land, from all the earth's ends, the great question comes, millioned-voiced: "Does the Nation know, will the Nation do the thing that belongs to its peace, and to all human weal?“ He that hath ears begins to hear the Nation's solemn voices saying, "We do, and we will!" Terrible things in righteousness, just retributions for our partnership in the infinite crime and curse, press up these words today upon the Nation's lips. We hear in them the voice of God. We see, in the blow about to fall, the bolt of God, striking slavery dead, and burning up its corpse; leaving not a hair of the accursed thing to taint the air, or stain the ground, or bow down one free grass blade, or tether the tiniest rootlet in the soil.
Hitherto, Slavery's intense vitality has pervaded its whole body; all these life-forces the rebellion has absorbed into itself. From all the extremities, they have rushed to their centre. True blows struck there deal death to slavery, and to all its dragon-brood—aristocracy, caste, monopoly, class legislation, exclusive privilege and prerogative, all legalized oppression of the weak by the strong, with whatever obstructs "Liberty, Equality, Fraternity.” For this, all oppressed peoples now turn their eyes hitherward.
Who that hates slavery, and has dear eye-sight, does not see that the work of Abolitionists, for this hour, with prayer and pen, with voice and trumpet-blast, with men and money, with all weapons, by all means, in all ways, and with the whole soul, is to strike down this rebellion? It totters now, and slavery totters with it. See how it is struck down in the District of Columbia, Western Virginia, Delaware, Maryland, Missouri, and in the Cherokee and Choctaw Nations! See how in Louisiana, North Carolina, Tennessee, Kentucky, Florida, Arkansas, Texas, Northern Mississippi, and Northern Alabama, it reels today!
O then, God grant us large vision to see, and high wisdom to do; help us to lay aside every weight—the chronic queries and criticisms, the non-essential its and buts that throng the hour—the multiform side issues that so easily beset; and, in His strength, uplift ourselves altogether, to gird anew the Nation's arm, that it may bring down the final blow!
In hope, confidence, deep gratitude, and solemn exultation, faithfully, your fellow-servants,
THEODORE D. WELD,
ANGELINA G. WELD,
SARAH M. GRIMKE.
THE PRESIDENT—The next letter is from our esteemed and gifted friend, O. B. FROTHINGHAM, of the city of New York:
NEW YORK, NOV. 23, 1863.
MY DEAR FRIEND: I have received and gratefully acknowledge the kind invitation to your grand intellectual and moral banquet in Philadelphia on the 3d and 4th days of December. I anticipate unusual duties and cares just that week, incident to the opening of my church, and sorely fear I shall miss the treat; not, however, if I can help it. For simply to be there on an occasion so saturated with noble' memories, earnest thoughts and pure hopes, so bountiful in sentiment and aspiration, would be an era in one's experience. Never was festival so truly a festival in the fine old religious sense—a season of joy dedicated to the gods. For the spirit of Justice, Truth and Love, the primeval Trinity, will itself preside—invisible thousands of the redeemed will rise in ranks around the hall—a cloud of witnesses too numerous" for admission, if spirits filled any points of space—and the angels, too, of the great redeemers will glorify the house from floor to ceiling. Only to sit in silence amid such an assembly, and let the tears of gratitude flow from one's eyes, would be a sacramental observance; and with all that, to hear the speaking, and on all that again to press the hands that have wrought at this great task for thirty years, and to look into the faces in which so proud a moral triumph is reflected!! Well, I won’t try to say what that would be, but only try to think it will be mine to enjoy in actual fruition and in long memory.
You know, dear Mr. Garrison, that I shall be with you at any rate, even though my presence bodily may be here. You know that I am always with you in your work and in your prayer. You know that I am ever gratefully yours,
O. B. FROTHINGHAM.
THE PRESIDENT—Here is a letter from Hon. OWEN LOVEJOY, who expresses the hope of being with us today. What Mr. Lovejoy has done, in his place in the United States House of Representatives, for a number of years—how he has had to peril his life from session to session, in the midst of slaveholding wrath and violence—and with what a lion-hearted spirit he has triumphantly met the proud oligarchy of the South, represented in that body, you all know.
PRINCETON,NOV. 22,1863.
MY DEAR SIR: I have some hope of being able to be present at your meeting. In the event of my not being able to attend, will you allow me to say that I am in favor of an act of Congress abolishing slavery throughout the entire limits of the United States, and making it a penal offence to hold or claim to hold a slave?
If we have a right to build a Pacific railroad to promote the general welfare, without any specific grant of power in the Constitution, how much more have we the right to destroy that which is not only opposed to the general welfare, and to the spirit and genius of the Constitution, but is in constant and now bloody antagonism to every avowed purpose for which that organic law was ordained and established? I am aware that the dogma or fiction, (for it is nothing more,) of State sovereignty will be opposed to this legislation. But to this theory of State sovereignty I oppose the words of the Constitution itself: "This Constitution, and the laws of the United States which shall be made in pursuance thereof, shall be the supreme law of the land, anything in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding." Another mode of reaching, the same end would be to take a slave into the United States Supreme Court, and see
<c06>
whether that tribunal dare refuse him freedom under the Constitution. I have never had a doubt that a bench of honest judges, would liberate a slave if once in court. I think that was the chief motive for the atrocious Dred Scott decision, The slaveholder dare not confront his slave in that tribunal, if it could be half decently constituted. I shall therefore be with you in spirit, if not in person. I heartily bid you God speed in your efforts to secure obedience to the Divine command which the fathers traced on the bell, which I think still hangs over Independence Hall, in the city where. you meet: "Proclaim liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
Yours for universal freedom,
OWEN LOVEJOY.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
THE PRESIDENT—The next letter is from one whom we all delight to honor for his invaluable and long-continued services in behalf of the oppressed, in the Congress of the United States, and out of that body-I mean the Hon. JOSHU A R. GIDDINGS, of Ohio. 
(Applause.)
JEFFERSON, NOV. 30, 1863.
MY DEAR GARRISON: I would most gladly unite with the friends of freedom in commemorating the return of our government to the doctrines on which it was founded. For half a century, the powers which had been ordained to secure liberty were prostituted to the enslavement of mankind: the powers ordained to secure life were prostituted to the destruction of human existence: and our free government was transformed into a slaveholding oligarchy. 
Amid the moral and political darkness which then overshadowed our land, the voice of humanity was at length faintly heard. Its utterance became more and more distinct, until at length the high and holy truth, that all men hold from the Creator a right to live, a right to that liberty which is necessary to protect life, acquire knowledge, enjoy happiness, and prepare for heaven, was heard in our congressional halls. A quarter of a century has not yet elapsed, since the duty of separating our Federal government and the people of the States, from all support of slavery was first proclaimed in our National Legislature. The policy was so palpably just, so obviously in accordance with the Constitution, and constituted such a distinct reiteration of the doctrines enunciated by the founders of our institution, that the advocates, of slavery have never attempted to meet it with argument. There as intimidation, slander, violence, war and bloodshed have constituted the weapons with which they have attempted to stay the tide of Christian civilization. They have beset the pathway of reform with civil war, with rebellion unequalled in history.
During the last three years, our people have raised, armed and sent to the field a million and a quarter of the best soldiers who have ever fought in the cause of freedom, at an expense of fifteen hundred million dollars. In no age, in no clime, have any people made so great or such willing sacrifice for liberty; while the nations of Europe have stood with folded arms, looking upon this mighty conflict, boasting that they took no interest in this war between slavery and freedom—that they neither encouraged one, nor condemned. the other.
Within the last two years, our people have purified themselves from slavery and the slave trade in the District of Columbia and in the Territories, and the President's Proclamation of Emancipation has repudiated the institution in ten sovereign States, while in four others slavery lingers only in name. Within that time, three million of degraded bondmen have been legally elevated to the enjoyment of those rights which the Creator bestowed upon them. Heaven itself may well rejoice; and all good men will thank God, take courage, and re-engage in the great work with increased zeal.
I regret to say that, from the length of time and the severity of my own labors, I have fainted, fallen, and been borne from the field of conflict; but as I linger upon the verge of time, I still rest my dimmed vision upon the battle as it still rages, and my last prayer shall be for the heroes of justice and liberty.
I pray you to express to the members of your Society the assurance of my affectionate regard. Very faithfully your friend,
JOSHUA R. GIDDINGS.
THE PRESIDENT—The next letter is from one who entered into the anti-slavery field at an earlier period than almost any of us. Long before my own mind was turned to this subject, he had fully comprehended it, and bravely and faithfully borne an uncompromising testimony for the abolition of slavery. His name deserves to be held in lasting remembrance. I allude to Rev. JOHN RANKIN, of Ohio.
RIPLEY, Ohio, Nov. 19,1863.
MR. GARRISON—Dear Sir:-Your invitation to attend the thirtieth Anniversary of the American Anti-Slavery Society has been received. I regret that I am not in circumstances that will enable me to be present at your meeting. You and I have ever been united on the subject of immediate emancipation, while we have widely differed in other respects. I feel that my labors must soon close. I am now in the seventy-first year of my age, and of course, must soon go the way of all past generations. From my boyhood to the present time, I have opposed the abominable system of American slavery. For the liberation of the slaves I have labored long, and suffered much reproach and persecution; but I regret none of the sacrifices I have made for the helpless millions that have been bought and sold as if beasts of the field, and deprived of all that makes existence desirable. Nearly forty years have passed away since I began to warn this nation of the ruin that would result from this horrible system of oppression, but now the day of blood has come. The Son of God has come with his rod of iron, and dashed those slaveholding governments in pieces as a potter's vessel is broken; and has made the General Government tremble on its foundation. "True and righteous are thy judgments, O Lord!"
I greatly rejoice in the President’s Proclamation. No other man ever had the privilege of making a proclamation so magnificent. It is to lift more than three millions of people from the deepest degradation and misery to dignified life and station as rational beings. And although it is not broad enough to cover the whole field of oppression, yet it is the fiat that will end the system. He that is higher than the heavens has ordained it, and our brave soldiers in the field are the armies of the Living God to enforce it. Let us thank God and take courage; and not relax our efforts while there is a slave in the land. 
JOHN RANKIN. 
THE PRESIDENT—We have still a large number of letters that you would be pleased to hear, some of which will be read at other sessions, as time may allow. The only additional one that will now be submitted is from Hon. O. W. ALBEE, of Massachusetts, who, in the Legislature of that State, has done important service for our cause.
MARLBORO', NOV. 12, 1863.
MR. GARRISON—Dear Sir: Your circular of the 12th inst. has been received. I deem it a high honor to be thought worthy of an invitation to the meeting in the city of Philadelphia to commemorate the Thirtieth Anniversary of the American Anti-Slavery Society; but circumstances will, I fear, prevent my attending it.
In the year 1830 or 1831, whilst a student in Brown University, I chanced to read some sheets printed by yourself in Boston. The sheets were not large, nor the paper very fine; but suffice it to say, they contained facts that settled the question of emancipation with me. Since that hour, I have been an unwavering anti-slavery man; and if I have done any good service in the glorious cause of emancipation, let God and William Lloyd Garrison be thanked.
Very truly yours, O.W. ALBEE.
HENRY C. WRIGHT offered the following resolutions:
Resolved, That the voice of the people is heard through petitions to Congress; and this Convention earnestly recommend that this voice be raised in petitions for an amendment of the Constitution, declaring that slavery shall be forever prohibited within the limits of the United States.
Resolved, That a committee of five be appointed to prepare such a petition, and procure the signature of every member of this Convention to the same, before its final adjournment. 
MR. WRIGHT stated that this resolution had been suggested to him by one of the leading members of the U. S. Senate, who would probably at an early day introduce the subject in his place in that body.
The resolutions were referred to the Business Committee.
Rev. WILLIAM H. FURNESS, of Philadelphia, spoke as follows:
MR. PRESIDENT: I am reminded of the first time that I had the honor of standing upon the anti-slavery platform with you. You may not remember it; but it was upon the occasion when our friends, Frederick Douglass and Sam. Ward, so magnificently vindicated the ability of the black man. Then you were surrounded in the gallery behind you by Isaiah Rynders and his crew. If you had been told then, sir, that some few years afterwards you would be standing up. on an anti-slavery platform with a file of black soldiers behind you, what would have been your explanation of the prophecy? That the blacks had risen in insurrection, and that you were protected by yours friends.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
I am not in form a member of the National Anti-Slavery Society. The Society had not long existed before it communicated to me the information that I was already the President of an Abolition Society called a Christian Church; and I have felt myself bound to keep in my own sphere, and to try and bring my little Abolition Society upon the true platform; and that is the reason why I never officially belonged to the American Anti-Slavery Society.
Again, I feel very reluctant to claim to be an Abolitionist, because I think it to be a very high pretension for a man to make. I am perfectly willing to bear the obloquy of the name; but it looks like pride, and may imply a want of self-knowledge, for a man to claim with confidence that he is a genuine, thorough-going Garrisonian Abolitionist. Under these circumstances, I esteem myself honored, inasmuch as I have been invited to read to you the “Declaration of Sentiments” upon which this Society was founded; a Declaration made in this city thirty years ago, and second only in time to the Declaration of 1776.
[Dr. F. here read, in a most impressive manner, the Declaration of Sentiments, adopted at the formation of the Society; after which he proceeded:]
I am informed that of these sixty signers and upwards, only fifteen have died, when the anticipation here expressed has been realized. The large body of the signers live to witness the triumph of liberty, justice and humanity.
You all know what have been the weapons of our friends in the great war in which they have been engaged. If our country had responded to these sentiments thirty years ago, as they responded to the tidings of the attack upon Fort Sumter, slavery would have been utterly abolished by this time without the shedding of a single drop of blood. But there is a homely proverb, that it is in vain to talk about what might have been, or what should have been. Blood is running like water, and the consolation and reward of our friends is that when the South broke out in brutal assault upon the life of the nation, that the nation was so well prepared for the hour was due in great part to the fidelity with which our friends have redeemed the pledges they gave in this Declaration, in forming Anti-Slavery Societies throughout all the North, and in sending every where anti-slavery information.
I confess there are very strong points of resemblance between the Abolitionists of the North and the conspirators of the South. Our friends at the North, thirty years ago, undertook to fire the Northern heart, insensible to the fact that they were in danger of firing the Southern heart at the same time. So, also, a few years ago, the leading conspirators at the South undertook to fire the Southern heart, never dreaming what a tremendous fire they were going to kindle in the Northern heart. So that, in this respect, the Abolitionists of the North and the Fire-eaters of the South resembled each other; with this difference-that the Abolitionists undertook to kindle the Northern heart with fire from heaven; the Fire-eaters undertook to kindle the Southern heart with fire from-the other place. (Applause.) 
SPEECH OF WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
On the Fourth of July, 1776, our fathers put their names to the Declaration of American Independence. They testified before the world, in that manner, to their acceptance of certain “self-evident truths” contained in that Declaration; and, therefore, that there could be no violation of them without guilt. Now, it is one thing to speak the word of liberty, but a very different thing to keep it. Our fathers proclaimed the truth. Did they adhere to it? Did they proceed to carry out honestly and impartially their own heaven attested sentiments? No; they were content to leave in bondage, as a matter of compromise, 600,000 slaves, who have since multiplied by natural generation to 4,000,000. They did not dare wholly to trust in God; and hence they were left to enter into a covenant with slaveholding, which in 1860 naturally broke out in bloody rebellion. 
Thirty years ago, the Declaration to which you have just listened was issued by a small body assembled in this city, and the signatures of the members present were appended to the instrument. The result was the immediate formation of the American Anti-Slavery Society, which adopted that Declaration as the basis upon which all its action should rest. Has the Society been true to its principles and sentiments? I feel I can truly say that it has been faithful and uncompromising from the beginning till now; that we have not yielded one jot or little of any of our demands; that in all trials, in all discouragements, in the hottest persecution, we have been faithful to our cause, and to the victims whose advocates we profess to be.
Is there anything in this Declaration that any honest man could object to? Is there anything in it opposed to the principles of justice, mercy, or brotherly love? How has it come to pass, then, that the proclamation of those sentiments has filled the land for a whole generation with violence and persecution? How is it that, during all that time, the Abolitionists have been held up as fanatics, madmen and incendiaries, who ought not to be tolerated in the utterance of their thoughts? How has the nation been torn and tormented by this anti-slavery agitation! Yet we uttered no new truths, advanced no strange ideas, made no unreasonable demands. What has just been read to us has been reiterated in substance from age to age, ever since tyranny commenced its reign upon earth. It is a collection of the merest truisms; that man is man, and not a beast; that there is an everlasting distinction between a mere animal and an immortal soul; that the laborer should have his just reward; that all should be protected by equal laws; and that oppression should not be tolerated in any part of our land or world. We have been called “fanatics and incendiaries” for uttering truths like these. They who have opposed us,-blindly it may be in many instances, wickedly in others,-have been guilty of fanaticism and incendiarism. Justice was upon our side; reason and mercy were with us; and the God of all flesh nerved our spirits to the conflict.
Allow me to take this opportunity to say, that there is one interpolation in the Declaration of Sentiments which I did not like at the time, and which I have never liked since. An esteemed friend in the Convention thought it would take off the edge, a little, of one of the statements, if we would verify it by a reference to Scripture. As originally written, it stood thus:-
“That every American citizen, who retains a human being in involuntary bondage as his property, is a man stealer.”
But this was amended so as to read:
“That every American citizen, who retains a human being in involuntary bondage as his property, is (according to Scripture, Exodus Xxi., 16,) a man-stealer.”
That weakens instead of strengthening it. It raises a Biblical question. It makes the rights of man depend upon a text. Now, it matters not what the Bible may say, so far as these rights are concerned. They never originated in any parchment, are not dependent upon any parchment, but are in the nature of man himself, written upon the human faculties and powers by the finger of God. It matters not, though all the books in the universe, claiming to be never so sacred and holy, should declare that man has not a natural and an inalienable right to himself. Those books would only deserve to be given to the consuming fire. (Applause.) We do not base this cause upon any book. We base it upon man, upon God in man; and it will stand invulnerable, whether we can prove or not, by mere texts of Scripture, that a man has a right to his own body and his own soul.
I believe that if the Bible denounces any one sin more than another, it denounces the sin of oppression; if it represents God as being particularly incensed in his moral nature, it is in view of the treatment of the poor, and the needy, and the outcast. “Wash you; make you clean; put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes. Cease to do evil, learn to do well; seek judgment; relieve the oppressed; undo
<c02>
the heavy burden; break every yoke, and let the op-pressed go free.”
I have never refrained from making use of the Bible as a mighty weapon to batter down slavery; but not to settle the question of the right or wrong of slavery by the Bible, or any other book. Slavery is a self-evident wrong.
It will be seen from this Declaration that, from the beginning, as an association, we pledged ourselves to the country that our measures should be entirely peaceful, our appeals to the reason and consciences of men; that we should deal in argument and entreaty, in warning and rebuke, in exposing the iniquity and danger of slavery, and in showing the blessings of liberty. We never contemplated asking of Congress the exercise of any unconstitutional power. We never attempted to stir up a slave insurrection, nor to do anything more than this—to reason and remonstrate with the holders of slaves, and to leave it to their consciences to break the yoke, and set their victims free. Yet, had we been the vilest of the vile; had we been a band of incendiaries and assassins, whose only purpose was to “cry Havoc, and let slip the dogs of war,” and have chaos come again; we could not have aroused against us the indignant opposition of this nation more thoroughly or more effectively than it has been during our long protracted struggle. 
But “wisdom is justified of her children,” and the nation is getting to be now clothed, and sitting in its right mind. The Anti-Slavery cause is, at last, receiving a fair and honest verdict; and the approving judgment of posterity is sure. It will be admitted, in the future, that the Abolitionists only asked what was self-evidently just and reasonable, humane and Christian; and that the imputations cast upon them were vile and wicked, and made for a most villanous purpose. 
How strange it always seems, in looking back through the course of history, and seeing the various struggles along the pathway of time to aid and bless the human race, that there should have existed any hostility to those reforms! What did the prophets say that was not worthy of all acceptation? Yet, how were they subjected to every form of persecution! Go back to the days of Jesus. Is it not now a matter of universal astonishment that any fault should have been found with him who went about doing good, who was harmless and undefiled, who was willing to lay down his life for his enemies? How could his brave and heroic apostles, going forth to save and bless their fellow-men, have been stigmatized as “pestilent and seditious fellows, seeking to turn the world upside down, and as the filth of the earth and the offscouring of all things”? And is it not amazing, when we come down to Wickliffe and Luther, to George Fox and William Penn, to Roger Williams and John Wesley, who stood forth as the champions of religious liberty, that the people of their generation should have seen in them anything evil? 
Will it not be so, in the judgment of posterity, in regard to the Anti-Slavery struggle? While I will not say that the Abolitionists have committed no errors, nor that they might not have done their work in some respects better, I believe that there never was a body of reformers better kept in spirit, or in a sound understanding as to the best way of doing their work, than the Abolitionists in their efforts for the over-threw of slavery. 
Signers of the Declaration of Sentiments! when we put our names to that instrument, how little did we understand the nature and power of slavery, or the actual condition of our country under its corrupting influence! How little we comprehended the trials through which we should be called to pass! We knew that the nation was slumbering, and that trumpet voices were needed to arouse it from its sleep of death; but did we not go to our own familiar friends, to kind neighbors and honored fellow-citizens, and expect to obtain their approval and cooperation? Did we not go to our cherished religious denomination, or to our political party, and expect as soon as our appeals were made, it would give a patriotic or Christian response? How were we disappointed in every direction! How, instead of meeting with sympathy and encouragement, we had to face the frowns even of those who had formerly been our near and dear acquaintances! We have been “in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in perils by our own countrymen, in perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils among false brethren”; buffeted, mobbed and outlawed; in some instances a price has been set upon our heads; we have been regarded as those who were unfit to live. Yet we have ever tried to approve ourselves and our sacred cause “in much patience, in afflictions, in necessities, in distresses, in tumults, in labors, in watchings, in fastings; by pureness, by knowledge, by suffering, by kindness, by love unfeigned, by the word of truth, by the power of God, by the power of righteousness on the right hand and on the left, by honor and dishonor, by evil report and good report.” And may we not, without vaunting, ask, “Where is the wise? where is the scribe? where is it the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world?”
But thanks to God that we were early called to this great cause! To Him be all the glory. That a most wonderful work has been achieved is now admitted even by our enemies. We might have been as multitudinous as the sands on the sea shore, as the stars in the midnight sky; yet, had we been in the wrong, we should have been defeated, and ground to powder. We were few, poor, uninfluential, obscure; and yet a mighty work has been performed. Is it of the Abolitionists? No; it is of God. It is because truth is mighty, and no weapon that has ever been or ever can be fashioned can prosper against it. It is because, in a righteous movement, “one shall chase a thousand, and two put ten thousand to flight.” It is because “ever the right comes uppermost, and ever is justice done.”
We were told, all along, that if our principles should be reduced to practice, and our measures carried out, there would be the most terrible consequences both to the master and to the slave; that society would be overturned, and every part of the South red with blood and conflagration. What has been the result? The work of emancipation is going on, not in a peaceful state of society, but in the midst of civil war, the worst time in which to try such an experiment—civil war upon a colossal scale. Yet as the slaves emerge from the house of bondage, how docile and peaceable is their conduct! They are behaving not only as well as we said they would, but transcending even our anticipations and prophecies. (Applause.) Wherever they have been tried, whether merely in digging ditches, trenches and rifle pits, or whether “armed and equipped as the law directs for military duty,” they have discharged their responsibilities in the most faithful manner. In my judgment, it stamps them as a remarkable people; so remarkable that I really have in my mind great doubts whether any other people upon the face of the earth could go through the same sufferings and degradation, and come out with so much credit to themselves. (Applause.)
Danger in giving men justice? Danger in protecting cradles from the kidnapper? Danger in allowing the husband and wife to be safe together? Danger in paying the laborer honestly for his work? How insane the nation has been! Slavery demonizes those whom it possesses. It calls good evil, and evil good; it puts light for darkness, and darkness for light. They who are possessed by it are rendered lunatics. There never was a man yet who could reason straight in favor of slavery. It is not practicable to frame a sound argument in favor of wrong doing. God does not allow that to be possible. If Gabriel himself should try it, he would only be morally foolish in proportion to his intellectual powers. 
By the help of God we have continued to this day; and we have great reason to be thankful. But our work as Abolitionists is not yet done. The question is doubtless in your minds,—Is this the time, or will the next annual meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society be the time, for dissolving our association?
<c03>
That remains to be seen. I do hope in God that this coming session of Congress will enable us, in May next, to dissolve the American Anti-Slavery Society. (Applause.) If that body will only abolish slavery, I pledge the country that there shall be no more anti-slavery agitation. As everybody seems to desire to get rid of this kind of agitation, the shortest method is to abolish slavery, which is the sole cause of the agitation. (Renewed applause.) 
But if, on coming together next May, slavery shall not have been abolished, then our work will not have been completed; and we are pledged by the Declaration, and by our relatious to God and to those in bonds, not to give up until every slave in the land is set free. Then our anti-slavery societies will, in the nature of things, terminate. We are organized to abolish slavery; when slavery is abolished, of course our mission ends, in that particular. But our work for humanity will not end. We shall put forth strenuous efforts to give light and knowledge to the emancipated, and to make their freedom a blessed boon to themselves and the republic. 
How many times, in anti-slavery meetings, have I read,—so descriptive of the imperative duty and the cheering results of emancipation,-the 58th chapter of Isaiah, in which God expresses his abhorrence of a sham fast, and announces the true fast! It is not to bow down the head as a bulrush, nor to put on sackcloth and ashes, but to undo the heavy burdens, break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free. How many times have I read the promises connected with obedience to this command! Now we are in the midst of the breaking of yokes; and we are to see whether God will be true as to the promised results of emancipation. I aver that those promises are being fulfilled literally, and in the most remarkable manner. First,-“Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thy darkness shall be as the noon day.” No cutting of throats; no firing of plantations; but the substitution of light for darkness. Now, what do we see? Following close upon the army, almost in the midst of shot and shell and Greek fire, the way being opened, we have an army of missionaries and teachers going down to the South, to scatter light among those who have been so long sitting in darkness, and in the region and shadow of death. Most speedy and marvellous fulfilment of the promise!
Next-“Then shall thy health spring forth speedily.” Do you suppose there is not to be a great improvement in their physical condition when these imbruted millions are snatched away from the slave-driver’s lash? But look at this promise from another point of view. You know that the rebels congratulated themselves upon the thinning out of our forces at New Orleans and at Vicksburg by “Yellow Jack.” as they call the yellow fever. Yet the result has been that, since “the Yankees” have gone down there, with Gen Butler and Gen. Grant to lead them, there has been no Yellow Jack! Liberty has gone into sanitary measures, and the fever has disappeared. 
Finally” Then shalt thou call, and I will answer; thou shalt cry, and I will say, Here I am. Thou shalt be like a watered garden whose waters fail not; and they that shall be of thee shall build the old waste places; thou shalt be called, The repairer of the breach, The restorer of paths to dwell in: for the mouth of the Lord of hosts hath spoken it.” It is only a question of time,—and time not far distant,—for all these promises to be literally fulfilled. The highest justice is the path of safety, and the best political economy. 
The meeting adjourned at 3, P. M. 
AFTERNOON SESSION. 
MR. McKIM called attention to the fact that upon the platform was a veritable slave Auction-Block, captured from the Alexandria slave-prison. 
THE PRESIDENT—The first letter to be read this afternoon is from HON. B. GRATZ BROWN, of Missouri, who, for a number of years, has taken his life in his hands, and been an uncompromising advocate of the abolition of slavery in that State. He has been hated, proscribed, ostracized. Who ever dreamed that Missouri would eventually elevate him, a radical, thorough-going Abolitionist, to the Senate of the United States? (Applause.) 
ST. Louis, Nov. 21,1863. 
MY DEAR SIR—Your very kind note of the 12th inst. was received some days since, and would have been responded to earlier, and more at length, but for a sad domestic bereavement that has very much prostrated me. It will be necessary for me to be in Washington city two or three days before the session begins, but I will endeavor to take Philadelphia in my route, and be present with you for a brief period, if it be possible. So far as my feeling is concerned, I can assure you that I appreciate, more than most persons so far away, the great influence of the Anti-Slavery Society in arousing this nation to a sense of the sin of slavery that was bending it beneath the yoke, and in confirming our people in the resolution to do away with it at every hazard. God in his great Providence seems to have shaped this Revolution to carry forward that resolve, sharply by the edge of the sword; but more potently and enduringly by the vast augmentation of moral power and the deep stirring of national instincts which have been called forth by the struggle. For our own State of Missouri, I believe I may now say that the work of deliverance is well nigh done—would have been done long since but for the interposition of federal influence, civil and military, to sustain slavery and the slave dynasty. But even these things cannot long be-the end of all sham doing is at hand, and, in the long hereafter, Missouri, be assured, will sternly keep her faith with freedom. 
I remain, Sir, very truly, yours, 
B. GRATZ BROWN. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Boston, Mass.
THE PRESIDENT—The next letter is from another Senator of the United States, whose name will be his own highest eulogy—CHARLES SUMNER of Massachusetts. (Applause.) 
BOSTON, 1st December, 1863.
MY DEAR SIR: I shall not be able to take part in the proceedings to which you kindly invite me; but wherever I may be, I shall unite in your thanksgivings that God has already allowed so much of the good work to be accomplished, and by visible assurances enabled us to see clearly that slavery will soon be at an end. 
It is sad to think that this infinite good is reached only through the fiery processes of war—so contrary to all your desires and to all mine. But we have not been choosers. The alternative has not been ours. To save the Republic—to save civilization—to save our homes from degradation—to save ourselves from participation in unutterable crime and baseness—it has been necessary to rally the country against a rebellion, whose single object is the exaltation of slavery. Never before in history was there a war so necessary and just as that which we are compelled to wage, and never before was there a war which promised such transcendant results. 
It is only when the rebellion is seen in its true light, as slavery in arms, seeking dominion and recognition —at home and abroad—that we can find the true measure of our duties. Of course, every concession to the rebellion—all parley with it—is a voluntary assumption of its guilt. 
You and your associates have stood firm for many years. Such pious fidelity must have its reward in an approving conscience; but it cannot be forgotten hereafter on earth or in heaven. 
And may God continue to bless the good cause, and to bless you, who have labored so nobly! 
Believe me, my dear sir, with much regard, very faithfully yours, CHARLES SUMNER. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, ESQ. 
The last letter to be read this afternoon is from one of the signers of the Declaration, SIMEON S. JOCELYN, now of New York. I became acquainted with him almost as soon as I entered into the anti-slavery cause, and found him one of its warmest and truest friends. He has labored from that hour to the present, unceasingly in its behalf. I found him preaching to a small congregation of colored people in New Haven; his sympathies having been drawn out at a very early period towards that class of people in our land.
NEW YORK, Dec. 2, 1863.
WILLIAM LLYOD GARRISON—Dear Sir: Your invitation to me to be present at the Third Decade of the American Anti-Slavery Society was duly received, for which please receive my thanks. 
I have hoped to be present on the occasion so deeply interesting to those of us who, thirty years ago, under circumstances of great solemnity, adopted the memorable Declaration of Sentiments and Purposes, (drawn up by your own hand,) and consecrated ourselves to the work of securing, under Divine Providence, the liberty of the millions of our colored breth-
<c04>
ren in this land under the most terrible bondage known upon earth.
I find it impossible for me to be present on the first day of the convocation, and at this late hour I can but feebly hope that I may be with you on Friday, such is the pressure of duty here this week connected with the cause among the Freedmen at many points.
May the season be to all one of precious remembrances devout thanksgiving, and the most earnest renewal of purpose and effort for the complete extirpation of slavery, and thereby the overthrow of the rebellion, the salvation of the country, and the relief, instruction and perpetual elevation and blessing of the millions rushing from the house of bondage, now opened by the God of the oppressed, who has “made bare His arm” for their deliverance!
I have the utmost confidence that the decree of freedom for three millions of the enslaved in the rebel States, by President Lincoln, will never be revoked, but that the proclamation of liberty “to all the inhabitants of the land” is early in order. But the hydra headed monster will struggle to the death; and the object contemplated by the meeting and the Society, to move the whole people, and through them the government, to the issue, together with every possible labor of all the friends of God and Humanity, will all be demanded. With judgments and repentance, the desired results will be attained.
But, with gratitude, courage and joy, let us still “press the battle to the gate.” May the Divine favor attend your deliberations, and crown the doings of the Convention with untold blessings upon the oppressed and their benefactors!
Truly yours, S. S. JOCELYN.
[Highly interesting speeches, of a retrospective character, were made by J. Miller McKim, Mary Grew, Rev. Samuel J. May, and Lucretia Mott, which will be given next week; when the meeting adjourned to Friday morning, at 10 o’ clock.]

THE PRESIDENT FALTERS.
Congress, in the exercise of its power to declare the punishment of treason, has confiscated the landed property of the rebels of the South. The act was not purely vindictive, but was a wise provision for the homogeneousness of the Republic. More than any other, perhaps, it convinced the conspirators of the earnestness of the North, and thrust before them the alternative of victory or subjugation. Slavery, like feudalism, read its doom in the partition and allotment of its vast estates among small proprietors, who were in this case to be, first, the freedmen, next, the soldiers of the Federal army, and lastly, the colonists from the North and from every European State. This beneficent measure the President, by his recent proclamation of pardon, has exposed to frustration, to say the least. In return for an oath less likely to be respected than any which has yet been offered to traitors, he exempts certain classes from the just operation of the law of Congress. In his endeavors to reconstruct the seceded States on a true Republican basis, he begins by surrendering the soil to men who, because they may see the hopelessness of destroying the Republic, throw away their knives, and are restored to the enjoyment of their rights. The question is not now of omitting for these would-be assassins the extreme penalty which is their due; the expediency of mercy is not under consideration; but it is the policy which accepts lip-loyalty in atonement for treason, rewards unsuccessful villainy with immunity, and supplants the immigrant who bears freedom in his train with the old-time settler whose life-blood is slavery. This Proclamation is even more faulty than that of September 22d, 1862, by as much as it is without limitation in point of time. Can any friend of freedom desire that the rebels to-morrow accept this amnesty? and if not, the longer they continue in rebellion, will their claims upon the President’s promises be more deserving, or will they themselves be better fitted than now to assist in the erection of Republican States? The dignity of labor is as much a Republican idea as the equality of all men before the law: will the baffled and mortified champions of a society whose corner-stone is the degradation of labor, repay their deliverance from the scaffold by chanting the praises of sweaty toil? From none such look for the honor of the ploughshare. 
There is, to be sure, some consolation in the exceptions which Mr. Lincoln makes, for they embrace perhaps the majority of the great land and slave-owners, who will be induced, by their inevitable prospective despoilment, to postpone to the uttermost the popular acceptance of pardon. No such thought, however, arises in contemplating yet a graver error of the Proclamation. Not content with stuffing the ballot-box, so to speak, by the creation of loyal voters out of quondam rebels, the President must needs drive from the polls at the outset,—and who shall say for how long a time thereafter?—the men of all others who cannot but be loyal, cannot but be true to the Republican principle. When he consigns the unity of the nation to one-tenth of the former legal voters in the several seceded States, he must know that he denies every freedman therein resident the right to vote for the Union, and for that liberty which alone can justify its existence. Has the Government so many undoubted friends in these patches of re-conquered territory, that it can afford to dispense with the support of hundreds of thousands of black Americans? or is it a worthy commencement of the Republican experiment, to confine suffrage to humbled aristocrats, and to bestow freedom without the right of self-government? “Life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness”-all three are necessary to the sum of human enjoyment, all three to the complement of human rights. To free the slave, and then to abandon him in an anomalous position betwixt bondage and man-hood, is not this as cruel as slavery? Mr. Lincoln is guilty of the attempt which he himself characterizes as absurd, “to guarantee and protect a revived State Government constructed in whole, or in preponderating part, from the very element against whose hostility and violence it is to be protected,” when he determines who shall be a qualified voter, “by the election law of the State existing immediately before the so-called act of Secession.” Of course, no slave State ever permitted the elective franchise to the outcast race, and this criterion re-establishes at once the old odious distinctions of caste which are essential to the existence of slavery, while the black man is tantalized with the consciousness that he has indeed his personal freedom, but is left a helpless prey to malice and oppression since the shield of the ballot has been taken from his hands. He perceives in the “temporary State arrangement for the freed people” a vestige of the idea, offspring of slavery, that the negro cannot take care of himself; and considering that even in certain of the (so-called) Free States, the colored citizen has no voice at the polls, while in others he can vote only upon a basis of property, he looks out upon a gloomy prospect for himself and his posterity. 
There is no safety short of absolute justice. The reconstruction of Southern society must be thorough, and affect constitutions, statutes and customs. We can never have a Republic so long as we deny to any of our fellow-creatures rights inherent in their humanity. Has the President so soon forgotten his noble speech at Gettysburg?? He said there that the war was a trial whether or not a government of the people, by the people, and for the people, could stand. The Declaration defines who constitute the people-“all men.” Shall we admit to a share in the government the brutal Irishman, fresh from a July carnival of riot, and reject the colored freedman who perhaps at Wagner, Port Hudson, or Milliken’s Bend, has eagerly exposed his life that the Republic may live? Grant that slavery has left its victims degraded, unenlightened, corrupted. Everywhere in the land you will find men of equal intellectual and moral debasement, for which slavery is not all or only indirectly responsible; and if we mean to be impartial and just, they too must be put under guardianship, and be deprived of the chance to govern themselves. When we restrain the negro of his rights because of his condition, we do him a grievous wrong if we treat not so all men in a like condition. If our action proceeds from a denial of his manhood, we certainly sanction the principle of slavery. 
This part of his Proclamation the President can assuredly modify, and he should make haste to repair the woeful breach which he has opened. Let him, if he must, abide by his pledge to restore white rebels
<c05>
at any moment to all their property except in man; but let him substitute for the local State laws in regard to legal voters, the simple law of the United States, the fundamental principle of the Republic, which regards every freeman as a citizen, best capable of knowing his own interests, and only sure of securing them by having a share in the formation and administration of government, State and national.—W. P. G. 

WOMAN’S ONE POLITICAL RIGHT—CIRCULATE THE PETITION
Women of the republic, here is your work in this battle for Freedom! Whilst our sires and sons are fighting with bullets and ballots the enemy in front and traitors in the rear, let us, with the only political right granted us in the Constitution—the right of petition—do what we can to end slavery, and with it the war. 
By our earnestness and seal in the exercise of this one right, let us prove ourselves worthy to make larger demands in the readjustment of the new government. E.C.S. 
DEATH OF HON. NATHAN BROOKS. The Hon. Nathan Brooks died at his residence in Concord. Mass., on Friday last, the 11th inst., aged 78 years. He was son of Joshua Brooks, and was born in Lincoln, Mass., 18th of October, 1785. He graduated at Harvard College in 1809, and was a classmate with the late Dr. George Hayward of this city. After leaving college, he studied law, and on his admission to the Bar in 1813, he opened an office in Concord, where he resided during the remainder of his life. He acquired an extensive practice in his profession; was a prominent citizen of the town, and was elected to many offices of honor and trust. 
A society for the suppression of intemperance was organized in Concord the 6th of January, 1814, and Mr. Brooks delivered the first address before it the following December. He represented the town in the State Legislature in 1823,1824 and 1825, was one of the Executive Council in 1829, and was a Senator for the Middlesex District in 1851. He was appointed Master in Chancery for Middlesex, 29th June, 1827, and was for many years a Director of the Concord Bank. 
He was twice married, first to Caroline Downs of Boston, and secondly, in July, 1823, to Mary, daughter of Tilley Merrick, Esq., of Concord.—Advertiser. 
A REBEL DEFEAT IN MISSISSIPPI. Advices from Memphis state that a rebel force, estimated at 4500, under Lee and Chalmers, entered Moscow, Miss., on the 3d instant, and captured two negroes, who were standing picket duty, whom they hung at noon. They made a desperate charge on Col. Hatch’s force, who were guarding the Wolf River Bridge, when, with the 6th, 7th and 9th Illinois and the 2nd Iowa Cavalry, one 12 pound howitzer, and 700 negro troops, a desperate fight ensued and continued four hours, when the enemy were repulsed with a heavy loss in killed and wounded. Among their killed were several officers of high rank. 
Col. Hatch was severely wounded in the right lung. The 6th Illinois cavalry suffered the heaviest loss. A large number of their horses were captured. Company B came out with only nine men and one lieutenant. The negro troops fought with desperation. Exasperated at the hanging of their pickets, they threw many of the dead and wounded into the river. Three of them were killed and four wounded. The rebels retreated towards Brownsville. On their way they burned a portion of Lafayette. Our forces are pursuing them. 
IMPORTANT EXPEDITION BY GENERAL WILDE’S CONTRABAND BRIGADE. The New York Times’ correspondent from Portsmouth, Va., informs us of an important expedition undertaken by Brigadier-General Wilde, commanding the negro brigade in General Butler’s Department. Starting out from the vicinity of Portsmouth on Saturday, the 5th inst., and marching in two columns by different routes, the brigade united at Huntsville, N. C., where an advance was made on Elizabeth City, which was occupied on the 10th inst., without opposition, the rebels being taken by surprise. Artillery and cavalry, as well as a considerable naval force, have left to cooperate with Gen. Wilde, and Elizabeth City is likely to be made the base of important operations. 
NEW YORK, Dec. 14. The Herald’s Army of the Potomac despatch states:—Deserters report that a large part of the rebel army are ready to accept the President’s amnesty, and return to their allegiance— particularly among the North Carolina and border State troops. 
BALTIMORE, Dec. 13. The following despatch was received this morning:— 
FORTRESS MONRON, Dec. 12,1863.
C. C. Fulton, Baltimore American: 
Please give notice that the rebel authorities decline receiving any more packages of provisions for the Union prisoners, so that parties interested may refrain from forwarding any more goods to this point 
(Signed) BENJ. F. BUTLER, 
Maj. General Comd’g
INAUGURATION OF THE GREAT FAIR. The Grand Fair of the New England Sanitary Commission, for the benefit of the soldiers, which has been for several weeks in preparation by patriotic citizens, and especially by the mothers and daughters of New England, was inaugurated on Monday evening with complete success and great eclat. The scene presented at the Music Hall was inspiring and brilliant beyond description. 
THE CITY ELECTION. The Republicans made a clean sweep of the election in Boston on Monday. Mr. Lincoln, for Mayor, has 4000 plurality, and the twelve Republican candidates for Aldermen, pluralities ranging from 3000 to 3900. The Council will stand 40 Republicans, 6 Democrats, 1 Workingman, and 1 no choice. 

INTERESTING, IMPORTANT, INSTRUCTIVE. 
ETHNOLOGY—The Nations, Races, and Tribes of Men—their Origin, Present Condition, and Probable Destiny. PHYSIOLOGY—Functions of the Bodily Organs—their “Uses and Abuses” PHRENOLOGY—Our Social, Intellectual and Moral Nature. PHYSIOGNOMY- “Signs of Character, and How to Read Them” -Ears, Eyes, Nose, Mouth, Chin, Hair, Skin, Complexion; their Language and Meaning. PSYCHOLOGY—the “Science of the Soul,” including Man’s Spiritual Nature, and his relations to this life and the life to come. The whole comprising a complete system of ANTHROPOLOGY, with numerous Portraits and other Engravings, given in the PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL AND LIFE ILLUSTRATED. Single number, 15 cents, by first post. The January number begins a new volume, at $1.50 a year. Subscribe now. Address, FOWLER AND WELLS, 308, Broadway, New York.
Dec. 11—3t.
IMPORTANT LECTURES PROPOSED—The subscriber proposes, if desired, to lecture before Literary Societies, etc., on either or all of the following subject:-
I. The Colenso controversy, and the character and age of the early Hebrew sacred books. 
II. The book of Daniel, its character and age, and the history of the times to which it refers. 
III. The New Testament, earliest notices of it as a whole, its compilation and canonical authority, and the division of its books into authentic and unauthentic, with some of its remarkable results. 
LEICESTER A. SAWYER. 
NATIONAL INVALID SOLDIERS’ HOME, 
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS FARM, Weston, Mass. 
LIEUT. GEO. W. CALEFF, 
The popular Lecturer, is prepared to take engagements to deliver the Narrative of his Sufferings for upwards of THIRTEEN MONTHS IN THE LIBBY PRISON and other Southern Dungeons, together with some interesting particulars of the sufferings of our Union Soldiers in the hands of the Rebels, for the benefit of the above Charitable Institution.
All communications to be addressed to W. MAZZONI, 19 Charlestown street, Boston.
SAMUEL POOR, JR., Vice President. 
Dec. 18. 4w 
A GENERAL EMANCIPATION ACT.-WM.WELLS BROWNS will address the people on the above subject, as follows:— 
North Becket, Friday, Dec 18.
Hinsdale, Sunday, Dec 20.
Huntingdon, Monday, Dec 21. 
North Adams, Tuesday, Dec 22. 
Lenox, Wednesday, Dec 23. 
WEARE, N. H—There will be a convention in Weare, N. H., on Sunday next, 20th inst., at the usual hours of public gathering. There will also be a preliminary meeting on Saturday evening, Stephen S. Foster, A. T. Jeff. <illegible> Coachman” and Parker Pillsbury, will give addresses on the occasion. Let there be a rally, such as the hour and the crisis demand!
<c06>
OLD COLONY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.—A Special Meeting of the Old Colony Anti-Slavery Society will be held at PLYMOUTH, on FRIDAY, January 1st, 1864, which all friends of the Society and all friends of Freedom and of the Country are requested to attend:
To commemorate the first anniversary of the President’s Proclamation of Freedom to Three Millions of Slaves,—to celebrate the season of the Landing at Forefathers’ Rock,—to give new vigor to the purpose, and help make it an unmistakably National purpose, to root out Slavery from our soil, and forever banish its hateful presence from our-counsels and our country,—are the leading objects of this meeting, which we trust will be a memorable one to all who shall attend it.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, PARKER PILLSBURY, SAMUEL, MAY, Jr., and other advocates of Complete Emancipation, are expected to be present.
Particulars of place and hours of meeting in next paper.
For the Old Colony Anti-Slavery Society,
BOURNE SPOONER, President. 
SAMUEL DYER, Secretary.
MIDDLESEX COUNTY.—There will be a meeting of the Middlesex Co. A.S. Society in Lowell, on Sunday, Dec. 27, to commence at 10 o'clock in the forenoon, and continue through the day and evening. Rev. W.H. HEYWARD, (late of Hopedale,) PARKER PILLSBURY and E.H. HEYWOOD will address the Convention.
SAMUEL BARRETT,
President Middlesex Co. A.S. Society.
ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION IN CONCORD,N.H.—There will be a Convention in Eagle Hall, on Friday of next week, 18th inst., to commence at 10 o’clock, A.M., and to continue through the day and evening.
STEPHEN S. FOSTER, A.T. Foss and W.A. JACKSON (late coachman of Jeff. Davis,) will address the Convention. It is hoped the great questions of the present moment will bring together a large concourse of the people of Concord and vicinity.
EZRA H. HEY WOOD will speak in Milford, N.H. Sunday, Dec. 20.
CHARLES LENOX REMOND, Esq., will address the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, at the Melodeon, on Sunday forenoon next, upon “The Elevation of a Race.”

“Lively, Interesting, Thoughtful, and Candid.”
RUTH’S SACRIFICE:
on,
LIFE ON THE RAPPAHANNOCK.
BY MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON. 
THE critics ask, How is it that the author of this work so perfectly satisfies men of all creeds and parties with her revelations of Slavery, and so lucidly solves grave problems of the times connected with the rebellion? The answer is plain, viz: by being herself a resident of the South, and admitted behind the scenes, the great curtains of which are being drawn by the stern hand of War.
STORY OF THE ORIGIN OF THE WORK.
A young lady, having connections at the South, and acquainted in several slave States, was a guest in one of the old wealthy families in Eastern Virginia. At the princely board, distinguished men of our own and other countries discussed the grand questions which now shake our national edifice, while characteristic scenes in which rich-whites, poor-whites, and slaves figured, passed in vivid panorama before her. She had no theory on the “institution” of the South, but absorbed in what she saw and heard, noted down incidents and portraitures for her own reference. The material grew on her hands. Her letters North appearing in a leading public journal, attracted attention throughout the land—and very naturally: for while others wrote on that subject from imagination, she from observation; others from theory, she from facts; others still from sectional or political motives, she amid the charmed circle of personal friends.
From the Newburyport Herald.
An honest and truthful representation of the evils of slavery, in which the author has, with the greatest fidelity, introduced just such characters, scenes and incidents as came within the range of her own observation. It will be read and prized by every one who has any interest in the subject treated.
From the New York Evangelist.
The plain, honest truth is kindly told, and a picture presented in which slavery appears in those lights and shades in which every one’s intelligence assures him must exist. There is one phase of Southern life which even Uncle Tom’s Cabin does not so vividly present, the bearing of slavery upon the poor white population.
From the Cambridge Chronicle.
From first to last, the reader is made to feel that he is no mere listener to a narrative, but an actual observer of the scene.
From the Christian Secretary.
Painted by an eye-witness, the scenes are life-like and painfully interesting, imparting a much better idea of the enormity of the slave-traffic than can be found in Uncle Tom.
IT IS A BOOK FOR ALL.
It is absorbing as a story; its facts and logic shed light on matters of national interest; and although descending to the lowest stratum of Southern society, not an oath or aught offensive to the purest taste disfigures its pages, and being pervaded by an elevated religious sentiment, it is admirably adapted to the family circle and Sunday School, and just now will be peculiarly suitable for a Christmas present. Price $1. Agents wanted.
C.H. PEARSON,
Dec. 11.  67 Cornhill, Boston.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A HEART-THRUST AT SLAVERY.
“The Most Thrilling Book the War has Produced.”
WONDERFUL REVELATIONS!

DARING AND SUFFERING:
A History of the Great Railroad Adventure.
BY LIEUT. WILLIAM PITTENGER,
One of the Adventurers. 
With an Introduction by Rev. ALEXANDER CLARK,
Editor of the School Visitor.
THE whole nation was excited, last Spring, by the revelations made before the President and the Cabinet at Washington, by the survivors of General Mitchell’s secret Railroad Expedition, sent into the heart of the Confederacy almost a year before. Of the twenty-two daring adventurers who penetrated the enemy’s country, eight perished on the scaffold, and the others, after suffering untold hardships, finally succeeded in recrossing the lines and reaching the Union army. The survivors each received a medal of honor and other munificent rewards from the hands of the President.
The marvellous adventures of this band are recorded by one of their number, who is fully competent to the task. Their history, as narrated by him, <illegible> the connected interest of an epic poem. The scene is gradually developed, and the interest deepens from first to last. The reader will follow the adventurers, from their first midnight consultation, onward through their perilous journey, and will scarcely breathe during the progress of the terrible chase-the most exciting ever recorded in the annals of any country. The death-scene will draw tears from the eye of the sympathizing reader, while his cheek will burn with indignation at the cruelties practised by heartless rebels. The style is a simple, unaffected one, rising with the occasion to the loftiest eloquence, and abounding in the tenderest pathos.
The whole narrative of the long captivity, attempted escapes, sufferings and sorrows, of these hero is soldiers, is told with a graphic power that at once rivets the reader’s attention. Nothing in history is more startling than this adventure, or more heart-touching than its <illegible> by the pen of the gifted author.
The book is illustrated by a fine steel portrait of the author, and several exquisite wood engravings, and printed in the highest style of typographical beauty.
Price $1, post-paid.
AGENTS wanted in all parts of the country, to whom extraordinary inducements are offered.
Address all orders to
J.W. DAUGHADAY, Publishers,
1308 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.
For sale by A. WILLIAMS & CO, 100 Washington St., and at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington St., Boston.
Dec. 4-2w.
ALL interested in Phonographic Shorthand should send for the PHONOGRAPHIC <illegible>, No. 1, seven cents; Nos. 1 and 2, twelve cents. No. 2 explains the Phonographic Alphabet, given above, and all the more general principles of the Art. Address
ANDREW J. GRAHAM,
Dec. 11. ly
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
SPELLS.
Extract from a late sermon by the Rev. James Martineau, of London:- “Let us trust that the glory and not the gloom of life is true.”
"They speak no dim, uncertain sound,
These words of joyous cheer:
It darkness o'er thee, tempest round?
Then read thy comfort here!
Words few and simple; yet they bear
So much of heavenly light-
A talisman to meek despair,
To rid us of our night!
yet wise men say, “Grief is, and gloom,
For all of mortal birth; 
The shadow of the coming tomb
On those who walk the earth.”
We, shuddering, hear; a blacker shade
Creeps cold upon the sky;
The very flowers we look on fade:-
In this the end- – to die?
Not so, dear heart! The bitterest cloud
Bears but a transient sway;
Lift up the eyes so darkly bowed,
And, lo! ‘tis past away!
This be thy lesson: live and learn 
More than thou dreamest yet;
Dismiss each memory cold and stern,
Each boding of regret;
And bind these words upon thy breast,
Firm in the darkening hour;
Thy dreams shall know another guest,
Thy hand another power.
So, rising manful, strong, and true,
Thy years of darkness past,
Make for thyself a life anew.
One nobler than the last!
Montreal, Dec., 1863. A. R. GALE.

For the Liberator.
THE BOND MOTHER'S PRAYER.
BY VIOLA
Oh Thou, who made this world so fair,
To Thee again I bow,
Asking that Thou would’st hear my prayer,
Ere I am driven to despair-
Grant my petition now!
My aching heart, upon life’s way,
Thus far its course has run;
Has borne its weary load each day,
And prayed for strength that it might say,
Oh God, thy will be done!“
Long have I toiled, but did not crave
Thy blessing upon me; 
But hoped, if I must die a slave,
Before I sank into my grave
My children should be free.
A few short hours, and from my sight
They will be borne away; 
I know that Thou who mad’st the night,
Who turned the darkness into light,
Can break their bonds for aye.
Lord, grant my prayer! let me but know
My children shall be free; 
Come life, come death, come weal or woe,
Still praising Thee I'll onward go-
Lord, give them liberty!

For the Liberator.
VISITATION FOR NATIONAL SINS.
Oh Thou, that hearest fervent prayer,
The widow's and the orphan's God,
To our complaints incline thine ear-
We long have felt thy chastening rod.
Justly, oh Lord, have we deserved
The judgments thou hast laid upon us;
From paths of righteousness we've swerved,
And nought but justice hast thou done us.
We've been participants in crime
As rank as ever reached to heaven-
Deeds graven on the scroll of time
Almost too foul to be forgiven.
An awful catalogue of crimes
Blackened old Pharaoh's cruel reign; 
Though duly warned of God betimes,
The admonitions were in vain.
In thunder tones Jehovah spake,
“Now let my chosen people go! 
Their chains of bondage instant break!"— 
Th' oppressor still responded, "No!”
Judgments most terrible were sent,
Inflicting plagues unknown before,
To make the tyrant's heart relent:— 
Tis written that he sinned the more!
Until by dint of “Moses" rod,”
Israel passed safely through the waves;
While Pharaoh, by rejecting God,
Himself and host found watery graves.
We've Pharaohs of the foulest stripe,
Out-Heroding in crime the other; 
“Sathanas” is their chosen prototype,
And Beelzebub their eldest brother.
Millions of “serfs," in this fair land
Where Liberty was thought to dwell,
To-day in cruel bondage stand,
Inflicted by these fiends of hell.
The watchmen, placed upon the walls
Of Freedom, blew their bugles shrill;
Their frequent and prophetic calls
Re-echoed loud o'er dale and hill.
Their gospel warnings were in vain-
The truths advanced of small avail; 
Pro-slavery mobs, with lips -profane,
Their quiet gatherings would assail.
Slavery strode rampant through the land,
Polluting Freedom's fair domain,
With "purse and sword" at its command,
Clanking the manacle and chain.
Emancipation is the “rod” 
Ere long will “set the people free”;
That edict, so approved of God,
Will bring a nation's jubilee.
Lord, hasten on the joyful day,
That tells the knell of foul Oppression; 
When Liberty and Peace, we pray,
Of our fair land may take possession!
Rumney, N. H., Nov. 30, 1863.	 R.
"OF OLD SAT FREEDOM ON THE HEIGHTS.”
Of old sat Fredom on the heights,
The thunders breaking at her feet;
Above her shook the starry lights; 
She heard the torrents meet.
There in her place she did rejoice,
Self-gathered in her prophet-mind,
But fragments of her mighty voice
Came rolling on the wind.
Then stept she down through town and field
To mingle with the human race;
And part by part to men reveal’d
The fullness of her face.
Grave mother of majestic works, 
From her isle-alter gazing down,
Who God-like grasps the triple forks,
And king-like wears the crown.
Her open eyes desire the truth-
The wisdom of a thousand years
Is in them. May perpetual youth
Keep dry their light from tears!
That her fair form may stand and shine,
Make bright our days and light our dreams,
Turning to scorn with lips divine.
The falsehood of extremes. 
TENNYSON.
<c02>
The Liberator.
PLANTATION PICTURES.
BY MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON,
Author of “Cousin Frank’s Household.”
CHAPTER XI. 
“SOMETHING’S GWINE TO HAPPEN.”
Mr. Nelson was not easily discouraged from the prosecution of any enterprise he considered necessary to his happiness, nor was he usually at a loss for expedients. Lelia's hesitation in encouraging him served to increase his admiration of her, and his desire to succeed in his suit; and yet he understood human nature too well to be obtrusive. Her principal objection to him was that, in marrying him, she would be identified with slavery. She entertained no other than the kindest feelings towards him; and the delicate and thoughtful proofs of his devotion to her, which she daily met, affected her deeply. Had she been a southerner in education, be would have made comparatively an easy conquest; as it was, she gradually became pleased, even fascinated with his attentions. 
The warning of her dearly loved foster -parent had perplexed her, haunting her by day and by night and for a time influenced her manner towards Mr. Nelson. 
Of late, the name of his deceased brother had occasionally been introduced in the family conversations, and the statements that Mr. Hugh Nelson made respecting him were well fitted to lessen the influence of the departed over the mind of the young girl. The Virginian spoke affectionately of his brother, and gave him credit for many good qualities.
"Unfortunately, however," said he, "there are in our family certain idiosyncracies, of which Robert un-happily got more than his share. Through no merit of my own, I received a better balanced nature, physically and intellectually. The Colonel, my father, was a vigorous, strong-minded man; but brother Robert was very unlike him, and more resembled my mother. We therefore attributed Robert's strange course in regard to our institution, and his going North, to inherited disease; for which, of course, he was not accountable. The truth is, there are more people deranged than we are accustomed to think; and thus I have explained his plunging into ultra opinions, and finally landing in rank Abolitionism. You saw Miss Lelia, the kindling of his eye, the glow of his cheek, indicating that all was not right? It would be absurd to suppose him right, and all the family wrong! Most absurd! I always considered that the Colonel made a fatal mistake in sending him North for his education. He could not stand up for the patriarchal principle in the face of opprobrium; he wasn't to be blamed, perhaps, for this; he hadn't the stamina-—it wasn't his gift. I used to say to father, that be ought not to be so tried with Robert for his anti-slavery proclivities, and for his earnest, impulsive way of defending them, but consider them as inherited mental and physical infirmities; that we ought not to expect him, while living at the North, to be able to withstand the storm of popular fanaticism, like an oaken nature. It was asking too much of him.”
This was a presentation of the subject to which Lelia could not reply; it superseded argument, and insinuated a doubt of her foster-father's capacity to judge aright of the question at issue. Had he argued from first principles, perhaps his reasoning would have suggested logical antidotes. 
And she could not but recall a fact that did not so much impress her at the time, and that was, whenever her parents spoke of the South, it was with great warmth. And as slavery had only shown its brighter side to her, she began to think that perhaps they were indeed monomaniacs, and consequently the warning in the letter weighed less and less from day to day.
The opinions of her foster-parents as to slavery, heretofore, she had received without a question, and that had been the Malakoff of her resistance to Mr. Nelson’s advances. This undermined, her interest in him grew apace. The quick mantling blush, the want of self-possession at his approach, were signals which her tell-tale heart was all too ready to hang out, and announce to the skilful strategist that the field was won. But Lelia was meditating a retreat instead of a surrender, and studiously avoided him while she revolved the project of an immediate return North.
Not long after the visit of Mr. Nelson to Mount Pleasant, the elegant equipage of king Brownlee drew up before the court of Powhatan mansion. Previous to this, Miss Forsythe had been in the transition state. She was not a woman given to fainting or tears; such a weakness as weeping was scarcely known to her; and the first ebullition over, her vigorous intellect came to her aid, and she philosophized thus:—" How did it happen that I allowed myself to become so interested in Mr. Nelson? Was it not that it was woman's nature to love; and he, being most before me, the tendrils of my affections fastened on him as the nearest object; just as the jasmine clings to the trellis? Were some other support there, the plant might choose it." She pondered, too, the passage in holy writ, "Thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee." "Yes,” thought she, "the impress is on us, and we shall be looking up something to which to cling." 
But what helped her feelings the most was the spicing of vexation she entertained towards the under-signed cause of her disappointment. She could not divest herself of the impression, that his bearing towards her had given grounds for her deductions. Yet she could specify nothing, and did not know but it was hallucination; and so with the pique there was a tinge of resentment. This persuasion that she had been wronged, and led on to an indiscretion unprecedented in her history, opened her eyes to his infirmities of character. And though she had heretofore been ready to admit that
"Best men are moulded out of faults,”
she now began to think it a providential thing that the task of working him over was not intrusted to her.
The governess had a complacent sense of her excellencies. She knew that her education was thorough; that her naturally fine looks had been preserved by good habits and out-of-door exercise. She knew that she had won the admiration of Mr. Nelson for the wisdom with which she presided over his establishment, and the taste she exhibited in improvements in doors and out; but now she felt that he did not fully appreciate her endowments of person and mind, and his rejection of her was a slight she could never forgive. But all this was hermetically scaled from Mr. Nelson's observation, as she self-collectedly resumed her wonted duties.
He was flattered that she had declared her preference for him, but strove to prepare her to receive her lover favorably. His timely and well-turned remarks had influence in forwarding the suit of his friend. He gave a pleasing account of his visit at Mount Pleasant, of the king’s fine collection of shells, minerals, paintings, and, above all, his invaluable library.
"No man,” he said, "unless possessed of superior taste and discrimination, could make such excellent selections." He wondered not that his friend’s house was the resort of so many literary people; he did not know of a more delightful place to visit; it needed only the addition of an accomplished woman to make it a paradise.
Miss Forsythe listened with interest to such table talks; and when king Brownlee arrived, her heart actually fluttered. Not that she was yet in love with him, but the knowledge that he was charmed with her was not without its influence. It was so unexpected that, for the life of her, she could not avoid celebrating it with a little extra maidenly emotion. Besides, he had certain qualities to which she could not but pay homage. She knew him to be sincere, religious, unselfish, the thorough scholar and gentleman, and singularly free from the contaminations of the world.
<c03>
King Brownlee was elaborately dressed in the style that obtained one hundred years or more ago. His waistcoat was as long as his body; he wore small clothes and silken hose. His shoes were surmounted with massive silver buckles, and the sleeves of his dark blue dress-coat were ornamented with wide wristbands, below which a broad linen frill, corresponding to the ruffles of his shirt, fell with a feminine grace over the hand.
It was evident that the old man considered his appearance, as well as the event of his visit, of great moment. It was only on state occasions that he came out in this apparel of his great great grandfather; and be now designed it as an expression of his profound regard for the English lady of Powhatan. It was fortunate for the wooer that her substantial taste venerated the dress and equipage of the olden time; in fact, her antiquarian beau could not have pleased her more than by appearing in his present attire. Through the blinds of her chamber window she saw him as he arrived; admired his glittering carriage, built in the oldest fashion; and was pleased with the orange and blue livery of his out-riders. She noticed, too, that the crest of his coat of arms was beautifully emblazoned on the door of the vehicle. She made her toilet with more than usual taste and precision, and, hastening to the parlor, greeted her admirer, as he was announced, with the self-possession of the well-bred lady. This was right in the eyes of the king, and he was directly at his ease. Mr. Nelson received him very cordially, and led the way in lively conversation. The day passed delightfully, and the guest yielded to Mr. Nelson’s request that he spend the night. On the morrow, seizing a fitting opportunity, Mr. Nelson excused himself, and went into the garden, leaving Miss Forsythe to entertain her visitor. He had just received a pair of canary birds which he had ordered for Lelia; and now, taking the pretty cage, he hung it in a multiflora bower, and seated himself to await her coming. Presently the birds were ringing out their richest melody, much to the gratification of their listener, who was thinking how it would please his ward. It was not long before she came up the walk. With cheeks aglow, and brilliant eyes, Mr. Nelson thought her to exceed his loftiest ideal of beauty and of power. She started as she saw him coming to meet her.
"See, Lelia!" said he, "here are your birds.”
"Are they indeed mine? Thank you, thank you! How pretty they are! Little beauties-—and such fine singers! I shall delight to feed them," and she approached the cage to put some rose leaves through the wires.
"You have not looked happy, of late, Lelia," said Mr. Nelson;" is there anything I can do to make our dull life here more pleasant to you?”
"O, no,” said she, "I have been quite happy, and you have done much to make my stay here very agreeable; for which I feel grateful. But I think of going away in a day or two."
"Going away!" said Mr. Nelson, surprised, "why, what have we done to displease you, that thus you should wish to be rid of us so soon?"
"Oh! do not speak thus! It is not that." 
"Why then do you go?”
Lelia was silent. Mr. Nelson gently took her hand, his voice changing to those low, deep tones expressive of emotion, as he said,— 
"Lelia, the words I uttered to you on another occasion were from my heart. I have never loved any woman but you in my life; and you I love with my whole soul. Do not trifle with me, then- — do no cast from you a devotion entire and undying. My happiness is at your disposal. If you leave me, life is henceforth a desolation. Weigh well the consequences ere you dash my hopes to the ground. Tell me honestly, as you value my peace of mind, tell me, can you love me, and will you recall your resolution to leave, and make my days happy with your presence?”
Lelia's face was averted, and he saw not the falling tears; nor was there a word of reply.
"Speak, Lelia, I beg you! Why do you not an swer me? Do you not trust my love?”
"I believe you!" said she, looking him full in the face, while from her eyes a subtle light streamed that penetrated his whole being, searching its hidden depths. Her eyes spoke love and passion mingled with fear.
"Yes, I believe you mean what you say, and I can not repulse you. But, oh! a thousand fears haunt me, and I know not how to answer. Will you, can you ever love me?“
In an instant she was folded in his arms, as he exclaimed,-
"Love you? Yes, forever and forever! And now," he added, "you are mine, and we are happy-— is it not so, darling?“
Strolling up and down the walks, in such discourse as lovers are wont to indulge, time passed rapidly; and at length they stopped to rest in the lower arbor near the hawthorn hedge, that walled the garden on the west.
"Hearken! what is that?" said Lelia, with a start led air, as a slight rustling fell on her ear. Mr. Nelson listened intently, but all was still again.
"Perhaps a breeze is springing up," he said; “do not be alarmed.”
"Suddenly she again started, now really terrified, saying in a whisper,— 
"There it is again! And I am sure I saw a form glide by!”
"How could you see into that hedge? Your eyes must be keener than mine; but I dare say it was one of the servants listening, nothing more. It is strange what a passion they have for it, and wonderfully adroit at the business they are, too. The dullest of them keep up with the news of the day; and as to private matters, I should like to see the man that could keep anything from them-he'd be a curiosity. I make sure that they know as much about our affairs as we do ourselves. Shut away from sources of knowledge which we possess, it seems as if their senses of sight and hearing had become preternaturally acute. Or else, by the law of compensation, Providence makes up to them their deprivation in an additional faculty. In religion, those of the servants that are really pious know more in one minute of what is termed, I think the experimental, than many religious whites do in a life-time. Why, there's preacher Ned- can't read a word, yet he is a walking Bible; and if I was on my death-bed, and had any biblical difficulty, or needed prayers and counsel, I'd rather trust my soul in his hands than all the clergymen in Virginia-—I would indeed. And what is more, by some magnetism past my comprehension, many of the stupidest of these blacks seem to anticipate futurity. Unable to read the Bible, I sometimes think they are dealt with in some sort as the old Jews were, and have direct revelations. I am not superstitious; but if one of my servants persists in saying that anything is going to take place in the future-—on the ground of a dream, vision, or impression-—if he’s sure about it himself, I expect to see it come about Let me relate a case in point, as we walk towards the house,” he added, drawing her arm within his. "That window," pointing to one in the wing chamber, "is connected with an affair of the sort. That room had not been occupied for a long time; but one day servant Billy came to me, and am said,-
"Massa Nelson, dere's gwine to be a death here ‘'fore long." 
"A death! "said I lightly, for I laughed at their superstition then; "who's going to kick the bucket now?“
"Hope massa won’t make fun!" said the black prophet, "for, pend upon it, will be so; and de death will be in dat ar wing chamber.”
Very likely," I replied, "when it has not been occupied for a year, and is not likely to be for a year to come.” 
"Twill be so, massa, 'pend' pon it! I's dreamed tree times.”
"Ah! and what did you dream?”
"Dreamed I saw such a beautiful child in dutar chamber! Loved her dearly-—did so! A11 loved her! Looked like an angel. But, bye and bye, dere come
<c04>
flying tru' de air a bird; and he went straight for dat winder, and knocked and knocked at de winder. I was dat s'prised. I asked, what's dat for? But de bird he knock, knock, an’ de chile fade like de flower, and die. De bird he come for de chile; an' will be jet' so, massa'pend' pon it!“
The servant’s vision made no impression on my mind, and was soon forgotten. Not long after we had a Visit, it was when my revered mother was living, -—from a friend of hers, a Mrs. Tilliogharo. She had brought with her her little daughter Isabel! the loveliest child I ever set eyes on. She seemed like a very angel to us all; the servants worshipped her. Well, she fell sick-—nothing alarming-— a slight illness such as children are liable to. About that time, however, Billy came to me with a most anxious air, and said,-
"Will massa Nelson please step dis way?" 
"What is it, Billy?" I said, following him.
Billy pointed to that window, and there, flapping its wings against the glass, was a bird as if it were seeking to get in.
Isabel just before her sickness had teased her mother 
to sleep there; "the garden looked so pretty" from that window, she said; and accordingly they changed to that apartment to please the child.
"Massa member what I telled him?" said Billy.
"Oh! there’s nothing strange in that," said I, 
"birds will fly against windows, sometimes.”
"Massa ‘ll see 'fore long," said Billy.
The coincidence was a striking one, and I waited the issue, determined to laugh the servant out of his superstitions, should Isabel recover, as I doubted not would be the case. But for four weeks that bird would come to strike his wings against the window-pane till, it must be confessed, I grew nervous at it, and would frighten it away. Soon, in spite of all our care, and the best medical skill the country afforded, Isabel drooped and died, and the bird came no more. That is but one of many similar incidents which I could relate; but it is nearly time for dinner-—shall we go to the parlor?“
During their absence, a stranger called- — father Pierre, a dignitary of the Romish church. His errand was to seek aid for the Bloomingdale Convent. Mr. Nelson had met him the day previous at the Court House, and, as politicians are bigoted only in politics being most catholic towards all sects, more especially the stronger, Mr. Nelson did not fail to extend the accustomed civilities, and invite him to dine with him.
The father was one of those persons to whom it is natural to do homage. He was of tall and imposing figure. An eagle eye gleamed from beneath a cliff -like brow. His mouth was expressive and characteristic, and not wanting in beauty. He was politic and far-sighted, combining with a princely dignity an affability so winning that the humblest felt at home in his presence.
After dinner, as the custom was, at the pouring of the second glass of wine, the clergyman retired with the ladies to the parlor. And while their gentlemen friends remained at the table, the reverend father discoursed eloquently to his fair listeners on spiritual things. The conversation naturally turned on life in the convent. His theme was the Religious Life; and as he painted the piety of those who turn away from earthly engrossments in their self-forgetfulness, and devote themselves wholly to works of mercy, providing for and instructing orphans, visiting the sick, and alleviating distress, the interest of his hearers grew on them like a spell.
How beautiful seemed the monastic life, as he described the monks of St. Bernard, who for charity lived eight hundred years above the habitable world! How fervent their zeal, how efficacious their prayers! How heroic the lives of the missionaries making themselves savages with the savage, and daring most inhospitable climes! 
"Ah! young ladies," said he, with a benignant smile, "it is no idle, no ignoble thing to be a Christian. But the pleasures of the world are deceitful, and end in disappointment. Happy, thrice happy, if you can be won from these enticements; and you will be blessed, thrice blessed. Holy Mother preserve you!“
Lelia's eyes were tearful with emotion. Miss Forsythe was deeply moved, and ere the Rev. father took leave, she pledged herself to give liberally for the Convent, and no more to neglect her duty to those around her, especially the young ladies of the household.
Father Pierre was highly pleased with Miss Forsythe's resolution, and added, as he parted with her at the door,— 
"I would especially commend to your notice the young lady, Miss Lelia. I charge you to omit no effort to instill the principles of our holy church into her susceptible heart. The religious element is predominant in her character. I see in her the germ of a devotee, a religious a saint.”
"The next morning after the events just narrated, Frink, as was his custom, was putting the parlor, that home-room of the family, in order. It was still early, and as Lelia looked into the room, she saw him arranging the boquets in the vases, and drawing into a window sprays from the climbing roses, with his usual taste. Lelia often had a pleasant word for the servants, and they all loved her; and a common emphatic expression with them was, "She's every inch a lady!"
"How charmingly you make things look, Frink!” said Lelia, as she glanced over the room.
"Thank you, Miss Lelia," he answered with a bright smile and a bow; "Miss Lelia is dat kind." She was turning to go, when she saw by Frink's manner that he had something on his mind, and she the said,— 
"Is there anything I can do for you, Frink?”
"If Miss Lelia be so good as to hear my dream.”
"O, yes indeed, with all my heart," she replied.
The serving-man's manner was oracular and impressive, as he began:— 
"I tought I was in de garden, cutting flowers for de parlor, when all at once a voice speak to me. 'Pears like it come from de sky, somewhar, and it say, 'Look North; 'an' I looked, an' way off dare come flying a dove, white as de snow. It flew straight for de garden, and lighting close to me on de yew tree, it sat looking so sweet and innocent. 'Pears like I ken see it now; an' I could not rest from looking at it, 'twas dat beautiful. I' minded its eyes; dey was brown, and so sad and mournful-like, and I taught perhaps its mate had been killed, or it was grieving like as I do sometimes, for that it couldn’t help. Oh, it was so sweet and innocent! an' it didn't seem afraid, though I didn't stir nor breathe, 'parently, I was dat feared it would fly off. An' white I looked at de dove, a shadow passed over, de garden, like small dark cloud, or large bird flying over; an' I looked up, an' dere sailin' round an' round in de air was a hawk! an' I knew he was after de dove, for he came nearer and nearer, sweeping round an' round, his claws an' beak all ready, an' his eye so keen! 'Oh,' said I, won't de darlin' dove fly, But de dove didn't fly: it sat dere so innocent and still. Den I tried to frighten de dove away; but something held me, and I could not speak nor move. I thought I would kill de hawk, but I was dat chained, and could not do that neither. All de time de dread-fulbird sweeping round, nearer and nearer, till all at once down be come, pounce, an' take de poor white dove in its claws; an' dare, right down in de path, before my eyes, be tear de dove till de blood run; an' I cried out,—' Poor dove! it's all over wid you!' But jist then, there was great change come. De little white dove began to grow, an' it grew right up into a lady. I tought first it was an angel; but when I looked again, I see it was you, Miss Leila,-. jist de same hair, curling over de shoulders, de same eyes an' face an' dress! An' I was dat agitated, I woke; but de dream foller me round every step, an' turn every-which-way, I see nothin' but de dove an' de hawk, an' I makes sure something's gwine to happen! You'll find it so, Miss Lelia; something's gwine to happen!" 
The terror in Charleston, resulting from the bombardment, is wide-spread. Residents were retreating beyond the range of our guns.
<c05>
LETTER FROM ORSON S. MURRAY. 
'REMINISCENCES -"A. HERETIC PUT ON PILLORY, AND PROPERLY PUNISHED. 
To the Editor of the Liberator:—" Reminiscences" were a prominent part of the proceedings, in our third decade Anti-Slavery meeting, yesterday and day before. I have concluded to stay away from meeting today, and prepare for your consideration, and the consideration of your readers, brief additional reminiscences. 
When the announcement was made in the Liberator some weeks ago, that such a meeting was to be held, and when I saw that “ all“ were invited to “come,” I felt strongly attracted; and the more so, because I was one of the few who came here thirty years ago to start the movement-—a movement then extremely unpopular. I had occasion to know that other movements of mine, since, had made me unpopular with my religious Anti-Slavery friends. Still, I thought I might venture among them once more, on an occasion like this. I did think I could conduct myself so as not to give just cause for alarm or apprehension at my presence. So I determined that time, and money, and business, should not prevent. I came. But previously I prepared a brief, condensed expression of sentiments, in the form of resolutions. Took time, and bestowed labor, to dispense with words that could be dispensed with, using only as many as seemed necessary to communicate thoughts. Was constantly on my guard against any utterance that could wound the feelings, or excite the apprehensions, of my friends disagreeing with me in affairs of religious belief. Did not expect the like regard from them for my feelings. Expected them to indulge themselves, without restraint, in utterances of their theological beliefs. Expected to tolerate and indulge them in it; and not to require them to indulge or tolerate me, in that way, in the least, in return. Felt that I could well afford to do thus much for the sake of peace and concord among those who set their hands and hearts together thirty years ago, for the accomplishment of this great work, now so well advanced-—but that has cost some of us some very instructive experience. Felt that my present philosophy would be vindicated, and not dishonored, by such a course.
I came. Went to the Wednesday evening meeting, appointed for William Lloyd Garrison. The speaker had not arrived. Among the first to greet me was the celebrated and venerated Lucretia Mott, who at once recognized in me one of the original signers of our “Declaration." All was cordiality. I was taken into the ante-room, to await the arrival of the speaker. Soon, among others, Oliver Johnson came in. His reception of his old Vermont brother was decidedly cool. It was as much as if he had said" I wish you had kept away.” To this I paid the least possible attention, speaking to him from time to time, to test him indirectly, and know whether or not my impressions were correct. When William Lloyd Garrison came, his acceptance of his heretical brother was nearer an acceptance-—was something more cordial. Still, it was widely different from what it was thirty year ago, and afterward, while I continued to be a good Baptist, sound in religious faith. At first, now, he came half way. But afterward, whenever I undertook approach, I was made to feel that distance was desirable.
At the close of the evening meeting, I inquired of Oliver Johnson about arrangements for proceedings in our principal meetings, to be held the two days following. Told him of my preparation of sentiments, in the form of resolutions, which I should like to read on a proper occasion. I met the cold shoulder significantly.
So, thinking that William Lloyd Garrison would be chairman, and, from what I could discern, that James M. McKim would be among the prominently officious, I addressed to the two a note, of which the following is a copy:— 
"PHILADELPHIA, Thursday morning, December 3d, 1863. 
Wm. Lloyd Garrison and James M. McKim:
Brothers,—I have come here, as I came here thirty years ago, moved by my affinities for the doings of genuine philauthropists, to relieve suffering humanity. Have come as an Abolitionist, travelling near three-quarters of a thousand miles, at my own expense-—not less than $50 paid out, besides neglect of business at home in these expensive times. Have come to hear, more than to be heard. Still, I have been impelled to write down some sentiments, in the form of resolutions, in language as perspicuous as I could possibly make it —pertaining to the conduct of Northern traitors, conspirators and delinquents-—to the Constitution and the Union-—the Administration and the Government. I should like an opportunity, in the course of these proceedings, to read them before the audience. I ask no endorsement. Only desire to be heard. The the reading would probably occupy twenty or thirty minutes.
Fraternally,. ORSON S.MURRAY.”
This note I put in the hand of James M. McKim, early in the morning, before the session commenced-— before William Lloyd Garrison came in. After the latter had arrived, and the time came to proceed to organisation, the first thing to be done was to make a machine, to fit resolutions to patterns-—probably to prevent things unprofitabiy unpopular. The Anti-Slavery enterprise is fast getting popular; and it would not do to have anything done to injure its reputation with ecclesiastics or politicians-—particularly politicians. James M. McKim moved the appointment, by the chairman, of a committee of twelve, to dispose of resolutions. It was carried without debate; and the chairman the next moment held up in his hand, and commenced reading the list of names for the committee, plainly previously prepared to his hand in caucus for the purpose. Sometime afterward, Henry C. Wright arose to read a resolution. He was told by the chairman that, before it could be read, it must go through the machine. Stephen S. Foster protested against the aggression upon individual rights and privileges. Brief debate ensued. I had said nothing at the time the machine was made. Did not vote. Did think of some time putting the machine on trial-—such trial as it was now undergoing, in the hands of Stephen S. Foster and others. At length a man, whom I did not know, arose in the audience, and moved a substitute for, or amendment of, the resolution creating the committee-—the resolution being to the effect that each individual might read his own resolutions on his own responsibility; and that they should then go into the hands of the committee without debate. Thus the machine was curtailed of some of the most odious part of its power; and a measure of individual rights that it had taken away was restored. 
At the proper time thereafter, I took the floor for the purpose of reading my resolutions. James M. McKim had been besetting me to put off my opportunity —to relinquish my claim, and defer to time more convenient for them to spare to me. The time seemed to be all theirs; and, in that view of it, seemed to him very precious, no doubt-—too precious for any of it to be occupied by heretics. "We wanted“ things “to start" thus, and “to go on" so. And for aught I could see, it was to go on indefinitely, to my utter exclusion, if I would allow myself to be annoyed and snubbed off by a self-constituted regency, composed of Oliver Johnson and James M. McKim-—the latter a resident of Philadelphia, the former of New York. The time and the services of all those who had come long distances, and paid out their own money, earned by their own hands, were trifles, to be used at discretion, or set aside altogether, by these self-constituted functionaries-—feminine-fingered stipendiaries of conventionality and caucus.
I turned to the chairman. He desired me to wait till the next day. Suggested my occupying the commencement of the next morning session. With the understanding that that belonged to me, I yielded. The morning came. Henry Ward Beecher was put upon the stand first. The can would not wait. He must speak then, or not at all on our platform. I kept out of the way-—was glad to hear him, even then. After he was through, James M. McKim being in the chair problem., I asked the chairman if the time was then mine. He refused me any announcement before the audience throwing me on my own responsibility. I then turned and took the floor. At this moment, after I was in my place at the stand,
<c06>
an ex post facto law was sprung upon me, cutting me down to the use of fifteen minutes. After I had yielded my right to the floor the day before, and this time had been appointed me for reading my resolutions, it as now moved, seconded, and carried without debate, while I occupied the floor by previous appointment, that speakers should be entitled to fifteen minutes. To this rule I was rigidly required to submit. At the end of fifteen minutes, at the point in my series where it would leave me in the most unfavorable position possible before the audience, the chairman shut down on me. I had hurried my self in what I had read. Ten minutes more, at the same rate, would have carried me through-twenty- five minutes in all. It was all the time I asked for, or expected to occupy, during all the meetings. My case having been thus disposed of, the rule was afterward only enforced at discretion on others. In several instances, after the speakers had spoken at pleasure and themselves turned and asked the chairman if their time was not out the reply was yes; and would have been the same, of course, if they had gone on ten minutes longer. In one instance, the speaker occupied twenty or twenty- five minutes; and this and other speakers occupied the floor at other times- some of them frequently and lengthily. In the succeeding sessions throughout it having become evident that such treatment had caused me to "subside into silence “the rule was left out, and not enforced or called for. I find no fault that others, were indulged; was glad that none of them were subjected to such treatment as was awarded to me. Doubtless I was deemed worthy of punishment for my religion apostasy and political heresy- —the latter consisting in part of my criticising a delinquent and treacherous administration. If that was the ground for the singular proceedings, I accept it, and rejoice in having been accounted worthy of such treatment for such offence. If that was not it, I am utterly at a loss to know what it was. Am not aware of having done anything personally toward the individuals who thus plotted and executed conspiracy for my suppression, to merit such treatment at their hands. But they were not treating me thus on their own account, personally, for themselves. It was for their cause-—their popularity with the pious and the politic-—popularity to be maintained, promoted and enlarged by caucus and compromise-—by cooperation and reciprocation with aspirants for place and power.
If you will publish the resolutions, they shall speak for themselves; and you shall point out, if you will, what in them there is to justify such treatment of their author. But their qualities, their merits or their demerits, were not known. It was only known that their author is a religious apostate and political heretic, in the habit of exposing despotism in Church and in State. Doubtless it was deemed dangerous to leave him at liberty, lest the foundations of Church or of State, or of both, should be removed.
On my way home to Vermont, from this place, thirty years ago, when I reached Bennington, the battle-ground where Stark met Freedom's foes, my utterance before an audience was forbidden and prevented by the servitors and conservators of slavery and colonization. At this time, thirty years afterward, my utterance before an audience in Concert Hall was prevented by the servitors and conservators of religion and politics. The former was called a mob. Call the latter what you please. Both were conspiracies against speech. Caucus is caucus-—clan is clanconspiracy is conspiracy—whether in Concert-Hall, in Congress-chamber, in city cathedral, or in country club-room.
A word more of "reminiscence,” and I have done.
James M. McKim, appointed by himself or somebody else, to the specialty of “doing“ the reminiscence for the occasion, spent more time in introducing himself,, by way of deprecating being considered egotistic in the matter, and then in taking himself to and from And over Theological Seminary, antecedently to identifying himself with Anti- Slavery, than all the time I asked of the meeting for reading resolutions, or any thing and all else. Numerous other things were done equal to this, by way of making precious use of time-—all of it in the keeping and at the pleasure of these punishers of heretics.
While I am closing, suffer a word of my Ism. After receiving that mobbing in Bennington, I went home, and, on horseback, wading through snows and climbing over mountains, facing mobs and deprivation. I organised the first State Anti-Slavery Society, auxiliary to the American Society which we had organized at Philadelphia. For doing like work against despotism these thirty years, I have now been deemed worthy to be put on pillory, and properly punished by panderers to popularity among the pious and the politic. 
ORSON S. MURRAY.
Philadelphia, Dec. 5, 1863.

INTERESTING LETTER FROM JOHN BROWN.
The Cleveland (Ohio) Herald publishes the following letter, never before printed, written by John Brown, who was hung at Charlestown, Virginia, four years ago last Wednesday, to a relative and old friend in Windham, Ohio. It shows how calmly he contemplated death and clung to his opinions, even under the shadow of the gallows falling upon him: "CHARLESTOWN, Jefferson Co., Va, 19th November, 1859. 
Rev. Luther Humphrey-My Dear Friend:- Your kind letter of the 12th instant is now before me. So far as my knowledge goes as to our mutual kindred, I suppose I am the first since the landing of Peter Brown from the Mayflower that has either been sentenced to imprisonment, or to the gallows. But, my dear old friend, let not that fact alone grieve you. You cannot have forgotten how and where out grandfather (Captain John Brown) fell in 1776, and that he, too, might have perished on the scaffold had circumstances been but a very little different. The fact that a man dies under the hand of an executioner (or otherwise) has but little to do with his true character, as I suppose. John Rogers perished at the stake, a great and good man, as I suppose; but his doing so does not prove that any other man who has died in the same way was good or otherwise. Whether I have any reason to 'be of good cheer' (or not) in view of my end, can assure you that I feel so; and I am totally blinded if I do not really experience that strengthening and consolation you so faithfully implore in my behalf. The God of our Fathers reward your fidelity. I neither feel mortified, degraded, nor in the least ashamed of my imprisonment, my chain, or near prospect of death by hanging. I feel assured 'that not one hair shall fall from my head without the will of my heavenly Father.' I also feel that I have long been endeavoring to hold exactly 'such a fast as God has chosen.' See the passage in Isaiah which you have quoted. No part of my life has been more happily spent than that I have spent here, and I humbly trust that no part has been spent to better purpose. I would not say this boastingly; but ‘thanks be unto God who giveth us the victory, through infinite grace.’ 
I should be sixty years old were I to live till May 9, 1860. I have enjoyed much of life as it is, and have been remarkably prosperous; having early learned to regard the welfare and prosperity of others as my own. I have never, since I can remember, required a great amount. of sleep; so that I conclude that I have already enjoyed full an average number of working hours with those who reach their three score years and ten. I have not as yet been driven to the use of glasses, but can see to read and write quite comfortably. But more than that, I have generally enjoyed remarkably good health. I might go on to recount unnumbered and unmerited blessings, among which would be some very severe afflictions, and those the most needed blessings of all. And now, when I think how easily. I might be left to spoil all the have done or suffered in the cause of freedom, I hardly dare wish another voyage, even if I had the opportunity. It is a long time since we met; but we shall come together in our Father's house, I trust. Let us hold fast that we already have, remembering we shall reap in due time if we faint not. Thanks be unto God, who giveth us the victory through Jesus Christ our Lord. And now, my old warm-hearted friend, goodbye!
Your affectionate cousin,
JOHN BROWN.”
