THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISION, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor. 
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 1. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 1, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1717.

Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE SHAME OF ENGLAND, THE GLORY OF IRELAND, AND THE PROSPERITY OF AMERICA.
A large audience assembled at Music Hall on the Evening of the 28th of October, to hear George Francis Train on “The Shame of England, the Glory of Ireland, and the Prosperity of America.” 
The lecture was given under the auspices of the Columbian Association, and was chiefly addressed to Irish adopted Citizens. Nicholas J. Bean, President of the Association, Occupied the chair and in a few introductory remarks spoke of Their organization its history, &. He closed by introducing Mr. Train, who was received with hearty and prolonged cheers. Such cheers as those, the speaker said he had not heard since he Addressed the S. Patrick’s Society in London, when he spoke on The Downfall of England. After stating that it was high time the Irish in this country asserted their rights, be proceeded to speak Of the know-Nothing party which existed in this State five or six Years ago, and which committed such gross assaults on the Catholics. The same party he claimed, existed now in the shape of the Abolitionists. If they Carry out their policy in respect to the Constitution, they would not Hesitate to repeat their assaults upon the Church. It was these Abolitionists Who are bringing “niggers” into Boston to drive out the Irish. Passing from this Point, and while eulogizing the Irish character for its zeal and bravery, he paid a High compliment to General Shields, among whose other distinctions was that he Had been elected U.S. Senator from two different States. In Specking of the Irish He said the reason why any were found in the Southern army was because compelled To it by starvation. No sooner had they got to where the Union troops were than they Refused to fire upon them. Passing next to England he said that nation had gone all Round the world robbing, which Ireland had not. All the battles of England had been Fought, and all their renown been won by the Irish. The Duke of Wellington and Lord Palmerston were Irish – though apostates. The great glory of Ireland was that it Kept its individuality everywhere. The speaker cautioned his hearers not to believe Summer and Andrew when they flattered the Irish. They did not care any more about Them than they did for the nigger, and that was nothing at all. If their policy could be Carried out, every Irishman would have to leave Boston. It was the Irish who built our Factories, our railroads, our warehouses- everything we are or have. For twenty-five years Our ministers had preached nothing but the nigger. They get very small salaries, and have Very large appetites, and so are in no little trouble most of the time. Even our school-books Are tinctured with the negro. Since the emancipation in the West Indies, no cotton had been Raised; and the same would be the case at the South if the slaves are freed. The President and Mr. Seward are all right. They ask the support of the people. The Proclamation would be of No effect, and the President does not expect it will be. The masters most be conquered before The salves could be set free. The negroes, it set free, would all come here and live at the public Cost, thus adding much to our burdens. The Abolitionists had caused this war. After alluding To that gentleman, the gentlemen called for three groans for General Fremont, which were given. After complimenting General Mc. Clellan in the highest degree, Mr. Train proceeded to say that Summer had a softening on the brain, and Andrew a hardening of the heart. He didn’t quite Believe a Federal victory was desirable now, for if such was the case, a pressure would be Made on the President to carry out his Proclamation. The speaker charged upon Gov. Andrew And the other Governors who recently met at Providence and Altoona that they were plotting Treason against the Government. Unless the people rise up at the polls, the country would Soon be overrun with negroes, and there would be no chance for the whit man. Mr. Train Said that if they intended to manage thing as they (the Abolitionists) had done he should go Out west, and even to the South and organize an independent confederacy, thus leaving New England out in the cold. It was put to the audience whether they would not go with him, and It was carried unanimously.
He proceeded to say that there was the nigger in everything- nigger at the butcher’s braker’s &c. He advised his hearers, whenever they wanted to buy anything, to ask if the seller was a Black Republication. If so don’t spend a cent. Let the cry be down with politicians, and up with the people; down with Summer and Andrew, and up with the People’s nominee. After slashing up and laying out the Abolition party, the speaker intended to put it in a Coffin, and go to Richmond, and talk over matters with Jeff, Davis. Massachusetts was The skull of the Abolitionists, and be (Mr. Train) was drilling a hole right through it. (Laughter.) Mr. Train closed by appealing to the Irish to go to the polls on Tuesday next, and give the People’s ticket 80,000 strong.
His lecture was interspersed with frequent anecdotes, which were related with telling effect. At the close, cheers were given for the President, Mc Clellan, the Army, the Ladies, &c, Boston (Catholic) Pilot.
GEN. DIX’S PROPOSITION TO THE GOVERNOR OF MASSACHUSETTS. The negroes are clog to and burden upon our armies in the South. This is apparent by the Correspondence between Gen. Dix and Gov. Andrew in relation to sending five hundred Families to this State. The contrabands come within our lines, and as the army moves South, more and more will be had. The universal testimony is that they are worthless to us. A few of them can be put to work, but many are old and more are children, and a great Proportion women, who from a state of comparative innocence are corrupted and depraved By communion with the soldiers, and soon die, or what is worse, live to spread disease and Corruption. They have done little taken as a whole, to what has been done for them they show No disposition to render themselves useful-they have not the capacity or the will to be so And most of them look forward to a return to their masters plantations. With these ignorant And simple people there is great attachment to the place where they were reared-great love For those whom they have served, and much more comfort there than they can enjoy elsewhere.
While the contrabands can do nothing for the government, they are a big bill of expense. They Have occupied the houses, while the soldiers have been without shelter, and in some instance Have had new houses built for them, while white men, defending the country, were left out doors Without tents or blankets. They have drawn their rations at the expense of the government. And Are maintained as paupers, while the government never has aided whites, as it has no authority
To, and but a few
<c02>
year ago refused to distribute wood for which they bad no use at Washington, among the poor of the District of Columbia, because there was no constitutional right to do. We remember that in the election of 1844.it was rung all over the land that Mr. Polk had no sympathy for the poor, because be voted against such a disposal of wood. Now it does not appear what we shall do with these people. We can't turn the Southern country into a "Poor Farm," and have overseers and send supplies forever. They must be placed somewhere to earn their living, and be out of the way of the army. What can be done with them? 
Gen. Dix asks Massachusetts to take five hundred families, till the government shall be ready to colonize them. The Governor says no—as any Governor would, and should. To take contrabands till the government is ready to colonize, is to take them for one century at least: and we repeat—no State will do it. If there wax immediate danger of an influx of negroes, we should pass "black laws," like those of the West.
But can anybody tell us what Emancipation amounts to, if the contrabands arc to stop south? We often hear it said that never will a person who gains his freedom now be made a slave again; and President Lincoln has used some such words. If this amounts to anything, it implies one or two ideas; either the South, by some process not yet pointed out, will be in favor of their freedom, and willing to share the land with them, and live with free blacks, or the white people of the South are to be deprived of self-government—of the power to make their own laws. Suppose the war to close some day—and that, we take it, is a supposable case—then either the Confederate States will be independent or returned to the Union; and by what means are black people to be free, which ever way it is? If they are independent, will they recognize the freedom we have given their slaves? Every man will reply—no; then slavery will be reestablished. Very well, if they return to the Union, will they not have the right to say what shall be the condition of their own people? For instance, will not South Carolina have the right to say that free negroes shall not remain within her limits after a given date; and if they do that they shall be sold? So she said, when in the Union before; how do you propose to prevent it hereafter? Now every sane man roust see that either this revolution is to sweep away all State rights, or there is to be no freedom for the blacks in the South after the war, if a thousand times they should be freed during the war.
Here is the condition of the contrabands: they can't get out of the South, because the government cannot send them abroad, and no free State will take them; and they can't remain in the South without returning to slavery, unless this revolution is so complete as to destroy the States, when we all, blacks and whites together, shall become the slaves of a military despotism. This is all we can see in the future. The truth it, the freedom of the blacks cannot be attained in war without the destruction of the whites. If it is ever gained—as it certainly will be it will be through their masters, when in the "good time coming" slavery is unprofitable, reason rises above passion, justice triumphs over love of dominion, the providence of God opens the door for their escape out of the land, and the Christian religion develops to a more practical character than it attains where wars prevail, and slavery is no offence against morality.—Newburyport Herald.

EMANCIPATION AND ABOLITION.
These arc used as convertible terms, meaning the same thing, whereas they may, and, in the great questions now before the country, really do mean very different things.
It is assumed that the Proclamation of the President will abolish slavery after the 1st of January in all the States which may then be in rebellion, but this it a mere assumption, not sustained by anything in the Proclamation itself, or by any word or action of the President or Congress.
Neither the President's Proclamation nor any act of Congress can abolish the institution of slavery in any State where it legally exists, without the concurrent action of the State itself. Thus, if by virtue of the Proclamation all the existing slaves in South Carolina are emancipated, the right to hold slaves still remains, and may be exercised by the people of South Carolina whenever that Slate is again in the Union. The Proclamation merely takes from them the slaves they now own, and makes freemen of them. This right to be their own master is absolutely conferred by it, and South Carolina cannot resume her place in the Union holding these people as slaves, it operates as a sequestration of property which, in the nature of the case, will not and cannot be re-stored, but it neither forbids nor prevents investments in the same kind of "property" in the future. It cannot even be said that the same kind of "property" will not exist, and that therefore the right to bay and bold will be a barren right, for it is not proposed to disturb the existing relation in the loyal slave States.
Clearly, therefore, emancipation is not abolition, and all the outcry against the President, based upon his Proclamation, is premature, to say the least. So far as we have gone yet, when peace comes the Constitution will be restored "as it is," without the slightest change in form or substance, and the Union will be restored "as it was"—minus the losses sustained by the States now in rebellion, caused entirely by their own suicidal acts.
The rebels claim to hold men, women and children by the tame tenure as cattle, sheep and horses. The President proposes to sequestrate any and all of these things for the purpose of putting down the rebellion. Is there anything in the Constitution or the laws, or in martial law, that calls upon him to make a distinction? Is there anything in common sense to warrant such a distinction—which says we may give freedom to the horse, but not to the man? 
Doubtless there are those who are looking to ultimate results—who see, or think they see, abolition following this act of emancipation. It may be so, but it must be by the action of slaveholders themselves. We are dealing with the case only as it stands before us at the present time, and we say that in its present aspect nothing has been done by the President which makes it necessary for the moot ardent advocate of "the Constitution as it is, and the Union as it was," that gives him the slightest apology for withholding his support, or for giving it with any qualification whatever.—Boston Journal

IN DESPAIR.
Some of the Abolitionists begin to think it is all up with them. They thought that by a war of extermination they could free the negroes, which would be glory enough for them, even though the Federal Union was torn to fragments. But now they discover that this plan won't work. The people are determined to preserve the Union first, and take care of the negroes, afterwards. Of course, these desperate fanatics are exceedingly distressed.—New York Journal of Commerce.
<c03>
Selections.
8PEE0H OF COL. BULLOOK,
Delivered at Mechanics' Hall, Worcester, Friday Evening, Oct. 31st. 1862
MR. PRESIDENT, AND FELLOW-CITIZENS OF WORCESTER: Let us take oar reckoning, and see where we are, and whither we are drifting.
We are engaged in a war which has been forced upon us by a conspiracy whose wickedness casts into eclipse all the parallels of history since the fall of the angels. The importance of the crisis to us, and our duty growing out of it, are of corresponding magnitude. We know that if this government falls, it falls forever. If this Union be dissolved, let no man indulge the dream of but two confederacies. Between the hammer and the anvil, the diamond may be crushed, it cannot be divided; it will either resist the blow, or be reduced to atoms. We have a deeper stake in this war than was ever fought for since the creation. It reaches each man's home. It touches each man's rights, his property, his earnings, and his hopes. Its shadows stretch beyond our lines, into the faces of our children, to late posterity. We are the Sowers; but the reapers are in the generations after us. Many things about the war are in doubt, but one thing we know Whether this temple of our fathers shall survive the shock, or, at the close of the war, Massachusetts stand like a solitary broken pillar of the Parthenon, they who in this awful hour deal doubly with the Union cause, or palter directly or indirectly in favor of the enemy, will sink to a grave from which no trump will sound the resurrection call. (Applause.) 
And in this war Massachusetts has trod the pathways of her youth; as first in arms at Lexington, so first in arms at Baltimore, whose democratic gates opened to welcome our boys to hospitable graves; first at the capital to encircle it with her arms— so she will be the last to leave it. Seventy thousand of her sons have put off the part of the shop and the farm, and taken up the rifle and the saber for liberty and union. In all this time, her Executive at home, her Senators and Representatives in Congress, have devoted all their time, and directed all their energies, to fill up and push on the Massachusetts line, to support the President in all his policy, and in bearing the flag to its destiny of victory.
I invite scrutiny—I challenge comparison. Point me to any Executive who has done as much or as well as he has; point me to any Senator or Representative in Congress who has done better or more than yours have done to sustain the President and the army, to weaken the rebellion, and to aim the I blow at its vital parts. Then, but not till then, shall Massachusetts cease, among all her sister States, to wear the laurels of her loyalty. (Great applause.)
Such is the situation, And now there springs up a party here at home, whose managers and orators seek to underrate, disparage, traduce, and overthrow these your public servants who have made the very name of the Commonwealth radiant at home and on the field. They assemble in Boston, they come to Worcester, they go to Springfield, they march to Hyannis, and exhaust the hours, not in burning words against the authors of this atrocious rebellion, not in support of the consummate and ultimate war measures of the government, not in firing our hearts against that which is the cause of all our troubles, but in efforts to conceal the festering national sore from which pour the polluting streams of our present distress, in exciting our prejudices against faithful civil guides, and in disgorging the spleen of bitter partisanship upon a Governor and a Senator, whose fault is, (in the judgment of these men.) not that they have done too little, but that they have done too much, for liberty and the j rights of man. (Loud applause.) Placing the great crime of that war in subordination to their own personal antipathies, they ask you to proscribe and sacrifice the very instrumentalities of your loyalty.
The President has seen that the institution of slavery has been to the enemy the very entrenchment of his strength, and he proposes now to treat it in accordance with military law, usage, and necessity. In war, after giving notice, you send—do you not?—the shower of your shells upon compacted cities, and the beauties of taste and refinement (which group the pride of the present with the traditions of the past) disappear like a dream after a night of horrors; witness the march of your own army in Mexico; her gilded temples, her golden crosses, her bishop’ palaces, counted as nothing under the necessities of war. And History records it with her approval, because these things stood in the way of our advancing legions, and sheltered the enemy. In like manner, the President has now given his notice; and every voice of nationality, I and every agony of this bleeding people, join with him in his edict, that because it is a military impediment, and because it is a bulwark to the rebellion, this Bastille of humanity and civilization, this prison-house of the creatures of God, just so far as I it stands in the way, must fall before the Union
arms. (Great applause.)
The enemy have the destiny of their South at their own option. The terms of peace are before them. The proclamation places in their hands the only honorable basis of adjustment,—the Constitution of the United States, without addition and without abatement. If, before January, they shall desire peace, they have only to lay down their arms, rescind their ordinances, and return to their allegiance, and be content with the Constitution as it is, and the Union as it was under Washington, and would be under Lincoln. (Applause.) But if they reject the alternative, behold a new South looms up in the horizon of human hope! (Loud applause.) With the destruction of slavery in any locality of the South, the white man who has hitherto been enslaved and impressed into the war by the surrounding and overshadowing aristocracy, will himself be enfranchised, enriched, and ennobled. (Applause.) The hearts of thousands of such free-mea within the sound of our arms or within the hone of their approach, from New Orleans to Richmond, will everywhere kindle with enthusiasm against the selfishness and tyranny of the rebellion; a new and true life for the South will bloom from the ashes of slavery. (Great applause.) A peaceful and enduring union, of free men and free labor, in the North and in the South, will embalm the memory of the twenty-second day of September, 1862, with the name of him who gave it as a holiday to all the generations of his countrymen. (Tremendous applause.)
And now I think I see a man peering out from the shades of Faneuil Hall, his face corrugated with doubts about the constitutionality of the President's message—and the same man, the very next day rising among the benches of the Democratic Convention at Worcester, and openly pronouncing it unconstitutional. Well, what is there about this war that constitutional? The whole thing w a historical paradox. The rebellion itself is a stupendous anomaly, and the epoch which it marks in history is strangely, sublimely exceptional. This is 
<c04>
not a trial at common law under the Constitution; it is war, outside of and beyond the Constitution. This is not a riot or an out break; it is a conflict for unity and nationality, underlying and outlying the Constitution, and the belligerent rights of the world and the necessities of war are the only rule of action. (Applause) All this ground of argument in hostility to the government and its measures, whether openly expressed or half expressed, whether in Ohio, or New York, or Massachusetts, was traversed in the same manner, only with more graceful and studied step, by Mr. Breckinridge, in his addresses against the military conduct of the President, uttered in the Senate of the United States, just before he relinquished his senatorial robes to take up arms against his country. There was but one answer then, and there is but one now; it is the argument of military necessity, of a ship on the eve of going down at sea, of a nation struggling for life. And yet he knew then, as these men who repeat him know now, that Mr. Jefferson said long ago, that occasions would sometimes arise when the forms of the Constitution must yield to necessity for its life. They knew then, they know now, that the great teacher and master of conservatism, Mr. Burke, asserts with his usual clearness and solemnity: "There are occasions of public necessity, so vast, so clear, so evident, that they supersede all laws." "Law, (says Mr. Burke) being only made for the benefit of the community, cannot in any one of its parts resist a demand which may comprehend the total of the public interests." lie knew and they know, that older than Jefferson, older than Burke, is the Roman truism, without which not a government this side of the empire of Caesar could have lasted thirty days—that the safety of the republic is the supreme law. (Applause) Oh, my friends, in this hour of peril there is one thing that is unconstitutional: a mind that gives to the enemy the benefit of its crotchets; a heart which, professing to beat within constitutional limits, would sacrifice the liberties of the country. That is unconstitutional. (Cheers.)
This great measure of war policy sets us right with all mankind in this conflict. It will be felt within imperial circles in France. It will awaken the thoughtful, elementary German mind to a just appreciation of our case. Where before we had in Russia an ally, this will give us a friend. The soul of England—alas! reduced from the proportions of a Chatham and a Wilberforce, is nevertheless restrained by the confirmed policies and traditions which have sprung up from her people and attached to her own high authorities. She is not insensible to her accountability to the tribunal of history and the ages of mankind. Though her aristocracy and her government are estranged from our cause, this proclamation gives us the heart of her people. And, above all, wherever in Europe there is love of liberty, whether smoldering in Germany or slumbering half awake in Italy, though it cannot speak above a whisper for itself, yet there, even there, in the trumpet notes of Garibaldi, it will speak for us. (Long-continued applause)
This action of the President brings the people of the North into a more enthusiastic prosecution of the war. Enthusiasm—that word of beauty and power in its derivation—God within us—how indispensable in war! The South has supported the war for a year and a half, with an idea at the core of its heart. The President has now given expression to the idea of the North. (Applause) And it will animate her heart. The sympathetic tie between the people and the army must be responsive. Let us listen to the inspiring words of the brave and noble Sigel, (applause,) written by his camp fire at Fairfax Court House: "What is the army without the people? A mere machine, without power and without life. In this hour of trial and danger, the sympathy of the people is our best support, and the greatest compensation for the burdens and hardships in the train of this war. The confidence in the power of the free North lends us strength and perseverance, and urges the army to renewed exertions." (Applause)
It will inspire the hearts of our bravo men in arms. I have seen, as you have, seen, as you have, our gallant boys, coming on their furloughs among us with enfeebled steps, from Virginia, North Carolina, New Orleans; and I have heard them declare, as the result of their observation and experience, that they and their comrades would fight more hopefully, and die, if die they must, with better solace, if they could be assured that we were aiming an earnest and decisive blow at the war, with less tenderness towards that which is the cause of all our woes. As slavery animates and intensifies the armies of the South, so freedom henceforth animates and intensifies the armies of the North. (Loud applause)
It will give greater effect to the advance of our lines. (Applause) If our armies are to advance in the autumn months, in many a State, district, village of the South, Rebellion will hesitate and falter under the alternative foreshadowed by the President when the vespers of Christmas shall again be heard. They also argue that the proclamation will j only be effectual within our lines. I tell them it will help our lines to advance, it will impart majestic progress to our battalions, (applause.) it will give wondrous vitality to the grasp of victory, it will swell the paeans with a more terrible glory. If, five weeks ago, Rescans and Grant could have tipped the bayonets of the Northwest with this magic radiance, the victory at Corinth would have had even a higher luster, and northern Alabama and northern Mississippi would have been stricken with a new terror of arms, as if the sword of the Lord and of Gideon were among them. (Cheers) Already,—read the intelligence coming with each steamer from New Orleans,—already the slave city of the Crescent, the head and front of the South, oscillates to the base of its revolt before the flaming Cross! (Cheers.) Believe not the optimists and quietists who make strange fellowship in Faneuil Hall; learn a lesson rather from the rage and terror which prevail over this proclamation in Richmond, and believe that they there think there u something in it, and something to come out of it. (Continued applause)

SPEECH OF HON. RICHARD BUSTEED,
Delivered in Faneuil Hall, Boston, Friday, Oct.31,1862.
Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen:
I meet and greet you as liberty-loving, law-abiding. Government-sustaining and treason-hating men. (Applause) I do not appear among you as a politician of the schools. I am not either pervert or convert. The mere political opinions of any man are not now of the slightest consequence. (Applause) The nation is in the midst of a terrible struggle for its life, and how best and quickest to save it is the all-absorbing question of the hour.
Everything must be subordinate to this, because everything else is less than this. War, terrible, ruthless and unprovoked, is being made upon a people who love peace, and desire to pursue it. Such war, having its origin in peculation, treason and fraud, must be allowed but one end—absolute, unconditional subjugation of the traitors who have
<c05>
made it, and who are continuing it against us. Twenty millions of people are audaciously challenged by the foe to yield up their liberty, their property, and their government. This is the sole issue. To this I shall address myself. Its gravity demands that it be considered plainly, deliberately and truthfully.
The issue is one of individual as well as national concern. It affects the well-being of all as much as the well-being of each. Its consideration cannot be avoided or postponed. We are band to hand in a conflict with a haughty, wicked and unscrupulous enemy; an enemy that dislikes us and our principles, tastes and habits; an enemy that tauntingly boasts of himself, of his superiority in all that goes to make up a wise, intellectual and honorable manhood; that plumes himself on his chivalry, aristocracy and cotton, and consigns us to the inferior condition of Yankee mudsills and greasy mechanics.
It is well to understand what the conflict is, which is now being waged by us upon these self-adulatory neighbors—slandering and liberty-stealing warriors. It is a war between darkness and light—between slave pens and school houses (cheers)—between labor and capital—between democracy and aristocracy (cheers)—between the rights of man and the illegally gotten and fraudulently held privileges of the few—between violence and law—between slavery and liberty — between falsehood and truth. Now, God defend the right!
This war is not prosecuted to determine who shall administer the government, but to decide if there shall be any government left to administer; not shall the empire be divided in twain, but shall the nation exist; not to settle the question of what laws shall prevail in the territories, but whether there shall be any domain, State or territorial.
It is not a war to ascertain who shall exercise the elective franchise, but whether there shall be any elections held. Its objects are to establish the invalidity of a constitutional selection of the ruler of the American people—to overthrow and prevent adherence to all forms of governmental law, and establish a nation upon the bases of perjury, treason and fraud.
The people of these States are not called upon to choose between the different modes of collecting revenue or laying imports, or to decide whether protective or a prohibiting tariff will best serve the national interests, or a national bank be a benefit or a bane.
The question which confronts this people to-day is existence or death. The Union, with all its attendant blessings and powers, its history from experience, its glory and pride, its achievements and hopes, or disunion with a long train of necessary calamities that attend upon such a measure. The question, sir, is not so much whether slavery shall continue to exist in South Carolina, but whether freedom shall be the rule in Massachusetts, and the navigation of the Mississippi shall be unobstructed. (Cheers.)
The question is whether you shall have a Governor, Senator and Representatives of your own selection. These are the general characteristics of the slaveholders' war. The details are to be found in current history, and need not here be entered into or dwelt upon.
If I am right in my diagnosis, if these attempts to destroy this government of the people be the result of unhallowed ambition, frenzied hate, or a wicked and designed cause of the love of power and pride of life, it cannot and it will not succeed. It will not succeed, because it ought not. Its want of holy purpose, high thought, pure motives, is the leaven of its weakness. And neither of its own power, nor of any aid derived from peaceful or armed intervention, can it succeed. The logic of truth
"Gives mystical lore, And coming events east their shadows before."
Men change, but principles are eternal. Truth and falsehood are so well defined, and the characteristics of each so plainly traced, as to be beyond the power of casuistry to confound or obliterate. What was false when the Athenians gathered in the Acropolis, is false in Faneuil Hall to-day. Time wears no changes on the azure front of truth. The weakness of man may surround it with the dust of false observances, may bury it from sight beneath a heavy mould of desire, but like the undisclosed fires, burning deep in earth, ever and anon it bursts forth to light for the guidance of all who honestly seek to worship by its light. Magna est veritas. ”The eternal years of God are hers," exclaims a poet of our native land. The happiness and prosperity of the race depend upon the fulfillment of the demands of truth. Its requirements cannot be avoided, without incurring individual, social and national ruin. No private enterprise and no system of government can be permanently secured that rest upon un exact, immoral foundations.
This distinction between justice and its contrary must be observed in forming the social condition, and in enacting laws for it. The problems of Euclid may be disregarded, but those of humanity must be solved by the principles of actual justice, or woe to the State and the political mathematicians! The history of our own country furnishes an exhibition of bow much may be the protest for justice, and how little may be done to secure its empire. The Declaration of American Independence set out with the affirmation that all men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." (Cheers.)
In Mr. Jefferson's draft of the Declaration, the words "inherent and" preceded the words "in- alienable rights," but the instrument as finally adopted left them out. It pronounced the endowed rights to be certainly of divine origin, and incapable of alienation. I am content with this, because, if liberty be the gift of God, it is an inherent right in man, and its inalienability is a necessary corollary. (Cheers.)
In the short space of twelve years alter this grand charter had been given to the world, and while yet ascriptions of praise and thanks for it were rising from the hearts and lips of universal manhood— while men were folding the writing among the leaves of their Bibles—the same people on whose behalf the Declaration was made, and five of the same per- sons who to its support pledged their lives, their fortunes and their sacred honor, adopted and subscribed the Constitution of 1787, the fourth section of which doomed to helpless, hopeless servitude 700,000 human beings, and their wretched increase in all time. From that hour forward the dragon teeth of slavery multiplied themselves, and spread into all the land; and, as its last and legitimate fruit, comet this war and bloodshed which now desolates our once peaceful and prosperous land. 
It could not be otherwise. Effects follow their causes as certainly as night the day, or the seasons their course. The law of compensation adjusts itself to every condition of man, and each violation of truth is followed by a corresponding retribution.
I know, sir, the people are impatient of criticism when the acts of our revolutionary fathers are under consideration. Veneration is a national instinct
<c06>
and the least return Americans can make to their ancestry, actuated by pure motives, is to accord to their conduct an unqualified honesty of purpose. Veneration, however, sometimes assumes the form of superstitious reverence, and blights progress by fore-closing inquiry. Respect for the past is very well in its place and degree; and while I yield to no man living in affection and respect for the founders of thin Government, I cannot resign to this feeling the exercise of my reason, the convictions of my intelligence, or the teachings of my conscience. (Prolonged applause.)
Duty is bolder than theory, nor confident than the understanding, older and more imperative than speculative science, existing from eternity, and recognized in its binding force from the morning of creation. (Cheers.)
I am entirely persuaded that in forming the Constitution, if the friends and advocates of free institutions had resistless met and formally denied 'he claims of the pro-slavery leaders of that day, South Carolina would not only have joined the Union, but would not have enacted the nullification ordinance of 1832, or assailed Fort Sumter in 1861.
A recognition of man's right to bold his fellow-man in servile bondage, to make merchandise of human blood and bone, to violate every principle of justice, to make the u Declaration of Independence a tinkling symbol,' and the nation a scorn—is the source of the attack made in the Constitutions itself by the slave oligarchists of our day, and their conduct illustrates the theory that the law of compensation and retribution are unceasingly in operation. I do not attack the intention of men who compromise the wrong, bat, sir, I do impeach the act itself. (Loud cheers.)
A great master of the English language says, “I care not with what principles the patriot is convicted if the measures be supports are beneficial to the community. The nation is interested in his conduct. His motives are his own."
The civil strife in which our country is involved, and which has culminated in horrid and fratricidal war, establishes the net that neither individual nor national prosperity can permanently exist, if principle be deposed by selfishness, and conscience be trampled on and defied by injustice.
It is for these reasons, and reasons akin to these, that I lately declared and now repeat. I am in favor of a new Constitution as soon as we can constitutionally procure it—(applause)—not a moment sooner, not a second later. 1 want a Constitution which shall be a palladium of liberty, not a network with which to entangle freedom; which shall maintain the rights of every human being liberty, and the pursuit of happiness—(applause)—to which an American the world over may refer with pride; which will make tyranny tremble in its sinew and marrow, and in which involuntary servitude will not be recognized or contemplated, except as a punishment for crime. Any other Constitution is not worthy the genius or sufficient to answer the instincts of a free, enlightened and Christian people. (Applause)
I am sure that if the men who contrived the fundamental law under which our Government has exercised its attributes for seventy-five yean could have anticipated what was to grow oat of tan concession they made to an unjust and cruel system, the Constitution in its present shape would never have been ratified or approved.
The fathers regarded the gradual abolition of slavery as a necessary element in the future of the Republic, and in this faith and in the belief that they thereby secured the blessings of liberty to them selves and posterity, ordained an instrument which otherwise they would have spurned and rejected.
I pass from these views of a remote period and transaction in our history to a consideration of tan present circumstances of the nation. "Tae purple testament of bleeding war" has been opened open am. In the midst of an unexampled career of prosperity, all the industrial and peaceful arts have been rudely checked by the red hand of blood. The bony click of machinery, the bum of the manufactory, the rumbling of the produce- laden wheel, the figures of the counting house, the business of the merchant and the professional, have all vanished before the heavy tread of armed men. Civilians have become soldiers, farm yards are converted into battle fields, and churches turned into hospitals. Stalwart man are maimed and mangled; ghastly wounds snake of life one great suffering; and widowhood and orphan age fill the land with a ceaseless lamentation.
In such a condition of the public affairs, men must attach themselves to one side or the other, there is here no room for neutrality, and only an idiot can be indifferent. The appeal is to each of as us individuals; to you, and me, and every man. How will you answer it? For myself, my resolution was long since taken, and remains only unchanged as it is stronger. I believe it to be my plain duty to support the Government, and those who administer it, by every means in my power, and at any cost of treasure or blood. What 1 do I would influence others to do; what I believe to be true I would have others accept for truth. In this crisis I would not embarrass the administration by drawing nice or labored distinctions between opposing theories, or by the public or private discussion of questions which relate to a time of tranquillity and peace. I would forget that I ever made a partisan speech or voted a party ticket. I would know nothing among men bat my country, and her salvation. I would defer polities to” a more convenient season," and devote my time, my means, and my life, if needs be, to preserve for posterity the rich inheritance of a free government and its liberal institutions.
I have satisfied myself as to what is my duty in the premises. I believe slavery to be the cause of this war, and, therefore, I would abolish slavery forever. I believe slavery to have been the source of the heart-burnings and violence which disgraced the national legislature, while slavery was protected and existed at the national capital, and therefore I hail the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia as a just, wise, and patriotic act of legislation, demanded as well by a proper respect for the opinions of mankind, as by humanity, decency and religion. I believe the President's Proclamation of Emancipation to be an effectual and speedy method of conquering and defeating rebels in arms, and of destroying the main spring of this war, and therefore 1 accept the Proclamation without an "if,” “and," or "but," without dotting an "i,” or crossing a "t"; and rejoice that Abraham Lincoln has had tan moral courage to look the giant evil m the face, and trusting to the right, deal the blow that saves the nation. On the first day of January next, the American Republic will celebrate a golden wedding with Liberty. Truth is on the war-path to avenge her self, and her trusty blade will not rest in sheath until every system of falsehood and oppression bites the dust, and every hostility is subjugated to her domination!
Will any man, of average intelligence and sanity, deny that the existing state of things has its origin in the institution of African slavery among us? If there had been no slavery, there would have been no agitation of the question, or discussion over its morality or lawfulness. If there had bean no heated. 
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT or THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaver taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. ... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hustle armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."—J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
discussion and reprobation of it, the slaveholders in Congress would not, they say, have abandoned their seats as representatives, or the slaveholders out of Congress passed secession ordinances. In a word, if there were no slavery, there would be no rebellion. Abolish slavery, and you destroy rebellion. Alexander H. Stephens, of Georgia himself asserts this: "Slavery," says he,- has been the immediate cause of the late rupture and the present revolution. Jefferson saw that the old Union would, some day. break upon this rock. He was right. The prevailing idea admitted by him, and the majority of the statesmen of his time,' was that the slavery of the African race was a violation of the rights of nature. But these ideas were fundamentally false. Our new government is based on quite opposite ideas. The negro, in virtue of his nature and by reason of the cure of Canaan, is made for the position which he occupies in our system. The stone which the builders rejected is become the chief stone of the corner of our new structure."
Aye, men of Massachusetts, the cause of the war is the existence of slavery; is the "irrepressible conflict"—urged by nature, sanctified by justice, and ever existing—between men who own themselves, and men who claim title to their fellows, “by reason of the curse of Canaan;" between despotism and its ill-starred prey; between justice and oppression. It is this that has plunged the nation into an internecine war; it is this that makes the land sodden with blood, and the air heavy with the dew of death.
The utterance of these opinions, and my course consequent upon entertaining them, may or not raise against me the cry of Abolitionist, Black Republican, negro-worshipper, and the like. I am wholly indifferent to this. The sentiments I now express may be Abolitionism, for all I know or care. They are mine, at least, and the result of my earnest, honest, in tensest convictions. I hold them to be Democratic, too, in the best sense of that word. I deny that democracy in America or elsewhere means slavery, in any form or degree, or under any circumstances. He is not a genuine Democrat who prefers slavery before liberty, or who, when the fair opportunity presents itself, hesitates to strike for freedom. Oppression is the same the world over; it differs only in its victims. In England it fastens upon an Irishman; in the United States upon an African. The man who to-day would rob a negro of the result of his labor or skill, would, mutatis mutandis, cheat a Caucasian to-morrow; and the exiled or self-expatriated Irishman who apologizes for and deals tenderly with the enslavement of a race because it has a black skin, is not far removed in sympathy, spirit or principle, from the aristocratic oppressors of his own people. He has no warrant to speak for a land, every acre of which is cursed with the imprint of tyranny's heel. Daniel O'Connell nor taught nor believed in such democracy. When be contended with lords and commoners for Catholic emancipation, or any of the inalienable rights of man, if his opposers turned to written constitutions to find authority for venerable imposition and prescriptive fraud, and hurled at him, "Thus saith the Law," this man of the people, this sturdy democrat this genuine son of Erin, silenced their sophistry with, "Thus saith the Lord." To all men born in Ireland, claiming to be democrats, and striving in this crisis of their adopted country's fate to influence the conduct of their countrymen, I say, Go, no wiser thou, and do likewise.
GEN. McCLELLAN REMOVED.
At the last hour—too late to save his friends, but not too late, we trust, to save the country—the President has relieved Gen. McClellan from the command of the Army of the Potomac. Gen. AMBROSE E. BURNSIDE succeeds him. Gen. McClellan retires for the present from what is by courtesy termed active service.
We are among those who hailed the summons of Gen. McClellan to the chief command under the President of our armies with outspoken hope and joy. We trusted in him as the predestined right arm of Republic in her deadliest struggle with her traitorous foes. It took months of stubborn, criminal, fatal paralysis, in the face of a foe contemptible in every element of strength save capacity to hoodwink our Commanding General, to cure us of that fond delusion. Not till we had seen and felt and realized that our fondly imagined Marcellus had a chronic incapacity for getting on, did our faith in him? But when month after month had passed away ingloriously, while he held One Hundred and Fifty Thousand brave Volunteers idly shivering through a Winter in canvas tents, while our country was brought to the brink of ruin by the imminent danger of a war with Great Britain, which would soon have widened into a struggle with all Western Europe, and while Fifty Thousand Rebels beleagured Washington. obstructed the Baltimore and Ohio railroad, and kept the Potomac eloped against our shipping, that faith was shaken. And when at last, three weeks after the time set for the movement in peremptory orders given him four weeks earlier yet, he advanced to Centreville, and found nothing but maple cannon to impede his progress, we gave him wholly up and the faith that had yielded so slowly to overwhelming evidence could never be revived.
It does not necessarily impeach the loyalty of Gen. McClellan that the Rebels have uniformly spoken of him as our greatest General, while every sympathizer with treason in the loyal States has been his noisy and constant idolater. The greater and more obvious bin shortcomings, the louder and more un-measured have been their commendations. They saw that be was working out their cherished ends, and that sufficed them, no matter what were his own purposes. What Gen. Howe and Sir Henry Clinton were to our Revolution, he was to the Slaveholders' Rebellion. Those Generals lacked not loyalty bat energy. They did not comprehend that every hour that passes idly and uneventfully in a war of insurrection is a clear gain to the insurgents, and a corresponding loss to their adversaries. Such Generals always squander the golden opportunity. If they advance into the enemy's country, they halt just when they should press on, and wait till the ravages of disease and that desultory, indecisive warfare of pickets and outposts, wherein the advantage is always and inevitably with the party that is familiar with the ground, has seriously thinned the ranks of the invading army, while those of its antagonist have been swelled by the levy en masse to a superiority of numbers, when the General who should maintain the offensive is attacked and worsted. The invader who hesitates, and fears to strike, and stands on the defensive, is doomed.
It has been General McClellan's misfortune, and still more the country's, that his intimate friends and trusted counsellors were nearly all at heart opposed to an unqualified discomfiture of the Rebels. They are Unionists after their fashion—they would not have the Republic divided and ruined—but they have no conception of. no liking for, any other settlement of our troubles than one which shall be based on Compromise—that is, buying off the traitors from persistence in their treason by new concessions. new guaranties, to Slavery. Their ideal bond of Union is a chain around the slave's neck, with a gag in every freeman’s mouth. These men desired the War span out through months of prodigal but fruit-less inaction until the exhausted, discouraged people should be driven in desperation to call on our Seymour’s, Joel Parkers and Fernando Woods to end the struggle by giving the rebel chiefs whatever they might be pleased to ask as the price of their con descending to resume the government of the country. The fact that these chiefs had stubbornly refused to resume the overseer ship of the Union on any terms has been willfully ignored by these politicians, who could not believe, even with their experience at Charleston in 1860 to enlighten them, that the Rebels prefer absolute, indefeasible rule over half the Country to a qualified and precarious sway over the whole of it. But the truth is that the slave-holding oligarchy are weary of the sham whereby they are designated Democrats, and disgusted with their alliance with the Five Points, the Hook, and other dens of coarse depravity and debauchery at the North. Such associations give them an uncleanly feeling of disgust and self-abasement, from which they have long wished to be delivered They have seized upon the present as their opportunity, and will not be persuaded to forego it.
Gen. Burnside fought t gallantly at Bull Run; he led ably and victoriously the brilliant campaign in North Carolina; he was called thence to reinforce McClellan after his reverses before Richmond; and he ably commanded the left wing at the battle of Antietam. Thus far, he has done well, whatever work has been allotted him: we trust he will in his and new more arduous position, justify the hopes and retrieve the fortunes of his country. That he will at all events avoid Gen. McClellan's cardinal error of treating the order of his superior as so much waste paper, we are confident If he cannot obey.
<c02>
he will ask to be relieved from his command. And, though the Rebel Grand Army has once more completely eluded oar forces, through Gen. McClellan's persistent disobedience to the express orders of the General-in-Chief and even of the President, and, marching around our slowly-creeping front, has placed himself once more between.our advance and Richmond, we believe that be will yet be compelled to fight a decisive battle before going into winter-quarters or abandon Virginia to the arms of the Union. Bat we shall judge Gen. Burnside by results, not by our prepossessions. Should be spend the coming Winter as fruitlessly, ingloriously as Gen. McClellan did the last, we shall not hesitate to call in the Spring for his removal as openly and earnestly as we did for that of his halting predecessor.—N. Y. Tribune.

THE REMOVAL OF GENERAL MCCLELLAN
From the post of commander of the principal army of the Republic shows that President Lincoln has at last been aroused to a sense of the true state of affairs, and that he admits the necessity that exists for more active operations in the field than the country bad any reason to expect, MO long as the bead of the federal army in Virginia should be paralyzed. Gen. McClellan is a brave man, in the ordinary sense of the word, but be is deficient in that moral courage without which no soldier is fit to hold high command. This is the most favorable view that can be taken of his character; for, on any other supposition, he has been false to his trust, and we do not wish to believe that he is dishonest. Thrice has be had it in his power to render the greatest service to his country, and on each occasion he has proved unequal to the work that was expected of him, and which a superior leader would have accomplished. In October, 1861, be might have advanced against the rebels, and have driven them from the vicinity of Washington; but he failed to do so, and for months after the disaster at Ball's Bluff—a disaster for which he should have been held responsible—he remained idle. When compelled to move, his proceedings on all occasions were of so dilatory a nature that defeat was inevitable, and be never bad the remotest chance of taking Richmond after he sat down before the half-built and half-manned works of the rebels at York-town. A commander of average a unities would have been in Richmond in a month from the opening of the campaign. It appears that the whole number of men that served under him was 168,000; and of this enormous force, one-half had disappeared when be found himself lying under the protection of the gunboats on James River, after a series of disasters that were due solely to his incapacity to lead brave men otherwise than to defeat and destruction. We think it is no exaggeration to say, that during the whole of the Richmond campaign he never, on any one occasion, showed the talent of a fifth-rate commander of the Austrian school of war. A third opportunity was given him to justify the good opinion of his countrymen when he was placed at the head of the federal forces in Maryland; and at first it did seem that adversity had had a good effect on him. He drove the rebels out of Maryland, defeating them at Antietam. But no sooner had be won a great battle, than he fell back upon his old system of malingering, and threw away the fruits of success. He refused to reap the field which he had won. No American ever had a better chance for winning the first place in the confidence of his country, and the admiration of the world, than Gen. McClellan after his Maryland triumph; but he deliberately resolved to forfeit the opportunity that was presented him for placing himself alongside of Washington, and for the third time he bitterly disappointed the hopes of his countrymen. We say nothing of his conduct while Gen. Pope was heroically struggling against the enemy near Washington, because the facts are not sufficiently clear to enable us to speak definitely thereon; but taken as a whole, his military career has been signally unfortunate for his own fame, and as signally disastrous to this nation. His history is a striking antithesis: he was denied nothing, and he has effected nothing. He was the object of the nauseous praises of Northern sympathizers with Southern rebels, who saw in him one who either would not or could not do anything against traitors, and who therefore believed him to be worthy of their confidence and support. The time had come for a change of commanders, for the dismissal of the Buell of the East as well for the dismissal of the Buell of the West Longer to employ a man who becomes ineffective in precise proportion that he is furnished with the means of making successful war, would have been a sad trifling with duty on the part of government. The President resolved that there should be not such trifling, and he has dismissed an incompetent General, and bestowed the post he was incapable of filling upon a man who has done good service in the field. Gen. Burnside's career has been of such a character as to warrant the belief that he is not only desirous of beating the rebels, but capable of doing much toward their discomfiture. He has the confidence of the people, of the army, and of the government; and he has only to act in Virginia as he acted in North Carolina, to place our affairs in such a condition as shall command the admiration of his countrymen, and secure the forbearance of foreign powers.
Since the above was written, the telegraph brings an important letter from Gen. Halleck, which fully justifies the action taken by the President.—Boston Traveller.

REBEL CONTEMPT FOR GEN. McCLELLAN.
You cannot think how bitterly the North is ridiculed here, and all my efforts to defend it only end in mortification and the consciousness that those who think otherwise have the best of the argument. It is now the regular habit to send so called "deserters" into the Union lines along the Potomac, whenever we want to get a man carried North. These "deserters" who are generally the bravest, sharpest, and most unscrupulous enfants perdu in the rebel army, enter McClellan's lines, tell him just such stories as they have been told to, take the oath and are immediately dismissed. They then go to Baltimore, port their letters there, get a return mail, and are back to Richmond within three or four days from the time of leaving the managers of this mail at Baltimore. It is thus that the—and—(two papers are mentioned here, one published in New York and one in Baltimore,) get their "late Southern news;" and I can assure you that this mail runs regularly—the carriers many times getting across the Potomac and into Maryland without being once challenged; while, if they are challenged, they announce themselves as "deserters," take the oath—though even this is not always asked of them—and then hurry on to Baltimore, which is our chief Post-office.
They have here, in private circulation—though it may be a forgery—a phrenological chart of Gen. McClellan's character, made by Fowler & Wells, of New York, and which was given, they say, by Gen. McClellan to his friend, Major General G. W. Smith, whose health is now quite recovered, though at the expense of his mind, which will never be again what it was. This written chart—such, dearest mother, as you bad made of me when I came back, last summer, five years ago, from Miss—'s school—makes McClellan's bump of "caution" outbalance all the other qualities of his head, and they are making fan of it all the time, and of course most actively—those who wish to annoy me—when I am present. They have had this "chart" printed for private circulation, and while the papers here all seem in a conspiracy to praise Gen. McClellan, he is the most bitterly ridiculed man I ever knew, in private. The editor of the Savannah Republican was at cousin Mary's last Tuesday evening, and had the "greatest fun," as lie called it, (horrid old creature, that he is,) trying to make me angry. But cousin Mary stopped him, and even Senator said that as I was an avowed "enemy of the South," (though Heaven knows I am not,) and had only come here to nurse, [her husband.] I was entitled to be treated at least with the courtesy due to "a prisoner of war!" and not vexed and ridiculed. But I assure you, you can have no idea what confidence the people here have that this "chart" is correct; and so whenever Lee or Jackson want to make McClellan stop anywhere, or avoid a battle, they send off some "deserters," first to tell them they are in immense force, and any other odious lies they please; and then they get significant hints to the same effect published in the Richmond rebel papers; and these papers are actually carried to McClellan, and even sold to him at a high price; the two men passing themselves off at Union farmers, who gave him the information which stopped him ten days after the battle of Sharpsburg, when be was thinking of advancing, and quite ready, having received sixty dollars between them for their trouble and expenses in bringing the information.—Extract from a letter to her mother of a loyal lady, wife of a high rebel officer, at Savannah.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders! BOSTON, FRIDAY,NOVEMBER 14,1862.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The subscribers to The Pine and Palm are hereby notified that arrangements have been made, by which The Liberator will be supplied to them until the close of their several subscriptions. At soon as the number of copies now due by me are furnished, The Liberator will be no longer tent, unless my friends promptly renew their orders for it, accompanied by the cash. It is not probable that The Pine and Palm will be revived this year.
Boston, Oct. 27, 1862. JAMES REDPATH.

INAUGURATION OF LIBERIA COLLEGE.
The African Repository, for November, contains the proceedings at the inauguration of Liberia College, at Monrovia, Jan.23, 1862—published by order of the Legislature of Liberia. The officers and friends of the College assembled at the house of the President, Hon. J. J. Roberts, on Ashmun Street, Monrovia, under the direction of Messrs. S. F. McGill and B. V. R. James, the Committee of Arrangements, in the following order:—Band of Music; the Reverend Clergy; Members of the House of Representatives; Members of the Senate; His Excellency, President of the Republic; Members of the Cabinet; Representatives of Foreign Governments; Chief Justice and Associate Judges; Mayor and City Councilmen; Trustees of the College; President of the College and Professors; Members of the Bar; Citizens generally. The procession having arrived at the College Buildings, the exercises of the day began with singing the 100th Psalm, to the tune of Old Hundred. The Rev. J. S. Paine read the 28th chapter of Job, and the 118th Psalm; after which Rev. B. R. Wilson offered prayer. This was followed by music from the band. Hon. B. J. Dayton, Chief Justice of the Republic, then delivered the Introductory Address, and concluded by presenting, in behalf of the Trustees, the keys of the College to President Roberts. In the course of his brief but appropriate remarks, he said:—
"This day may be made the epoch from which every public enterprise may be dated; such as asylums, hospitals, charitable institutions, and other monuments setting forth the liberality and greatness of a free people. I am happy, and I am sure every Liberian is glad, that this College can be inaugurated with a Faculty of our own people; men fully qualified to occupy the positions to which they have been called. This is a great deal for our infant Republic; and it is hoped that all vacancies in the Faculty, when required, may be filled by our own people. In the first place, our attention is drawn with pleasure and admiration towards our own Roberts, the able President of the College. That he has been honorable and successful in the past, is our security for the future in this exalted enterprise. We turn with more than ordinary delight toward that youthful giant, Professor Blyden, of whom we ever speak with assurance, that we ever depend on him at home and abroad as being a qualified representative of the capacity of the black man to occupy the first rank in literature. We can accord to the Rev. Professor Crummell the unfading laurels he has gained in intellectual improvement, than whom Africa cannot have a better representative, for the world has already acknowledged his superior ability."
Appropriate and spirited music followed the address and the presentation of the Keys. After the Inaugural Address of President Roberts and that also of Professor Blyden were concluded, Hon. B. D. Warner offered the following resolutions, which were unanimously adopted:—
"Resolved, That the Board of Trustees for Liberia College do recognize, with humble devoutness of heart, the goodness of Almighty God in so ordering and controlling circumstances and events, that this Board of Trustees, after ten years' effort and labor, performed under many disadvantages, and in the face of stern opposition, have succeeded in completing and now occupying Liberia College; and to this end they do record, with emotions of gratitude, their unfeigned thanks to the Great Arbiter of events for his gracious interposition in their behalf, and for crowning their efforts with such abundant success.
And at the same time, this Board do accord to the Legislature of this Republic much honor and thankfulness for the courtesy it has exercised in hearing the repeated requests made to it by this Board for the furtherance of its cherished objects.
We unitedly beseech the Common Father of our spirits to sustain and prosper this Institution; to so direct and govern the minds, thoughts, and will of its Professors, Instructors, and Tutors, as that the instruction given by them may be sanctified to the good of those to whom it shall be imparted."
The Doxology, "Praise God from whom all blessings flow," was afterwards sung, and the Benediction pronounced. 
The Inaugural Address of President Roberts, as a literary performance and for its thoughtful sentiments, was very creditable, concluding as follows:
"And now, Gentlemen of the Board of Trustees, permit me to congratulate you on the favorable circumstances that surround the Institution under your care, and which you this day dedicate to the educational interests of our country. Your connection with this Institution, I am aware, entails on you no little sacrifice; but I believe you devote your services cheerfully, because you are interested in the welfare of your country; and nothing surely is better calculated to promote that welfare than the education of her people. In this enterprise you are laboring also for posterity, and I doubt not you will continue your exertions until you shall have firmly established an institution which shall convey to them blessings of the most useful and permanent character. And as generous minds anticipate pleasure in future scenes, that consideration alone is sufficient to kindle ardor in noble souls. Who can tell how many youth shall be trained in this Institution, who, when perhaps you and most of those now present shall have ceased to take part in the affairs of this world, may occupy some of the highest and most important offices in the gift of a free people? That shall be your reward. And, fellow-citizens, I have only to add, that in this Institution no principles contrary to the teachings of the Word of God will be instilled into the minds of the youth, nor any sentiment at war with the liberal principles of our republican form of Government."
The Address of Prof. Blyden was also marked by deep reflection, sound observation, and literary ability, which should cause the traducers of the colored race to hang their heads for shame. We extract its opening and closing passages:—
"This is an auspicious day for Liberia, and for West Africa. The first College Edifice erected on this benighted shore has been completed; and we, descendants of Africa, are assembled to inaugurate it. Perhaps this very day, one century ago, some of our forefathers were being dragged to the hold of some miserable slaver, to enter upon those horrible sufferings of the 'middle passage,' preliminary to their introduction into scenes and associations of deeper woe. To-day, their descendants, having escaped the fiery ordeal of oppression and slavery, and having returned to their ancestral home, are laying the foundation of intellectual empire, upon the very soil whence their fathers were torn, in their ignorance and degradation. Strange and mysterious providence!
The first College in West Africa is founded. Lord Macaulay's prediction, uttered forty years ago, of the illustrious University at Timbuctoo, though uttered jocosely, is receiving realization. Truth is proving itself stranger than fiction. We have this Institution as the precursor of incalculable blessings to this benighted land—as the harbinger of a bright and happy future for science, literature, and art, and for all the noblest interests of the African race."
In the period of oar most strenuous opposition to the American Colonization Society, we never cherished any other feelings toward the Colony of Liberia than those of the warmest sympathy and the most friendly regard, though we could give no countenance to the animus or design which led to its settlement. We rejoice at every indication it gives of growing intelligence and prosperity and we heartily congratulate it upon the establishment of this institution of learning, trusting it will transcend in its future usefulness the most sanguine anticipations of its founders. And here, as a matter of personal credit, we publish with pleasure the following tribute:—
"For this College, Liberia and the world are more indebted to the sagacity, benevolence, and persevering labors of the Rev. Joseph Tracy, D. D., of Boston, than to those of any one, if not of all other men. Dr. Tracy, in his quiet and enduring exertions, has found able and generous coadjutors in Massachusetts and other parts of our country; but without his
<c04>
thoughtful and directing mind, we believe their efforts bad been vain, and that it is but simple justice to pronounce him the Founder of Liberia Collage."
We copy this tribute all the more willingly, because in former time* we bare bad many and just occasions to censure and rebuke Mr. Tracy for his persevering hostility to the Anti-Slavery cause, his envenomed slanders of its prominent advocates, and his abominable sentiments in defence of slaveholding, and against the righteous doctrine of immediate emancipation. While, for thirty years past, he ha done nothing, by voice or pen, to redeem or elevate the colored race in this country, but, on the contrary, much to augment and strengthen the unchristian prejudice that is every where cherished against them, it is gratifying to know that to his persevering labors the Republic of Liberia is mainly indebted for its first College. It is a fresh illustration of the paradoxical phases of the human mind and heart. Had Mr. Tracy and the American Colonization Society been as ready to aid, elevate and blew the colored people in this their native land, as they were eager for their expatriation to a heathen shore, we should have had no occasion for controversy with them; and now that they have ceased to publish pleas and apologies in behalf of the enslavers of men, women and children, to calumniate the free people of color, and to assail and misrepresent the Anti-Slavery movement, we have also ceased making any issue with them.
In this connection, we deem it not invidious to remark, that, in none of the addresses delivered on this occasion, nor in any of the proceedings, do we find a single reference or sentiment expressive of any interest in the tremendous struggle going on in this country between the American government and the slave oligarchy and their degraded minions, or any sympathy for those in bonds. If this singular reticence on the subject of slavery had not characterised the colonists from the beginning, it would not challenge attention at this time; but, during a period of more than forty years,—covering the entire existence of Liberia,—we do not recollect having seen, in any public address or speech or sermon or official document, any sign of interest in efforts for the abolition of slavery in the United States by moral and religious instrumentalities—any appreciation of the self-sacrificing men and women who, for the sake of those in bonds, have subjected themselves to universal proscription and opprobrium, at great personal peril, but with unswerving fidelity and indomitable courage—any denunciation of American slavery and its abettors. This was explicable so long as the Colony was under the absolute control of the American Colonization Society; for, of course, it would tolerate no such freedom of expression or power of impeachment. But when this colonial vassalage ceased, and Liberia became recognized as an independent republic by the governments of Europe, we had a right to expect the removal of all gags and padlocks from the lips of its citizens, and, consequently, the strongest utterances against "the sum of all villanies." Thus far we are sadly disappointed.
LECTURE OF THEODORE D. WELD. The lecture delivered by Mr. Weld at Music Mall, on Sunday last, was listened to by an intensely interested and highly intelligent audience, which was comparatively a large one in view of the stormy and dismal state of the weather—indicating that, if the day had been pleasant, the spacious hall would have been filled. As we stated last week, Mr. Weld was among the earliest and most eloquent advocates of the cause of those in bondage; but, by the frequent use and electric expenditure of his uncommonly sweet and powerful voice, he finally reduced it to a mere whisper for a long period, and he was compelled to abandon the lecturing field. This was his first attempt to address a large public assembly since 1836! It was made experimentally, under adverse conditions, in a hall of such dimensions as to task the strongest lungs; yet, we are happy to say, the speaker made himself easily and clearly heard throughout, and, though occupying an hour and twenty Minutes, felt no inconvenience from the effort The subject of the lecture was, "The Conspirators— their False Issues and Lying Pretences. "We shall not attempt to make any report of it, but only add that it was a masterly refutation of the Calhoun doctrine of State Rights, and an eloquent vindication of the supremacy and sovereignty of the Federal Government; closing with a scathing satire of the secession appeal to the Declaration of Independence for justification and defence. We are happy to announce that Mr. Weld has consented to remain in this State for the present; and those who would like to have him lecture in their town or city are requested to correspond on the subject with Samuel May, Jr., 221 Washington street, Boston.
TAKE NOTICE. AS inquiries arc frequently made for WILLIAM A. JACKSON,—Jefferson Davis's late coachman in Richmond, who adroitly made his escape to the Federal lines, and has since been lecturing in this quarter on the rebellion and slavery,—we would state that he has sailed for England, where he deems his testimony more wanted, by the perverted state of public sentiment in that country, than it is here. We trust he will meet with a kind reception.
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINES for November has appeared. Its contents are:—1, Christ the Spirit; 2, Was Thomas Kempis the author of the "Imitation?" 3, New Translations of the "Vila Nnova;" 4, Alexis de Tocqueville; 5, Shakspeare's Sonnets and Friendships; 6, The War Policy and the Future of the South; 7, Review of Current Literature. The number contains four extra pages.
MR. RICE ELECTED IN THE THIRD DISTRICT.— The decision of the Board of Aldermen to forward the amended return from Ward Twelve to the office of the Secretary of State, settles the matter of the election of Mr. Rice, as the Governor's Council, in counting the votes, will consider the amended return as the true one from that Ward.
DEATH OF GEN. MITCHEL. Perhaps the greatest bereavement that has befallen the cause of freedom and humanity, since the rebellion began, is to be found in the sudden decease of this large-hearted, humane man at Port Royal. What better monument could he have, or desire, than his noble letter sent to Secretary Chase, a few days before his death, in relation to the contrabands? {See last page.]
REMOVAL OF GEN. MCCLELLAN. A night mare has passed from the Northern breast by the removal of McClellan, and the substitution of Burnside. If all that is factious, low and brutal howl over this change, why should not all that is patriotic, high and noble exult? The forbearance and long-suffering of the government and nation in his case have been unparalleled and astounding. His "masterly strategy" has turned out to be like that of the frog in the well— jumping up two feet, and falling back three!
ELOQUENT SPEECHES. We have given, on oar first page, some extracts from the very eloquent speeches recently delivered by Col. Bullock at Worcester, and Hon. Richard Busted in Faneuil Hall. Their careful perusal will quicken the pulse of every reader, and give a new impetus to the struggling cause of freedom.
ADDRESS OF WENDELI. PHILLIPS. The instructive address delivered by Mr. Phillips, at Music Hall, on Sunday, 2d inst, may be found on our last page. Those who were not, as well as those who were present, will be glad to have an opportunity to peruse it, as reported by that most accurate of phonographic reporters, James M. W. Yerrington, Esq.
A private letter from New Orleans says Gen. Butler recently took possession of two Urge plantations near the city, and transferred a large number of loyal blacks to them for active service. The number of fugitive blacks in the department of toe Gulf is increasing at a rapid rate.
<c05>
THE FRATERNITY LECTURES.
The fifth lecture of the Fraternity course was given by Rev. Moncure D. Conway, and was delivered on Wednesday instead of Tuesday evening, that it might make no interference with the delightful employment (to Republican.) of watching the election returns through the evening of NOV. 4th.The results of that day put the audience in a happy frame of mind to hear Mr. Conway's eloquent discourse on "The two Capitals."
He said that the capture of Washington, if the enemy could effect it, would be of immense advantage to them, but that it WAS of still more consequence to us to get possession of their Capital; for upon our gain or loss of that particular point depended our success or failure in the whole war. Richmond, like Montgomery, was merely a place of temporary occupation by the rebel Congress, and there were twenty other places that would equally serve their turn. The true Capital of the enemy was not Richmond, but slavery. This ought long since to have been attacked and demolished.
 The prolongation of this war, and the fact that it still hangs so nearly in equilibrium, are our crime and blunder, the results of our own ill manage Slavery, which has been, through our culpable negligence, the chief strength of the enemy, might have been made the means of their immediate overthrow. As soon as they rejected the Constitution and the Union, they relinquished all the special privileges thereby conferred. As soon as they made war upon the U. S. Government, killing its soldiers, plundering its property, defying its legitimate authority, and undertaking to diminish and divide its territory at their pleasure, they put into the hands of that Government a power which it had never before enjoyed, of directly attacking the cause of that revolt, Slavery. That this new power was not long since used was a fault equally shared by the Government and the people. Corrupted by the long previous toleration and protection of slavery, we protected it still when its emissaries were attacking our life, and draining our heart's blood. The duty of the Government now was to repair this error, and to make a direct and exterminating warfare upon slavery, as the only means of saving the nation's life. And, if the official servants of the people, civil and military, neglected this duty in circumstances so perilous as those now besetting US the people should imperatively demand its immediate performance.
This was the key to Mr. Conway's discourse, which was full of brilliant points, and details of intense interest respecting the parts token by various individuals conspicuous in civil and military positions, in regard to the protection or the destruction of slavery.
It would be a great service to the cause of liberty if Mr. Conway could be persuaded to give this lecture in other places, and without delay. Let the friends of freedom apply to him.
The sixth lecture, entitled "A Plea for Woman," was delivered on Tuesday evening last, by Miss Anna E. Dickinson of Philadelphia, a young lady who has formerly spoken here with much acceptance in relation to slavery and the war. She made an able presentation of the restrictions and disabilities under which woman labors in our present stage of civilization, and showed the inconsistency of these restrictions, not only with reason, justice and the public welfare, but with truths commonly received as self-evident, and stated as such in our standards of political and religious action. With cutting satire she exposed the absurd pretence that women would lose their delicacy and refinement by going to the polls, and she showed the need that men's political action should receive such refining influence as the presence and cooperation of women exercise in social life.
The nation would receive obvious and manifold advantage by the association of both sexes in the management of its affairs. Women were housekeepers by profession. Surely our national housekeeping showed blunders and deficiencies, continued and repeated month after month, such as no decent woman would tolerate in an establishment under her control.
There are still laws on our statute books disgraceful to men and injurious to women, and thus doubly calling for renovation. The many women who declare themselves satisfied with their condition should have in mind a far larger number of unfortunate sisters who live under the constant operation of cruel injustice from those who claim to be their protectors.
We hear frequent warnings to women against going out of the sphere that God and nature have assigned to them. No one asks them to leave that sphere, and if it were asked, it would not be possible. We need juster ideas than now prevail of what that sphere is.
Some assert that women are not sufficiently educated for the performance of political duties. By all means educate them better. Their deficiencies are not their fault, and, moreover, no amount of such deficiency operates to the exclusion of the men who display it.
Miss Dickinson spoke at length, and with much impressiveness, on the restrictions of women in regard to employment, and of the direct and powerful influence of these restrictions on the increase of vice. Forty thousand girls in New York city work fifteen hours a day to earn from twelve to thirty cents. Many of these girls have relatives dependent upon their labor for support. What wonder that many are driven to the streets by actual hunger?
Many facts, the result of her own inquiries into the condition of poor seamstresses, were given by the speaker, and her final appeal for the action of justice and humanity in regard to them was most impressive. She spoke an hour and three-quarters, from very brief notes, and without the slightest hesitancy in regard to language.
The President of the Fraternity announced that the lecture on Tuesday evening next would be given, not by Henry Ward Beecher, as in the printed programme, but by Ralph Waldo Emerson, those two gentlemen having exchanged places.—c. K. W.

ANNUAL MEETING OF THE "HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN AND CHILDREN."
This meeting was held on Tuesday, Nor. 11th, at the Hospital, 60 Pleasant Street.
After prayer by James Freeman Clarke, Miss Lucy Goddard, who occupied the chair, spoke of the necessity of now forming a permanent organization.
Mrs. Cheney, Secretary pro tem., gave a sketch of the origin of the institution in 1858.
It at first existed as a clinical department of the New England Female Medical College, and occupied their building, receiving from them house-rent, fuel, and gas, but being otherwise self supporting, its remaining expenses being defrayed by separate and special contributions.
In the present year, the Female Medical College made objection to the continuance of this arrangement, thinking the Hospital neither needful nor desirable as an addition to their establishment. In July, therefore, the "Hospital for Women and Children" was separately organized, and commenced its occupation of the house in Pleasant Street.
Dr. Marie Zakrzewska, the visiting Physician, then made a statement respecting the success of the institution, so far, in the reception and treatment of patients. She gave very interesting details of the characteristics of the various classes of patients resorting there. She urged the continued reception of unmarried women needing humane and friendly care in confinement; and, referring to the extensive interest excited a year ago by the pleas of Miss Emma Hardinge in behalf of lost women, (who, whether vicious or not, were abandoned,) she spoke with affecting earnestness of the need of interposing humane and friendly care to save those who were specially exposed to become thus abandoned. The danger in many owes might be averted by applying kind precaution to its lint stages. This was an important part of their work, and to her it seemed one of the parts most urgently demanded by duty, conscience and humanity.
<c06>
She referred to an anticipated difficulty of raising money for a Hospital during the present war, and thought the institution should not pause day for a consideration like this. The need of it being especially pressing at this moment, when so many women and children are left without their natural protectors, this is the very best time for its establishment.
Our usefulness is to limited to the cure of disease. We give a home to the friendless, in many cases in which it could not elsewhere be found. We have treated 411 persons in this house. They come here not for drugs merely, but for comfort, advice, consolation. And these give strength. Some come here who are not penniless, only friendless. We take such persons and help them, and account such interior help as among the most sacred of our duties.
The medical education of women greatly need to be advanced. Our community begin to recognize the need of female physicians, and an extensive demand has arisen for their services. She formerly thought Female Medical Colleges needful to supply this want. She no longer thought so. If we would have fully educated female physicians, they must study like men, and with men. The patients of an institution like this must necessarily create a public sentiment in favor of female physicians. The best part of the profession already favor us. Two of the best medical men in the city. Dr. Cabot and Dr. John Ware, are our consulting physicians: and a dozen more are willing to give their assistance whenever it is asked. This favorable sentiment is advancing, and before many years Harvard College will be opened to female medical pupils. All the omens are in our favor, if we will but be true to ourselves, and apply ourselves zealously to the work. In the absence of Mr. Sewall. the Treasurer, Mrs. Bond reported that the institution was free from dew and that there were Fifty dollars in the treasury. It was very desirable to increase the funds, both that the means for accommodating free patients might be increased, and to establish the institution on a firm and permanent basis.
Miss Goddard read a new Constitution which had been drawn up, and, after discussion, its articles were separately adopted.
Twenty Directors were then nominated and chosen with power to increase their number to twenty-four, and these Directors were instructed to apply, as speedily as possible, for an act of incorporation.-C.K.W.

DEMOCRACY.
In a pure Democracy, the will of the people is sovereign; and when it is coincident with the will of God, when justice and mercy are the habitation of its throne, when every man and woman in the lands ready to accord to every other all the rights and privileges which they claim for themselves-to pledge life, fortune, honor, to secure and maintain those rights—the kingdom of heaven will have come, the reign of Peace will have begun, and from glad hearts will rise, with one acclaim, the songs of joy and love, "Glory to God in the highest, peace on earth and good will to men."
Such is the sublime ideal of a Christian Common wealth. The most favored people, in their most prosperous days, have had but glimpses, hardly a foretaste of it. Ours purports to be a government of the people. In theory, their will is sovereign, but it is only in theory. To some extent, however, it makes well known through their Constitutions and laws, and the spirit in which they are adjudicated and applied. Through them is set forth the measure justice which the people demand, and are able to maintain, within the limits of their respective State or national jurisdictions. If, in any State, slavery exists, it is because the people wish to have it so, or because they have not the wisdom and courage to resist prevent it. The vicious principles and practices of the slave States, therefore, find sanction and protection in their laws. To give scope and encouragement to them in the Territories, and to add weight to the slave interest, with the apparent sanction of the Supreme Court, the Chief Justice goes out of his way to declare, that negroes are not citizens of the United States, and adds, that "they have no rights which white men are bound to respect." And, when we consider the obvious purpose of the declaration, it more flagitious, arbitrary, atheistic, or God-defying utterance can hardly be conceived. It is worthy of his great prototype, the prince of rebel angels; and, in the record of our times, the men of coming years will doubtless accord to him the bad eminence he has was, and be shall sit as chief among pro-slavery friends. He virtually denies the manhood of the negro race; or, admitting it, makes it optional with the white man whether he shall respect their rights or not; as if rights were limited by race or color, and depended upon the arbitrary enactments of the white man; and, because he has not agreed to respect the black man’s rights, therefore, he is not bound to do so!
Such views and sentiments, from a high "public functionary," have tended greatly to augment the prevailing contempt and hatred of the negro race, have paralyzed the moral sense of the community, and thus given to the ship of State a pro-slavery lurch, from which she will not easily recover. Struck by such "blasts from hell," she reels and plunges, and may, at length, go down, amid the waves and storms, a shattered, shapeless wreek.
A native of Maryland, he is worthy of his Jesuit ancestry, and a fit representative of the semi-barbarous community, in which he was born and bred. Oppression is its law. With unexampled opportunities for good, our countrymen have shown themselves unworthy of the high privileges they have enjoyed. The ark of freedom was, in the providence of God, committed to their hands. They were the guardians of the world's dearest hopes, but proved unfaithful to their sacred trust; for, having vindicated their right to life liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, with the cry of justice and humanity of their lips, they have never ceased to trample on the rights of others. Disposed to exercise the most galling tyranny, they have developed among them the most wide-spread, the most villainous and outrageous system of oppression the world has ever known.
"Our fathers," we are told, "were brought hither by their high veneration for the Christian religion. They labored in its light, and journeyed in its hope." Oppressed and persecuted beyond endurance old world, they encountered untold dangers, toils and sufferings, for the sake of freedom and security, in the new." "They sought," first of all," a faith’s pure shrine, freedom to worship God." They landed at Plymouth, Dec. 22d, 1620. But before setting foot upon that rude, snow-clad, and inhospitable shore, they put their names to a sacred compact, or from of civil polity, whereby they proved themselves one people, and became the hopeful, vigorous and living germ of this noble Commonwealth.
They were Englishmen, and brought with them the qualities and dispositions of Englishmen. Eminently selfish, earnest and persistent of purpose intelligent, daring, enterprising, they could hardly fail to secure and maintain a permanent foothold upon the American continent. Schooled in adversity, they seemed to better their instructions, and, in turn, became the aggressors. Conscious of growing strength, they assumed the right and authority to scatter the heretics, and drive out the heathen before them.
Almost simultaneously with the white, the black man came, but for a very different purpose; not for the service of his God, but to do the will of his master. Already the slave trade had been opened upon the coast of Africa. Stimulated by the cupidity and ambition of European adventurers, Africa chiefs made war upon each other, and the prisoners of war, captured in the interior, were brought to the coast, delivered over to the rapacity of slave-traders, dragged on board their slave-ships, and those of them who unfortunately survived the horrors of the middle passage were transported beyond seas, and sold into interminable bondage, wherever there was a demand for them. Not a few were landed at Jamestown, and retained in the Virginia colony as salves.<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Thus and thus early, was slavery introduced into the British American colonies. First in Virginia, it spread through them all, and was not abolished even in Massachusetts till after the commencement of the revolutionary war. Then and there were sown the seeds of an irrepressible conflict, which has grown with their growth and strengthened with their strength. It is a conflict between the powers of light and of darkness, of truth and falsehood, of good and evil of heaven and hell.
The evil is not merely functional; it is organic. It Pervades and infests the whole body politic. It has reached the vitals, and threatens the life of the nation; and, whether she has virtue and vitality enough left to cast out the legion, to purge off their mischief, to expel their baser fires, and live, time will show. But of this be assured, God reigns, and men shall yet be brought to know and do his will, "on earth, as it is done in heaven."
But through what an age of strife and suffering, through what a night of agony and sweat and blood, most they shall rise, redeemed, regenerated, and disenthralled,-a wiser, nobler, happier people, the joy and hope of the nations, the light of the world! H.W.C.

WM. WELLS BROWN AT HAVERHILL.
Haverhill, Nov. 9,1862.
FRUEND GARRISON.-Let me add to my letter in the last liberator, by saying that on Thursday evening October 30th, Wm. Wells Brown lectured again in our new town Hall-the most beautiful one in the State, Mr. Sumner told us when here-and he had a crowded and attentive audience. It was acknowledge on all hands to have been one of the best meetings of the season. At the close of the address, the following resolutions were passed:-
Resolved, That we endorse the President’s Emancipation Proclamation as a MORAL and military necessity, and will support no man for office who will not sustain it to its full extent.
Resolved, That the thanks of the people of Haverhill be tendered to Wm. Wells Brown for his eloquent advocacy of the rights of man and the right of compensated labor, irrespective of color, condition or nation and we bid him God-speed as a loyal, devoted, and faithful friend of his country and humanity. 
Resolved, That we recognize in Hon. Charles Sumner a heroic, patriotic, generous and faithful Senator of this Commonwealth; that" he is wrapped all over in the banner of his country." And that "those may pierce him who would pierce its blessed folds to reach a champion of justice."
Resolved, That the citizens of Haverhill here, en masse, and at the polls next Tuesday, will elect two whole-should men to the ensuing legislature, who will give their whole heart, mind and strength to the reelection of Charles Sumner as Senator from Massachusetts in Congress, for the full term of six years from the 4th of March next.
Resolved, That we hereby nominate by acclamation, and will reelect by a splendid majority, Gilman Corning and Calvin Butrick, Esqs., as our Representatives to the next General Court, believing them to be capable and reliable men, whom the HONEST PEOPLE may delight to honor.
This meeting was presided over by Rev. George W. Kelly, a native of Virginia, formerly an Orthodox minister, as loyal and true a man as we have among us. On the Platform we had, also as Vice-Presidents, Eider Henry Plummer, one of the pioneers in the Anti-Slavery cause here, and the venerable Benjamin Emerson and Ladd Haseltine. Elder Plummer read various pungent passages of Scripture bearing against oppression, and made a fervent prayer.
The Collection taken up on occasion for Mr. Brown amounted to upwards of twenty dollars. One gentlemen, a shoe manufacturer, was so well pleased with his address, that he wished to be introduced to him for the express purpose of shaking five dollars into his hand, with his heart in it; and this, after he had doubtless contributed no stingy sum to the regular collection.
On Thursday evening, November 5th, Mr. Brown again occupied the Town Hall, and gave us his literary and humorous entertainment, in aid of our soldiers Relief Society and the contrabands. He had an excellent house, and after paying all expenses, forty dollars were put into the hands of the society noticed, and the same amount goes to his own people, of course. Mr. Sumner put thirty-five dollars into the same treasury last year, but here is a colored man, formerly a slave, who gives to our patriotic white soldiers five dollars more, even than our noble Senator.
On both these latter occasions our friend Brown was the guest of Van Buren Hoyt, a young man true as steel to the principles of freedom-one of these months’ men in the Fifth Regiment, at the outset of the war, and who may be relied on to honor all true men without distinction of color or race.
Let me add, in conclusion, that resolution noted were made good in our election. The gentlemen named were triumphantly reelected to the Legislature, and will honor us, themselves, the State and country, by voting for Charles Sumner. G.K.R.
P.S. I may add, further, that Mr. Brown Lectured at Ayer’s Village in the West Parish of this town, last Friday evening, to a full house, who gave him a generous collection.

A SIGN OF THE TIMES.
BARRE. Orleans Co., N.Y., Oct. 30,1862. W.L. GARRISON:
MY FRIEND-I must give you a "sign of the times." In Buffalo, a few weeks since, I saw a regiment of volunteers march to the depot on their way to the "sacred soil" of Virginia. As an escort at their head matched the "Continentals" – a company of elderly men, dressed in uniform after the fashion of 76, who drill as a Home Guard. Millard Fillmore of Fugitive Salve Bill Memory, was their captain, and the leader of the long array. Thousands of spectators and friends of the departing volunteers thronged the sidewalks. The soldiers’ hearts were full, and needed the relief of utterance. Some one among them sounded a note of the "John Brown hymn," and from rank to rank rolled the great words-
"John Brown’s body lies a mouldering in the grave, but his soul is marching on."
And in solemn silence, Fillmore heard them! Verily, the Divine laws are immortal, and conquer at last.
We are just on the even of our State election. Ere this reaches you, the result will be known, and I utter no prophecies. The lines are more clearly drawn, constantly. It is Freedom and Loyalty against Slavery and Treason-the same in spirit in New York as in Carolina. Beauregard brands the "Yankees" as Abolitionists," and Seymour and John Van Buren echo the cry against those who sustain the President’s Proclamation.
I have been speaking for a fortnight in Cayhuga Country to good audiences, to show the "irrepressible conflict" between Slavery and Freedom. In Auburn, the home of Seward, his name has lost its magic. In September, I was in Cattaraugus and Erie Counties, and found a deep and meeting nearer Buffalo with the growls and falsehoods of the secesh influences emanating there from.
Our Government moves. The Proclamation is a great step. Yet it would be a great lesson for men in Washington to learn that good things are best when done in time. Oh, for that swift and ready insight which takes up the heart of a people in their highest and most heroic mood, and makes that rare inspiration their law and savior! But, amidst trouble and peril, the end of slavery draws near, and then comes the dawn. Yours truly, G.B. STEBBINS
The President notifies all who call upon him that he will not modify or withdraw his Emancipation Proclamation. God! By that sign he shall conquer, and the nation be saved.
<c02>
FREMONT DEMONSTRATION AT ST.LOUIS. 
Presentation of a Sword to Major General Fremont—Grand Torchlight Procession-Great Turn-out of the Germans-speech of the pathfinder.
The St. Louis Democrat contains a long report of the Fremont demonstration in that city on Saturday, November 1st, on which occasion the General was presented with a sword, the gift of the German citizens. There was a grand torchlight procession, and among the inscriptions on the transparencies were the following:—
"Fremont and victory!"
"Fremont, the man of the future!"
"Fremont, the hope of the country!"
"And their slaves, if any, shall be free men!"-Fremont's Proclamation, August 31,'61
"The politicians hate whom the people revere and love!"
"The people will claim thee!"
"Free speech, free soil, Fremont!"
"Fremont, the of man the people!"
"You hate him, but your hatred makes him dearer to us!"
"You love the Germans because they love liberty; they love thee because thou desirest liberty!"
"Give us Fremont, and we will take victory!"
In response to the presentation speech, General Fremont said:—
"This, my friends, is a magnificent setting in which you place the noble gift that, in the name of the German population of St. Louis, I have just received from their committee. I am happy that circumstances have enabled me to receive it directly from yourselves, and that I have this opportunity in the sound of your voices and the light of your torches, and in the kindling enthusiasm of the moment, to tell you how deeply I am indebted to you, and how cordially I reciprocate your friendship. Believe, my German friends, that I fully appreciate the distinction this friendship gives me. Habituated for generations to liberty and domestic tranquillity, our American people enjoyed them like sunshine and air, as the natural conditions of their lives. Their homes have been always sanctuaries, their persons inviolable as Roman senators, every avenue to individual prosperity was open to them; and when the crash of civil war came, they heard in it only the call to arms for a transient struggle. But your surroundings have been of a different character, and when the guns at Sumter broke the peace of the continent, they woke far other echoes in your hearts. You had lived where political and social liberty existed only in men's aspirations. You remembered how often you had seen the sword of the people vainly bared against the tyrannies of established power, and you knew better how to appreciate a birthright of liberty, and saw quicker the presence of its dangers. Therefore it is—and because you are father removed from the intrigues which in this country make the public service dangerous—that your approbation has in it a peculiar value. And this it is that makes the beautiful gift I receive from you to-night, and this splendid exhibition of regard with which you surround its presentation, one of the most solid satisfactions of my life. And, indeed, 1 am truly happy that you have placed me among that brotherhood of patriots to whose hands you are willing to confide the sword in your cause. For, no matter how begun, this is the people's war. Whatever issue bared the sword, it is now a reformation, and you contend not only for the integrity of the country, but for its regeneration, which it is in your hands to accomplish. In every country its leading features mark out the site where great battles must be fought. Upon the old continent, recurring battles, on the same spots, and age after age have witnessed the struggle of nations always more or less for liberty, working out always the problem of government—whether the people should hold the sword or be themselves subject to it. At last, we have received the baptism of blood which admits us among the old nations. Upon our hitherto peaceful country these last impressions have been made that complete its resemblance to the old continent, and now this problem of government comes to us, and is already marking out its historic fields. But this time it finds the sword in the hands of the people—this time they are masters of the situation. They see it from their vantage ground and by the light of ages, and they will so wield the sword that this first shall be their last and only contest in this question of government, and that these historic battle-fields of ours shall be, not the recurring arenas for the fruitless shedding of fraternal blood, but great seals upon the final triumph of popular liberty. But while you give the wealth and power of the nation to maintain the integrity of its territory, and while you stand by your constituted authorities with invincible fidelity, and hold them inflexibly in position, you must with equal determination maintain those safeguards which have been thrown around your personal liberties. The strength of the nation to rise superior to every assault lies in the maintenance of individual liberty as it stood under the supremacy of the laws—in the freedom of speech and freedom of the press. Every invasion of the laws is a usurpation, dangerous in revolution, and not to be justified by any plea of temporary expediency. Obsta principiis—stop the beginnings, and stop them decisively, remembering that it you fail in this duty, you surrender the sword, and the people fall. God placed in the hands of an angel, at the gates of Eden, a flaming sword, turning on every side, to guard the way to the tree of Life. So has he placed in your hands a sword which you must keep always bare and flaming, and turning every way, to guard the approaches to that liberty which is the tree of your national life. And now, my dear and kind friends, in parting from you and leaving our connection to those pleasant associations the memory of which we have rekindled to-night, what can I say that will even remotely express the deep impressions your generous favor has made upon me? I shall hold you always in most cordial and affectionate remembrance, and 1 can only say that gratitude and regard for you will remain among the permanent emotions of my heart. The laws of Rome denied triumphs to generals for victories obtained in civil wars—and rightly too, for how can we find in the bloodshed and misfortunes of countrymen occasions for rejoicing? But this—if it be not presumptuous in me to say so—this is a triumph which no feelings and no laws forbid, and which every law would be powerless to express—a triumph in the affections of the people."

RESPONSE OF GEN. HALLECK.
HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY
WASHINGTON, Oct. 28, 1862. 
Hon. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
In reply to the general interrogatories contained in your letter of yesterday, I have to report:
First, that requisitions for supplies to the army under Gen. McClellan are made by his staff officers on the Chiefs of Bureaus here; that is, for Quartermaster's supplies, by his chief Quartermaster, on the Quartermaster General; for Commissary supplies, by his chief Commissary, on the Commissary General, etc. No such requisitions have been made, to my knowledge, upon the Secretary of War, and none upon the General-in-Chief.
Second—on several occasions, Gen. McClellan has telegraphed to me that his army was deficient in certain supplies. All these telegrams were immediately referred to the heads of Bureaus with orders to report. It was ascertained that in every instance the requisitions had been immediately filled, except one, where the Quartermaster General had been obliged to send from Philadelphia certain articles of clothing, tents, etc., Dot having a full supply here. There has not been, so tar as I could ascertain, any neglect or delay in any department or Bureau in issuing all supplies asked for by Gen. McClellan. Or by the officers of his staff. Delays have occasionally occurred in forwarding supplies" by rail, on account of the crowded condition of the depots, or of a want of cars, but whenever notified of this, agents have been sent out to remove the difficulty. Under the excellent superintendence of Gen. Haupt, I think these delays have been less frequent and of shorter duration than usual with freight trains.
An army of the size of that under Gen. McClellan will frequently he for some days without the supplies asked for on account of neglect in making timely requisitions, and unavoidable delays in forwarding them and in distributing them to the different Brigades and Regiments.
From all the information I can obtain, I am of the opinion that the requisitions from that army have been filled more promptly, and that the men as a general rule have been better supplied, than our armies operating in the West. The latter have operated at a much greater distance from the sources of supplies, and have had far less facilities of transportation.
Third—soon after the battle of Antietam, Gen. McClellan was urged to give me information of his intended movements, in order that if he moved between the enemy and Washington, reinforcements could be sent from this place.
On the first of October, finding that he proposed to operate from Harper’s Ferry, I urged him to cross the river at once and give battle to the enemy, pointing out to him the disadvantages of delaying till the autumn rains had swollen the Potomac, and impaired the roads.
On the 6th of October he was peremptorily ordered to cross the Potomac and give battle to the enemy, or drive him south. "Your army must move now, while the roads are good." It will be observed that three weeks hare elapsed since the order was given.
Fourth—In my opinion, there has been no such want of supplies in the army under Gen. McClellan as to prevent his compliance with the orders to advance against the enemy. Had he moved to the south side of the Potomac, he could have received his supplies almost as readily as remaining inactive on the north.
Fifth—On the 7th of October, in a telegram in regard to his intended movements, Gen. McClellan stated that it would require at least three days to supply the 1st, 5th and 6th corps; that they needed shoes and other indispensable articles of clothing, as well as shelter tents.
<c03>
No complaint was made that any requisitions had not been filled, and it was inferred from his language that he was only waiting for the distribution of his applies. On the 11th, he telegraphed that a portion of supplies sent by rail had been delayed. As already stated, agents were immediately sent from here to investigate this complaint, and they reported that everything had gone forward.
On the same date, the 11th, he spoke of many of his hones being broken down by fatigue. On the 12th he complained that the rate of supply was only 150 horses per week for the entire army there and in front of Washington. I immediately directed the Quartermaster General to inquire into this matter, and report why a larger supply was not furnished.
Gen. Meigs reported on the 14th, that the average issue of horses to Gen. McClellan's army in the field and in front of Wellington for the previous six weeks had been 1,459 per week, or 8,754 in all; in addition that large numbers of mules had been supplied, and that the number of animals with Gen. McClellan's army on the Upper Potomac was over 81,000. He also reported that he was then sending to that army all the horses he could procure.
On the 18th, Gen. McClellan stated in regard to Gen. Meigs's report, that he had filled every requisition for shoes and clothing, "Gen. Meigs may hare ordered these articles to be forwarded, but they have not reached our depots, and unless greater effort to ensure prompt transmission is made by the department of which Gen. Meigs is the head, they might as well remain in New York or Philadelphia, so far as this army is concerned."
I immediately called Gen. Meigs s attention to this apparent neglect of his Department On the 25th, he reported as the result of hi» investigation, that 48,000 pairs of boots and shoes had been received by the Quartermaster of Gen. McClellan's army at Harper's Ferry, Frederick and Hagerstown; that 20,000 pairs were at Harper's Ferry depot on the 21st, that 10,000 more were on their way, and 15,000 more ordered.
Col. Ingalls, Aid-de-Camp and Chief Quartermaster to Gen. McClellan, telegraphed on the 25th: "The suffering for want of clothing is exaggerated, I think, and certainly might have been avoided by timely requisitions of regimental and brigade commanders."
On the 24th he telegraphed to the Quartermaster General that "The clothing was not detained in the cars at the depots. Such complaints are groundless. The fact is, the clothing arrives and is issued, but more still is wanted. I have ordered more than would seem necessary from any data furnished me, and I beg to remind you that you have always very promptly met all my requisitions, so far as clothing is concerned. Our depot is not at fault. It provides as soon as due notice is given. I foresee no time when any army of over 100,000 men will not call for clothing and other articles."
In regard to Gen. McClellan's means of promptly communicating the wants of his army to me or to the proper Bureaus of the War Department, I report that, in addition to the ordinary mails, he has been in hourly communication with Washington by telegraph.
It is due to Gen. Meigs that I should submit herewith a copy of a telegram received by him from General McClellan.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, (Signed) H. W. HALLECK, General in Chief.

U.S. MILITARY TELEGRAPH,
RECEIVED OCT. 22, 1862—9.40 P. M. 
FROM Gen. McClellan's Headquarters, To Brigadier General Meigs:
Your despatch of this date is received. I have never intended in any letter or despatch to make any accusation against yourself or your department for not furnishing and forwarding clothing as rapidly as it was possible for you to do.
I believe that everything has been done that could be done in this respect. The idea that I have tried to convey was, that certain portions of the command were without clothing, and the army could not move until it was supplied.
(Signed) G. B. MCCLELLAN, Major General.

REMOVAL OF GENERAL McCLELLAN.
HEADQUARTERS, ARMY OF THE POTOMAC, Salem, Va., Nov. 8—Saturday noon.
The Order relieving Major-General McClellan from the command of the Army of the Potomac was received at headquarters at 11 o'clock last light. It was entirely unexpected to all, and therefore every one was taken by surprise. On its receipt, the command was immediately turned over to Gen. Burnside. Gen. McClellan and his staff will leave to-morrow for Trenton, where he is ordered to report. The order was delivered to him by Gen. Buckingham in person. His last official act was the issuing of an address to his soldiers, informing them in a few words that the command had devolved on Gen. Burnside, and taking an affectionate leave of them.
THE OFFICIAL ORDER RELIEVING GEN. MCCLELLAN.—New York, Nov. 11th The following is the order removing Gen. McClellan from the Army of the Potomac:—
War Department, Adjutant General's Office, WASHINGTON, NOV. 5, 1862.
General Orders No. 182. By direction of the President of the United States, it is ordered that Major General McClellan be relieved from the command of the Army of the Potomac, and that Major General Burnside take command of that Army.
By order of the Secretary of War,"
(Signed) E. D. TOWNSEND,
Assistant Adjutant General.

HEADQUARTERS, ARMY OF THE POTOMAC, November 11, 1862.
Major-General McClellan was escorted to the cars this noon by a large cavalcade of officers, including General Burnside. There was no demonstration at his departure.

GEN. BURNSIDES ASSUMPTION OF HIS COMMAND.
HEADQUARTERS, ARMY OF THE POTOMAC, Warrenton, Nov. 10—Evening.
Gen. McClellan was to have left yesterday for the North, but the transferring of a command like this could not be accomplished in a day, and he wag, therefore, compiled to remain. At 9 o'clock lat evening, I all the officers belonging at headquarters assembled at the General's tent to bid him farewell. The only; toast given was by Gen. McClellan—"The Army of: the Potomac."
Gen McClellan and staff, accompanied by Gen. Burnside, to-day bid farewell to his army, visiting in succession the several army corps. As the General rode through the ranks, the tattered banners of the veteran regiments were dipped to greet him, while the thousands of soldiers gave vent to their feelings in continuous rounds of cheers and applause.
The General and staff will leave by special train tomorrow for the North.
The following order was issued by Gen. Burnside on taking command of the army:—
"In accordance with General Orders No. 182, issued by the President of the United States, I hereby assume command of the Army of the Potomac. Patriotism and the exercise of my every energy in the direction of this army, aided by the full and hearty cooperation of its officers and men, will, I hope, under the blessing of God, insure its success. Having been a sharer of the privations, and a witness of the bravery of the old army of the Potomac in the Maryland campaign, and fully identified with them in their feelings of respect and esteem for Gen. McClellan, entertained through a long and most friendly association with I him, feel that it is not as a stranger I assume command. To the Ninth Army Corps, so long and intimately associated with me, I need say nothing. Our histories are identical. With diffidence for myself, but with a proud confidence in the unswerving loyalty and determination of the gallant army now entrusted to my care, 1 accept its control with the steadfast assurance that the just cause must prevail.
A.E. BURNSIDE,
Major-General Commanding."

CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN GOV. SPRAGUE AND GENERAL BURNSIDE. The Providence papers print the following correspondence:—
State of Rhode Island, Executive Department PROVIDENCE, November 10,1862.
GENERAL,—Allow me to tender you my sincere congratulations on your appointment to the command of the Army of the Potomac. Your well-known energy, skill and patriotism, will, I feel sure, restore confidence to a disheartened people, and lead them to expect active operations and the speedy success of our brave army in the suppression of treason and rebellion.
Rhode Island regards your appointment with unfeigned pride and pleasure.
(Signed) WM. SPRAGUE.
To General Burnside, Commander-in-Chief of the Army of the Potomac.

TELEGRAM.
HEADQUARTERS ARMY, Nov. 10, 1862.
To Gov. Wm. Sprague:
Your dispatch of this date is received, and I thank you for it. It is a great support to me in the assumption of so great a responsibility to know that I have jour confidence and that of the State of Rhode Island.
(Signed) A. E. BURNSIDE,
Major General, Commanding Army of the Potomac.
PROVIDENCE, Nov. 9. By order of Gov. Sprague, a salute of 100 guns is to be fired here tomorrow in honor of the appointment of the Rhode Island General Burnside to the command of the army of the Potomac.
<c04>
THE LESSON OF THE ELECTIONS.
It most he the business of the radical members of the present Congress to impart to the President a right undemanding of the situation. The people only saw that nothing was done, no progress was made, and no end for the war and its hardships appeared. But let the contrary be seen, and the opposition of the newly elected members of Congress will be checkmated. If now the President insists on hair-way measures, or rewires upon an utter turning back, he will only hare pronounced his own sentence, and broken the staff of his support. Should the new Congress, however, array itself in factious opposition to the President victorious over the rebellion, his position in regard to it would be still better than that of Andrew Jackson, whom the people sustained, after a violent contest, and whom they to day reckon among their saints.
But whatever is to be done must now be done instanter, before it is too late. If, hitherto, days were precious, now are Moments; for we have aroused a cunning enemy in our very midst, who is every where exerting himself to the utmost to cross and confound our counsels. The peril of our situation is extreme, and only extreme measures can save us.—Die (St. Louis) Neue Zeit, of Nov. 7

THE CONTRABANDS.
Editor Transcript,—Please publish the following extracts from a letter just received from a friend at Fortress Monroe. He is a gentleman of the highest intelligence and character, and from long and intimate acquaintance with the "contrabands," his testimony as to the danger of negroes coming North is of the
most reliable character. F. W. B.
FORTRESS MONROE, Nov. 1, 1862 Dear SIR,—Your article in the Transcript of the 30th was just and timely, exposing the unblushing falsification of facts by the Boston Post. The story was started by rebels, and all through this State the cry has been, " Carry them off North if you are going to free them, and we will get in foreigners"; and when told that foreign labor will be much more expensive, the answer has been, "We will induce the Irish and Germans to come here in such large numbers, that they will be obliged to work for twenty-five or fifty cents per day." All agree that if this is not done, all the negroes will be wanted upon the soil.
The colored people are as active and industrious and capable as the Irish. They are much more easily managed; and as the Irish are at the North and the negro in the South, each in their more native latitude, so let it be; and as secesh slaveholders threaten to emigrate if they cannot rule, al, the better; that will make room at once for foreign skill and capital, and these combined with free cheap labor will increase the productions of the Slave States commercially, at least four-fold in five years.
If the Irish are not blinded to their own interests, they will go as a body all over the land for universal emancipation; for if slavery continues or lingers into gradual extinction, slaves will abscond in such large numbers as to flood the North, and the farmers and all other employers of cheap labor will be able to get all the help they want, male and female, for less than half now paid.
Let the rebellion be crushed, and emancipation follow, and matters get settled so as to make their situation safe, and the entire negro race in all Northern America will gradually concentrate in the South, and there become the great producing class, the main source of wealth in all the South in time to come, as in lime past, only increased at least four-fold.
It is almost the universal desire of the colored people to go South instead of North, if moved at all.

FIGHT BETWEEN A KANSAS COLORED REGIMENT AND GUERILLAS.
The Leavenworth correspondent of the Chicago Tribune gives the following account of a fight between a Kansas colored regiment and a gang of guerillas:—
"The Kansas colored regiment had a fight with guerillas, commencing on Tuesday last and continuing several days, in which the blacks were victorious. The facts (as related to me by Lieut. Lyon of Co. A) were, the 1st Kansas, colored, under Jackman and Cockrell, occupied and held an island at the head of the Osage River, at the junction of the Mart-de-zene and Mill Creek.
These two combining form the Osage River near Butler, Bates County, Mo. At this point the secesh keep a large quantity of stock guarded by these guerillas. Major Henning, commander of Fort Scott, and Provost Marshal of Southern Kansas, ordered from Fort Lincoln a detachment of the colored regiment, (the regiment is stationed at Fort Lincoln,) 160 men from the 1st, Col. Williams, and seventy men from the battalion of colored troops from Southern Kansas, under Capt. Leamen, making 230—all under Capt. Ward, acting commander of the regiment for the time being, the Colonel being absent. Arriving at the island they found about 400 guerillas—the blacks took possession of Toot man's house, a noted guerilla by that name residing there—they surrounded the house and yard with a wall of rails, and named it Fort Africa.
The enemy were all mounted, and they made frequent attacks on the blacks. The guerillas were reinforced with 200 men, and the blacks sent to Fort Scott for reinforcements and ammunition,—meanwhile the 230 blacks were fighting the 600 secesh. Up to Thursday night, seven blacks were killed and eight wounded. Captain Crew (white) of Company A was killed, and his body was brought to Leavenworth yesterday.
Lieut. Gardner, (white,) the fighting Quaker, so called, was wounded, making eight killed and nine wounded on our side, and up to the same time from fifteen to twenty of the guerillas were killed. The number of wounded not known to my informant. On Thursday night the reinforcements from Fort Scott came on the ground, consisting of 150 cavalry and two pieces of artillery.
The guerillas immediately commenced retreating to the island, and down the river. It was the intention to attack them on the island the next morning, and break tip the nest. The final result I will send you when I get it. Thus the first black blood has been spilled in fighting with the enemies of the Union.
I have several accounts from the scene of action, and they all agree that the blacks fought well—and not a single coward among them; but they were rather hard to handle and keep back, and they had to be held with a tight rein, like a pair of young, well fed horse?, anxious to go—and to go at the guerillas."
Too MUCH. We had become about reconciled to the jabberings of George Francis Train as a political buffoon, as his was a regular business to get quarters out of the people, as legitimate as the business of any showman or quack. We were content that he should whip England, annihilate the negroes, check the progress of the Anglo-Saxons, and build up a confederacy upon the ruins of the American Republic, as much as he pleased on paper. But when an officer of our army, wearing the stars of a Major-General of the United States, so far forgets himself as to leave the field and appear before great audiences of curiosity seekers in New York, to make up a Punch and Judy show, the uniform which he wears is disgraced. If Gen. Cassius Marcius Clay likes this sort of business, let him resign his idle commission, and enter into an arrangement with Mr. Train's door-keeper, to accompany that peripatetic individual in a starring exhibition through the country. We have no especial desire to save his private reputation, but the American people have an interest in his clothes.—Boston Herald.
NEW YORK, NOV. 8. The feeling in Europe is described by Mr. Cameron as strongly savoring of intervention, and this feeling is strongly increasing in consequence of the continued inactivity of the Federal arms. In England, it is thought that no active intervention will take place until Parliament meets. The success or failure of the present campaign will probably decide the matter, and only decided victories on our side will dispel the idea, in his opinion. It is generally understood in England that a rebel naval attack on our Atlantic cities is in preparation. Three immense iron-dad steam rams, the most powerful ever constructed, are building in English ship-yards, and with these it is supposed that the rebels will attack our Northern cities. They have an especial desire to make a dash at New York; and even if the enterprise were but partially successful, the presence of rebel war vessels in New York harbor, if only for an hour, would have a great effect abroad.
There is a secession club in Liverpool numbering 400 members, who provide funds to furnish vessels to ran our blockade. No individual member of this society is allowed to know what any other member contributes.
.WASHINGTON. NOV. 10. AH statements alleging disaffection in the army, in consequence of the change in the command of the army of the Potomac, are pronounced by those who have the best means of knowing, to be without foundation.
WASHINGTON, NOV. 9. The removal of Gen. McClellan, of course, has been the subject of animated discussion here to-day» The Chronicle of to-morrow will state that the action of the President in changing the command of the army of the Potomac was the result of a long and patient consultation on the part of our highest military authorities, and must be regarded as a military question. The necessity for active operations in Virginia had become so imperative that, for reasons which appeared conclusive, the important change was made.
NEW YORK, NOV. 10. The young Democracy are holding to-night a grand jubilee at Union Hall, which is brilliantly illuminated. Van Buren and O'Gorman are the principal speakers. The name of McClellan is hailed with tremendous cheers whenever it is mentioned.
<c05>
THE PROCLAMATION IN NEW ORLEANS. I met an old planter a day or two ago, who has lost nearly one hundred negroes by the present rebellion, who saluted me as follows: "Halloo-, you Northern Yankees are making and sight more noise about President Lincoln's Proclamation than we Southerners are." The remark is most truthful, and shows in the most painful light that the miserable truckling to the stare oligarchy by certain presses and persona of the North is chronic, and cannot be cured even by the horrors and sacrifices which hare been entailed on the country by the present war. This sadden up rising of certain old political elements, which I thought if not dead, were at least paralyzed, is indeed disgusting, and but for my thorough conviction that the masses of the people are sound, I should almost despair. I have yet to hear one word in the streets against the Emancipation Proclamation from any Southern acquaintances. They all say to me—this is exactly what might have been expected; and more— so utterly disorganized have the slaves become, that the institution, under its old order, is forever destroyed and worthless, no matter what Mr. Lincoln or any one else may say on the subject—.New Orleans cor. N. Y. Times.
The following is an extract from a business letter recently received by a business firm in this city from New Orleans. The writer has lived in New Orleans for more than twenty years, and has been strongly opposed to any movement of an anti-slavery character:—
"Our Union friends all feel some encouragement from the President's Proclamation. We think it a move in the right direction. Push the war with vigor, and if possible keep down political differences. The secessionists are constantly pointing to your quarrels, and relying on that source. They are hoping, by every mail, to see an opposition party arise in the North to distract your councils and divide the Union strength."
THE PROCLAMATION IN VICKSBURG. A gentleman who has recently left Vicksburg says that the more sober and respectable people there pronounced General Butler the best executive officer in the Federal service. By this class, also, the President's Proclamation is justified as a war measure. The contents and purport of the Proclamation are known generally to the negro population, and, when they feel safe in doing so, they give unmistakable signs of their appreciation of the document.
Col. Hamilton, of Texas, says:—"If there has been one solitary step in the right direction taken by the President, it is the issuing of the Proclamation of Emancipation."
A WONDERFUL DOCUMENT. Judging from the tone of the Democratic press, the President's Emancipation Proclamation is a marvellous document. A perusal of the New York Herald, Express, Journal of Commerce, Chicago Times, Cincinnati Enquirer, and others of that stripe, enable the reader to discover the following peculiarities of die Proclamation:—
It will destroy the Union.
It is harmless and impotent.
It will excite slave insurrections.
The slaves will never hear of it.
It will excite the South to desperation.
The rebels will laugh it to scorn.
These are a few of the attributes which the Democratic press give to the instrument.

CONSERVATIVE CHORUS.
Abraham, spare the South,
Touch not a single slave;
 Nor e'en by word of mouth
Disturb the thing, we crave.
'T was our forefathers' hand
That slavery begot;
There, Abraham, let it stand.
Thine acts shall harm it not.
THE POSITION OF A WAR DEMOCRAT. Col. Norman Eddy, a life-long Democrat, of the 48th Indiana Regiment, who was severely wounded while gallantly leading his men at Iuka, returned home at Indianapolis, and was recently serenaded. In response to this compliment, he made a brief speech, in which he implored the people to have faith in our President and Generals. The policy of confiscating and emancipating the slaves in the rebel States he endorsed as eminently wise and just. It was a military necessity, and a potent means of weakening and overcoming the rebellion.—Chicago Tribune.
GEN. MCCLELLAN'S ARMY ON THE PENINSULA. From official sources, it is ascertained that one hundred and sixty-eight thousand men were sent down to the Peninsula with Gen. McClellan prior to the seven day's fight; that on his leaving Harrison's Landing he had but eighty-four thousand, twenty thousand having been killed in battle, died from disease, or made prisoners by the enemy, (there being a large number of the latter,) and forty-four thousand being in the hospitals and on furlough.
GEN. HOOKER ASSIGNED TO PORTER'S DIVISION. Major-General Hooker has been assigned to the command of the army corps heretofore commanded by General Fitz John Porter, who has been ordered to Washington to stand his trial upon the charges preferred against him by Major-General Pope for misconduct at the battle of Bull Run.
CHARLESTON, S. C, NOV. 6. Gen. Beauregard has ordered non-combatants to leave Charleston, with their movable property. He has also ordered all the slaves to be removed. This is done to avoid embarrassment and delay in case a sudden necessity should arrive for the removal of the entire population.
The rebels evacuated Martinsburg on the 5th. They have destroyed the Baltimore and Ohio railroad from within a few miles of Harper's Ferry, (with all the company's property along the line,) to six miles beyond Martinsburg.
Gen. Pleasanton, in a skirmish with Stuart, on the 8th inst., near Little Washington, Va., captured three pieces of artillery, also a captain, lieutenant and five privates. No loss has been reported.
In consequence of General Mitchel's death, General Hunter will return to the Department of the South as soon as he is relieved from duty on the Military Commission.
Blair's serenade and reception on Fourth street called together not over one hundred and fifty persons. Fremont's serenade and reception, last night, called out five or six thousand citizens. This is sufficient.—St. Louis Democrat.
A letter from Gibraltar, dated October 18, stales that the commander of the rebel steamer Sumter was murdered on board that vessel by the second officer, whose name is Hester, of South Carolina. The murderer was arrested, and is in prison.
Elias Howe. Jr., whoso income is a quarter of a million a year, carries the mail daily from Washington, seven miles, to the camp of the 17th Connecticut regiment, in which he is a private.
ELECTION NEWS. The returns from the State of New York are not yet complete, but it is evident that Seymour's majority for Governor will be about 10,000. The Assembly is a tie—64 to 64.
DEMOCRATIC REJOICING. The Democrats of Portland fired 100 guns this noon, 7th inst., in honor of the Democratic victories in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois, and the election of Seymour in New York. 
CHICAGO, NOV. 8. The St Paul, (Min.) Press says Donelly, (Rep.) is elected to Congress in the First District In the Second District, Windon, (Rep.) is also elected. The Republicans have a majority in the State of 2000.
A BOOK BY MRS. FREMONT. Mrs. John C. Fremont has turned author, and has written a book entitled " The Story of the Guard; a Chronicle of the War," which will soon be published by Ticknor & Fields, and will contain certain letters relating to Gen. Fremont and his men. The profits of the work will be devoted to the support of the widows and orphans of officers who fell in Gen. Fremont's Missouri battles.
MILWAUKEE, Wis., Nov. 10. The draft in this Slate commenced to-day. In some localities it passed off quietly and in order. In Ozaukee county the lists were seized by the mob and destroyed. The Commissioner was severely handled, and fled to this city. In this city there were strong indications of trouble, complaints being made that injustice had been done to some of the wards. A crowd of men in the 9th ward assembled and marched through the city, to the number of three or four hundred, in procession. The result of the matter was, that the draft was postponed for the present.
The contrabands at Cairo, III., number from 800 to 1000, and are in a must miserable condition, suffering intensely for want of necessary clothing and bedding. Two arc reported by the physicians as having died on Friday night from want and exposure. Nearly all are women and children, and a large number of them, are ill.
In the year 1807, John Randolph of Virginia said to Josiah Quincy of Massachusetts—" We slaveholder in the South count upon the Democracy of the North as we do upon oar negroes."
Let it be constantly kept in mind, that rebels and traitors have no constitutional rights that loyal men are bound to respect—so long as they remain in rebellion against the Government. The rights, benefits, protections and guarantees contained in the Constitution are intended for loyal citizens, and not for armed rebels, who repudiate the Constitution, and trample it under foot.—Leavenworth Conservative.
<c06>
FRATERNITY LECTURES.
FIFTH C0URSE.
The public of Boston and vicinity are respectfully informed that the FIFTH COURSE of LECTURES under the auspices of the Fraternity of the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society will be continued on
TUESDAY EVENING, November 18,1862, at TRKMONT TEMPLE, when an address will be made by
RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
To be followed on successive Tuesday evenings by lectures from the following persons:—
November 25.—OWES LOVEJOY.
December 2.—B. GRATE BROWN.
December 9.—WENDELLPHILLIPS.
December 16.—HENRY WARD BEECHER.
December 23.—JACOB M. MAMMING.
December 30.—GRORGM WM. Curtis.
Lectures to commence at half-past 7 o'clock. Course Tickets, admitting the Bearer and Lady, at $2 each, may be obtained at Williams & Everett's, 234 Washington St.; Oliver Ditson & Co's. 277 Washington St.; of Solomon Parsons, Esq., Superintendent of Temple; and of either member of the Lecture Committee, who in former years have had the disposal of tickets.
THE FUG1TIVI AID SOCIETY of Boston have effected an arrangement with Mrs. Louisa DEMORTIE, the talented young colored dramatic reader, to give readings wherever the benevolent may be willing to assist, for the purpose of alleviating the sufferings of the freedman or "contrabands" of Washington.
SARAH A. L. MARTIN, 26 Myrtle St., President of the Fugitive Aid Society.
MRS. DEMORTIE is to read at New York, on the 24th of November; Albany, the 27th; and at Brooklyn on the lst of December.

BOSTON FUGITIVE AID SOCIETY. 
A Course of Lectures in aid of the suffering Freedman of Washington, D. C., to be delivered at Joy Street Church,
November 17. Lecture by Rev. Dr. E. N. Kirk.
November 24. Rev. J. Sella Martin.
December 1, Rev. Dr. W.Hagua.
December 8. Prof. C L. Reason.
December 15. Rev. R. C. Waterston.
December 22. Frederick Douglass.
Tickets for the course, 50 cents.
E.H. HEKYWOOD will speak at Music Hall, Sunday, Nov. 16, on "The Advent of Justice."
E. H. HKYWOOD will speak at Florence, Friday evening, Nov. 1, and in Cummington, Sundays, Nov. 13 and 30.
ANDREW T. F0SS, in behalf of the American and Massachusetts Anti-slavery Societies, will lecture as follows:
Keene, N. U., Sunday, Nov. 16.
Members and friends of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, who are indebted for Pledges made to the Society in January last, or previously to that time, are requested to pay the same as early as practicable, either to the Treasurer, EDMUND JACKSON, or at the Society’s office, 221 Washington Street.
The very valuable and still timely tract, by Mrs. L. Maria Child, entitled "dThe Right Way the Safe Way, proved by Emancipation in the British West Indies, and elsewhere," (108 pages,) will be sent by mail to any parson requesting it, and enclosing six cents in undefaced post age stamps. Address SAMUEL MAY, Jr. 22 1 Washington St., Boston.
A few remaining copies of the American Anti-Slavery Society's last Report, entitled "The Anti-Slavery History of the John Brown Year," will be sent in the same way, on the receipt of the postage, viz., fourteen cents.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Woman and Children.
References.—Luther Clark, M.D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4. P. M.
DIED—In Newbury, Ohio, Oct. 20, HERMAN OBER Agad 56. In the same place, Oct. 25, ZACHARIAH OBER, father of HERMAN, aged 87. Both long and warmly interested in the cause of the oppressed. 154 Washington St., 5 doors South of Milk St. October 24.6m

WEIS & ZOEBISCH.
European and Fancy Furs,
308 Washington Street, 308
OPPOSITE BOSTON THKATKX, BOSTON.
Particular attention is paid to altering and repairing Old Furs. Furs preserved daring the summer.

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."

MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET.
where the will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine oases oat of tea, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from taming grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all eases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of toe world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also pasted for her easterners to lake to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEATUX BANNISTER
No31 Winter street,. Boston.
DENTISTRY. 
D. DANIEL MANN has removed his office to 146 Harrison Avenue. He has, for the past five years inserted artificial teeth on the vulcanite base, in the use of which he has made some improvements. It is better than gold, when well made, being lighter, stronger, and more durable, and is also much cheaper.
Dr. M. also was a somewhat similar preparation for Billing teeth too tender or too far decayed for Billing with gold. His prices are as moderate, at least, as those of any responsible dentist.
Boston, September 20, 1862.<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
From the Salem Observer.
A BABY—"LOST"!
BY MABELLE.
Have you seen my dear little baby?
He has wandered from home away—
All in vain have I sought to find him
From morn until closing day.
I have hoped that he only was hiding
From his mother, a moment, in play;
But the darkness of night is gathering, 
With its dews so damp and chill;
While my heart is growing more heavy
With a sense of coming ill,
I have tried to lighten the burden,
But the weight is lying there still.
They have told me perhaps on the morrow
I should see him once more in my home;
But tell me, oh why should he wander,
Or who would thus tempt him to roam?
His barque is too frail to be trusted
Where life's billows so madly foam.
Then turn not away from my pleading,
While alone through the darkness I go;
Lest the cap which for you may be filing
May hold the same measure of woe;
But go on this errand of mercy,
My baby at once you will know;
For his cheeks were like blossoms of peaches—
Eyes blue as the azure above;
And his brow was fairer than marble,
Where God placed the teal of his love;
His face was a pattern of meekness,
His voice like the tones of a dove.
His garments were pure as the lilies,
And he wore on his forehead a star,
The brightness of which war so dazzling That nothing its glory could mar;
I have tried all in vain in my weakness
To follow, if only afar.
But voice I have heard in the stillness,
Whose language was music to me,
Since it told me of wings which were hidden,
That I through my tears could not see,
Kept folded until they were needed,
When my bird from his cage should be free.
Then one who would bear all my burdens,
Has told me with tears of a bed, 
Where flowers are blooming in beauty,
Where the her green mantle bar spread;
He has told me, in tones full of pity,
"Our baby, dear Mabelle, is dead!"
But my heart had ready an answer,
For baby was with me that day;
He was here in a living presence,
Though not in a form of clay;
And my soul still clings to the Savior,
Who have taken death's sting away;
Now, 'tis only in hours of darkness
Then I turn from his home to our Eden,
And it seems like a grave here to me;
But I know if my own heart was breaking,
"It is well," my sweet baby, with thee.

HOUSEHOLD BABY.
BY GRACE GREENWOOD.
What a joy to human eyes,
When it laughs, or when it cries;
What a treasure, what a prize,
Is the household baby!
Be its temper rising, falling,
Be it cooing, crowing, squalling,
Tis the same dear precious darling—
Is the household baby!
If the scene without be dreary,
If the heart within grew weary,
Baby wakes, and all is cheery—
What a rush for baby!
Mamma's eyes grow bright with joy— Grandpa laughs, and "grandpa's boy"
To play bo-peep with baby!
Sisters from their music run,
Maud has caught the "sweetest one,"
Grace bends down in girlish, fun,
To make a horse for baby!
Up to every thing we know,
Hands and feet "upon the go,"
What a funny creature, though,
Is the household baby!"
Bring the puppy and the eat,
Let her pull, and pinch, and pat,
Pass and pup were made for that,
Made to please the baby!
Bring that china vase, mamma,
Get "the mirror and the hammer,"
Any thing to make a clamor,
And delight the baby!
Let it clang and crash away,
Let it laugh and shout and play,
And be happy while it may,
Dear, mischievous baby!
What a joy to human eyes,
What an angel in disguise,
What a treasure, what a prize,
Is the household baby!

From the New York Independent.
WOMAN---1862.
BY HARRIET M'EWEN KIMBALL.
As though no shade of human wrong fell darkly on their beauty,
And all men walked in brotherhood the shining ways of duty,
The blessed summer days glide by in calm and sweet succession;
God writes on Nature's palace-walls no curse against oppression.
The strong man arms him for the fight; he hears the bugle calling;
And while between the patriot-shouts her tears have time for falling,
Pale woman plies the threaded steel, and shapes here lips to singing,
But still with every stitch she draws the pearls of prayer is stringing.
She things of those whose wounds are fresh; of those in death-sleep lying,
Whose brows of youth and manhood won their brightest crowns in dying;
She thinks of other brave and true, hid in the smoke of battle,
Where bayonets gleam, and cannon roar, and bullets his and rattle.
She shudders while the words of fate along the wires are chasing,
Or trembling waits the hurried line some comrade may be tracing;-
Her heart grows faint; she lifts here hands in anguished imploration:
God save my soldier!" first she prays, and then, "God save the nation!"
And when she moans: "The very thought of loss doth overcome me!"
Crying: "If it be possible, O, let this cup pas from me!"
God chides her not if, choked with sobs, she adds to her petition
But brokenly Christ's after words of meekness and submission.
He saw her pale with victory in the dark hour of trial,
When Self lay slain, and sorrowing Love was fettered with denia:
And the Divine One, who alone can clearly read the human,
Traces the here's autograph through tear-blots of the Woman.
Portsmouth, N.H.
<c02
THE LIBERATOR
PUBLIC EDUCATORS.
ADDRESS OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, E8Q
AT MUSIC HALL, BOSTON, SUNDAY FORENOON, Nov. 2D, 1862.
Phonographically reported by J. M. W. YERRINTON.
I was asked the other day, as I left these walls, why I sometimes preached at Music Hall. I shall try to give you part of an answer. Beginning a little back, "Words are things," as you well know. Symbols are often the very point about which the battle rages, and, for the time being, the most important" There is more force in words," says Lowell, "than most men dream of, and a lie can keep its throne a whole age longer, if it may skulk behind the shield of some fair seeming name." Very many battles, very many disputes, have been about words—names; and the superficial looker-on thinks it was a paltry cause of dispute. The London Times, a year ago, could not see— with a very convenient blindness for that hour—why we should be so anxious to save the "stars and stripes," forgetting that on that symbol it hung whether we were a nation or a mob; a nation able and bound to do justice between man and man, or a mob met to plunder at night, and to scatter at cock crowing. So in regard to the Church—the name "Church." Is this a Church? Am I to preach to you a sermon to-day? There are two kinds of churches and two kinds of sermons; both admissible, both in themselves good, both serving a purpose; the only question is, which has the precedence? which honors and which belittles Christianity? which saves and which serves its time. There is a church like a sheep-fold, nicely fenced, thoroughly furnished, with a good pasture, where the sheep luxuriate on quiet hillsides, and crop herbage every day. There is another church, wholly different: it is a league of honest men against knaves. There are two kinds of sermons—one is a speech, the other is a battle; one is the ornamental parade of a regiment at Readville, the other is the battle of Antietam or Pea-Ridge. Now, both are useful. It is very useful for a man to go to a gymnasium, and day by day strengthen his muscle, until he can at last hold up a hundred-pound dumb bell; but it is more useful still, if, disciplined in the battle-field, he never knew he could lift a hundred pounds until he hurled it at some obstinate foe. One is a parade, the other a fight; one nurses the strength and life of the individual, the other remolds the State and forms the Church. The one is devotional, self-exercising, the other aggressive. The one makes Christianity a nurse, the other a soldier. As I think, confinement to the one belittles Christianity, betrays her function, cripples her activity and her results. Most people set themselves to excuse this latter kind of church and sermon, such as we have here. Reform was never sent into the world to defend itself. Waste no time in showing that you are right; spend no effort in explaining yourself; use every hour and every word in showing that the enemy is a sinner, and let your own righteousness take care of itself. Lose no time in defence or explanation. We are the Church, and every thing that differs from us is heresy. We are the Christianity that the age needs, and so far as any thing falls behind us, so far it belittles the name it assumes. So in the political struggle. The great waste of time, it seems to me, is in proving that we are, in this or the other thing, justifiable. Take it for granted. We are the Constitution and the patriots, every thing else is treason. I do not stop to insist upon that point, because it is immaterial to what I am going to say, but only to prevent one supposition—that what I am speaking is a defence of this pulpit. It needs none. It summons every other pulpit in the land to its bar, tries it, and marks it thus and thus faithful, or thus and thus deficient. The reason is this: for thirty years—perhaps I might say for two hundred, but I am not going back so far—for thirty or forty years, there has been going on in this Commonwealth a struggle more or less marked, and which, as we look back upon it, we can distinctly trace and discriminate, though the actors might not see it at the moment. Nothing so hard to see as your own time. Emerson once said of Webster, "He knew the patriots of '76 well, but would not have known the patriots of his own day if he had met them in the street." But if you will look back thirty years, you will perceive two forces contending for possession of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, socially and politically. One was the timid, the conservative, the inherited; the other was the aggressive, the popular. One was wealth and family, which had domineered over Massachusetts ever since its colonial days; the other was ideas, represented by the people. All governments are the one or the other kind—wealth, blood, ideas. In an aristocracy, blood; in England, wealth. In both, a minority is the government. I never knew a government, in history or experience, where the minority did not govern. We are contending—and if you live a hundred years, you may reach the goal—we are contending to establish the government of the majority, which, among educated classes like ours, is the government of ideas. This struggle of thirty or forty years to which I refer has been an unconscious groping forward of the people, against wealth, against family, to take possession of the State, which belonged to them; and to-day we see a very large, though a partial success. But it has been going on for forty years—ever since I can remember. On one side, the champions were the. North American Review, the Daily Advertiser, the Whig party—that class of respectable, wealthy, fashionable, recognized agencies; to work through which was success and popularity, to oppose which was universal reproach. Behind them lurked in hiding the Church. Against these was marshalled a body unorganized, half-disciplined, with no great mutual harmony, brought together by a common purpose, not by design—Parker, Beecher, Channing; a trinity in purpose, very unequal in intellect, very dissimilar in views, but all working to the same end. The liberal sects were another agency; the Anti-Slavery movement was a third; the Temperance movement was a fourth. Driven out into the country, banished to the common people, stigmatized us vulgar, fanatic—all these agencies in their day were thus calumniated—they believed the central truth, that one man with an idea is equal to ninety-nine men who have nothing but interest, and consequently they laid themselves out on the hearts and intellects of the common people. This is the revolt which has been going on for thirty or forty years. How utterly un-American these fashionable and wealthy influences were—in what a distant and alien atmosphere they dwelt—how truly they regarded the "people" as a dangerous element to be curbed and hoodwinked, not welcomed, in public affairs, most of us know by long experience. If you want a recent instance of their superficial knowledge of their own land, look at Professor Bowen's notes to his late edition of De Tocqueville, and see bow frequently the Frenchman, after only ten months' visit, understood as better than his Harvard College critic; how keen and correct the text, how mistaken the notes which presume to question it.
Let me stop a moment to show you the means which this unrecognized aristocracy used, to turn aside or prevent the success of their opponents. As De Tocqueville says, they had no right to torture; they had no stake, as "Bloody Mary" had; they had no jail, Cayenne, or courage for a coup d'etat, as Napoleon had; but they said, "The testimony for the truth shall bear that universal reproach, far worse to bear than violence, and we will stifle inquiry or thought by making it suicide to every man who sides with it" I remember, walking from this Hall two yean ago, being joined by a prominent member of society, who told me the man who stood in this desk knew more than the whole society—naming it—a learned society—of which he was a member. " He was pro-posed again and again," said this gentleman, "and I
<c03>
voted against him, as I know others did, became we would not make him respectable by that membership, while he preached in Mask: Hall." Again: Horace Mans—those things are the little bubbles that came to the surface in that struggle of what was anchored against what was thought in Massachusetts—Horace Mann undertook to remodel the' common school system of Massachusetts, and be did it most faithfully; left it a legacy to his successors, and has placed Massachusetts perhaps at the head of the Northern States; but as long as he lived, this party of the past dogged every step he took in the Commonwealth with the cry of "Infidel!" and never rested until they had pat that school system under more fashionable theological superintendence; and to-day, the woman who approaches a School Committee in Massachusetts with her hands full of recommendations will not hare one of them opened, in three cases out of four, until she has answered the previous question, "Do you belong to the Orthodox Church?" For thirty years, a club of lawyers in this city, not a score in the whole, named every officer in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts; and unless a man bore the imprimatur of that Boston clique, as far West as Berkshire, he had no probable chance of success. The dynasty of this Council of Twenty was as imperious and as successful as the Council of Ten at Venice. Not un frequently the humble member of our Suffolk Bar failed to got any fit attention from the Bench, not belonging to that select club which, Judge and Counsel alike, left its champagne at midnight to meet in Court at nine o'clock. Non-members were unfashionable, and held at unfamiliar distance, while boon companions found their motions promptly considered. Rantoul—a man out of whose brain your Whig pet, now retired, might have cut his own, and Rantoul have never missed it; one of the most honest, one of the most able, and the most progressive member of the Suffolk Bar—Rantoul died, a member of Congress, dear to the Slate by labors in Temperance and Education which placed him side by side with Horace Mann, and while every attorney who ever argued a case can have a meeting of the bar and resolutions to do him honor, the noblest Massachusetts lawyer of his age was allowed to pass to his grave from Washington to Essex County without one word of recognition from his fellows, because he was a Democrat! Standing before a literary society of a Massachusetts college on the day the news of his death reached us, I tried to do my duty to his memory in remembering how faithfully, at the cost of his election, he served the Temperance cause, and how manfully he stood by Horace Mann in all his struggle. An Orthodox professor of that college took me to tank, and said, "Why did you praise Robert Rantoul?" I said, "Because he deserved it!" (Applause.) "But' said he," you know he was a freethinker. How dare you give credit to a freethinker for anything he deserves? "The whole life of Robert Rantoul is an illustration of the methods by which the party of the past opposed every man who dared to think—not with fair argument, not with honest struggle, but by persecution, in the only methods known to modern times.
But let me go elsewhere. You know, some of you, Parker Pillsbury. Lips touched with a coal from that altar, which inspired the stern grandeur of Isaiah! When, a New England boy, having wrought out with his own hands, in a dozen years, the scanty means of getting himself an education, he stood at its goal, about to graduate at the theological institution at Andover, the question of the annexation of Texas brooding at that time over the Union, his heart ran out to meet the anti-Texas movement of the Commonwealth, the Faculty said to him, "If you lecture for an anti-slavery society, you shall never have a license;" and the brave boy said, "I have spent fifteen years in the effort to get it, but before I add to the cost putting a gag upon my lips, I will renounce those fifteen years." (Applause.)
But, to leave Law and Divinity, it was the same in medicine. No physician could get his fee at law, for many years, unless he were a member of the Medical Society;—he must trust to the honor of his patients. Long since the people changed that: the spite endures. Within twenty months, that Medical Society, representing those same elements to which I have referred—North American Review, Daily Advertiser, Whig party—as convenient names as we shall ever get for these counters—went to the Legislature, representing that they wanted to keep out immoral men, and persuaded the Legislature to allow the Society to elect or exclude any person, by vote, and then got together nineteen members, and voted that no Homoeopathist and no Spiritualist shall ever be a member. It was this power that, for a while, refused to receive in court the testimony of a Universalistic. The same stern tyrant, for years, allowed no man to avoid his church tax, unless he supported some church which the law recognized. Harvard College broke its promise to make Tutor Charles Fallen a Professor, because he dared to appear on an Anti-Slavery platform. This same power proposed once to indict William Ellery Channing as a blasphemer; and if the indictment against Abler knee land could have succeeded, would undoubtedly have gone another step, and tried some of the Unitarian body as the next victims. The same influences sought to punish the Temperance and Anti-Slavery fidelity of John Pierpont—by undermining: his pulpit—a task in which the cowardice of his j brother clergymen aided them by refusing, almost, unanimously, to invite the hero of their denomination 1 to their pulpits. It was this same spirit that took Mrs. I Child's first anti-slavery.work with the tongs, and threw I it out of the window of a fashionable dwelling; and when she sent that volume to the Athenaeum, it was the same spirit which, because she wrote it, withdrew the privilege it had granted to her, on account of her literary character, of free admission to that library. It was this same spirit which, for ten years, omitted to invite to the platform of the Mercantile Library Association, Theodore Parker, because, as the editor of a well-known literary magazine in this city said, they would not allow a lyceum audience to see him. "It was too dangerous." At the same time, no colored man could sit on a jury, nor go to school with other folks. He could be fined for intemperance, but could not be permitted to appear in a temperance procession in the streets of Boston. By the statutes of the State, the Selectmen or Aldermen of this city were bound to put into the jury box the names of all moral and good citizens. How many they put in, I do not know; but I know this, that never during that whole time came there out of that box the name of one single man tainted with new ideas—the name of one angle man who on a jury would have convicted a mobocrat. "The fanatic," as the Daily Advertiser stigmatized him, was shot oat from the jury box by the very radical nature of his opinions.
These things may be familiar to many of you; I doubt not they are; I pick them up because not familiar to all. You know of the mob that mobbed Garrison; you know of the tumults that shut up the public buildings of the city; you know the method of this same respectable Massachusetts,—that it persecutes ft man by law, when it can, and when it cannot, persecutes him illegally, all the same; indicts when it has a statute, and mobs when it has not; tells Charles Sumner to support the President, and then assembles, as it did last night under the window of Gen. Bank's at the Parker House, and gives three cheers for Jefferson Davis! Not dead yet, only brought to bay! Such as these were the means it has used—low cunning, social persecution, literary taboo, universal reproach, the auto da fe of society, the driving from office, from direct influence, from respect. How did we meet it? Some of us met it with quiet patience; for 
"Endurance is the crowning quality,
And patience all the passion of great hearts;
These are their stay; and when the leaden world
Sets its hard face against their fateful thought,
And brute strength, like a scornful conqueror,
Clangs his huge mace down in the other scale,
The inspired soul bat flings her patience in,
And slowly that outweighs the ponderous globe;
One faith against a whole world's unbeliet—
One soul against the flesh of all mankind."
Some of us met it with rebuke and defiance—that was another way; and some of us criticised it by crea-
<c04>
tion. You recollect the story which Theodore Parker was wool to tell you, that when Michael Angelo entered a palace whose ceilings Raphael was then painting, and found one covered with figures too small for the room, instead of uttering a word, he sketched on the opposite side a gigantic head, fitly proportioned to the building, and left He criticised by creation; and when Raphael looked again at his own pigmies, he dropped his pencil, and refused to enter the hall again. So, when the Mercantile Library would not invite Theodore Parker, TOO instituted the Fraternity, and superseded it. (Applause.) When the Church shut its door upon the new Massachusetts of reform, the Washingtonians, the Temperance Society, the Anti-Slavery lecturers went out and appealed to the common people, gathered them where they could, in private rooms, district school-houses, by the wayside, made what they could of their means, and preached to the consciences and the hearts of the masses of the Commonwealth. Criticised by creation! They not merely rebuked the Church for its backsliding, they created the Music Hall, the antislavery meeting, and the temperance society, and did the work which a politics in fashion and a Church in quiet had left undone. After awhile, after a few years of this toil, we saw ideas that had been mobbed out of the cities come back to sit thronged in the State House. And when the great men of the Whig party were some of them dead and buried, and some dead but not buried, the people of the Commonwealth—the people, outside of machinery, with no organization to speak of, to the terror of Boston, took a young lawyer from No.4 Court street, never heard of in office before, and lifted him in its strong hand up to the Senate of the United States. It was the people, announcing its preference, for a man who has a belief, over one who has only interests. It takes a great many shovels' full of earth to hide the truth, and the fashionable elements of Massachusetts life found it so. They did a certain degree of good, no doubt; so did the North American Review; and yet, while the North American Review argued one question to success, if you will look over its seventy volumes, you will find that it opposed a dozen to their triumph. You will find that the whole course of the Whig party, when it is traced in our history, is visible only, like that of the caravan crossing the desert, by the skeletons it has left behind. No one great popular measure has it carried; no one great social benefit has it conferred; no one step has it carried the nation forward. Tory in politics, bigot in the Church, snob in society, atheist in religion, it was always a coward before the foe, and in the Congress of the United States, it ever placed Massachusetts lowest on the list. Until the people took possession of their own State; until, groping their way outside of political machinery, they sent men, not pedlers, into Congress, Massachusetts never had her proper position. I say it with the most entire deliberation: with the exception of a single year, I doubt whether, since the Revolution of '76, Massachusetts ever had in the Government so great weight as she has this moment. In the nation at large, her million of men and women, with their hearts and brains thoroughly aroused, dictate the thought of half America, and in the Senate of the United States, her representatives are the right hand and the left of the Government. (Applause.) There never was but one year when her influence approached in any degree what she exerts at present, and that was when the vast intellect of Webster met South Carolina, and by the help of a Democratic President out-generalled her. (Applause.) But the Whig party has gone to its account. Its men and its measures have fallen into the rear. In front, the Commonwealth is held up by the people of the State—by what the Daily Advertiser and the Boston press have been accustomed to denounce as the "infidels" and "fanatics" of Massachusetts. Indeed it is so. Lucky that it is. Fortunate beyond all expression is it that the Commonwealth was in the bands of her conscience and her people before this great struggle came upon us. I say this much, before turning again to my immediate subject, for our great Senator, who has done justice to the manufacturing interests and the shipping of Massachusetts, as Webster did, and also justice to her conscience and her thought, as Webster did not. (Applause.) I do not wish to take one leaf from the laurel of the great defender of the Constitution; he rests at Marshfield, beneath the honors be fairly earned; but we have put in his place a man far more practical than he was; we have put in his place the hardest worker that Massachusetts ever sent to the Senate of the United States (applause); we have put in his place the Stonewall Jackson of the floor of the Senate—patient of labor, untiring in effort, boundless in resources, terribly in earnest—the only man who, in civil affairs, is to be compared with the great terror of the Union armies, the General of the Virginia forces. Both ideologists, both horsed on an idea, and both men whom, a year ago, the drudges of State street denounced, or would have denounced, as unpractical and impracticable; but when the war-bugle sounded through the land, both were found to be the only men to whom Carolina and Massachusetts hasted to give the batons of the opposing hosts. Side by side with that same instrumentality in the Senate is Music Hall, the temperance lecture, the anti-slavery meeting—the protests of the people. You know we have no press in this city. The Transcript—often capricious—is the only paper open, honorably and frankly, to the new voice—none other. The door just ajar of the newspapers for a month, is owing to what? To nothing but their terror of the People's movement, for which we may thank God, in that it aroused them to some degree of independence and frankness. But for that, our Representatives and Senators in Congress had never had one kind word from the city press. New York has the Tribune, the Independent, the Evening Post; Boston has her Music Hall to supply the place of the whole three. (Applause.) Gen. Dearborn once said that the estates of nine Boston merchants out of every ten in the Probate Court were represented insolvent. He could find no reason. Reason enough: they all took the Daily Advertiser. Any man who reads the past and not the present, relies upon the old and not the vital, will end in insolvency, whether it be mercantile, literary or moral. You will recollect, that this disease of the press is not merely the November "languishing," as our ancestors used to call consumption; it is not merely the month before election; it is the whole year round. The old movement—the respectable, the wealthy, the anchored—is the voice of the Boston press; but the people's movement, Massachusetts as she stands to-day—the Massachusetts who, if this Union is saved, History will say she did more toward it than any two States of the North-is quite different, is the Massachusetts of "fanaticism," the Massachusetts of "infidelity," the Massachusetts which grew up under the band of Lyman Beecher and Theodore Parker, the Massachusetts which Garrison printed on his imposing-stone, when, defying Otis and Lyman, he made Boston listen, the Massachusetts which trusts her honor so confidingly to Sumner and Wilson, whose speeches have given us what the New York press gives to New York, the true politics and the natural good sense which we should never have obtained from the columns of the Boston daily press. Hold up, strengthen this Massachusetts, because to-day, if this Union be saved, we are to enter on the creation of a new people, the reorganization of society, the summoning into civil being of four millions of slaves, the education of five millions of poor whites, the sweeping all that was Carolina into the ocean, and putting a decent State in its place—because, if the Union be preserved, such is the great work of creation which rests upon the North: and because, if, in die providence of God—wholly possible—the Union is gone, broken into half a dozen fragments, then Massachusetts is bound and pledged to build op within her own borders not only a public opinion, but bulwarks for it, sufficient to protect her institutions, her civilization, and her ideas, against the dangerous neighborhood of States founded on violence, based on slavery. In either case, the greatest work of any generation since the Puritans u to be ours; and it is to be done by DO worn-out,
<c05>
effete and coward agency like the Boston press or the North American Review. It is to be done by the untiring, fearless effort of the people, based on an idea-For this reason, I ask yon to day to pot it so far beyond question next week which side Massachusetts votes, that no law professor doubly buried at Cambridge will ever dream that he can bind Massachusetts In his cobwebs to make sport for these Philistines. (Applause.) And more than that, that you most, by your daily presence, by your pecuniary liberality, by your ready aid, sustain this pulpit—the Tribune and Independent of Boston; open to all voices, closed to no creed, too strong to be bullied by any sin, or any sinner, (applause,) deluded by no trick of the old enemy, always right by instinct if not by intellect. We need that aid. The Committee bear a heavy burden on few shoulders. It is no nine-months' enlistment, this Music Hall. It holds in its hands the charge of the whole tone of the pulpit throughout Massachusetts. It is to affect States far beyond our limits—call to its bar, if it be only by way of perpetual protest, every creed and every idea. We have conquered the Lyceum; Committees now invite only those who will draw; and, unfortunately, that rule has turned it into an institution which theological papers denounce as an "infidel" one. We have conquered the Church, for she sides to-day with the great Senator who represents Massachusetts' honor and strength, (applause)—himself this hour the most hated man in the State, and yet the most loved—the Thermopylae before whom gather the barbarians, and all Greece fights for Civilization behind him. (Applause.) In the place, then, of a press, we want this Hall, and those like it; we want your cordial support for every form of this popular democratic insurrection against what has hitherto been held to be fashionable Massachusetts. We want your pecuniary aid here. We want you to work out the old problem, not the right of every body to think—we have settled that— but the duty of every body to think for himself. Oh, take home with yon the tremendous responsibility To-day, if we lived under a king, and the popular voice asked for it, we might change his Prime Minister in an hour. When William the Fourth, timid and narrow, dreaded the Reform Bill, the people of England could not get rid of him, but they mobbed the Duke of Wellington to day, and to-morrow the King called a new Minister into his counsels, and the will of England wax law. But we have a Prime Minister that last four years, whether we will or not; and whether this nation is saved to-day rests more than upon any thing else on the personal character of Abraham Lincoln. If he is timid and waits a moment too long, if he is undecided, and lets other men dictate his course, there is no turning out the Prime Minister, and we halt so long that we land in division and disunion.
Every one here is liable to be President. No man knows whether he can resist that fate. Yon do not know but the boy, whose ideas you may be forming to-day, will hold in his hand, twenty years hence, with no remedy but anarchy, the fate of this country. The people abdicate power for four years. Now, under that abdication, let us press, individually, into the very presence of our four years' king, and hold him up, strengthen and urge him onward; and let us prepare behind him, especially in Massachusetts, that "base of operations," that "reserve," which McClellan is always afraid to use, that body-guard, which, if the van falter, may yet save the State. Hold up Music Hall, if only that somewhere, beside in political meetings, the people may have a voice in Massachusetts! Hold it up, as the example and the seed of a thousand other such to rise in Massachusetts! Hold it up, as a token of the people's coming! Hold it up, as one of the brotherhood of which temperance and anti-slavery meetings form a part, and your Senator to-day in Massachusetts is the fruit!

GENERAL MITCHEL ON CONTRABANDS.
LETTER FROM THE GENERAL TO SECRETARY CHASE.
General Mitchel has addressed the following interesting letter to Secretary Chase:—
"HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE SOUTH HILTON HEAD, PORT ROYAL, S. C,
October 13, 1862.
My Dear Governor,—I received this morning your two letters, the one by mail, the other by Hon. Mr. Hutchings, and from their contents I derive hope and courage. I had an interview this morning with General Saxton, which was entirely satisfactory, and I think our personal relations are all that could be desired. But I think, Governor, yon are mistaken when you say General Saxton is to act under my orders. His letter of instruction states, in so many words, that he is to act under the orders of the Secretary of War. If he were, indeed, under my orders, I have an immense work for him to do, which I would commence without an hour's delay. I would begin the organization of my plantation system. A perfect census of all the blacks inhabiting the islands would be promptly made. My model plantation, with its fields, fences, seeds, tillage, implements, houses, furniture, &c, would he organized with as little delay as possible. I would commence the buildings, which will be required for the large accessions of population which will certainly come to us, when we break through the enemy's line on the main land, which we arc determined to do. I would have all the blacks distinctly informed as to the plan by which they were to be governed, educated, and made industrious and worthy citizens. would tell them that the fruits of their future toil would be consecrated hereafter to their own benefit; to each family on the plantation I would give a separate dwelling, with a patch for their own private cultivation as a little garden. 
From estimates which I have carefully made, I am quite certain that an industrious family of three persons will certainly save from one hundred and fifty to two hundred dollars each year. In five years, such a family will have laid up in the Plantation Bank an amount sufficient to make them independent. And then, with industrious habits, with religious instruction, with correct moral views and sentiments, with minds properly trained to self-dependence, they may elect their own homes if they so choose, and begin the world for themselves.
On yesterday, which was Sunday, a little church built for the negroes was consecrated to the worship of Almighty God. By invitation from Abraham, the black preacher, I was present, and addressed his congregation. I have spoken to the elite of Boston, the solid, and the scientific, and the literary men of that learned city; I have spoken to the fashionable crowds of New York in the Academy of Music; I have spoken to the rich and proud citizens of New Orleans; I have spoken to multitudes in almost every State in the Union; but 1 do not think I ever addressed any audience whose presence touched me more deeply than the sable multitude to whom I endeavored to utter wards of encouragement and hope yesterday. And, my dear Governor, they are encouraged, and they do hope; and I feel that it is possible to convert the officers and soldiers from their unjust and ungenerous prejudices, and to make them the firm, fast, sympathizing friends of those unfortunate blacks. Already I find a very great change, and some of my thinking officers, who were most gloomy and most despondent when 1 first arrived, are now full of cheerful hope.
I have decided to remove all the negro families to the outside of our lines. To accomplish this, I have laid off a beautiful piece of ground fronting upon the beach, into lots of half an acre each. Upon these lots we are already erecting out-buildings. I have at work a gang of fifty negroes, with a black man as foreman, and a white superintendent. The work is perfectly systematized: the houses of very simple structure; their various parts divided among gangs, who work only on these parts. One gang is employed upon the frames, in getting them out and putting them up; another in getting out the sidings; another putting up the sidings; another in splitting clapboards for the roof; another in putting on the roof. And these fifty hands, now working earnestly and with high hope, are actually building a house a day.
I hope to organize two or three more bands of fifty each, so that in a short time we may be able to finish from twenty to twenty-five houses each week.
You give me reason to hope that reinforcements will not long be delayed. I beg you to exert all the influence you can to push them forward as rapidly as possible. The troops now here are many of them greatly debilitated by the climate; and an
<c06> 
expedition of even a few days, involving toil, exposure and fatigue, swell the sick list to an alarming degree. I have one regiment, the ninety-seventh Pennsylvania, who have just returned from a tour of picket duty on this island, whose sick list to-day reaches two hundred and thirty-three. Another regiment, the seventh connecticut, which has just returned form the St. John's river expedition, has a sick list of nearly two hundred. Two weeks ago they left Hilton Head in apparently excellent health and the finest possible spirits. The expedition proved a perfect success. We captured all the enemy's heavy guns, all his ammunition, many small arms, and more than a hundred tents. We have captured his best steamers on the river, and our troops penetrated into Florida more than two hundred and thirty miles. We brought away on our steamers between three and four hundred negroes. Notwithstanding this success, my troops have suffered very severely in their health, demonstrating the fact that they are sadly debilitated by the climate of these troops for others.
I am certain there is a great work to be done here. I have not thus far been inactive. Since my arrival, three expeditions have been sent out with success, and three others are already, planned and soon be executed. But our force is too small to strike successfully cither Charleston or Savannah. We want twenty-five thousand additional troops, and among these, I most earnestly hope that regiments of my old division may be sent forward.
Your letters have inspired me with great hope, and everything in the future looks bright and cheerful. My letter to the Secretary of War, with reference to money for the payment of the troops, has been promptly answered by a remittance of $750,000, and this alone has spread throughout our camps a feeling of the highest gratification.
I read the news from the North, and pondered over it with the deepest interest. I cannot but believe that the great heart of this nation will respond to the President's proclamation. So far as I know, it has been received here with the highest satisfaction, both by the army and navy. Give us but the means, and we will show them that it is no burden fulmen, but a thunderbolt that will carry overthrow and destruction through the dark dominions of slavery.
Mr. Hutchings, on his return, will he prepared to give you a full account of all that is doing. And of, all that ought to be done in the Department of the South.
Ever truthfully and faithfully roar friend, O. M. MITCHELL Major-General. Hon. S. P. CHASE."
DEATH or LIEUT. COL. SAVAGE. Intelligence has, been received of the death of Lieut. Col. James Savage, 2d regiment, in the hospital at Charlottesville, Va., of wounds received at the battle of Cedar Mountain, 9th August. He was the only son of Hon. James Savage, of Boston, and a graduate of Harvard University of the class of 1854. Col. Savage was among the most active in the formation of the 2d regiment, and has never returned since the regiment left for the war. In the action in which he received his wounds, but six of twenty two officers returned, the others, being killed, Wounded or taken prisoners.
DEATH or ELWOOD FISHER. The Atlanta (Ga.) Intelligencer of recent date, announces the death, at that place, of Elwood Fisher, at the exact age of fifty four years. Mr. Fisher was well known in Indiana. In 1839, he was elected to the Legislature from Switzerland county, and in that body took a position as the advocate of ultra democratic measures. At this time, Mr. Fisher wore the Quaker garb-_shad-bellied coat, broad-brimmed hat, and addressed the presiding officer as "Friend Speaker." While a member of the Legislature, he married a young lady of Indianapolis, who survives him. Though a Quaker, Mr. Fisher was a most ultra proslavery man, and one of the closest followers of Calhoun and the South Carolina school, He was a writer of great power, and possessed a vast fund of information n on almost all topics. In I850, he established at Washington the Southern Press, a paper devoted to the advocacy of secession. At the commencement of the civil war he went South, and became connected with one of the Nashville papers. After the occupation of that city by the Federal troops, he went to Atlanta, where be resided as a refugee up to the time of his death.
ENGLISH SENTIMENT. A private letter from an American gentleman in London, received in this CITY speaks of a reaction in British sentiment towards this country. The writer says:—
"Thank God, the people here begin to open their eyes and discover the vile deception that has been so long practised upon them, and at a meeting the other day near Birmingham, the resolution to resolution to recognize the South was completely scouted, and a resolution passed to the effect that the distress in this country was caused solely 'by the people of the South takings up arms and rebelling against the Government of United States '—a hundred to one majority, and immense cheering."
The Right Doctrine. Gen. Dan. E. Sickles, in assuming his new com ma ml, issued a spirits] general order, in which he said: " Insidious attempts will be
made to engage our sympathies in political discussions. In the army, we have nothing to do with the.CIVIL POLICY of the Government-We have sworn to obey, the orders of the President, to bear true allegiance to the United States of America, and to serve them faithfully against all their enemies. Whoever seeks to sow discontent among you by any means whatever is as much your enemy as the rebel army you have so often and so successfully encountered."
A Bio TEAM. Gen. Buell's wagon train. which followed in the rear of his army on the march to Louisville, consisted of 1800 wagons, drawn by 10,000 horses. There were also l500 convalescents from eighty-four different regiments. Accompanying the train were 113 wagon loads of ammunition. It stretched a distance of twenty-five miles.
GARIBALDI'S ADDRESS. Garibaldi has issued an address to the English nation, full of his own philanthropic ardor. He adjures England to advance in the work of human progress, and to call to her assistance the leading nations of Europe. Then he adds:—
"Call the great American Republic. She is after all, thy daughter, risen from thy lap: and however she may go to work, she is struggling to-day for the abolition of slavery so generously proclaimed by you. Aid her to come out from the terrible struggle in which she is involved by the traffickers in human flesh. Help her, and then make her sit by your side in the great assembly of nations, the final work of human reason."
The Houston (Texas) Telegraph of Oct. 13 utters a wail over the fall of Galveston, beginning thus:—
"At length an event, by many anticipated, has happened. Galveston, the beautiful city of the Gulf, has fallen. The minions of Lincoln have made it their nest, and, as we have seen in similar cases, there will be hatched from it, if the utmost vigilance be not exercised, untold miseries to the State."
COMMISSION TO INQUIRE INTO THE CONDUCT OF GEN BELL. The Secretary of War has ordered a Military Commission to be organized to be Organized to inquire into the conduct of Major Gen. Buell in reference to his permitting the invasion of Kentucky by Gen. Bragg his failure to relieve Mumfordsville, and allowing its capture by the enemy—his conduct during the battle of Perryville—his suffering the forces of Gen. Bragg to escape from Kentucky without capture or loss in attacking them—and his operations in the States of Kentucky and Tennessee. The Court is to be held at Cincinnati.
There is a great deal in the choice of words. When a tall Marshal, who was able to reach an object which Napoleon was too short to put his hard on, said, " I am higher than your Majesty," "You mean longer," replied the Emperor.
REBELLIOUS SLAVES. The New Orleans Delta of the 12th ult. confirms the reported outbreak of slaves on the plantations of Mr. Millandon, and the murder of her overseer. Two other plantations had also been deserted by the slaves on them.
COTTON SUBSTITUTES. Mr. Stephen M. Allen, who published a work on Fibrilia, some two years ago, has experimental on many things as substitutes for cotton. He is now working flax and hemp exclusively with great success, and is supplying a number of mills with his fibrilia, which promises all the success that has been claimed for it. A large mill has lately been started at Lawrence for the manufacture of the article.
NEW GUN FOR HARBOR DEFENCES. A new pattern of cannon was exhibited a short time since, at the shop of Mr. D. Fitzgerald, in New York city. The ball is from one to three tons. Gen. Strong was present and expressed his approval of the design.
An immense number of music boys are being instructed at Governor's Island, New York, preparatory to active service as drummers and fifers in the army. They are from fourteen to nineteen years of age.
It is estimated that Bragg has carried out of Kentucky at least ten thousand horses immense quantities of corn, beef and bacon, and three thousand wagons.