THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
211 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO.6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed,(POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of, the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDNUND QUINCY, EDSEND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countryman are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 41. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1705. 
Refugee of Oppression.
<c01>

THE RICHMOND SENTINEL TO THE NORTHERN COPPERHEADS. In the Richmond Sentinel of Sept. 4th is an article addressed to Northern Democrats, (Copperheads.)of which the following are extracts: 
If eight millions of whites can defy the government of Lincoln with twenty millions at his back, with command of the sea, immense military resources, why might not they assert the manhood they claim to possess, and strike one bold blow for liberty? Are they to wait forever, and endure every extremity of oppression and indignity, while the South spurns the same yoke which they have accepted? Such are the thoughts which have been gathering strength and volume in the North. The masses are beginning to tire of Mr. Lincoln’s despotism, of his war, of his taxes, and his conscription. Just now, they are pausing are they strike the meditated blow but when it is struck, they will marvel at the ease with which the work has been accomplished. What it wants now most of all is, not a riper state of public opinion, or a more fervent, consecrated hatred of their oppressors, but AN INTREPID LEADER. And that this leader will soon be found, who doubts that knows aught of history?
The North has a struggle to go through, before she can prosper and be free-a struggle not with us, but with the elements of faction and crime in her own bosom. The cancer is there, and it must be cut out—the sooner the better. A war with the South does not mend the matter. It is not true that to stop the war with us is ruin to the North. We know not how a sane man can thus argue. To attain the firm ground of a prosperous society and a conservative government, the course of the North is a plain one. The war with the South must be stopped, and that at as speedily as possible. But this is only half the work. It is all that our interests absolutely require, but not all that humanity would teach other countries to do in their behalf. The conservative men at the North must put down and crush out the Abolition, infield and agrarian element in their midst, before they can ever hope for solid peace in their own borders. Short of this, there is for them no hope of order, progress, or rational liberty. Let them dally with or postpone this duty, and severe convulsions, far eclipsing the French Revolution, are before them. To accomplish this needful work, a revolution by arms is the necessary and proper means. Let them set to work at once. Lincoln may be apparently strong, but so was Robespierre before the Convention plucked up courage to oppose him. One bold effort by the Northern Democracy, and his power will topple to the ground more swiftly even than the edifice of tyranny was constructed. Nor will it cost much blood to effect it. It will most certainly not cost as much as will flow of their own blood from submission to a single conscription. And, when they get the power in their hands, they will do well to show us party to any of the leaders of the Republican party-to Lincoln, Seward, Greeley, and the rest.
One and all, they richly deserve the gallows; and, IF THE DEMOCRATS FAIL TO INFLICT THIS DOOM, IN ANY CASE, UPON THESE MISCREANTS, the world will wonder, and history record it as a lamentable act of folly.”

THE REBELS’ LAST HOPE.
Lieut Maury has written a letter to the London Times, in which he endeavors to keep his courage up, and that of his fellow rebels and their English friends, by declaring his confident assurance of final success. We will let him state the argument himself:-
“Since, then, the Union is gone, and neither party can subjugate the other, it follows that the war is not to be ended by the sword.
"Other agents have to be called into play. What are they? Let us inquire. They are divisions in the camp of the enemy, dissensions among the people of the North. There is already a peace party there. All the embarrassments with which that party can surround Mr. Lincoln, and all the difficulties it can throw in the way of the war party at the North, operate directly as so much aid and comfort to the South.
“The war is becoming more and more unpopular in the North. In proof of this, I point to the conduct of the Pennsylvanians during Lee’s invasion of that State, to the riots in New York, to the organized resistance to the war in Ohio.
“New York is threatening armed resistance to the Federal Government. New York is becoming the champion of States’ Rights in the North, and to that extent is taking Southern ground.
“Vallandigham waits and watches over the border, pledged-if elected Governor of the State of Ohio to array it against Lincoln and the war, and go for peace. What the result of the election there will be I cannot tell; but the canvass is going on, and we know that opposition to Lincoln and his war party is growing more and more popular every day, and throughout the whole North.
“The growing activity and increasing energy of those influences which are at work in the cause of peace, and therefore on the side of the South, are doing more toward bringing the war to an end than all the battles that have been fought since the war began have done.
“Nay, more; there are rumors of a Peace party in his Cabinet, and of a proposition there to revoke the Emancipation Proclamation, and propose terms to the South. The leading newspapers of the North mention this, and not with disapprobation.”
He speaks of a voice coming up from “the lower level of society that will be trumpet-tongued for peace,” and says- “To smother that voice, even now Mr. Lincoln has to keep and armed force not only in New York and Kentucky, but in Ohio, Indiana, and other States. He is even now marching one up into Iowa, to put down there a cry for peace. He is likely to have occupation for all the recruits his conscription will give, in keeping down his own people.
“Never were the chances of the South brighter. All that we have to do is to maintain the defensive, watch our changes, and strike whenever there is an opportunity for a good stroke either with the sword or with the pen.”
“History will relate that we (the North) manufactured the conflict, forced it to hot-bed precocity, nourished and invited it.”-Detroit Free Press, April 16,1862.
“We tell them (Congress) that a Cromwell will arise in their midst before they progress too far, who will bring their heads to the block without delay or mercy.”-Free Press March 24.
“The Democratic party should never have given its assent to the appeal to the sword, AFTER THE AFFAIR AT FORT SUMTER.”—Free Press.
<c02>
SUSPENSION OF HABEAS CORPUS
LETTER FROM MR. VALLANDIGHAM.
Windsor, C. W., Sept. 17, 1863.
To the President of the Democratic Mass Meeting at Carthage, Ohio.
Since writing to the mass convention at Dayton, to-day, the monstrous proclamation of the President has appeared, suspending the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus, and thus declaring martial law throughout the United States, in every one and every part of every one of them, and in all their territories. It comes without previous warning. It is announced at a time when the successes of the Federal armies and the reverses of the Confederates are greater than at any period since the beginning of the war; at a time when the lines of the former are extended, and of the latter more contracted and further removed from the original frontier than ever before; and at a time when, according to the Secretary of State, the rebellion is at last almost crushed out. It appears in the midst of no riot, tumult, or other popular convulsion anywhere in the States always true to the Union, and no preparations for any; and when even the odious “conscription” is being executed quietly and without resistance, wherever announced. It is to continue “during the rebellion,” the President being the sole judge and arbiter of how long the rebellion shall be deemed to last. At such a time, and under such circumstances, it can have but one object—the pending election this fall, but especially the Presidential canvass of 1864. It is, indeed, the full development of that of which I have so often warned the people of Ohio, and of the United States, the great conspiracy against constitutional liberty and free popular government—the establishment of a “ formal and proclaimed despotism” in your midst. Oh, that the warning voice, feeble though it was, which, two years ago, in the beginning of this great struggle, in accents earnest as ever issued from human lips, cried aloud to the people that, one by one, their liberties were about to perish, and that anarchy first, and a strong government after wards, no more State lines, no more State governments, but a consolidated monarchy, or vast centralized military despotism, must all follow in the history of the future, as in the history of the past they had centuries before been written, had been heard. But that voice found no echo then, save in the columns and corridors of the Capitol. To-day it is lifted up again. And, hereafter, let no man tell you—least of all, the sentinels upon your watchtowers—that there is no danger, no ground for alarm or apprehension. To-day your President is in form, as for two years and more he has been in fact, a MILITARY DICTATOR. The most incredulous may see at last that the issue is, indeed, whether there shall any longer be Constitution and law in the United States, other than the will, unknown or expressed, of the President; whether freedom of person, of the press, of speech, free political assemblages and a free ballot, shall any more exist among us; and whether the people shall hereafter, as heretofore, choose the legislatures and chief executives of the State and Federal governments. Shall there be free State elections any longer, or another presidential election of any sort? Shall popular government or a despotism unlimited by law, and uncontrolled by judicial courts, henceforth prevail in the United States? This now, men of Ohio, more than ever, is the issue before you.
The revolutionary purpose of the administration to perpetuate, by intimidation or force, its power in the States and in the general government, stands now fully revealed. Next after this declaration of martial law will follow the armed seizure and occupation of your State by Federal troops, to intimidate or overpower you at the polls. But this monstrous purpose will not and cannot be executed, except the people cringe or cower before the threat or the attempted execution. The time, therefore, has new arrived for the renewed, solemn, inexorable declaration and pledge, by the people, to each other, through the press, and in public assemblages, that they mean to maintain their liberties at every hazard, and to have and to hold free elections, PEACEABLY IF THEY CAN, FORCIBLY IF THEYMUST. By the Constitution of Ohio, no soldier or marine of the United States can gain a residence, or become a citizen and elector of the State by being stationed within her limits. By the law of England, and by a provident statute of Pennsylvania, all troops are required to be removed a prescribed distance—not less than one mile—from the place of holding an election; and this, too, is the spirit at least of our own laws. Every qualified elector of Ohio has the right, freely and without molestation of any kind, to vote the ticket of his choice, and if Federal or State troops be present to molest or intimidate—no matter under what pretext—it is the right of the citizen, and the duty of the civil officers and of the military to disperse or arrest the offenders, and to use whatever force may be necessary for that purpose. I counsel you, one and all, to stand by the Union, maintain the Constitution, support the government, and obey the laws; but in the name and by the memory of your fathers, and as you would secure the blessings of liberty to yourselves and your children, I invoke you to defend the right of election and the ballot-box, by all the means which the exigencies of the case may demand. The hour of our trial has at last come. Be firm, and be ready. And God grant that the spirit of the patriots and freemen of other ages and countries, of the heroes of Greece and Rome, the spirit of Bruce and Tell, of Hampden and Sidney, of Henry and Washington, and Jackson, may be found to survive yet in the men of the present generation in America; and thus that both the form and the substance of constitutional liberty and free popular government be still preserved and made secure among us.
C. L. VALIANDIGHAM. 
COPPERHEAD LOYALTY.
“The Democracy will yet teach Abe Lincoln and his co-usurpers, that the way of transgressors is not easy.”—Hon. A. C. Dodge, of Iowa.
“There, sir, is the DAMNABLE ABOLITIONIST who administers the Government. The people ought to RISE UP, AND BY PHYSICAL FORCE HURL HIM FROM THE CHAIR OF THE GOVERNMENT. In the eyes of God and men, the people would be justified. THEY SHOULD DO IT; and I will go with them.”- Judge Pratt’s speech in the Michigan Legislature, Feb. 12, 1863.
Geo. W. Peck, of Ohio, in a speech before the Lansing Democratic Association, March, 1863, said:
“You Black Republicans began this war. You have carried it on for two years. You have sent your HELL-BOUNDS down South to devastate the country-and what have you done? You have not conquered the South. You never can conquer them. And why? Because they are OUR BRETHREN.”
<c03>
Selections

THE SUSPENSION OF HABEAS CORPUS.
The New York World, Sept. 16th, comes out against the President’s Proclamation suspending, in certain cases, the writ of habeas corpus.
Its argument, for the most part, is just as good against its suspension by Congress as by the President; as good against its suspension at any time, or on any occasion, as it is against its suspension now, and on the present occasion; as good against that clause of the Constitution that authorizes the suspension of the writ, as it is against any conceivable exercise of power granted by the clause.
The burden of its complaint is that, by the suspension of the writ, the citizen is deprived of some of those important defences of personal security against executive oppression, which, in ordinary times, the writ of habeas corpus affords to him; and that, in consequence, it opens the door to executive usurpation, tyranny, and the general insecurity of civil and political liberty. It may “cover any outrage upon the rights of American citizens.” “What man may this not reach?” demands the World. “Whose life, liberty, and property are not suspended upon the executive will and pleasure?”
This is putting the case quite strongly, especially since the Act of Congress authorizing the suspension of the writ by the President, as quoted by the World, interposes, as the World itself claims, certain limitations (whether made wisely or unwisely) to the ordinary operation of such suspensions.
But taking the World’s representation as it stands, it manifestly covers no more ground (by the World’s showing, somewhat less) than the text and the intention of the Constitution evidently contemplate. Neither personal security nor public liberty can be as safe without the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus as with it. Every body, of course, knows that, without any enlightenment from the organs of the copperhead instigators of the riots which rendered the suspension of the writ necessary for the security of life, liberty, and property, in New York city—(as good, loyal, law-abiding, patriotic citizens of this metropolis can bear sorrowful but unimpeachable testimony)—and equally necessary for the maintenance of armies wherewith to crush the infernal rebellion of slaveholders with which such a press as the New York World so evidently sympathizes and cooperates, as far as it dares, though not so far as it would do, but for its salutary and manifest dread of executive power; a rebellion, the organs of which count upon the copperheads and their presses as allies; a rebellion, the grand object of which is to break down, throughout all coming time, all those safeguards of personal security; of civil and political liberty and religious freedom, of which the habeas corpus, whenever its use can be practicable, is an efficient and honored instrument, but which must never be permitted to be wielded by traitors for the destruction of all the high ends it was intended instrumentally to subserve.
The argument of the World comes just three-fourths of a century too late. It should have been urged in the convention that framed the Constitution, in the open, manly shape of opposing the clause authorizing the suspension of the writ “when, in cases of rebellion and invasion, the public safety may require it.” If, failing to find favor in the convention, the argument should have been carried before the people, and into the several State conventions called to decide upon the adoption or rejection of that instrument; had the argument prevailed then, we should have been without a Constitution containing that clause, and the rebel slave-mongers and their Northern sympathizers would have been left free to disorganize the national armies at their pleasure. The conspiracy was farseeing, and was a long time in concocting. Almost everything else was provided for; but here, at this vital point, was an oversight. The Constitution should have been so amended that the habeas corpus could not have been suspended, in time of rebellion. In the halcyon days, when Pierce Buchanan, Davis, and Floyd controlled the nation, it might have been done. But it is forever too late now. 
After the experiences of this terrible civil war, no republic will ever be tempted to try the experiment of a government without power to suspend the privileges of this writ. Such a republic would be precisely in the predicament that ours was supposed to be by the autocrats and aristocrats of Europe, at the outbreak of our present rebellion. They supposed that a democratic, republican government could have no power to deal efficiently with a rebellion—as it could not, if the World’s argument against the President’s suspension proclamation could prevail.
Our only regret, in respect to the action of the President is, that it has not been resorted to sooner, in order to prevent the destruction of millions of property, the sacrifice of the lives of many loyal citizens, and the loss of our reputation as a city and as a nation. Had the President but known before hand of the tithe of the efforts that were making, in this city, to get up the riots,—could he even but have been on the spot, and read the World’s editorials of Monday morning, July 13, four hours before the outbreak of the rioters,—it would have been his duty to have put the city under martial law, instantly, proclamation that has been, until now, delayed. Indications, since the riots, show, clearly, that the conspiracy is only held in temporary check, not crushed—that the danger of a recurrence of the reign of terror, of promiscuous pillage, and of carnage, in this city, is not past. We may cite the testimony of Gov. Seymour himself, on this point; for although we have no great fear from the treachery of the Catholic Irish girls whom he so confidently accused of incendiary designs—none at all, if the Governor will call off his pack, baying daily, from his metropolitan presses— we can have no doubt of the Governor’s sincerity in apprehending further disturbances, nor of his means of knowing, from what quarters they are to be expected.
The city of New York reposes in the greater security for the President’s suspension of the habeas corpus. The wheat dealers of Buffalo may now venture to send their supplies of grain to our market, and the timid merchants and capitalists of London and Liverpool may countermand their orders for the transhipment of their wares and the withdrawal of their funds. The President is not the imbecile they supposed him to be. The commercial metropolis of the United States is not to fall into the hands of Jeff. Davis. 
Seriously, if the World would have credit for its professions of jealousy for the security of constitutional liberty and personal rights, its dread of the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus, let it cease its inflammatory appeals to “the People”- that portion of them that pillage houses, that burn orphan asylums, that hunt down unoffending loyal citizens, and hang them up upon trees and lamp-posts by daylight. In a word, let it cease its fraternity and co-operation with, the rebels of the South and the
<c04>
sympathizing ruffians of the North, whose crimes and conspiracies render the enjoyment of the writ of habeas corpus, as an instrumentality of security, literally impossible.
Our citizens will not forget—the nation will not forget—history will not permit posterity to be ignorant or forgetful of the fact, that while the horrid tragedies of that bloody and guilty reign of terror were enacting, the privileges of the writ of habeas corpus were prostituted to the treasonable work of attempting to arrest the Federal Commandant of Forts Hamilton and Lafayette, so as to place those city and national defences into the hands of the very same conspirators whose “ friends” were burning down the station-houses, while the national armies were in process of being replenished, shouting defiance to the officers of the Government, mobbing the residence of the Mayor, plundering that of the Post-Master, attempting to burn loyal printing-offices, and making the welkin ring with cheers for Jeff. Davis!—New York Principii.

SPEECH OF GENERAL BUTLER.
A rousing Union meeting was recently held at Harrisburg, Pa., over which Gen. Simon Cameron presided. Gen. Butler, on taking the platform, was greeted with a storm of applause; and, after returning thanks for so flattering a reception, said:—
In this land we may all exercise the great right of elective franchise. In other lands, the right to meet and consult as to who shall be the rulers is accorded only to kings and princes. In my opinion, the present contest embraces the very life of the nation; not only the life of this nation, but the hope of the oppressed of other lands and the welfare of constitutional government, founded upon true democracy. The hopes and fears, the weal or woe of soaring freedom throughout the world, all concentrate in and upon the issues involved in this contest.
There is but one issue before you, but two alternatives. On which side are you? Are you for your country or against your country? (Cheers.) Are you for or are you against the Union? There is no middle ground. But a few months ago, the attention of Rebeldom was centered upon an invasion of the soil of Pennsylvania, and the hopes it inspired gave them new courage. But the brave sons of Pennsylvania, assisted by the gallant soldiers of our army, drove them from the State whose soil they were polluting by their tread. Shall there be another Gettysburg? The issue is, as I understand it, the hope of the Rebellion or the hope of the Union. Pennsylvania, New York and Ohio will, I have no doubt, come up to the support of the Union, as have Maine and distant California. (Cheers) If that event should happen, there will be no change in the policy of the Administration, except in the more vigorous prosecution of the war, and Rebellion will soon be ended. (Cheers.)
This is a contest between enemies and friends of the Union. The Richmond Enquirer suggests another invasion. Why? To get supplies? No. What then? It is to give aid and encouragement to the Democratic party in Pennsylvania! (Applause.) You that want the soil of Pennsylvania to be as it ought to be, free from the invader, vote for Governor CURTIN!
I know that the men of all parties are loyal at heart. The masses of the Democratic party are loyal at heart. They are only misled. I desire to call the attention of every man and, every child to the exact difference between the parties of the one side and those of the other.
Suppose we should hear on Monday morning that BRAGG’S army had been routed and dispersed. To which party would that news give encouragement? Most assuredly to the party for the country, for the Administration. Which side would mourn for BRAGG’S defeat? The men of the other side. (A voice, “That’s so! “) And that alone should settle the question as to which side is for the country.
But I hear some old Democratic friend say, “I am for the Government, but I am against the Administration.” There is where you and I differ. Let us see if you can stand on that ground, my friend, because, if you are right, I may be with you. You can-not divorce the Administration from the Government; it is the only representative it has got. It is the only representative that the Government can now have for nearly a year and a half to come. If you are for the Government, you have got to stand by the Government. It may have erred—it has, no doubt, made mistakes, because administrators are not always infallible men,-but it is your duty to sustain it. “Ah! But, Mr. BUTLER, the Administration is but the engineer, the Government the engine; now you surely do not deny that I can oppose the engineer, and at the same time find no fault with the engine itself?” you say. But the engine is going at the rate of sixty miles an hour; she cannot be reversed, and we are all in imminent danger; is it time to quarrel with the engineer? (Laughter and applause.)
Loyal men who have heretofore belonged to the Democratic party, who cannot see any reason why you cannot go with the so-called Democratic party, are you to vote with that party from respect to its former platforms, from a reverence for its party title, and former desire to be at all times consistent in party name? Allow me to say that I was and am a Democrat of the ANDREW JACKSON school, and from it I have never wandered. I gave my first vote for the Democratic candidate, VAN BUREN, in 1840. I have voted for every Democratic candidate for President since. I have never thrown a vote but for the regular Democratic candidates. I have attended as a delegate every National Democratic Convention. You may say, “that is all very well, Mr. BUTLER, and you may have received the emoluments of office as a recompense.” No, sir, never! except in the office given me in the service of the country. So that I am a pretty good specimen of a Massachusetts Yankee Democrat. (Laughter.)
The question of African slavery has troubled many Democrats. I am with the Democratic platform there. In the Jackson platform there was no principle giving especial protection to slavery. On the issue of the tariff in 1832, South Carolina wanted to secede, precisely as she finally did secede in 1861, on the issue of the slavery question. When JACKSON was told that the able traitor, CALHOUN, would advise the withdrawal of South Carolina, he uttered the memorable words, “By the Eternal, I will hang him if he does!” Perhaps if JACKSON had sat in the chair in 1860, he would have made the same declaration, and we should be saved the blood and the treasure we have spent, and the agony we have suffered. JACKSON said the next pretext for disunion would be slavery. General Butler then reviewed the history of the agitation of the slavery question to the present time, showing how both the Democratic and Whig parties had always agreed to compromise, and had always agreed to the demands of the South for additional guarantees.
Under the same rights, to-day, I would subscribe to the same doctrine,” that we should not interfere with the rights of the States in regard to slavery.”
<c05>
What took place in Charleston? In 1860 these new guarantees were asked by the South. I said there, give us the platform on which we have always stood, and let the Democratic party be united; because when it was destroyed, I believed the destruction of the Union would follow. I supported Breckinridge in the hope that the Democratic party might be reunited. I thought it probable that Lincoln would be elected. But the Democracy had a majority in Congress, and a judiciary that had in its repeated decisions guaranteed to the South all that it could ask, so there could be no danger. They (the South) agreed honestly and fairly with me, that if we would stand by them, they would stand by us in the Union. 
South Carolina seceded; so did other Southern States. Had we not gone for this Constitutional right as far as we could possibly go? The reason was because we loved the Union, and would lay down our lives for it. (Cheers.) That was why, in the Democratic platform, every guarantee was given to the constitutionality of slavery; and for that reason we gave them as much as it was possible for us to give them, and I am neither afraid nor ashamed to say that I would have gone further to keep them inside the Union; but when the guns of Beauregard thundered against Fort Sumter, I was released from every constitutional obligation. (Cheers.)
The guns of Beauregard sounded the death-knell of slavery. Slavery has ceased to be valuable in the South. But that is no reason, we should trouble ourselves about it here. Within the next six months Louisiana, will be knocking at the doors of the Union for admission without slavery. (Repeated applause.) We are not responsible for this war. They brought it on. I am afraid we did not go far enough in bringing it on ourselves. But what has the war done for the slave? It has reduced his value, because he has learned that there is such a thing as Liberty; that there is a fight between his master and somebody else. He has become “demoralized,” and has got to fighting. He may cut his master’s throat. He is therefore useless I was told by men in the South that the slave would not fight; that one man, with a single gun, could hold two hundred negroes in check. Why so? Because the negro was never allowed to use a gun, But when I gave the negro a gun, he said, I have the gun now. He has learned to use arms, and is not afraid of them now. The war has not affected the value of labor; the only thing that is destroyed is the right to take labor without compensation. (Applause.)
You may think it heresy, but for one, I do not want this Union reconstructed on the old basis. Suppose you would wake up to-morrow morning, and learn, for a fact, that all the rebels had laid down their arms, and consented to return to the Union under its condition in 1860. Honest Democrats say they want the Union as it was. In such case, you would have to send to England for Mason and Slidell, and put them back in Congress; you would have to send to Richmond for Benjamin, and put him back into the Senate; you would have to send for Jeff. Davis, and put him back into the Senate; you would have to send for Gen. Lee, and put him at the head of his old regiment of United States Cavalry.
“You might reconstruct it without that,” says my honest Democratic friend. Ah! then you don’t want it exactly as it was. Tens of millions of debts would be upon us, and Rebel “scrip” would have to be met by payment in lawful money! Therefore do not shrink from me because I do not want to see the Union exactly as it was. Do you want Western Virginia, with all her free institutions, thrown back with Eastern Virginia? Do you want Missouri in her original condition? Do you want to see the men, black in skin, who have fought so nobly at Port Hudson and Sumter, sent back, in chains, to the cotton and rice fields again? If you do, I don’t. (Cheers.)
Some one says,” What do you call those States? Are they not our erring brethren and sisters, and can we interfere with them?” They are no longer States of this Union. I say they have cut themselves off from the privilege of being States of this Union.
“Then you admit the right of secession?” No. I only admit the fact of its existence. When a man cuts, his throat and commits suicide, I do not admit the right, but the fact of it. Louisiana was one of the States of the United States. She was bought by us. She was then settled by men from other parts of the United States, and by men from other parts of the world. She was admitted into the Union, and became one of the States of the Union. Suppose one day all the men, women, and children had chosen to emigrate. Where would the State of Louisiana be then? Would it not be territory of the United States, without any body on it? Suppose, on a given day, they had renounced their allegiance to the United States, and sworn allegiance to another Government, say the Queen of Great Britain, where would the State of Louisiana be then? Would it not be land of the United States inhabited by a large number of foreigners? And what did Louisiana do? Why, a large majority (in the end it was a large minority) renounced all allegiance to the United States, absolved all connection with the United States, and swore allegiance to another Confederation. What became of the State of Louisiana then? The inhabitants, having armed themselves as enemies of the United States, and sworn against our lives, were no longer our brothers, except as Cain was to Abel. Louisiana is, therefore, overrun with a large number of foreigners attempting to destroy our Government.
When its inhabitants shall desire to become citizens of the United States, and shall knock at the door to be admitted, with the incubus of a Confederate debt, I shall not be in favor of admitting that State.
I belong to the country, to the Union, and to the Government, and it is the only party I now know. (Cheers.) When we get fairly through our present difficulties, you and I may sit down and discuss our old party issues, drawing what partizan lines we please. But now every man should adjure party; old ideas are good, grand, and noble, but old ideas, when they do not fit the times, should be abandoned for the time. No Union man wants to abrogate the old Constitution. It is good, enough. The only question is, how can we take back an absconding member of the firm under the old articles of agreement.
I am not for the Union as it was, because it can not be reconstructed, If we could bring the seceding States back into the Union in every respect, I would do it, but it cannot be done. Who can bring back the gallant dead on the banks of the Potomac, Rappahannock, and Chickahominy? Who can wipe away the tears of the widow and the fatherless? Who can wipe out our national debt? Who can bring back the prosperity of 1860? After all that, I am with you for the reconstruction of the Union, (Cheers.) Gen. Butler closed with an eloquent appeal to the people to support the Government, and to defeat the traitors in the North.
<c06>
THE DEATH OF SLAVERY. 
Letter from Peter Cooper to Governor Seymour.
His Excellency HORATIO SEYMOUR, Governor of the state of New York:
MY DEAR SIR: I thank you for your prompt answer to my letter of the 8th ult., and for the assurance I received that “we agree in the end to be realized, the restoration of the Union and the preservation of the Constitution.” 
So deeply am I impressed with the absolute necessity of maintaining the integrity of the Union and the Constitution, that I desire to see all the powers that God in nature has given us brought into requisition to save our country from being dissevered, and from becoming the sport of foreign and domestic Saracens. I fear we are in danger of being drawn into error by men who have no faith in a real democratic form of government—I mean a government-I mean a government that aims to secure the greatest good to all the people.
Being a Democrat, nearly 73 years of age, and having served my country in person and by substitute from the commencement of the war with England to its close, I feel that I have a right to plead with my countrymen of all shades of political opinions, and to beseech them, by every consideration that can move our manhood, to look with me at the dangers which threaten us as a nation.
One of the principal arguments made use of during the last canvass to induce people to vote the Democratic ticket was the declaration, in their platform and speeches, of the assurance that by such a vote they would obtain a “more vigorous prosecution of the war.”
Since that time, it has become common to those who sympathize with the South to profess great concern about the sovereignty of the individual States. Such persons fail to realize how entirely impossible it would have been for any one individual State to have gained an independence for itself. It required the united power and efforts of all the States to win and maintain an independence of the mother country.
It does now, it always has and will forever, require the united powers of all the States to hold securely the dear-bought treasure of freedom and independence—a treasure that should be the pride and glory of every American citizen. For men to talk about the sovereignty of an individual State that never had and never can have the power to win or maintain its sovereignty, is to talk of a living body without an animating spirit.
James Madison declared in the Convention that formed the Constitution, that “the States never possessed the essential right of sovereignty. These were always vested in Congress.” He called the States great corporations. The folly of such an assumption of sovereignty was rendered apparent by the first attempts to form a government out of a league of States. Chancellor Kent assures us that “as soon as the league was ratified, the States began to fail in a prompt and faithful obedience to its laws, and as danger receded, instances of neglect became more frequent, and by the time of the peace of 1783 the disease of the government had displayed itself with alarming rapidity. The delinquences of one State became the apology for those of another.” He then declares that “the idea of supplying the pecuniary exigencies of the nation from requisitions on the States was soon found to be a delusion.”
After a great deal had been said at the Convention as to the rights of individual States, President Madison remarks: “I hope these arguments may convince all of the necessity of a strong, energetic Government, which will equally tend to give energy and protection to the State Governments.” He adds: “The object of the Federation is twofold; first, to maintain the Union—secondly, good government” “It is evident if we do not radically depart from the federal plan, we shall share the fate of ancient and modern Confederacies.” Mr. Madison says: “Our greatest danger is from the encroachments of the States on the General Government.” This apprehension is justly founded upon, the experience of ancient Confederacies, and ours is proof of it.” He further says: “Our National Government must operate for the whole, and the people must have an interest in its support. But if you make the legislators subject and at the mercy of State Governments, you ruin the fabric.” “The weaker you make your Confederacy, the greater the danger.” He cites evidences of this truth from the acts of the State Governments too numerous to mention. It was his opinion, expressed at various times in the Convention that framed the Constitution under which we live, that anything less than such a yielding up of the powers of all the individual States as would make a National Government would prove a phantom.
Nothing can be more certain than the fact that every effect, physical, moral, political, flows from a cause sufficient for its production. If the causes that now operate to spread misery, death and desolation through the land are within our reach, there is nothing that can be more important for us than to understand and remove the causes that endanger all we hold dear.
Some may reply that we must stop the Abolitionists from talking and writing, in order to prevent and remove dangers from our country; for these Abolitionists are constantly declaring that “these truths are self-evident, that all men are born equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.” These Abolitionists even go so far as to say:” That to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men.”
If it has been found impossible to restrain the few active Abolitionists who were in the country when the war rebellion was commenced, what do we expect to accomplish when, by the course of events, they have been multiplied one hundred or a thousand fold?
Under these circumstances, would it not be wise for us to take a lesson from Mohammed, who, when he found the mountain would not come to him, thought it best be should go to the mountain?
Others will say that the President’s proclamation of freedom and the congressional act of confiscation must be withdrawn, in order to remove the cause that continues the war. Such as opinion is without a shadow of authority from any member of the Confederate Government. 
In opposition to such an opinion, I learn direct from Mr. Dean, the Provost Marshall of St. Louis, that the Proclamation of Freedom has done more to weaken the Rebellion and prevent the foreign recognition than any other measure that could have been adopted. On his late visit to my house, he informed me that he had brought on a large number of rebel officers and men to be exchanged at Fortress Monroe. During their passage, he took the opportunity to ask the officers in a body what effect the President’s Proclamation of Freedom had produced in the South. Their reply was (to use their own vulgar mode of expression), that “it had played hell with them.” Mr. Dean then asked them how that could be possible, since the negroes canno-
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I may this down as the law of nations. If say that military authority takes, for the time, the plane of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AM0NG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the states where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding states become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from the instant the war powers of congress extend to interference with the institutions of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFEARED WITH, from a claim indemnity for slaves takes or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I my it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and must carry it on, According to the laws of war; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory. ”J.Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
read? To which one of them replied that one of his negroes had told him of the proclamation five days before he had heard it in any other way. Others said their negroes gave them their first information of the proclamation. One of these officers then said with a defiant air, that if we would only leave them their corn, their bacon, and their homespun, which their negroes produced, they would fight us twenty years.
We cannot, as a people, too sincerely consider that old and worthy saying, that "a house divided against itself cannot stand."
Unfortunately for us, the seeds of a conflicting system are sown broadcast throughout our land by the unyielding; policy of the mother country, acting in concert with mercenary men of our own, entirely regardless of human rights. Such a system has and must continue to spread death and desolation through the land, until we are filled with our own ways, and become sick of our sins, and are made willing to do unto others us we would that others should do unto us. Just so long as we employ the power of the Government to maintain, extend and perpetuate an institution that enables thousands to sell their own children to be enslaved with all their posterity, just so long we must be a house divided against itself, with ruin staring us in the face. For Slavery must forever be a war in its struggles for freedom, so long as God lights up the love of liberty in the human heart. The great question for the country is now to be settled by us-whether we will accept a providential interposition that has compelled the Government, in the most reluctant self-defence, to declare freedom to all slaves claimed by rebels in arms, as the only effectual means of saving the nation’s life, and thus performing the highest duty enjoined by the Constitution. We are too apt to forget that the Constitution makes the duly-elected President the Commander-in-Chief of the Army and the Navy of the United States, and holds him responsible for an energetic use of all the powers of the Nation to defend its interests, its honor, and its life.
From all that can be gathered from the newspapers of the South that profess to speak in behalf of the States now in rebellion, we are compelled to believe that their Vice-President was in earnest when he declared that their intention was to make Slavery the corner-stone of their confederacy. After the frightful loss of life and treasure already brought upon the nation, these men seem determined to wade through seas of blood in order to obtain stronger guarantees and additional protection for an institution which is at war with natural justice and all the noble instincts of a common humanity. When we are called upon to listen to the advocates of such a system, we would do well to bear in mind that men, in the opinion of Dr. Franklin, are proud-spirited little animals, not fit to be trusted with power. We should also profit by the warning of Jefferson, who said, (when speaking of the enslavement of human beings,) When I remember that God is just, I tremble for my country." We, as a people, may well tremble for our country when we fail to co-operate with events which have made the slaveowners of the South the grandest Abolitionists of the nation. The people of the South, by making war for the destruction of the Union and Constitution, have made it necessary, right and proper for the Government to abolish Slavery, upon the same principle that it would be right to destroy a city in order to save a nation.
It is painful to find so many persons, whom we are compelled to respect for honesty of purpose, whom we are also compelled to believe as much in error as St. Paul was when he was hauling men, women, and children to prison and to death. I sincerely believe that ten years will not pass, after the South obtains relief from the paralyzing and corrupting power of holding Africans in Slavery, with so large a portion of their own children in the same bondage, before they will erect monuments in honor of their deliverance from so great an evil. This opinion is confirmed by the actual experience of a gentleman now in this city, who, after having lived twenty-five years in the South, and having constantly employed hundreds of negroes, gives it as his unqualified opinion that the South would be enriched by the liberation of its slaves. He says the South has untold wealth within its reach, which it never can obtain while it works men as slaves. This opinion is further confirmed by one of the largest sugar-planters in the South. This gentleman, since the war was commenced, found one morning all his negroes surrounding his house, when one of them informed him that they had "clouded to have wages after dis." Their master, after some parley, agreed to give them $7 per month, which they accepted, and went to their work. This same master informed Judge Woodruff of New-Orleans, after getting in his crop, that he had never got it in so well and so cheaply before.
I believe it will be found that so soon as the South is secured to freedom, the colored people of the North will rapidly emigrate to the South, and furnish an abundance of cheap labor of all kinds.
I have written this long letter because I fear that errors, however honestly entertained, have been and will continue to be the means of stimulating the Rebels to persevere in their efforts for our destruction. The sympathy manifested for the Rebellion by men throughout the North, and the constant opposition to the course adopted by our Administration, may enable the Rebels to draw foreign Governments to their aid, and in that way bring unheard of sufferings upon our country.
I do not know a single man in the whole nation who has the power to do so much to strengthen the hands of the Government as yourself. Your efforts may prevent foreign interference in our affairs, and enable our Government the sooner to bring the Rebellion to an end. The influence you can exert would do an immense amount of good by persuading our Democratic friends to give their whole strength to a "more vigorous prosecution of the war."
I believe it would be the proudest day of your life, if I could induce you to call on all, without distinction of party, to unite to conquer the Rebellion, relying that all reasonable sympathy and kindness will be manifested to the people of the South by the people of the North, when they see that the Rebels have laid down their arms, and have shown a determination to become peaceable citizens of a united country.’
I have written these long letters with an inexpressible desire to do what I can to restore peace and prosperity to our suffering country a country that, in the course of nature, I shall soon leave; but with an ardent hope that it may forever remain a glorious Union of States, where goodness and greatness shall be the motto and inspiration of the people.
Yours, most respectfully,
PETER COOPER.
New York, Sept. 22, 1863.

LETTER FROM GENERAL MEAGHER.
We take the following extracts from a scathing and eloquent letter from that true Irish patriot. General Thomas Francis Meagher, addressed to J. Janney, Esq. of Ohio, Secretary and Treasurer Union Central Committee, Columbus:-
It is not too much to say, that in this contest in Ohio, the Government at Washington is on trial, and that, with it, the noble armies it has sent forth to recover the National domain and property from the insurgents of the South, shall either be renounced and condemned, or be heartily sustained, as your votes decide the day. Electing Mr. Brough, Ohio vindicates and fortifies the National Government. Electing Mr. Vallandigham, Ohio abandons, and, so far as one State can do so, weakens and prostrates it. Electing Mr. Brough, Ohio stands true to the splendid soldiers who, from the rocks of Gettysburg, hurled back a bold invasion-from the bluffs of Vicksburg broke the fetters of the Mississippi, consecrating it to freedom and the untrammelled service of a united people, and who, at this very hour, rain a deserved chastisement on the city in which the National Flag was first struck down, and the torch of treason tossed aloft as the signal of revolt. Electing Mr. Vallandigham, Ohio turns her back on these brave men, disowns their services, discards the victories they have won, sends them a vote of repudiation instead a vote of thanks, and, in place of cheering them on in their new enterprises, casts a cloud between them and their fame, their proud memories, their exalted purposes and hopes, making them feel they have poured out their blood in the defeat of armed traitors in their front but to encounter the faithlessness and base ingratitude, or at the best the equivocal recognition and impoverished praise of a mutinous party in the rear.
The election of Mr. Brough will deepen the depression and confirm the discomfiture of the South, going far to convert into wofulness and "blank despair the ecstacies inspired by the Peace meetings and riots of New York, Iowa, and other places where copperheads abound, and the venom as well
<c02>
as the slime, the fangs, as well as the slippery skin of the reptiles, warn the community of danger.
On the other hand, the election of Mr. Vallandigham will rouse the drooping spirits of the guilty States, that have been so effectually crippled of late. It will revive in those States great expectations of a diversion in their favor, and stimulate them to renewed efforts of desperation. Summon Mr. Vallandigham from his congenial exile in the bosom of his British sympathizers, seat him in the Curule chair of your State, let him have the disbursement of the patronage with which it is richly padded, and, not a doubt of it, the usurpers at Richmond will have good reason to infer they have reliable friends at the North, and that President Lincoln is beset, undermined, hampered, and overborne by a swarm of enemies.
The severe, thin features of Mr. Davis will dilate and soften with the news. Another Thanksgiving Day will be added by his authority to the long list of Feasts and Fasts in which the fluctuations of the Confederacy, from the penitential to the hilarious phases of piety, are commended, as a lesson on the variability of human affairs, to the study of an irreverent and headlong age. The sweetest smiles will break out and play in tropical radiance all over the neat chin, the dainty lips, the plump and cosy cheeks of Mr. Judah Benjamin; and, yielding to the enchantment of the glad tidings, he may indulge in the vision of a triumphal entry into Cincinnati, on the invitation of Governor Vallandigham; and, more blessed than his forefathers were, may he in his dreams partake of grapes such as the gleaning of Ephraim never yielded, and of hams such as Solomon in all his glory, with all his gold and silver, with all his ivory, apes, and peacocks, never had the happiness to taste. Mr. Toombs, even, may be induced, in the enlivening sunshine of the event, to think better of the financial system he has recently, with such a sepulchral sobriety and heaviness of heart, considered it his duty to expose.
Picture to yourselves the transports of the refined and exquisite editors who danced-as the King of Dahomey dances at his loathsome and awful holocausts over the strangling and mutilation of the harmless and helpless negroes of New York, and the massacre at Lawrence, the instigation to which barbarities-unparalleled since the butcheries of the Septembrists and the Noyades of Lyons-must have sprung from the deepest abyss of hell. Picture to yourselves the transports of these delicate and chivalrous gentlemen when the news reaches them, that their persistent, champion-who, from the outset of the war, has done everything in his power to aid the insurrection, while he has left no stone unturned that could embarrass and incapacitate the National Government-has triumphed in his disaffection and disloyalty, becoming invested with magisterial functions that will enable him all the more boldly, all the more defiantly, all the mere mischievously, to resume the line of conduct that compelled the National Government to send him beyond our lines.
The South, be assured of it, will interpret his election in its direct bearing and full significance. They will recognize in it the defeat and condemnation of the National Government, and in this defeat and condemnation the power and predominance of the conspiracy which fosters and facilitates secession, voting down supplies to the army, destroying public confidence in the Administration, instigating resistance to the laws of Congress, compelling the withdrawing of veteran troops from the field to enforce the obedience which State authorities think it no duty of theirs to see to; and by every other artifice compatible with its malignant safety, doing its best to sap and paralyze the good, great cause, it lacks the courage to rear its head against, and with a brilliant audacity assail.
Nor will the election of Mr. Vallandigham be hailed with less satisfaction in Canada and England than in South Carolina and Virginia. Canada will illuminate in celebration of the event, and give full swing to the joy-bells of her town halls and churches. The London Times-startled a little and brought to its senses by the repulse of Lee, by the surrender of Pemberton and Gardner, and the Greek fire that brought home her doom to Charleston, and awakened her at midnight to the consciousness of her crime and the punishment it supremely merits-the London Times, on its being telegraphed from Liverpool that Mr. Vallandigham has been elected Governor of Ohio, will be itself again; and over this check and disparagement to the National Government will plunge into the wildest raptures of rhetoric. That solid agent of all sorts of business in the revolutionary line, our present friend and deep philosopher, George Saunders, who has never known a day for the last five and twenty years that he was not prepared to take the largest contracts for supplying every trouble in the world with abundant fuel, will be sure to give a dozen breakfasts, dinners and suppers, of superb proportions and staggering costliness, all on the strength of it, to the refugees of the South-the strolling lords of the rice swamps and cotton fields-including the most extraordinary and miscellaneous celebrities the name of liberty and battering rams, wines and meats, can crowd and crush together.
The Southern loan will have a sudden rise, figuring at a premium proportioned to the slide it has had since Gen. Grant invested some of its best securities in the United States stock. Lord Palmerton will straighten himself up, and talk more jauntily and impudently than ever (spirited old rake that he is) about the rights of belligerents, the tenacity of the South, the fatuity of the North, the sacred duty of neutrals, and the impossibility of hindering steamships, ordered for the Grand Lama of Thibet, or a dead Pasha of Egypt, running down American merchant ships, and robbing and burning them in sight of the Irish coast, in the name of a Confederacy, the keystone of which is slavery, and the prestige and hope of which seem now to depend mainly upon the exploits of its buccaneers. Members of Parliament-Messrs. Roebuck, Gregory and Lindsay-will grow all the more importunate with their "motions" for intervention; and as for the conscientious shipwrights of Glasgow and Birkenhead, they will be emboldened by the event to lay the keels of another couple of monstrous iron-clads, christening one of them The Vallandigham, and the other The Copperhead, and consecrating both, in the enlightened and holy spirit of Great Britons, to the cause of Slavery and the devastation of Commerce.
The defeat of Mr. Brough will have a similar effect in France. We shall have another pamphlet from M. Chevalier-glowing with an imperial inspiration-setting forth the expediency and grandeur of recognizing the new Power, of which the two polished old gentlemen accidentally captured by Admiral Wilkes in the vicinity of Nassau, and consigned for a few days to the Boston Harbor by mistake, have been, for more than a year and a half, at the back doors of the Tuileries and Windsor Castle, the suppliant envoys on a dubious probation. In fine, there is not an enemy of the United States abroad-not one jealous or revengeful witness of their marvelous development and tranquility previous to the war, or of their equally marvelous energy, persistency, resources and bravery- all through it-who will not exult at the event, and more or less eagerly take advantage of it, should the loyal and patriotic citizens of Ohio be overborne by the disunionists and traitors, who, in the name of State rights and habeas corpus, strain every nerve to perplex and shackle the National Government, still further shake and dislocate the Union, and invigorate, while they inflame, the spirit of rebellion.
From the outset of the war, Mr. Vallandigham has been emphatically and vehemently opposed to it. There has been nothing evasive, nothing temporizing, nothing cowardly in his opposition to it. He has not, like most of his disciples in New York, declared for hostilities when war was the popular rage, and, after aiding in the equipment of volunteers, and fanning the martial fire, twirled or sneaked about to the rear, in a season of public depression or caprice, when the national cause was under a cloud, and with the gravity of a sanctimonious swindler-
"-the mildest mannered man
That ever scuttled ship or cut a throat"-
stuck the white feather in his hat, and bidding his memory and conscience defiance, started with a villainous equanimity as a preacher of the new Gospel of Peace. However strongly we may deprecate his opinions and public conduct; however strongly we may condemn and repudiate him as a perverted citizen, and invoke against him the judgment of the people, whose patriotism and heroism find in him no vibratory cord-we must admit that Mr. Vallandigham has been consistent, intrepid, uncompromising and implacable from first to last. In this attitude you find him; in this attitude you must deal with him. Persisting in it, Ohio will determine, by an overwhelming majority, that Mr. Vallandigham shall be kept disarmed until the war is over; and, in doing so, Ohio shall have the hearty congratulations of every true Jacksonian Democrat.
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1863.
ONE MILLON SIGNATURES!
CIRCULATE THE PETITION!
The Loyal Women of the Republic, through their National Association, resolved in May last to attempt to procure a MILLION signatures of loyal women to the following petition:-
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:
The undersigned, Women of the United States above the age of eighteen years, earnestly pray that your honorable body will pass, at the earliest practicable day, an Act emancipating all persons of African descent held to involuntary service or labor in the United States.
Let the loyal women of Massachusetts see to it that they are not outdone by their sisters in any other State in the number of names appended by them to this petition-a petition which goes to the very root of the rebellion and all our national troubles, by asking Congress to terminate what remains of slavery outside of the President’s 1st of January Proclamation in such manner as to that body may seem advisable.
To accomplish the Herculean task contemplated, INDIVIDUAL EFFORT AND CONSECRATION are needed in every city, town, and village. Time is pressing-the object is godlike-the opportunity to give the death-blow to slavery must not be allowed to pass unimproved.

THE BOSTON PILOT.
The editor of the Pilot- a comparatively new hand at the bellows continues his knavish work to deceive his ignorant and credulous readers, in regard to Abolitionism and the Rebellion. Sometimes he appears to be such a blockhead as to be destitute of the capacity necessary to be a knave. But, ever since he has had charge of the Pilot, his effusions have been strange medlies of impudence and froth, falsehood and cunning, self-conceit and scoundrelism. He has never yet succeeded in writing a decent or sensible article; and with such a head and such a heart, every fresh attempt must inevitably give the same disgustingly abortive result. If Daniel O’Connell were living, he would brand him as "a bastard Irishman," as he did every Irishman in this country who gave his sympathy and aid to the Southern slave-mongers, and turned his back upon the Anti-Slavery movement. O’Connell was our personal friend, and the admirer and eulogist of the American Abolitionists, claiming for himself no higher honor in the world than to be reckoned by them as one of their number. It was at his suggestion we called a public meeting in Exeter Hall, London, in 1883, to expose the abominations of American slavery, and its hand-maid, the American Colonization Society; he volunteering to make a speech on the occasion-and a most scathing and magnificent speech it proved. He spoke to us mournfully and indignantly respecting the brutal spirit evinced by the Irish in America towards the oppressed negro population; and he used his utmost powers of persuasion and invective to excite in them feelings of shame and remorse-but in vain. In vain-to a considerable extent, (we charitably believe,) because neither the Pilot, nor any other Catholic journal on this side of the Atlantic, would allow his abolition sentiments to be made known to them through its columns. With what abhorrence of soul did O’Connell and the Irish Repeal Association spurn the money with which the Repeal Associations in this country sought to bribe them into silence concerning American Slavery! It is "blood money," they truly said, "and we want none of it."
Now, look at this paragraph from the Pilot of this week:-
O’CONNELL’S LETTER ON SLAVERY. :-The Abolitionists have been very anxious to see the much-talked-of Letter of O’Connell on Slavery published in the Pilot. It would have been long since, but we did not wish to gratify the aforesaid politicians who got it up expressly to aid the abolition cause. After the Fall elections are over, we shall publish the letter, without pay. Some of our contemporaries have been paid for printing it.
This is a specimen of the mingled blockheadism and knavery to which we have alluded as characterising the editorial effusions of the Pilot. First, its readers are mendaciously told that the Abolitionists have been very anxious to see a certain Letter of O’Connell on slavery published in its columns; whereas they have given themselves no concern about its publication in that malignant sheet. Next, the reason impudently given why the Pilot withholds it is, that it was "expressly got up to aid the Abolition cause," by "the aforesaid politicians"! Expressly got up, forsooth! An old Letter of O’Connell, written in behalf of the Loyal National Repeal Association of Ireland in 184-, "expressly got up" now "to aid the Abolition cause"! Wonderful discovery! And yet, mark the confession of the Pilot!-that Letter, if seen and circulated, will "aid the Abolition cause"! Of course it will!-for it was written "expressly" by O’Connell, and endorsed by the Repeaters of Ireland, for no other purpose! And if the editor of the Pilot were not an ignoramus, he would know that a large edition of that Letter was printed by the American Anti-Slavery Society, when received soon after it was written, and scattered far and wide. In a former number of the Pilot, with all the gravity of an owl, he declared, "If O’Connell were alive now, he would bitterly lament (!) the composition of his letter. We rejoice that his letter did not appear a long time ago, [but it did, and was then extensively circulated!] for in that case he would be more guilty than he is as one of the authors(!) of the terrible war that for two years has been ravaging and rending this magnificent country." Yet, in the same article, he says, "Honor for ever to the memory of Daniel O’Connell! In talents, in love of country, and in virtue, he was the most distinguished Irishman of his day"-&c., &c. O, this double-tongued hypocrite!
The Pilot promises to publish O’Connell’s Letter "after the Fall elections are over"! It would not do to publish it before, lest many a well-meaning, liberty-loving, but misguided Irish voter might thereby be undeceived, and give his vote for a loyal friend of freedom and the government, instead of for a seditious copperhead democrat! Self-pilloried knavery!
The Pilot trumpets its disinterestedness:-"Some of our contemporaries have been paid for printing it," (doubtless a malicious and false assertion,) but we shall publish the Letter without pay"! Was ever generosity like this?
The Pilot devotes a column to show that the Abolitionists were disunionists before the rebellion; but it dishonestly omits to state the moral grounds on which they based their opposition to "the Union as it was" namely, the slaveholding guaranties, concessions and compromises recognized and carried out by the people in the Constitution of the United States; and which John Quincy Adams was constrained to admit as thoroughly indefensible and fearfully inhuman, in the following language:-
"The bargain between Freedom and Slavery contained in the Constitution of the United States is MORALLY AND POLITICALLY VICOUS, inconsistent with the principles on which alone our revolution can be justified, CRUEL AND OPPERSSIVE BY REIVETING THE CHAINS OF SLAVERY, by pledging the faith of freedom to maintain and perpetuate the tyranny of the master, and grossly unequal and impolitic by admitting that slaves are at once enemies to be kept in subjection, property to be secured and returned to their owners, and persons not to be represented themselves, but for whom their masters are privileged with nearly a double share of representation. The consequence has been, that this slave representation has governed the Union. Benjamin’s portion above his brethren has ravined as a wolf. In the morning he has devoured the prey, and In the evening has divided the spoil."
Now, in opposing such a Union as "a covenant with death and an agreement with hell," and therefore to be annulled, the Abolitionists but followed in the footsteps of prophets and apostles, of saints and martyrs, who, under the penalty of universal ostracism and fiery per-,
<c04>
section, rejected that doctrine of devils, " The end sanctifies the means,"-and were inflexible in their allegiance to God, even though, as in the case of the golden image that was set up in the plain of Dura, "all the people, the nations, and languages, fell down and worshipped the image," together with "the princes, the governors, the captains, the judges, the treasurers, the counsellors, the sheriffs, and all the rulers of the provinces." They but imitated the example of Peter and John, who said, as vindicators of the Higher Law," Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye." And they will stand vindicated in history as governed by the highest reverence towards God, and the broadest humanity towards man. Hearken!-Have we not all one Father? Hath not one God created us? Why do we deal treacherously every man against his brother? The Lord will cut off the man that doeth this, the master and the scholar, out of the tabernacles of Israel, and him that offereth an offering unto the Lord of hosts"-"Execute true judgment, and shew mercy and compassion every man to his brother: and oppress not the widow, nor the father-less, the stranger, nor the poor; and let none of you imagine evil against his brother in your heart. But they refused to hearken, and pulled away the shoulder, and stopped their ears that they should not hear; yea, they made their hearts as an adamant stone, lest they should hear the law, and the word which the Lord of hosts hath sent in his spirit by the former prophets: THEREFORE CAME A GREAT WRATH FROM THE LORD OF HOSTS"-"Ye have not proclaimed liberty every man to his brother, and every man to his neighbor; therefore, I proclaim a liberty for you, saith the Lord, to the sword, to the pestilence, and to the famine."
What would the Pilot think of a Union which should consign to slavery the whole Irish population in this country (not so large as the slave population)-which should give the right to their enslavers to hunt them like wild beasts in every part of the republic, in case of seeking their freedom by flight-which should increase the political power of the South in proportion to the number of Irishmen held in bondage-and which should pledge the strong arm of the national government to suppress, if need be, every attempt of the Irish to obtain their natural, God-given rights through insurrection and blood? Will the Pilot attempt to give AN HONEST ANSWER to this question? Such an answer will be the justification of the Abolitionists in opposing "the Union as it was." To enslave the Irish, or any other race, is no more criminal in the sight of God, and no more an outrage upon the rights of human nature, than it is to enslave the negroes.
The Pilot quotes the following lines from the New York Tribune in 1859, and brands them as "treason":-
"THE AMERICAN FLAG.
Tear down the flaunting lie!
Half-mast the starry flag!
Insult no sunny sky
With hate’s polluted rag!
Destroy it, ye who can!
Deep sink it in the waves!
It bears a fellow-man
To groan with fellow-slaves."
Now-"remembering those in bonds as bound with them"-we say, all honor to the writer of those stanzas for his fidelity to human liberty! For it was the atrocious use made of the flag, under the Fugitive Slave Law, as expressed in the two last lines-
"It bears a fellow-man
To groan with fellow-slaves"-
that warranted and compelled him to pronounce it a “flaunting lie."
The Pilot appears to have forgotten what Thomas Moore, the Bard of Erin, said of America and her slaveholding flag long before the year 1859. Read it!
"Who can, with patience, for a moment see
The medley mass of pride and misery,
Of whips and charters, manacles and rights,
Of slaving blacks and democratic whites,
And all the piebald policy that reigns
In free confusion o’er Columbia’s plains?
To think that man,-thou just and gentle God!
Should stand before thee with a tyrant’s rod,
O’er creatures like himself, with souls from thee,
Yet dare to boast of perfect liberty!!
Away! away! I’d rather hold my neck
By doubtful tenure from a Sultan’s beck,
In climes where liberty has scarce been nam’d,
Nor any right, but that of ruling claim’d,
Than thus to live where boasted Freedom waves
Her fustian flag in mockery over SLAVES!
Where motley laws, (admitting no degree
Betwixt the basely slav’d and madly free,)
Alike the bondage and the license suit,-
The brute made ruler, and the man made brute!"
Thomas Moore was right in this matter.-Now let us see what Daniel O’Connell said of the American flag in his day:-
"Let America, in the fulness of her pride, wave on high her banner of freedom and its blazing stars. I point to her, and say, There is one foul blot upon it; you have negro slavery!"-"Let them hoist the flag of liberty, with the whip and rack on one side, and the stars of freedom upon the other!"-"Glorious and splendid as is the star-spangled banner of republican America, still it is stained with the deep, foul blot of human blood!"-"The friends of freedom will rejoice that I here tear down the image of liberty from the hand of recreant America, and condemn her as the vilest of hypocrites, the greatest of liars!"-" Is America to shake her star-spangled banner in the breeze, and boast of liberty, while she is conscious that that banner floats over the heads of slaves?-" America! the black spot of slavery rests upon your star-spangled banner; and no matter what glory you may acquire beneath it, the hideous, damning stain of slavery rests upon you; and a just Providence will, sooner or later, avenge itself for your crime!"
O’Connell was also right in these indignant invectives, and his prophecy is now literally fulfilled. The righteous judgment of Heaven has at last fallen upon this guilty land, as predicted by him. Thank God that, through the treasonable uprising of the South, if not through the unfeigned repentance of the North, the old "covenant with death" is annulled, and "the Union as it was" no longer exists, and is never again to be! The American flag is henceforth to be the symbol of universal freedom, and "LIBERTY AND UNION" are to be "ONE AND INSEPARABLE"!
A FAIR CRITICISM. The Pionier of Sept. 23d remarks: "Mr. Sumner charges the ’neutral’ powers with having sinned against all ideas of international law, by respecting the belligerent right of the rebels on the ocean when the very first requisite was wanting, to wit, the possession of open ports with prize-courts. He does not mention that Mr. Lincoln’s procedure was precisely the same, inasmuch as he caused captured pirates, instead of being hung, to be treated like prisoners of war."

"NIMIUM NE OREDE COLORL"
BOSTON, Oct. 5, 1863.
Ed. Liberator:
SIR-The swift though silent change in public opinion in the matter of arming the blacks, is highly encouraging. Already, we are told, the chief obstacle to the most extensive recruitment in the Border States is not prejudice, but a lack of proper and sufficient officers. The accompanying extract from the New York Journal of Commerce of Sept. 16th, 1836, has an historical interest at the present time, and may serve to remind us that we ought not to confine ourselves to the white race alone, in seeking shoulders worthy of straps, and brains of commissions. QUILIBET.
"At the discharge of the watch yesterday morning, an old colored man was brought to the watch-house, habited in the uniform of a revolutionary soldier, wearing a small three-cornered bat, surmounted with an immensely high feather. His appearance at first led the magistrate to suppose him either an old fool, madman, or mountebank; but such a supposition was quickly dispelled by the old veteran giving a short but clear and intelligent account of his career in the revolutionary war, from which it appeared that he had been a Captain in Col. Green’s regiment, composed of colored people, and that he now enjoyed a pension of $120 per annum for his revolutionary services. He further stated that he was in the 83d year of his age, and had come from Rhode Island to ascertain if a brother of his was yet living, and if so, to see him once more before they both quit the world forever."
<c05>
THE UNION AS IT WAS.
It is time that loyal men should cease to use the phraseology that was coined in the workshop of slavery. Behind fair phrases lurk dangerous events. The advocates of oppression who ruled this nation until this regenerating war burst forth were matters in the art of language. They couched monstrous sentiments in the mildest and most plausible speech. They wrapped the hungry wolf in the white swaddling-clothes of infancy.
White the Union was the protector and patron of man-stealing and woman-whipping, and a scourge to honest men, it was the device of slaveholders to cry it up as an idol too sacred to be touched-a fabric, if not divine, yet more than mortal. Time has crumbled the imposing edifice to fragments, and exposed it as a transparent lie, yet the old shibboleth of "Union for the sake of Union" still comes from the mouths of multitudes. It crops out in political meetings; it is the staple of numberless editorials
It is well to consider the meaning of a restoration of the Union. Once realized, and it brings back all the foulness and brutality of the past, and again brands America as a Cain among the nations. Let us thank God that the old Union, shattered and destroyed, has vanished into outer darkness!
We know that this rallying-cry for restoration is susceptible of two representations; that the lover of liberty uses it, meaning a Union with slavery eliminated, while the copperhead hisses it, with the vision of universal slavery before his eyes. It is time that such Janus-faced phrases were expurgated from the language of those who mean only universal freedom. To profess love for the Union of the past is no test of loyalty. Vallandigham and Seymour fervent in their expressions of attachment for it 
The idea must be fixed in the popular mind that we are waging this war to make a new Union, as far from the old as light is from darkness. To bring back the Union of three years ago, even if desirable, is as impossible as it is to summon back alive the great army of Northern soldiers buried in Southern graves, or to "create a soul under the ribs of death."
We confess to little sentiment regarding the mere name of Union. It creates no patriotic emotions in our breast. An aggregation of States, for the purpose of making money by selling cotton and corn, makes no appeal to man’s noblest instincts. Only when it embodies an idea transcending material interests can a Union become respectable.
It is not for the beauty of a flag, or the physical power it represents, that makind hail it with respect and admiration. Except as an emblem of the nation’s advance in civilization, it is a worthless piece of bunting. Let this war be finished without emancipating overy slave, and our flag, now partially redeemed from the stigma which Christendom has heretofore attached to it, will again become a flaunting curse in the free air of heaven.
Then away with "the Union as it was!" All hail the Union of universal liberty that is to be! All hail a charter of human rights so plain and unmistakable that no lawyer, though the Presidency be his bribe, can by transcendent ingenuity find one letter that can be construed into giving countenance to the heresy, that man can hold property in man!-W.L.G.,JR.

FAREWELL COURTESIES TO DR. MASSEY.
An immense audience convened at the Broadway Tabernacle, on Sunday evening, 27th ult., to farewell to the Rev. Dr. Massey, the distinguished delegate who represents the sentiments of several thousand clergymen in Great Britain and France, and who authorized his mission of brotherly love to this country. Wherever this gentlemen has spoken, he has never failed to commit himself, without reserve, against slavery, and the war to sustain slavery; hence his constantly increasing popularity. The aisles, galleries, altar, and doorways were crowded with hearers, and hundreds retired who could not obtain accommodations in the capacious church. A large number of clergymen and other distinguished persons were present.
After the usual religious exercises, the Rev. Dr. Asa D. Smith, who presided, delivered a short introductory address, in his usual felicitous manner. He was followed by the Rev. Dr. Duryee, who read the address in reply to the communication from the Committee appointed by the ministry in Great Britain and France. The Rev. Dr. Armitage was then introduced. He spoke of the thousands of noble men who had appended their signatures to the address from the other side of the sea. They were the descendants of the Sidneys and the Hampdens, who had done so much for the freedom of England. In his remarks respecting the British aristocracy, not represented by the delegate present, he said they might hear their reply from the lips of cannon in the swamps of South Carolina. He spoke of the delegate, whose head was white with years, white with labors, and White with honor. His mission was one of the grandest ideas that ever expanded in the human brain or stirred a human spring. The reverend gentleman spoke with great eloquence and power, moving his sedate auditors to manifestations of applause, which caused a few who have worked for the defeat of Rosecrans to scowl ominously.
A note from the Rev. Dr. Vermilye, regretting his unavoidable absence, was read, after which the Rev. Dr. Massey was introduced. He referred to the remarks made by Dr. Armitage, In relation to the British aristocracy. The Rev. Baptist Noel was the son of a peer and the brother of a peer, and yet he assisted in getting up the friendly address he (Dr. Massey) had presented to the American churches. He spoke of the Duchess of Sutherland, the Duke of Argyle, the Queen and the Prince, as being friendly to the country. He did not represent the government nor the people of Great Britain, he only represented those who sent him here. He had seen Lord Lyons, who spoke well of his (Dr. Massey’s) mission to this country, and wished him success. He had a pleasant interview with President Lincoln, and found him a true friend to the slave. He believed Mr. Lincoln was truly an honest man, and he had reason to say that he (the President) would abide by his promises of freedom. The reverend gentleman spoke at great length, with remarkable fervor and power, and fixed the attention of his auditors. He defended the English people, and declared that their sympathies were with us.
The Rev. Dr. Thompson then delivered an exceedingly interesting and able address, and after religious services, the vast audience adjourned at a late hour.
THEODORE D. WELD. We are highly gratified to learn that our gifted and eloquent friend, THEODORE D. WELD finding, by a sufficient trial for some months past, that his vocal powers warrant his entering into the lecturing field,-has prepared several lectures on themes of high importance and absorbing interest, any or all of which he is disposed to deliver as the way may open; and we therefore advise all lecturing committees, as far as practicable, to include him in their list of speakers, assuring them that, in grandeur of thought, force of reasoning, power of illustration, affluence of language, and impressiveness of delivery, they will not be able to present any superior to himself. Once having heard him, they will want to hear him many times again. We trust there will be no lack of applications for his services, and that as his day is, so his strength may be. It is given to him "to instruct, to quicken, to elevate and inspire, as few men can. His themes will be such as the times demand, elucidated in his own masterly manner. His post-office address is West Newton, Mass.
We have received Part XXXV. of "THE REBELLION RECORD: A Diary of American Events for1860-’62. Edited by Frank Moore, and published by G.P. Putnam, 441 Broadway, New York." It contains the portraits of Brigadier General Weitzel and Brigadier General J. W. Sill, and is crowded with valuable documents relating to the War. It is an important historical work.
<c06>
ADDRESS OF MRS. ELIZABETH C. STANTON
TO THE WOMEN OF THE REPUBLIC.
When our leading journals, orators and brave men from the battle field complain that Northern women feel no enthusiasm in the war, the time has come for us to speak-to pledge ourselves loyal to freedom and our country.
Thus far there has been no united public expression from the women of the North, as to the policy of the war. Here and there one has spoken and written nobly. Many have vied with each other in acts of generosity and self-sacrifice for the sick and wounded in camp and hospital. But we have, as yet, no means of judging how and where the majority of Northern women stand.
If it be true, that at this hour the women of the South are more devoted to their cause than we to ours, the fact lies here. They see and feel the horrors of the war; the foe is at their firesides; while we, in peace and plenty, live and move as heretofore. There is an inspiration, too, in a definite purpose, be it good or bad. The women of the South know what their sons are fighting for. The women of the North do not. They appreciate the blessing of slavery; we do not the blessings of liberty. We have never yet realized the glory of those institutions, in whose defence it is the high privilege of our sires and sons this day, to bleed and die. They are aristocrats, with a lower class, servile and obsequious, intrenched in feudal homes. We are aristocrats under protest, who must go abroad to indulge our tastes, and enjoy in foreign despotisms the courts and customs which the genius of a republic repudiates and condemns.
But from the beginning of the Government, there have been women among us who, with the mother of the immortal John Quincy Adams, have lamented the inconsistencies of our theory and practice, and demanded for ALL the people the exercise of those rights that belong to every citizen of a republic.
The women of a nation mould its morals, religion and politics. The Northern treason, now threatening to betray us to our foes, is hatched at our own firesides, where traitor snobs, returned from Europe and the South, out of time and tune with independence and equality, infuse into their sons the love of caste and class, of fame and family, wealth and ease, and baptize it all in the name of Republicanism and Christianity.
Let every woman understand that this war involves the same principles that have convulsed the nations of the earth from Pharaoh to Abraham Lincoln-liberty or slavery- democracy or aristocracy-Christianity or barbarism- and choose, this day, whether our republican institutions shall be placed on an enduring basis, and an eternal peace secured to our children, or whether we shall leap back through generations of light and experience, and meekly bow again to chains and slavery.
Shall Northern freemen yet stand silent lookers-on when through Topeka, St. Paul, Chicago, Cleveland, Boston, and New York, men and women, little boys and girls, chained in gangs, shall march to their own sad music, beneath a tyrant’s lash? On our sacred soil shall we behold the auction-block-babies sold by the pound, and beautiful women for the vilest purposes of lust; where parents and children, husbands and wives, brothers and sisters, shall be torn from each other, and sent east and west, north and south? Shall our free presses and free schools, our palace homes, colleges, churches, and stately capitols all be leveled to the dust? Our household gods all desecrated, and our proud lips ever taught to sing paeans to liberty, made to swear allegiance to the god of slavery?. Such degradation, and more than words can tell, shall yet be ours, if we gird not up our giant freemen now to crush this rebellion, and root out forever the hateful principle of caste and class. Men who, in the light of the nineteenth century, believe that God made one race all booted and spurred, and another to be ridden; who would build up a government with slavery for its corner-stone, cannot live on the same continent with a pure democracy.
To counsel grim-visaged war seems hard to come from woman’s lips; but better far that the bones of our sires and sons whiten every Southern plain, that we do their rough work at home, than that liberty, struck dumb in the capital of our republic, should plead no more for man. Every woman who appreciates the grand problem of national life must say, war, pestilence, famine, anything but an ignoble peace.
"We are but co-workers now with the true ones of every age. The history of the past is but one long struggle upward to equality. All men, born slaves to ignorance, superstition, lust and fear, crept through centuries of darkness, discord, and despair now one race dominant, then another-but in this ceaseless warring, ever wearing off their chains and the gross material surroundings of a mere animal existence, until at last the sun of civilization and Christianity dawned on the soul of man, and the precious seed of the ages, garnered up in the Mayflower, was carried in the hollow of God’s hand across the mighty waters, and planted deep beneath the snow and ice of Plymouth Rock, with prayers and thanksgivings. And what grew there? Men and women who loved liberty better than life. Men and women who believed that not only in person, but in speech, should they be free, and worship the God who had brought them thus far, according to the dictates of their own conscience. Men and women who, like Daniel of old, defied the royal lion in his den. Men and women who repudiated the creeds and codes of despots and tyrants, and declared to a waiting world that all men are created equal. And for rights like these, the fathers fought for seven long years, and we have no record that the women of that Revolution ever once cried, "hold, enough," till the invading foe was conquered, and our independence recognized by the nations of the earth.
And here we are, the grandest nation on the globe by right no privileged caste or class. Education free to all. The humblest digger in the ditch has all the civil, social, and religious rights with the highest in the land. The poorest woman at the wash-tub may be the mother of a future President. Here all are heirs-apparent to the throne. The genius of our institutions bids every man to rise, stand upright perfect and use all the powers that God has given him.
It cannot be that for blessings such as these, now twice baptized in blood, the women of the North do not stand ready for any sacrifice.
A sister of Kossuth, with him an exile to this country, in conversation one day, called my attention to an Iron bracelet, the only ornament she wore. In the darkest days of Hungary, said she, our noble women threw their wealth and jewels into the public treasury, and clasping iron bands around their wrists Pledged themselves that those should be the only jewels they would wear till Hungary was free.
If darker hours than these should come to us, the women of the North will count no sacrifice too great. What are wealth and jewels, home and ease, sires and sons, to the birthright of freedom, secured to us by the heroes of the Revolution-liberty to universal man? Shall a priceless heritage like this be wrested now from us by Southern tyrants, and Northern women look on unmoved, or basely bid our freemen sue for peace? No! No!! The vacant places our firesides, the void in every heart, says No! Such sacrifices must not be in vain! The cloud that hangs over all our Northern homes is gilded with the hope that through these present sufferings the nation shall be redeemed.
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.
New York, 1863.
THANKSGIVING DAY IN MASSACHUSETTS. The Governor and Council have appointed Thursday, November 26th, as a day of Thanksgiving in Massachusetts.
See advertisement of the "parker Fraternity Lectures -Sixth series"-and secure your tickets without delay. With such a list of speakers, the course cannot fail to be a brilliant one.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE VOICE OF THE EPISCOPAL CLERGY.
Among the extraordinary incidents of the times is the fact, that the Democratic State Central Committee has circulated through Pennsylvania, as a campaign document, the letter of Bishop Hopkins of Vermont, in which it is maintained that Slavery, in the language of Judge Woodward, is an incalculable blessing. The sentiments of Bishop Hopkins on this subject are so atrocious, and their adoption and promulgation by men professing to be Christians are so <illegible>, that the Episcopal clergy of this vicinity have felt themselves constrained to define their position, as they have done in the following manly and outspoken protest:-Philadelphia North American.
The subscribers deeply regret that the fact of the extensive circulation through this diocese of a letter by ‘John Henry Hopkins, Bishop of the Diocese of Vermont,’ in defence of Southern Slavery, compels them to make this public protest. It is not their province to mix in any political canvas. But as ministers of Christ, in the Protestant Episcopal Church, it becomes them to deny any complicity or sympathy with such a defence.
This attempt not only to apologize for Slavery in the abstract, but to advocate it as it exists in the cotton States, and in States which sell men and women in the open market as their staple product, is, in their judgment, unworthy of any servant of Jesus Christ. As an effort to sustain, on Bible principles, the States in rebellion against the Government, in the wicked attempt to establish, by force of arms, a tyranny under the name of a Republic, whose ‘corner-stone’ shall be the perpetual bondage of the African, it challenges their indignant reprobation.
Philadelphia, September, 1863.”
Alonzo Potter, J. H. J. Morton,
John Rodney, Geo. Leeds,
E.A. Washburn, J A. Childs, 
William Suddards, Thomas C. Yarnall, 
D. R. Goodwin, E. Lounsbery, 
G. E. Hare, J. G. Maxwell,
M. A. DeW Howe, J. G. Maxwell, 
W. W. Spear, J. A. Vaughan, 
Jacob M. Douglass, E. S. Watson, 
H. S. Spackman, Samuel Edwards,
P. Van Pelt, Joel Rudderow,
C. D. Cooper, George A. Durborrow, 
W. F. Paddock, R. J. Parvin, 
R. D. Hall, A. Beatty,
J. D. Dewlin, T. S. Yocum, 
B. W. Morris, W. J. R. Moore, 
D. S. Miller, W. J. Alston, 
B. T. Noakes, A. Elwyn,
R.A. Carden, G. M. Murray,
R. A. Carden, C. A. L. Richards, 
L. W. Smith, G. A. Strong, 
S. Appleton, J. w. Robins,
Phillips Brooks, Thomas B. Barker, 
Daniel Washburn, S. Tweedale, 
D. O. Kellogg, M. A. Tolman, 
Kingston Goddard, George Bringhurst, 
J. L. Reysinger, G. W. Shinn, 
R. Newton, C. W. Duane, 
Chas. A. Maison J. H. Drumm, 
John Long, S. Hall, 
Ormes B. Keith, G. B. Allinson, 
A. B. Atkins, J. N. Spear, 
Samuel E. Smith, Jos. N. Mulford, 
H. Hooker, G. G. Field,
W. N. Diehl, L. C. Newman, 
B. Watson, R. C. Evans, 
Chas. W. Vuick, E. C. Jones, 
Treadwell Walden, J. DeW. Perry,
H. T. Wells, R. G. Chase, 
T. G. Clemson 
A NATIONAL THANKSGIVING.
By the President of the United States,
A PROCLAMATION.
WASHINGTON, Oct. 3. The year that is drawing toward its close has been filled with the blessings of fruitful fields and healthful skies. To these bounties, which are so constantly enjoyed that we are prone to forget the source from which they come, others have been added, which are of so extraordinary a nature that they cannot fail to penetrate and soften even the heart which is habitually insensible to the ever watchful Providence of Almighty God. In the midst of a civil war of unequalled magnitude and severity, which has sometimes seemed to invite and provoke the aggression of foreign States, peace has been preserved with all nations, order has been maintained, the laws have been respected and obeyed, and harmony has prevailed everywhere, except in the theatre of military conflict, while that theatre has been greatly contracted by the advanced armies and navies of the Union. The needful diversion of wealth and strength from the fields of peaceful industry to the National defence has not arrested the plough, the shuttle or the ship. The axe has enlarged the borders of our settlements, and the mines, as well of iron and coal as of the precious metals, have yielded even more abundantly than heretofore.
Population has steadily increased, notwithstanding the waste that has been made by the camp, the siege and the battle-field, and the country, rejoicing in the consciousness of augmented strength and vigor, is permitted to expect continuance of years with large increase of freedom.
No human counsel hath devised, nor hath any mortal hand worked out these great things. They are the gracious gifts of the most high God, who, while dealing with us in anger for our sins, hath nevertheless remembered mercy. It has seemed to me fit and proper that they should be solemnly, reverentially and gratefully acknowledged, as with one heart and voice, by the whole American people.
I do, therefore, invite my fellow-citizens in every part of the United States, and also those who are at sea and those who are sojourning in foreign lands, to set apart the LAST THURSDAY OF NOVEMBER next, as a day of Thanksgiving and Prayer to our beneficent Father, who dwelleth in the Heavens; and I recommend, too, that while offering up the ascriptions justly due to Him for such singular deliverances and blessings, they do also, with humble penitence for our national perverseness and disobedience, commend to his tender care all those who have become widows, orphans, mourners or sufferers in the lamentable civil strife in which we are unavoidably engaged, and fervently implore the interposition of the Almighty hand to heal the wounds of the nation, and to restore it, as soon as may be consistent with Divine purposes, to the full enjoyment of peace, harmony, tranquillity and union.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. Done at the city of Washington, this third day of October, in the year of our Lord One Thousand Eight Hundred and Sixty-Three, and Sixty-Three, and of the Independence of the United States the Eighty-Eighth.
(Signed) ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
By the President:
WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.
QUEER SORT OF UNIONISM. Vallandigham’s followers are saying a great deal of his love of the Union, his desire to see the Union restored, &c., and asserting that he never made any proposition to divide the Union, or thought of a disunion. In short, they make him out the most devoted Union man of all the North. Well, then, let us present two scraps of evidence upon this point, which, by the way, are not to be found in his published “Record.” Some months ago, one Rev. Sabin Hough was arrested in Cincinnati upon a charge of treason. Upon the premises of this offender were found a number of letters from C. L. Vallandigham. Two of them we publish below, as giving proof from his own pen, that the present leader of the Democratic party in Ohio was in favor of separation, first of the Free States and Slave, and then of the West and East. Let everybody read the following:-
DAYTON, (Ohio,) April 26, 1861.
REV. SABIN HOUGH: DEAR SIR-I thank you most cordially for your letter of the 24th. It strengthens me in the cause of truth and right. Its words are fitly and truly spoken. This folly and madness and wickedness must soon have an end. ”How long, O Lord!” We shall see. It is written that ”blessed are the peace makers,” and yet the whole church of the Prince of Peace is maddening and thirsting for blood-the blood of our brethren-preaching, praying, fighting. Was ever a people before delivered over to such folly and wickedness? Truly you have said that it is ”from hell, and not from heaven.” I thank you for your pamphlet. I have distributed all but one copy for myself. I send you a copy of my speech of February 20, 1861. But all is over now. It is too late for anything but peaceful separation now
Very truly, 
C. L. VALLANDIGHAM.
DAYTON, April 30, 1861.
REV.SABIN HOUGH, Cincinnati, Ohio: DEAR SIR-I have just received yours, and concur with you heartily. The storm is passing, and I hope reason may return, and peace, for the present, with it. Beyond that I see nothing but separation, first of the free States and slave, and then of the West from the East, and then-I know not what.
Very truly,
C. L. VALLANDIGHAM.
NEW YORK, Oct 3. The Richmond Sentinel of the 29th ult states that the House of Delegates yesterday, in the most summary manner, disposed of a resolution for inquiring into the tone and temper of the people of the United States on the subject of peace, with a view to responding if favorable. The House, by a unanimous vote, put its foot on the resolution, and without a word of discussion or a moment of delay. In this they but fairly represented the manliness and the unanimity of our people.
<c02>
A BARBAROUS RELIC OF SLAVERY.
LETTER FROM GOV. ANDREW. The following letter from Gov. Andrew was sent with the iron necklace that is now on exhibition at Williams & Everett’s, and which was taken from the neck of a slave girl who was nearly white: 
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS, 
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, }
Boston, Sept 10, 1863. 
To Messrs. Williams & Everett:
Gentlemen,-Your rooms are visited every day by multitudes of cultivated and refined Massachusetts women, attracted by your displays of art. I send you, with this note, an iron yoke, surmounted with three prongs, which was cut from the neck of a slave girl, nearly white, in New Orleans, who was liberated by military authority from a foul and narrow dungeon, where in darkness and fear this poor child of sorrow had borne the double torture of confinement and of this painful instrument for three weary months. She would have borne it indefinitely had not our arms delivered her, as they did many more, from her oppressors. Her offence, as it was stated by her mistress, was that ”she runned away.” An officer of Massachusetts volunteers, whose letter I enclose to you, sent me this memento of a barbarism, soon, I trust, to become wholly extinct. And I send it to you in the hope that you will permit it to be placed on exhibition for a few weeks in your rooms, where the sight of it and the story of the poor child who wore it may remind the mothers, wives and daughters, under whose eyes it may fall, of some of the good done by those whom they have sent from their firesides to encounter the hardships of war.
I am very truly yours,
JOHN A. ANDERW.
The following is the letter referred to by Gov. Andrew:-
NEW ORLEANS, (La.) Aug. 28, 1863.
To His Excellency, JOHN A. ANDREW, 
Governor State of Massachusetts:
SIR:-I have the honor to present to your Excellency, herewith, an iron relic of a poor slave girl’s torture, which I procured near this city, under the following circumstances.
Soon after the Federal occupation of New Oleans, I was placed in command of a detatchment of troops, and instructed to proceed down the river for the purpose of searching suspected premises for arms and munitions contraband of war. At the plantation of Madame Coutreil, a French Creole, residing just below the city, I found quite a quantity, and was about leaving when a small house, closed tightly and about nine or ten feet square, attracted my attention. I demanded the keys of the strange looking place, and, after unlocking double doors, found myself in the entrance of a dark and loathsome dungeon, alive with the most disgusting and sickening stench that can be imagined. The hot, close and stifled air puffed out by me until I was obliged to fall back, for fear of suffocation.
“In Heaven’s name, what have you here!” I exclaimed to the slave mistress, from whom I had demanded the keys.
“Oh, only-a little girl-she runned away.”
I peered into the darkness, and was able to discover, sitting at one end of the room upon a low stool, a girl about eighteen years of age. She had this iron torture riveted about her neck, where it had rusted through the skin, and lay corroding apparently upon the flesh. Her head was bowed upon her hands, and she was almost insensible from emaciation, and immersion in the foul air of her dungeon. She was quite white-quadroon or octoroon-and previous to her confinement, which had continued as I found her three months, must have possessed a considerable claim to beauty. Her only crime, according to her mistress’s statement, was that she had attempted to run away. She was also, I believe, suspected of having some sympathy with the ”Yankees,” and it was the intention of her mistress to keep her in the dungeon until the rebels had driven the Federals from the city-an event confidently expected at that time by the Confederate sympathizers.
I had the girl taken to the city, where this torture was removed from her neck by a blacksmith, who cut the rivet, and she was subsequently made FREE by military authority.
Very respectfully, your most obedient servant,
S. TYLER READ.
Captain 3d Mass. Cavalry.
THE LATE COL.SHAW. The following correspondence has passed between the father of the late brave and lamented Col. Shaw and Gen. Gillmore. It needs no word of comment;-
Brigadier-General Gillmore, Commanding Department of the South:
Sir-I take the liberty to address you because I am informed that efforts are to be made to recover the body of my son, Colonel Shaw, of the Fifty-fourth Massachusetts regiment, which was buried at Fort Wagner. My object in writing is to say that such efforts are not authorized by me, or any of my family, and that they are not approved by us. We hold that a soldier’s most appropriate burial-place is on the field where he has fallen. I shall, therefore, be much obliged, General, if, in case the matter is brought to your cognizance, you will forbid the desecration of my son’s grave, and prevent the disturbance of his remains or of those buried with him. With most earnest wishes for your success, I am, sir, with respect and esteem, 
Your obedient servant, 
FRANCIS GEORGE SHAW.
New York, August 24th, 1863.
HEADQUARTERS DEP’T OF THE SOUTH, 
Morris Island, S. C , Sept. 5, 1863.
F. G. Shaw, Esq., Clifton, Staten Island, N. Y. Sir: I have just received your letter expressing the disapprobation of yourself and family of any effort to recover the body of your son, the late Col. Shaw, of the Fifty-fourth Massachusetts volunteers, buried in Fort Wagner, and requesting me to forbid the desecration of his grave or disturbance of his remains.
Had it been possible to obtain the body of Col Shaw immediately after the battle in which he lost his life, I should have sent it to his friends, in deference to a sentiment which I know to be widely prevalent among the friends of those who fall in battle, although the practice is one to which my own judgment has never yielded assent.
The views expressed in your letter are so congenial to the feelings of an officer as to command not only my cordial sympathy, but my respect and admiration. Surely, no resting-place for your son could be found more fitting than the scene where his courage and devotion were so conspicuously displayed.
I beg to avail myself of this opportunity to express my deep sympathy for yourself and family in their great bereavement, and to assure you that’ on no authority less than your own shall your son’s remains be disturbed.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 
Q. A. GILLMORE, 
Brigadier-General Commanding.
The New York World, referring to the above correspondence, says;-
“Whatever we may think of the policy of employing negro troops at all in such a war as this which we are waging, there can be no two opinions as to the high and magnanimous temper with which the father of Col. Shaw accepts what was intended as an insult to his dead son, as an honor not lightly to be tampered with.
The brutality which sought to wreak its vengeance upon the senseless clay of what had been a fearless foe, could not be more nobly chastised than it is by this lofty and loving pride.
The ”chivalry” of South Carolina makes but a low and shabby figure in this painful episode of war.”
The call for funds to erect a monument over the remains of Col. Shaw has met with a hearty response from the impulsive and generous people to whom it has been addressed. The 1st South Carolina regiment has contributed for this purpose about a thousand dollars, and the colored people of Beaufort have added from their little earnings three hundred dollars more. Other regiments will increase the amount to even more than is wanted. His grave needs but to be marked by a plain shaft with a simple inscription; his deeds will be his most lasting monument.
In a letter from Mrs. Frances D. Gage, at Port Royal, the following characteristic incident is narrated;-
“We took up a collection in our old church yesterday, for the monument to be erected for Col. Robert G. Shaw, and the receipts were 827. Think of it! I have seen larger and far more wealthy congregations give less when pressed upon seemingly important occasions. Most of our congregation were women; but be it known to all the world that the negro woman comes first before the people, entitled to equal wages for a like day’s work with her husband or son, and what is more, it is her own when she has earned it.”
The Boston Courier has had for the last twelve days in its columns the following advertisement;-
FOR SALE!
A LARGE
AMERICAN FLAG,
ADDRESS S. J., COURIER OFFICE.
The idea of advertising the glorious old flag of our country in such a Copperhead sheet as the Courier, with any expectation of a purchaser, is ridiculous-so we give the advertisement the benefit of our circulation. We presume the seller is a Copperhead of the most approved pattern, and perhaps one of the subscribers to “the fund.” He has no use for the American flag-Boston Journal.
<c03>
THE DOMINICAN REBELLION. The eastern portion of the island of Hayti, comprising an area of 175,000 square miles (equal to two States like New Hampshire or Maryland), and having a population of about 140,000, nine tenths of-whom are blacks, constitute what was lately known as the Dominican Republic. The harbor of the city of San Domingo, and the bay of Samana, afford an excellent refuge for shipping. The cession of the latter to the United States was a subject of negotiation between Santana, then President, and the Administration of Gen. Pierce Within the last fifty years, the Dominicans have been at different times subjects of Spain and then of France, and been repeatedly engaged in fierce wars with Hayti, in an effort to maintain their independence. Recognized by France, a treaty with that power was concluded in 1848, and with Great Britain two years later. For a time they enjoyed a considerable degree of prosperity, but through the treachery of President Santana the rights and liberties of the people were told to Spain, and the act of annexation consummated Against Spain they now rebel, the Dominicans displaying an earnestness and unanimity which give promise of a long and desperate straggle before the imperial authority can be re-established. Our latest advices speak of the conflict as going on with unabated fury. Two divisions of Spanish troops, together numbering 3,600 men, had been routed with a loss of more than 1,000 killed and wounded. One division of 2,000 men was repulsed in an open attack. The other entered Santiago but was compelled to capitulate, after the city had been burnt, and it was on the retreat to Puerto Plata that, in disregard of conditions previously agreed upon, the Spaniards were fired upon with deadly effect The towns of San Carlos, in the neighborhood of Santo Domingo city, was also said to have been burned by the rebels. According to report, fearful atrocities have been committed by both sides.-N.Y. Journal of Commerce.
The governors or pretended governors of four States claimed as members of the rebel confederacy, and lying beyond the Mississippi, have lately issued an address to the people of those States and the Indians of the adjoining territory, exhorting them to keep up a stubborn resistance, and pointing out that the opening of the Mississippi has thrown them mainly on their own resources. Of these men one claims to be Governor of Missouri, a State in which he holds not a shadow of authority, and from which he has for two years been a fugitive. A second writes himself Governor of Arkansas, the capital of which was lately seized by the Union forces. A third calls himself Governor of Louisiana, having in that State even less of potential authority than his brother of Arkansas can show. And these three fugitive Governors, from prudential motives as much as any other, assembled at Marshall, Texas, in the jurisdiction of the fourth, who is numbering the days before he shall be chased from his capital, the chief towns of his State occupied by his forces, and his power reduced to a mere name.
FRANCIS J. GRUND. By a correspondence published in another column, it will be seen that this gentleman, who was recently one of the proprietors and the principal editor of the Age, will deliver an address at the rooms of the Union League this evening at eight o’clock, precisely. As we learn it is Mr. Grund’s purpose to explain at length the reasons which compelled him to sever his connection with the newspaper referred to, and to show why, in his judgment, every loyal man should, in this crisis, sustain the ad ministration of Mr. Lincoln, and support the reelection of Governor Curtin, we can promise to all who may be fortunate enough to hear it a most interesting discourse.-Phil. North American.
PARTICULARS OF THE DEATH OF F. J. GRUND. Philadelphia, Sept. 30th. Last evening, as the procession went out to serenade Gen. McClellan, they passed the house of Francis J. Grund, recently editor of the Philadelphia Age, when some persons in the assemblage began to express their disapprobation of his recent Union speech in this city, by groaning and hooting.
Mr. Grund, apprehending mob violence, started for the police station, for the purpose of obtaining a force to protect his house. On arriving there he appeared exhausted, and requested that a physician might be sent for immediately. He was evidently laboring under severe illness.
The physician, on examining the symptoms of the attack, pronounced the case to be hopeless. Mr. Grund expired a few minutes afterwards.
RELEASE OF FEDERAL PRISONERS. About sixty sailors, who were captured with the gunboats Satellite and Reliance in Rappahannock river, the Niphon at New Inlet, N. C., and in other localities, arrived at Washington on Thursday. The Star says they all bear the signs of rough treatment, and many of them are sick. They have suffered much from want of food, and also from want of attention during sickness. At Belle Island particularly they were treated roughly; indeed, the rations allowed them daily not making a single meal. On their arrival at Libby Prison they were searched, and all their money taken, which money was not returned; and at Belle Island the same course was pursued in regard to valuables. The guards sometimes were very rough over them, and for the most trifling causes would shoot at them. About two weeks since, P. G. Mahony of Co. D, 12th Massachusetts, was fired at by two guards, and instantly killed. When the boat’s crew of the Niphon were captured, Master’s Mate, J. Page of Gloucester, Mass., and a seaman named Carr, were drowned.
THE ORGANIZATION OF COLORED TROOPS. The commissioner for organizing colored troops in the Department of the Cumberland announces that colored men will be enlisted into the service of the United States as soldiers on the following terms: 1st. All freedmen who will volunteer. 2d All slaves of rebels or disloyal masters who will volunteer to enlist will be free at the expiration of their term of service. 3d. All slaves of loyal citizens, with the consent of their owners, will be received into the service of the United States; such slaves will be free on the expiration of their term of service. 4th Loyal masters will receive a certificate of the enlistment of their slaves, which will entitle them to payment of a sum not exceeding the bounty now provided by law for the enlistment of white recruits. 5th Colored soldiers will receive clothing, rations and ten dollars per month pay. Three dollars per month will be deducted for clothing Recruiting stations have been established at Nashville, Gallatin and Murfreesboro 
PATRIOTISM OF THE NEGROES. The slanders of the copperhead papers against the patriotism of the negro are receiving frequent refutations. A negro in Rhode Island was enrolled in two towns, and drafted in both. Instead of taking advantage of this informality, he goes for one town, and sends a substitute for the other! What white man could do more? Out of fifty-three men drafted in Enfield, Conn., fifty-two paid their $300. The remaining gentleman was a darkey, who expressed his determination to go and represent the town.-N. Y. Commercial Advertiser.
The enlistment of slaves as soldiers is going on very rapidly on the eastern shore of Maryland. This is done with consent of their owners, who receive from the recruiting officer a certificate for every slave enlisted, which certificate will entitle the owner to $300 when the Legislature passes an emancipation (with compensation) act, which is expected to be done this winter. The same course is pursued in Western Maryland.
Recruiting for colored regiments is proceeding with great rapidity in Maryland. One full regiment and enough companies to fill another have been sent South from Baltimore, and a third regiment is nearly full-making the seventh of United States colored troops raised in Maryland and the District of Columbia. One hundred recruits on an average come in daily. Loyal masters receive certificates for each enlisted slave for $300, payable after the constitution of Maryland, which now prohibits manumission, shall have been so amended as to permit it.
PHILADELPHIA, Oct. 3. The 6th and a portion of the 8th regiment of colored troops made a street parade to day with a colored drum corps. They made a brilliant appearance.
The Secretary of War directs that colored volunteers from New Jersey and Delaware be mustered into the regiments forming at Philadelphia, credit being given therefore to those States respectively.
THE REPUBLICAN CONVENTION at Worcester was one of the largest and most enthusiastic ever assembled in the State, and was entirely harmonious in its action. Its resolutions are excellent, and will be endorsed by four fifths of the people of the State. The speeches of Messrs. Elliott, Wilson and Boutwell, were capital ones. Gen. Wilson never made a happier effort. His scathing review of the late Democratic convention is superb. Gov. Boutwell gave us a foretaste of what he is to do in Congress, that strengthens our conviction of the wisdom of sending him there. Mr. <illegible> only hinted at how he might have disturbed the convention by his crotchets, and they were very grateful for being let off so easily.-Roxbury Journal.
MOUNT WASHINGTON. It is estimated that six thousand persons have ascended Mount Washington during the present season. This is about double the number of any previous summer. During several days in August, upwards of two hundred people dined on the mountain. The photographic artist took more than a hundred different groups of persons arranged around the Tip Top House, for stereoscopic views.
<c04>
The New Orleans Era learns from a gentleman, who speaks from the best information, that while on a recent trip up the river, he was told by a former friend, who is now a rabid rebel, that Jeff. Davis and his cabinet had decided to employ incendiaries to destroy every steamboat navigating the Lower Mississippi and Ohio rivers, offering as an inducement to these miscreants in accomplishing their barbarous mission sixty per cent on the estimated value of all the boats and property thus destroyed. His informant assured him that the Ruth had already fallen a victim to this scheme, and he would soon hear of others. He being a merchant of New Orleans, and known to be a holder of Western produce, was advised in a friendly way to hold what goods he had, as there was sure to be a rise in prices. The whole plot struck him as so diabolical, barbarous and improbable, that he paid no farther attention to it than to note it down in his memorandum book, which he has since shown to the editors of the Era, and from which they copied the main points. On the way up the river he heard reports from some suspicious looking strangers against the Imperial, the very boat which was first fired at St. Louis under circumstances of grave suspicions. Arrests of parties implicated in this plot, it will be remembered, have already been made in St. Louis.
ST. LOUIS, Oct 4. The steamers Chancellor, Forest Queen and Catahoula were burned at the levee this afternoon. The two latter boats were totally destroyed. The hull and machinery of the former were saved. All the boats were undergoing repairs. They were valued at $75.000. The amount of insurance is unascertained. The fires were the work of an incendiary. Several lives are reported lost, but nothing definite is known at present.
The steamer Robert Campbell, from St Louis for Vicksburg, was set on fire, by incendiaries, on Tuesday morning, near Milliken’s Bend. The boat burned so rapidly that the passengers were obliged to jump overboard, and forty are believed to have been lost.
TWO MORE SHIPS DESTROYED BY THE PIRATE ALABAMA. The steamer City of London, at New York, brings intelligence of the destruction of two more New England ships by the pirate Alabama, viz: The Express, Capt. Frost, from Callao, via Valparaiso, April 25th, for Antwerp, and the Anna F. Schmidt, Capt. Twombly, from Boston, via St. Thomas, for San Francisco, both having been burnt off Rio Janeiro.
FEARFUL CALAMITY. A fearful calamity occurred at Ste. Henedine, In the county of Dorchester, Canada, on Sunday night of last week. The house of Mr. Theotime Couture took fire, and all the inmates-Couture’s wife, father, and six children were burnt in the flames, Couture only escaping.
A terrible casualty occurred recently at Nashville. Three hundred Rebel prisoners, confined in an unfinished building, known as the Maxwell House, simultaneously made a rush from the fifth story to the breakfast-room, on the second floor. The stairs being constructed as a temporary make-shift, were unable to bear the weight of the men, and a large number fell through the gangway. Two were killed outright, two more have since died, and ninety-six others were injured-some very seriously.
Another female bread riot occurred in Mobile, Sept. 4th. The 17th Alabama regiment was ordered to put down the disturbance, but refused to do duty. The Mobile Cadets tried their hand, and were defeated and forced to fly by the women. Peaceful measures finally quieted the famine-stricken wretches. The rioters proclaimed openly their determination, if some means were not rapidly devised to relieve their suffering or stop the war, to burn the whole city.
NEW YORK, Sept. 22. The Times dispatch says the Bureau of Exchange have received a letter from Commissioner Ould at Richmond, notifying them that 12,000 prisoners, paroled by Gen. Grant, had been returned to the field, and the exchange referred to the same number of our prisoners delivered at City Point. The whole’ statement in regard to delivering was a lie; not a man of ours has been returned for the 12,000, who have doubtless participated in the late battle at Chattanooga.
REBEL AUDACITY. When the news reached Charleston of the repulse of General Rosecrans, Gen. Beau regard ordered a salute of twenty-one guns from each battery, in which Fort Sumter joined.
It has been ascertained that the captures by our navy during the war up to the present time amount to thirty millions of dollars.
Some Indiana soldiers were lately riding upon the top of a car between Indianapolis and Cincinnati, having their heads covered with blankets to protect them from the storm. They came in contact with a bridge, and five were killed and others dangerously wounded.
The Port Royal New South says that agents of a company of capitalists are soon to visit that place for the purpose of surveying the shores of Port Royal harbor, with a view to selecting a site for a city.
A double brick chimney, eighty feet high, which had just been completed, was blown down by the equinoctial gale, at Burrillville, R. I., the other day. Nearly all the 33,000 bricks in it were broken.
Gen. Halleck’s grandfather, Jabez Halleck, has just died in Western, N. Y., at the ripe old age of 103 years.
CINCINNATI, Oct. 3. The Commercial has advices from Chattanooga up to Saturday last. It was estimated at headquarters that the loss in the battle of Chicamauga was in killed 1800, wounded 9500, prisoners 2500; total 13,800.
It was the opinion that if the right wing had held its own, the result would have been a decisive Union victory. The success of General Thomas on the left was much greater than has been represented in any published accounts of the battles. Thomas routed Longstreet’s corps, and was in a condition to pursue the enemy had not the right wing been disorganized. No surprise is felt in the army that the enemy did not resume the attack.
Their loss is believed to be twenty thousand. Our army is in superb fighting trim, and compact in organization, well supplied with provisions and ammunition, and full of confidence.
Our losses in officers of Rosecrans’ army, so far as they have come to hand, amount to one Brigadier General, six Colonels, two Majors, five Captains, and eight Lieutenants killed; and Brig. Gen. J. C. Starkweather, Brig. Gen. John H. King, and 268 other officers wounded.
The truth as to the rebel losses at Gettysburg is gradually coming out A Richmond correspondent of the Mobile Register says their loss in killed and wounded was at least twenty-five thousand men, and gives statistics confirming this estimate. The authority for his statement is a gentleman with Gen. Lee, and intimately associated with him.
The rebels are mourning over their losses in the late battles in Northern Georgia. Breckinridge’s division lost thirteen hundred out of sixteen hundred men, and other divisions are said to have suffered very severely.
The U. S. Hospital steamer Cosmopolitan arrived at New York, Tuesday, with 220 sick and wounded soldiers from Morris Island and Beaufort, S. C. Among them are the following;-
54th Regiment-Sergeant G. H. Hall and L. Weaver, both gunshot wounds; J. Shrewsbury, Co. I,; W. A. Garrison, Co. G; G. F. Lewis, Co. C, all gunshot wounds; Sergeant G. L. Bundy, Co. A, shell wound, left arm; George Wilson and W. H. Whipple of the same company, wounded by gunshots; L. Fleetwood, of Co. C, and W. R. Lee, of Co. E, were also wound by shot or shell; W. P. Wilson, Co. I, chronic intermittent fever.
The rebels are devising means to convert the dogs into oil, and their skins into leather. It is estimated that the oil will be worth about $15 per gallon. The number of dogs in the State of Virginia, according to low estimate, is 500,000. Each dog will yield say one gallon of oil, and the dog oil of Virginia is, therefore, worth seven and a half millions; the skins are estimated at about four millions.
A teacher of contrabands at Newbern declares the following to be the creed of the negroes in that vicinity: 1st, They believe in ”de good Lord,” who has heard their prayers; 2d, In Abraham Lincoln, who has broken their chains; 3d, In Massachusetts, and everything that comes from it.
A public meeting at Leeds adopted resolutions rejoicing that the war was shaping itself into one for the destruction of slavery; denouncing the building of warships for the Confederates, and applauding the Government for detaining those built.
The London Times of the 16th ult contains an editorial strongly favoring the detention of the rams until they are cleared of suspicion of being intended for the rebels, stating that: ”We (Britain) would not submit if we were belligerents to the despatch of cruiser after cruiser from a neutral port to make war upon our vessels.”
DEATH OF GEORGE SUMNER. George Sumner, brother of Senator Sumner, died in this city yesterday afternoon, after a long and distressing illness, the result of paralysis. Mr. Sumner was well known to the country, through his orations and many addresses before lyceums and other public assemblies, in which his varied knowledge and rich culture were made manifest. He was a member of the Mass. Historical Society, and of other assemblages of literary men? Always a true friend of liberty, he ardently hoped to witness the full triumph of freedom in his beloved country. A distinguished citizen of Massachusetts has gone to rest, and many there be who will mourn his departure.-Traveller of Wednesday evening.
<c05>
DEATH OF LEONARD GIBBS, ESQ.
BOSTON, Oct. 2, 1863.
MR. GARRISON-Enclosed is a letter from Miss HELEN GIBES, announcing the death of her father, LEONARD GIBBS, of Union Village, Washington Co., N. Y., aged 63 years.
No words of mine can add to this beautiful tribute to that noblest of God’s works-AN HONEST MAN.
He hated all shams most heartily. When he said, ”Let any friend of the slave, so desiring-none other-speak at my funeral,” he gave to the world the essential article of the creed of the Church he fellowshipped-the chief corner stone of the State he recognized.” “The whole human family-the African race included”-as my own dear father used to say-were members beloved of his Church, and citizens respected of his State.
The highest tribute that can be paid to the memory of this, and to all the faithful workers for freedom who have gone before us, is to labor unceasingly for the increase of the numbers who recognize no creed or code, no constitution or law, save that of humanity-free, equal, just, fraternal. SUSAN B. ANTHONY.
HOME, Sept. 18, 1863.
MISS ANTHONY:
DEAR FRIEND-On the 15th of June last, my father, mother and sister started for Wisconsin. It was to be a summer’s search for health, with both my parents, particularly in the case of my father, whose failing strength had excited our alarm for many months. I joined them on their way home at Buffalo, and, together, we all went to Niagara, and down the St. Lawrence to Montreal. It was here that father’s strength, already overtaxed, gave out, and we brought him home as quickly as we possibly could. He went from his carriage to his bed, and, last Monday, just thirteen weeks from the day he started for the West, he was carried out in his coffin.
I do not think I could please him better than by writing to you thus early. It was on the first night of his return, that, waking from a troubled sleep, he asked what papers had come during his absence. I told him of those relating to the ”Woman’s League”; and he immediately replied that some reliable person must be found to whom to entrust them, and that you should be notified by letter. Perhaps on their coming, I should have immediately written; but, if so, I failed in my duty, and have only the extreme anxiety I felt to plead as excuse for my omission. The disease which had conquered my father was dropsy on the heart. It is now more than three years since he first alarmed us by falling insensible, one evening, at our very feet; and, since then, we have urged him to the utmost to seek repose and avoid all excitement.
I have never seen the speaker to whom, when speaking the words of liberty, I have listened with more interest and admiration than my father; but, latterly, every tone filled me with apprehension-I knew so well his failing strength.
His ardor remained the same. His last letter was dictated to me the day but one, before he died, and was to PARKER PILLSBURY. See how the old love breathed firmly from his dying lips! ”I now have only strength to acknowledge its receipt”-speaking of a letter of Mr. Pillsbury-“and to thank you for it; to express my personal regard for you, and my deep interest in the cause you love so much. I have confidence that God will crown your efforts with success, and pray that you may be spared to witness and enjoy a jubilee of perfect and universal emancipation,”
Now I am proud of a father who so forgot himself, and in his parting struggles sends words of encouragement and good cheer to a brother left behind.
He had suffered severely. We had hoped from his disease that his pain might find respite toward the close, and a quiet sleep bridge his passage from earth to heaven; but we were mistaken. His rest-prayed for in the most plaintive tone-came after much agony. We said, ”Thank God! thank God!” most fervently, when the last struggle ended.
Before he died, he gave every direction for his funeral, and they were characteristic, as was everything connected with his sickness. He wished our clergyman to make a few remarks, and any friend of the slave so desiring-none other. At his funeral, old men got up, and, with trembling voices, paid tribute to his goodness. Everything connected with this last ceremony was free from all ostentation, as would have been his wishes; but the flowers on the coffin and about the room gave it a most lovely and soothing effect.
I have been thus particular, that all knowing him should know of the unbroken patience and fortitude with which he bore his agony, and how bravely he went down into the dark shadow, and through the deep waters. It seemed to me as though his dead mother’s presence must have been about him,-so childlike was he, so lovable. His last word was one of gratitude to the friend who soothed him, just before he died.
Here we sit in our pleasant home, and everything breathes of his good care of us-we whom, as he said with his arms about me, he had loved better than his life. He died in harness, taking watchful, devoted, exhausting care of others. We shall selfishly want him back for our own good, but never once for his He was right- he wanted rest.
It is at my mother’s particular request that I beg you to give to his family your remembrance and prayers. The home that he always delighted to welcome the good and true to share is ever ready for his friends, and among those friends he always mentioned your name.
Most truly yours, HELEN GIBBS.
LEONARD GIBBS, Esq., was the son of Dr. Gibbs of Granville, was educated a lawyer, and for a number of years practised his profession in his native town. In the early days of his profession he was appointed District Attorney for the county, in which office he continued a number of years, and was once elected to the Legislature of the State. He never disappointed his friends, but filled every place to which he was called to the satisfaction of all, and with credit to himself.
In the year 1839, he removed to the city of New York, and there continued the practice of law until he retired from business and came to Union village, where he continued to reside until his death. He had many excellent traits of character, too many to dwell upon in this obituary sketch. It is sufficient to say that he lived and died an honest man; too honest to practise law without much discrimination; too honest to be an office-seeking politician; but honest enough to be an executor for the dead, and a guardian for orphan children, as his books will soon show.
For more than twenty years he has been an earnest and able advocate of liberty. A short time before his death, he gave directions for the conducting of his funeral, and requested that no eulogy upon him be attempted by any one; and said, ”A man’s life and character are the only true eulogy”; but that an opportunity be given any earnest lover of the slave to speak on the subject; thus showing that in death he did not forget the slave.
He left a wife and two daughters to mourn his loss, and a large circle of friends and acquaintances to lament his death.-Anti-Slavery Standard.
After these tributes to the character and memory of Mr. GIBBS, it will be almost superfluous to add our own to them. Although our personal acquaintance with him was not intimate, we have had the privilege of enjoying his hospitality under his own roof, and have long known him as among the early and most thoroughly conscientious and devoted advocates of the Anti-Slavery cause. No man ever impressed us more favorably in regard to all those traits which constitute completeness of character, as a gentleman and a Christian in the finest sense. His intellectual, moral and affectional development was as symmetrical as it was rare. True to his highest convictions and noblest aspirations,-and his ideal standard was ever most exalted,-he had no fear of ”the world’s dread laugh,” or of its frowns or threats, and was proof against every temptation to turn aside from a hated and unpopular cause He combined the winning loveliness of woman with the intrepidity and firmness of the moral reformer, and won the respect and esteem of all who knew him, to an extent seldom reached. To him may be fitly applied the admirably descriptive lines of Sir Henry Wotton:-
How happy is he born or taught,
Who serveth not another’s will; 
Whose armor is his honest thought, 
And simple truth his highest skill;
Whose passions not his <illegible.> are;
Whose soul is still prepared for death; 
Not tied unto the world with care
Of public fame or private breath;
Who God doth <illegible> and early pray 
More of His grace than goods to lend,
And walks with man, from day to day.
As with a brother and a friend! [Ed. Lib.
<c06>
MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
RECEIPTS.
From Rev. John T. Sargent, Boston, to redeem pledge, $5 00
John Warren, Boston, donation, 3 00 
Henry Damon, do to redeem pledge, 1 00 
Miss Sarah B. Waitt, to redeem pledge, 5 00 
E. D. and Anna D. Draper, Hopedale, to redeem, Pledge, 100 00
Collection at Abington meeting, 1st of August, 67 75 
Cornelius Cowing, West Roxbury, 1 00 
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurers 

PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES.
SIXTH SERIES.
AT TREMONT TEMPLE.
OPENING ADDRESS BY
HON. GEORGE S. BOUTWELL, 
On TUESDAY EVENING, October 27, 1863 
To be followed on successive TUESDAY EVENINGS by 
Nov.3-OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.
“10- BENJ. F. BUTLER,
(subject to the contingencies of the public service.)
“17- HENRY WARD BEECHEH.
“24- CHARLES SUMNER.
Dec.1-RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
“8- EDWIN H. CHAPIN.
“15- OCTAVIUS B. FROTHINGHAM.
”22- GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS.
“29- WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Jan. 5-JACOB M. MANNING.
B. J. Lang, Organist for the course.
Tickets (admitting the Bearer and Lady) to the Course, $2 each, may be obtained at Oliver Ditson & Co.’s, 277 Washington street; Ticknor & Fields, 135 Washington street; John C. Haynes & Co.’s, 33 Court street; John S.8, Rogers & Co.’s, 1077 Washington street, and at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington street.
HAYTI AND THE MARTYRS OF HARPER’S FERRY.-A CARD.-I have to-day sent to the last addresses of the following parties authority to draw on <illegible> at sight for a specified sum, out of a fund contributed at Cayes, Hayti, for the families of the martyrs of Harper’s Ferry:-
To Mrs. Mary Thompson, Mrs. Jemima Cook, Mrs. Leary, widows of John Brown’s men of those names; and to the parents of Kagi, Hazlitt, Stevens, the Coppoes, Anderson, Tidd and Copeland.
If my letters do not reach these parties, I ask their friends to notify them, or to send me their present address.
Anti-Slavery papers, please copy.
Boston, Oct. 5. JAMES REDPATH.
NEW ENGLAND FEMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE.-The Sixteenth Annual Term “will commence on Wednesday, Nov. 4, and continue seventeen weeks. Lecture fees, $55. Aid will be afforded to a limited number of students needing it. Any person or persons paying to the College $100 can send a student free of tuition through its course of education. Address or apply to the subscriber, at the College, No. 10 East Canton street, Boston.
3t. SAMUEL GREGORY, M. D., Sec’y.
WORCESTER NORTH A. S SOCIETY.-There will be a meeting of the Worcester North Anti-Slavery Society at EAST PRINCETON, Sunday, Oct 11, day and evening. PARKER PILLSBURY, E. H. HEYWOOD and others will speak.
The passing months are fraught with the most momentous issues to the cause of freedom and humanity, and it is earnestly hoped there may be full delegations of friends from the adjoining towns.
JOSHUA T. EVERETT, President.
MOSES H. MIRICK, Sec’y.
WORCESTER SOUTH A. S. SOCIETY.-A meeting of this Society will be held at Milford, on Sunday, Oct. 18, forenoon, afternoon, and evening, at the usual hours, at the Town Hall.
PARKER PILLSBURY, ADIN BALLOU, SAMUEL MAY, Jr., S. S. FOSTER, GEORGE W. STACV, E. H. HEYWOOD and others are expected to attend.
There will also be a meeting at the same place on the evening previous, Oct. 17.
It is hoped that all the old members and friends of this Society will make special effort to attend this meeting, and that all others interested will gather, and make this one of the most earnest and high-toned of all the meetings of this early Society. 
JOSIAH HENSHAW, President.
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Sec’y.
PARKER PILLSBURY will speak in the Town Hall, Princeton, Monday evening, Oct. 12.
WM LLOYD GARRISON will give two lectures in Milford, N. H., on Sunday next, Oct. 11th.
DIED-In this city, Sept. 23, Mrs. FRANCES  DEMORTIE, aged 60 years. Deceased was a native of Fredericksburg, Va., and resided several years in Norfolk. She came to Boston in 1854. She early embraced religion, and for upwards of forty years was an exemplary member of the Baptist Church. Kindness to all around her, and care for the welfare of others, were among the leading characteristics of her nature. Though confined, at times, for the last three years, with a slow and torturing illness, and compelled to keep her bed for three months preceding her death, she bore it with a fortitude seldom equalled; never complaining, and expressing her willingness to go whenever her heavenly Father, whom she had served to faithfully, should call her hence. Deceased leaves a son and daughter and a large circle of friends to mourn her loss.
Anglo-Saxon will please copy
In this city, Oct. 1st, EDWARD G. GRAY, aged 29 years and eleven months.
ERRATUM. In the obituary notice of Col Mundrucu, published in the Liberator of 25th ult., for ”received a pension from the Brazilian government,” read, ”received a pardon,” &c.

BEYOND THE LINES;
OR,
A YANKEE PRISONER LOOSE IN DIXIE 
A New Book of Thrilling Interest.
BY REV. CAPT. J. J. GEER, 
Formerly Pastor of George Street M. E. Church, Cincinnati, and late Assistant Adjutant General on the Staff of Gen. Buckland. With an Introduction by Rev. ALEXANDER CLARK, Editor of the School Visitor,.
THIS is one of the most thrilling accounts of adventure and suffering that the war has produced: Capt. GEER was wounded and captured at the great battle of Shiloh; tried before several prominent Rebel Generals for his life, among whom were Hardee, Bragg, and Beauregard; incarcerated in four jails, four penitentiaries, and twelve military prisons; escaped from Macon, (Georgia,) and travelled barefoot through swamps and woods, by night, 250 miles; was fed by negroes in part; and subsisted for days at a time on frogs, roots and berries, and was at last recaptured when within thirty-five miles of our gunboats on the Southern coast.
The particulars of his subsequent sufferings as a chained culprit are told with a graphic truthfulness that surpasses any fiction.
The work contains a fine steel portrait of the author, besides numerous wood engravings illutrative of striking incidents of his experience among the rebels. Every Unionist-every lover of his country-every man, woman and child should read this Book of Facts as they actually occurred.
The author has not only succeeded in making a narrative of exciting interest, but has ingeniously interwoven in the book many original and eloquent arguments in favor of a vigorous prosecution of the war against Rebellion and Oppression.
Just published on fine white paper, and handsomely bound in cloth. 285 pages.
Agents wanted in every county and township in the Union, to whom extraordinary inducements will be offered 
NOTICES OF THE PRESS 
No narrative of personal adventure which has been published since the war began, equals this in interest. The account he gives of the treatment of himself and his fellow -prisoners exceeds anything we have heretofore read. -Philadelphia Evening Bulletin.
The Captain’s graphic account of affairs in the South, during his long captivity there, will be read with great interest. The Introduction is by Rev. Alexander Clark, which is sufficient in itself to warrant a large sale-Philadelphia Daily Inquirer.
Address all orders to
J. W. DAUGHADAY, Publisher 
1308, Chestnut street, Philadelphia 
Sept, 11-1
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
VICKSBURG.
BY DANIEL PAKER, M. D.
Now, Northmen, rejoicing, shout victory loud!
Up hate as' round the great conqueror crowd!
Let God first, then Grant, have great glory and thanks!
Then Grierson and Sherman, Meade, <Illegible> and Banks!
The West loves her Grant—says his victories tell;
The East love her Banks—and says both have done well;
Let these, with the rest, all our gratitude share—
World's heroes, y our heroes, my heroes they are!
When Copperheads hissed, and would bring all to shame,
When England play'd well the same devilish game,
Then Grant crushes Vicksburg, and Meade, conquers Lee—
Banks shouts at Port Hudson, "The river is free!"
Great glory all this when compared with the past!
Waiting Justice, the great dawning glory, at last;
Yes, now render Justice! all bondmen set free!
Then down with all traitors will Copperheads be!
That, sure, would be victory worth all the rest—
A cause for rejoicing the grandest and best;
That victory would rank as the crowner of all,
Ensuring God's blessings the richest of all.
Then our glorious Fourths would grand Jubilees be,
Then millions, once slaves, would rejoice with the free;
Then loud altogether the people would shout,
"God and Liberty in, and the Devil crushed out!"
All bondage must down, and slaveholders down flat;
No "boundless rejoicings" can come short of that;
Only that can bring peace and prosperity now—
The Powers above nothing about will allow.
That work waits this word from Headquarters to come,
"This land must be free—must be all Freedom's home!"
No slave shall pollute it—no tyrant shall curse—
Then ne'er for this war shall our Union be worse.
Ah! that would be victory glorious and grand,
Worth shouting through heaven, through sea, and through land!
Then down would the heavens bow—arms open wide
In peace to receive us, and there to abide.
No victory else could be victory sure,
No peace short of that could be peace to endure;
Such so won would stay won, and Heaven would commend,
Shouting victory! victory! world without end!
Billerica, October, 1863.

THE VOICE OF THE SOUTH.
"I'm for the South—another Irish land." —Kilkenny Man.
A nation rising in its might
Its chains to break, its foes to ban—
What patriot hopes a fairer sight?
What dearer to the Irishman?
The South arose, girt-up for war—
The cheers of England rang again:
Whene'er ye turn your looks afar,
Remember this, my countrymen!
The cheers of England tell so true
The friend to seek, the foe to shun,
We'll surely join our accents, too,
And triumph with the Southern gun!
Then for the South applaud! rejoice!—
Ah, never this the counsel, when
We hearkened unto Erin's voice—
Remember this, my countrymen!
But, England's friend or England's foe,
Our Ireland takes a nobler stand!
Her heart is grieved for every woe,
Her bands increase for every band:
What cause here her heart to claim?
Free South as North, voice, act, and pen;
Who breaks that freedom bears the blame—
Remember this, my countrymen!
Who sunders freedom wins us not;
Who weakens freedom injures all;
Who lives not true to freedom's not,
His, pride has planned his certain fall.
The South has fought with hero fire,
With haughty pride her place has ta'en;
Her cause condemn, her sword admire—
Remember this, my countrymen!
But Erin's heart must sympathize—
A Southern cause is Erin's cause-
There ever comes before her eyes
A mournful nation of outlaws!
A nation hopeless, hapless, lone,
Whose mind is kept a darkened den,
Whose laugh is worse than any moan—
Remember this, my countrymen!
A nation whom to clothe and feast
Is counted to give joy for aye;
All duty done, when, like the beast,
Its loss it knows not, and is gay!
A purer faith than this is ours,
A cleaner path than such a fen;
God gave for use man's noble powers—
Remember this, my countrymen!
In such a place our Faith is banned,
Her yoke resists a tyrant yoke;
She cannot bind each sacred band,
And see them spurned by man, and broke:
Hers is a holy freedom's breath,'
Mid bondmen she is bond, and men
Who slavery seek, seek too her death—
Remember this, my countrymen!
Within her fane the slave was free,
Her fane was still his castle-wall;
In Southern land this cannot be,
From altar steps it claims its thrall.
Clear falls thy voice, O Native Land!
We slaved, and sinned—we fought—and when
We fell, we kissed God's chast'ning hand—
Remember this, my countrymen!
From thence till now we expiate,
And' mid our fetters are more free;
External trappings make not great,
Like to the spirit's liberty!
We bless the North—the South we bless,
In whom our past pride lives again;
Heaven crown her arms with unsuccess!—
Be this our prayer, my countrymen!
ERIONNACH.
-The Dublin Irishmen.
AN INVOCATION.
Come, gentle Peace! that, far away,
Like startled bird, at War's shrill trumpet flew,
Seeking in fields remote the hamlets gray,
Where jocund labor hailed the rising day;
Where Age forgot its cares in childhood's play;
Where happy households in contentment grew.
Bring us again thy quiet rest!
Let War's fierce, fitful strife be as a dream—
A hideous nightmare on the Nation's breast,
Filling e'en Nature with a strange unrest,
Placing a crimson plume in earth's green crest,
Painting a warrior's face in every stream.
The brotherhood of Love, o bring,
That knows no north, nor south, nor east, nor west;
That clothes the earth with Eden's happy spring,
Over her wounds and scars a veil can fling:
Yet who shall cause the wounded heart to sing?
Or fill with joy and song the empty nest?
Bring Freedom, where men waiting long
Beneath Oppression's yoke have meekly bowed!
Where, through long years,
Christians beheld the wrong,
Looked calmly on at faggot, scourge and thong,
And but a noble few amid the throng
Lifted their voice to Heaven, and cried aloud!
Come, gentle Peace! on listening ears,
Sweeter than long ago the Angels' songs;
The star of Freedom high in heaven appears,
Beams on the eyes so oft upturned in tears!
"Peace on the earth, good will to men!" he hears,
Who, bowed in faith and prayer, has waited long.
—Salem Gazette. L.V.L.A.
<c02>
The Liberator.
SPEECH OF REV. J. SELLA MARTIN.
Delivered at a Soirce given in honor of GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., "in grateful recognition of his long and earnest services in the cause of Negro Emancipation, and of Commercial, Political and Social Reform," at the Whittington Club, London,—the Right Hon. Lord TEYNHAM in the chair, Feb'. 26, 1863.
My Lord, Ladies and Gentlemen,—I am tempted this evening to borrow a phrase from Scripture, and to say—viewing myself in reference to that great configuration which our honored friend, Mr. Thompson, crossed the Atlantic to assist in quenching—I am a brand plucked from the burning. For it was the knowledge gained, amid discouraging difficulties, that there were such men as William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Frederick Douglass, and George Thompson, that first tempted my feet to stray out of the orthodox path of agony and anguish in slavery, and to find my way first to freedom in the North, and then to the shores of Great Britain, where I have found equality before the law, and where no wicked prejudice denies me the enjoyment of the obligations and privileges of a man. As our honored guest came a great distance to aid my people in the darkest hour of their anguish and despair, so I may say I have come a long distance to make my acknowledgments, in the name of four million slaves, for the eminent services which he has rendered to us by his resistless eloquence, and his manly consistency, through the sufferings and opposition of thirty years. He told the slaves, thirty years ago, that the heart of England sympathized with their sufferings; and I tell him now that the heart of Africa throbs with a warm and inextinguishable gratitude at the mention of the name of George Thompson; and when they have heard the mention of that name, they have felt and said, " By this sign we shall conquer!"
The cardinal power of idolatry in every age and every country is infatuation, and as slavery is the grossest of all idolatry, it has exhibited the most chronic form of infatuation, and the most unmistakable sign of the existence of infatuation has been silence. Before slavery became an idol, and the American nation became dumb in its worship, the voice of Washington, the father of his country, was heard declaring: "I can only say that there is not a man living who wishes more sincerely than I do to see some plan adopted for the abolition of slavery; but there is only one proper and effectual mode by which it can be accomplished, and that is by legislative authority; and this, as far as my vote can contribute to it, shall never be wanting. "But from the death of Washington until the days of Garrison, this noble testimony slept beneath the infatuation which interest and ambition had created. In the early vigor of national independence, when slavery begged quarter of even politicians, the father of the Declaration of Independence, Jefferson, said, "In the event of a conflict between master and slave, there is no attribute of the Almightly that can take sides with the oppressor. I tremble for my country when I remember that God is just." But this warning, which has outlived the din of battle and the noise of civil strife, had died away amid the luxuries wrung from human blood, and the softening licentiousness of secret places in slavery. And even as late as the establishment of the Constitution of the nation, James Madison, its father, said, " The dictates of the humane principles of the people—the national safety and happiness, and a prudent policy—require the abolition of slavery." But in the sudden and unlooked-for success in binding the States together, both the North and the South had buried this valuable testimony, until the labors of the abolitionists brought it to light. I have given you the opinions of these men to show you the strength of slavery. If it could silence the warnings of men like these, then no wonder if it scorned the labors of men like Garrison and Thompson, who refused to dabble in the dirty waters of its politics. But in how clear a light do these facts set the magnificent labors of the abolitionists, and how fully does this light dispel the error that the North is pro-slavery as the South! True, the North was infatuated by the selfish witchery of slavery, and it is equally true that it took the perseverance of Garrison, the eloquence of Phillips, and the philanthropy of George Thompson to awaken it. But, after all, they did awaken it; and the fact only proves how strong the Puritan conscience is. The awakening of the North only produced a deeper and more violent infatuation in the South. We meet, my lord, to-night, to celebrate the breaking of that infatuation which I have imperfectly described. When the negro, bent beneath his weight of woe, turned aside to the great house of his master for sympathy, and found the shrine of slavery set up, flashing forth the fires of cruelty and vulgar passion; when he fled from thence to the courthouse for justice, and found that the spirit of slavery had taken the balances from the hand of justice; and fled from thence to the temple of God, to find mercy, and found, in all the agony of despair, that there, too, slavery had usurped the place of the minister, and was offering his children as a sacrifice to irresponsible power, he gave one long wail of anguish, and drew the sword of insurrection—commissioned Nat Turner is his champion, and spared neither age nor sex among his oppressors. Then it was that Garrison heard his cry, and, walking forth as the great Iconoclast of the nation, he knocked down the images which Beelzebub had set up. The voice of this forerunner, trying in a wilderness of unpopularity, was uttered in such sincerity and power, that it reached even this Far-off island, and sunk with the tenacity of righteousness into the ear of a young man, whose mind had been illuminated by the genius of Clarkson, whose philanthropic sympathies had been kindled by the eloquence of Wilberforce, and whose character had been energized and directed by the perseverance and moral courage of Buxton; and that young man was George Thompson. Fresh from the labors which had awakened England from her sleep of guilt, and compelled her to wash her garments—all bespattered with the blood of 800,000 slaves—in a bath of gold, he set sail for America. He went to tell the American supporters of slavery what English people thought of them: Nothing else could have aroused them from their silence. When people have their infatuations broken, the first thing they do is to turn against those who have disturbed them in their guilty silence. I have seen a serpent with his eyes fixed on a squirrel. The little animal was insensibly drawn towards the crawling reptile which was seeking to devour it; the sensations the intended victim experienced, in the meantime, no doubt were of a pleasurable character. When I threw a stone at the serpent, and made it run away, and saved the life of the squirrel, the instant return I met with was, that it rushed at and tried to bite me. So with the Americans; those who endeavored to break their infatuation were the objects of their hatred. When Mr. Thompson came over to do good to them, they received him with showers of stones and rotten eggs; and they did every thing they could to make his advocacy of emancipation ineffective. Thank God, however, that during these times of deviltry they realized the truth of a proverb, which was always true with respect to their shareholding policy, "The devil is an ass." The slaveholding devil proved himself an ass when be dragged Garrison through the streets of Boston with a rope around his person. The gentlemanly ruffians in Boston, in their zeal for slavery, did not see that the rope with which they dragged the anti-slavery apostle through the streets bound him to his black brethren in slavery with a bond that could never be broken. When, again, Mr. Thompson was received with these demonstrations of hostility, when the devil excited the people to do so, he did one of the best things in the world to make Mr. Thompson known. He took the very best plan to let the people know that there was a young Englishman, in whose heart the flame of liberty was burning, the aspirations of whose soul were beaming through his countenance, just as the sun is
<c03>
seen to shine out through the heavens. The bad men went to the meetings to keep Mr. Thompson from speaking, and the good men went to see how the had men would do the thing; and so it turned out, as we have heard in other instances, that many who went to scoff remained to pray. The press poured out its venom upon Mr. Thompson, and sent its printers' devils to break up his meetings; but even those deveils were converted, and turned into saints. The politicians, as they listened to him, felt that he was weakening their political ties and social connections, and so they clamored and broke up his meeting; but there is always a true heart in England, and therefore it was not surprising to find amongst the descendants of Britons in New England a latent love of fair play. Two thousand five hundred men undertook to attack one man, and fire thousand became his advocates. These men cared little for the slave, but they could not stand to see a man mobbed merely because he was exercising what English people and their descendants regard as their most sacred privilege—the right of free speech. They considered it was a proof that the system was weak, and that the man who was attacking it was strong; they saw that he was doubly armed, because he was clad in the panoply of truth.
Thus they were led to investigate the matter, which they otherwise would not have done; and the result of this work was, that in a short time the American Church, which had so long manifested the most perfect indifference to the condition of four millions of slaves within their own land, became agitated and began to shake. The members inside that Church began to demand reform of the silent or slavery-abetting policy, or, at least, they insisted upon some protest from the pulpit against the outrageous wrong. Then men appeared in the pulpit to do what Garrison and others had been so long doing out of it—crying aloud, and sparing not this wrong. From mere agitation, the Church was thrown into convulsions upon the subject. The first evidence we had of the powerful working of this anti-slavery leaven was a separation in the great Methodist Church of the United States, and the establishment of a Methodist Church North and a Methodist Church South. The first manifestation we had of the working of the anti-slavery gospel in the great Wesleyan body was a split on the question of slavery. Then similar separations took place, respectively, in the Presbyterian and Baptist Churches; men were not permitted to take the Lord's Supper at many Northern tables, because they were slaveholders and men-stealers.
It has always been a principle by which the blessed Savior <Illegible> carried on his work in this world, that, whenever the Church becomes awakened, men become more thoughtful and more earnest as citizens. It was no wonder, therefore, that the political parties, after the Church was moved, should begin to be agitated; no wonder that the new power began to manifest itself in all their party "caucuses," as they are called in America, or meetings to organize efforts for securing political office. Then, by-and-by, the political parties began to split upon the slavery question. At first, the anti-slavery body was but a minority, associated under the name of " Free-Soldiers'." Their principle was to prevent the extension of slavery into the territories, but not to interfere with it where it then exist-ed. But, however limited their anti-slavery doctrine might have been at first, they gradually grew louder and stronger in its expression, as men will always when the principles of almighty truth are set before them. These principles will assert themselves, despite all the impediments that may be thrown in their way. I have great confidence, as I have said, in that love of fair play which is an inherent quality in Englishmen; of that entire sympathy which they have with the good and the true, when their eyes are opened to the real state of the case; but I have still greater confidence in the power of the principles of almighty truth, which will assert themselves at all times, and in every place, when they have fair play given to them. Thus, the anti-slavery political party grew from being an insignificant minority into a powerful majority. Candidates had to profess to hate slavery, if they did not positively work against it, before they could be elected to office. All this time, there were the elements of a terrible earthquake beneath the surface of society, which at length broke out and split the nation into two hostile parties, having their respective focuses North and South—an Anti-Slavery party and a Pro-Slavery party. Why do I mention these facts upon this occasion? Because there are a great many people in this country who say that the present manifestation of anti-shivery spirit, on the part of the Federal Government and people, is made merely to befool the English people. I have endeavored to show you that, from the day when Mr. Thompson began the great work of abolition in America, in connection with Garrison and others, there has been a gradual but firm growth of anti-slavery sentiment, which has at length culminated in the issuing of that glorious proclamation by president Lincoln, which, however complained of, went, as far as it could constitutionally do, to abolish slavery throughout the American continent. (Loud and prolonged cheering.)
I know that there are a great many people in this country who question the sincerity of the anti-slavery feeling in the North. They say that when a cause become popular, it enlists under its banner those who would otherwise be indifferent to it. But such is not the case in the North; the present state of anti-slavery feeling has been the result of influences which have been working for many years. Who are the supporters of the South on this side of the Atlantic, and what are their motives? There is one class of men in England who have been induced to advocate the cause of the South through ignorance; having been misled by certain newspaper correspondents, or letter-writers, who have written short epistles, but in which they have expressed themselves very badly. It is always the case that men who have the least to say will most probably say it in the worst possible manner. There is an old story which well illustrates this fact. An actor was playing in Richard the Third, and all he had to say was, " Stand back, my lord, and let the coffin pass "; but when he came to repeat the sentence, he said, " Stand back, my lord, and let the parson cough." The political letter-writers in England have been taught their lessons badly, and they have made similar blunders to that of the actor. Then there is another class of people in this country, who advocate the cause of the South from interested motives. (Hear, hear.) Although they may be Commissioners from the South, or ship-builders for die rebels, or large Southern bond-holders, they would fain delude themselves into the belief that they are" quite disinterested in their Southern proclivities. Men like to believe, whatever tortuous course they may take, that they are actuated at all events by a grain of conscience. An Irishman in Massachusetts had taken the pledge of total abstinence from intoxicating drinks. One very cold day, he was asked whether he would take something to drink. He replied, that he would take a little lemonade, which was brought to him. He said to a person giving it to him, " Could you not get a drop of the' crater' into it unbeknownst to myself?" So it is with the Southern sympathizers to whom I am referring; they have got a drop of the " crater " into" their drink, " unbeknownst to themselves." I have no doubt that they think that they are perfectly sincere and disinterested.
Then there is another class of men in England who advocate the cause of the South through political envy of the free institutions of the Northern States. These persons are more to be pitied, perhaps, than the other two classes. They say that America has carried the doctrine of popular suffrage too far. They tell us, "We do not believe in a ballot-box which, receives everybody's vote." Then, again, they complain that the North has gone to an excess in the doctrine of popular religion. " We do not believe in a religion,'' say they,." entirely supported by voluntary contribution." Then it is alleged that the Americans have carried the theory of voluntary national defences too far. They say that they do not believe in a government which depends upon such means for raising ar-
<c04>
mies. No wonder, if in this hour of America's trial, the lovers of that slave system, which you once held, as lovingly as she has held it, would like to see a nation founded solely on principles of freedom fail in its efforts. Napoleon used to say, "Wherever my enemy wants me to go, there I shall not go. Wherever my enemy wants me to be, there I am sure not to be." Those who are in favor of free religions and political institutions, of universal suffrage and voluntary national defences, will know precisely where to go, from finding out where their enemies want them to be. If, however, these persons have spoken enviously, they have also spoken deceivingly. Said an old man to his son, "My son, you are going into the law; when yon find that the law is on the side of your opponent, then do you dwell on the justice of your case; bat when you have a suit in which the justice is on the side of your opponent, then do you contend for the law, and maintain that it should be carried out under all circumstances." Well, but, father," replied the son, "suppose I have a case in which both law and justice are on the side of my Opponent, what am I to do then?" "Oh," rejoined the old man, "then you must talk round it.'' We have recently had splendid exhibitions of that kind of advocacy of the American question. There has been no end of " talking round it." The opponents of the North have never stated the American question honestly. They say that it is a mere dispute concerning taxation, between one part of the republic and another, in which we, as Englishmen, have no interest. " A mere question of taxation!" is it? "The South seceded because they would not submit to protective tariffs." My they. Did she? Well, then, she ought to have left protection, behind her, when the separation had taken place. Has she done so? When they divided, the tariff ought to have been entirely in the North, and free trade entirely in the South; but is it so? No; the South has got the very same tariffs now which she had when she was in union with the North. That, I think, is a pretty conclusive proof that secession has not, as it is said it has, arisen from a mere dispute about inequality of taxation.
I am glad to know that the name of George Thompson, which was identified with the great movements in America, has been as much beatified, as it were, by his adhesion to right principles on this side of the water, as it has been on the other. I will close with this thought: It is a great pleasure to any man to reflect upon the fact, that he should have had the privilege of laboring most beneficently during the short span of the life allotted to man, in three separate nations. It is a high honor to any man to have had the opportunity of working for God, in breaking the material fetters that bind the body, in breaking the political fetters that hind people socially and politically, and in breaking the commercial fetters that held people under unjust laws and an unequal distributation of property. Mr. Thompson has been to America, where he has had hold of the hand of the tender, sympathetic, and loving negro. He has been to India, where he has looked in the face of its dusky Hindu and Mohammedan inhabitants. He has been in his native land, where he has been face to face with the great beating heart of the masses of his countrymen, who are demanding admission to the privileges of the British Constitution. Any man who has done this, whatever may have been the misconception and misrepresentation of his enemies, has given mankind the most splendid proofs that be did it altogether from conviction, from principle, and not from sordid motives. Men who have such motives worm into the ground. They stand still when there is no money to be got by moving. But men who are animated by a love of God and man are ready to go anywhere in furtherance of the great principles they have espoused. Their motto is, " My country is the world; my countrymen are all mankind." Although Mr. Thompson, when be first went to America, was mobbed on the very anniversary of the abolition of slavery in the West India Islands, yet, thank God! when he went back to Massachusetts, in 1850, the old Cradle of Liberty—Faneuil Hall—was rocked by the enthusiastic plaudits of at least two thousand of his anti-slavery children, who were anxiously awaiting his coming; so that, whilst we have got such proofs of our honored guest's sincerity, and of his devotion., to great principles, we have also abundant evidence of his vast intellectual powers, and of the marvellous efficacy of his advocacy of the anti-slavery movement. I am here to declare, that with the colored people of America there is no form, when they look beyond their own native land— and they have not often had to look in despair to other nations for help—there is no form that rises higher, or catches more of the halo of heavenly benediction in their estimation than does the form of George Thompson. The American slave, when he looks over the roll of English abolitionists, can take up the words of Goldsmith, and apply them to George Thompson:—
"As some tall cliff that lifts its awful form, Swells from the vale, and mid-way leaves the storm, Though round its breast the rolling clouds an spread, Eternal sunshine settles on its head."
And when I look at the people who are now coming out of the house of bondage, who are struggling through the wilderness of slavery, where they have been called on to tarry so long, and from whence they are seeking to make their way to the Canaan of universal freedom, I can, with reference to them, take up the language of the same author and say:—
"And there the pensive fugitive bent beneath his woe, To stop too fearful, and too faint to go; Casts a long look where England's glories shine, And bids his bosom sympathize with mine."
(Loud cheers.)

RESISTANCE TO EVIL.
Extracts from a tersely expressed Discourse, printed by John Wilson and Son, 5 Water Street, Boston, entitled " Resistance to Evil," and delivered to the Barton-Square Society at Salem, Sept 6, 1863, by W. H. Knapp—from the text, " Resist the Devil, and he will flee from you."
We have somewhere read of a people who worshipped the Devil, on the ground, that it was well to keep on good terms with him, lest he should injure them. They said that God was a good, kind, loving Being, and, of course, would do them no harm; while his great rival, the Evil Being, was of all others the moat to be feared, and his enmity the most to be dreaded. They must, therefore, stand Well with him, or there was no knowing what might happen to them. This was probably some tribe or nation that we should place very low in the scale of civilization, and wonder how they could be so ignorant and superstitious. But what better is our common, selfish, timid fear of all the evil persons, principles, and influences that are now acting upon society? Are there not now around us multitudes of men daily influenced by the same motives and feelings which gave rise to this demon-worship?
A few years ago, I lived in a town that was governed in almost every department of its public affairs by an audacious, unscrupulous demagogue. No person, not even his intimate associates, ever seemed to have any confidence in him. There was a general distrust of him; and, in private circles, he was everywhere spoken against. But to the town-meetings he would go, prepared to carry his measures, and sustain his supporters; and he almost always succeeded. He held one of the, most important offices in town; and yet so general was the impression of his unfitness for such a delicate and responsible position, that many efforts were made against him. Still, nothing was actually done against him. Be kept his place till he chose to resign it. He had his way in almost everything be undertook to do; and when I had been there long enough to take an active part in public affairs, and came to ask the meaning of such a state of things, the reply was, that this man was so audacious, so crafty and unscrupulous, that nobody varied him for an
<c05>
enemy. Now, was not the principle of demon-worship well established in that community?
You will often we similar examples in families: the rude, clamorous, overbearing, reckless class if children governing parents, brothers, and sisters, who, for the sake of peace, or through a selfish, timid, feeble resistance, have been accustomed to give up to them, and let them have their way. Is such a-state of the family good for either party? Do the former ever thus learn to moderate their demands and expectations? or does the peace party, the timid, non-resistant party, ever, through this policy, succeed in its purposes? If you can think of any instances of this kind, they must be exceptions to a general rule. As of families and towns, so of communities, states, and nations: they never secure peace or any other good. except as they firmly and resolutely put down evil. Every evidence of fear, of wavering, of indecision, every attempt to keep on good terms with the Devil, is and ever has been a failure; for the reason, that nothing but exclusive devotion will satisfy him; for the reason, that he gains courage just in proportion as we lose it,—becomes audacious just in proportion is we become timid.
This mental and moral timidity, this selfish desire to avoid present trouble, this effort to get along easily and pleasantly with everything and everybody, is the demon-worship which has brought upon us all our national humiliations, degradations, and overwhelming calamities. When our fathers came together to form the Constitution and Union of this country, the demon of Slavery came also among them. He was bold; he assumed a resolute, threatening tone. He got all he demanded, and was taken into the partnership on his own terms. Had he been resisted then, how different would have been the results to our whole nation now! Since that time, how audacious this evil spirit has become! He has ruled the country as his plantation; he has dictated its foreign and domestic policy; he has carried his tone of authority, his plantation manners to the Capitol; he has cracked his whip over one Congress after another, and made all interests and institutions subordinate to his own. He had brought us to so many disgraceful compromises, that he supposed all power of resistance gone; and then he commenced an open war, to take full possession of the body out of which he thought he had taken the soul. The annexation of Texas, the war with Mexico, the fillibustering expeditions to Cuba and Central America, the repeal of the Missouri Compromise, and the slave bolding invasion of Kansas, all took us completely by surprise. A few prophetic souls, reasoning from history and great principles, foresaw and predicted a similar state of things; but the counsels-of these men were unheeded After each of these triumphs of the slave power, we thought audacity had found its limits; that nothing more would be undertaken in this direction. We would then have let the past go, and gladly kept on good terms with this demon, through fear that resistance might rouse him to still farther aggressions and injuries. But no arousing was necessary: it was in his nature to be aggressive, and jealous of all freedom. He soon caused it to be declared, that the colored man had no rights which other men were bound to respect; that the enunciation of the principles of our government was " a string of glittering generalities;" that these principles, for which our fathers sacrificed so much, were fallacies; that the freedom for which heroes and martyrs bad suffered and died through all ages was of no account; that all the experience of the past, all the great instincts of humanity, must he set aside; and that society must begin anew on the basis of human slavery. This devi's high priest announced with great solemnity and distinctness, that the stone which the builders of society had heretofore rejected should now become the head of the corner. This was the sublimes t audacity ever known among men. This was a devil that we must respect for two good qualities,—-the accuracy of his logic, and the greatness of his courage. Still, after all the warnings and examples we had received, we did not really believe he was in earnest. We thought this mere talk, mere bravado, to keep up a sinking cause. We did not believe he would actually commence a war on such an infernal platform as this; that he would rob our treasury, plunder our arsenals, batter down our forts, destroy the immense products of our past industry, fill the land with mourning and desolation, and try to make a hell of our broad and beautiful domain, for an institution which the whole civilized world had discarded as an outrage and a nuisance. We were not at all prepared for such an audacity as this; and for nearly two years, we tried again to conciliate, or get on good terms with this demon. We feebly carried on a mild, conciliating, rose-water war. We neglected to strike when we had opportunities, lest we should farther irritate this devil of the South. We thought the goddess of Liberty was kind and good; that she would do us no harm, and needed none of our protecting care. We might sentimentalise to her on the Fourth of July, and on similar occasions; but, at all other times, we must, shape our speech and action so as to propitiate the terrible demon of Slavery. And even now, all over the North, in these free States, there are many whose thought and speech are all about terms which may yet be made with him. This terrible power, that is doing us so much injury, must, in some way, be conciliated. Do we not here again see the old principle of devil-worship, instead of the Bible principle of devil-resistance?
The only security is to see him as the Devil that he is, and hate him In all his disguises for what he is. The time is at hand for a decided conflict with him. He was never so unblushing in his impudence as now. He is particularly zealous in behalf of religion and morality; and demands all the usages of the highest civilization, especially in the treatment of Confederate rebels. He is shocked that ministers do not confine themselves more to the preaching of the gospel. He is the special champion of the Constitution and the Union; and, from his zeal, we should suppose him to be the only friend of State rights and of personal liberty. He lifts his hands in holy horror at what he terms despotic tendencies of our Government. He has conscientious scruples and constitutional objections to everything it does to sustain itself or to coerce its enemies. He is a sublime liar, hypocrite, demagogue; and, as such, he is to be hated, opposed, resisted, in every way with all our might. The time is at hand for him to make his most desperate efforts, and for all who would dethrone him to make theirs. The time is at hand when every man will be compelled to choose whom he will serve, to act out his real sympathies, to go to his real place, and take his logical position in society; when the good are to become better, and the bad worse, than ever before. Whoever, through timidity or selfishness or old party hate, wishes to keep on good terms with the Devil, will have to give himself wholly to his service. In such a revolutionary period as the present, we ought to expect this, and govern ourselves accordingly. We must look with distrust, except where fruits meet for repentance are brought forth, upon the professions of those who have been accustomed to this demon-worship,—of saying that there is no principle involved in this great conflict, that both parties are about half right and half wrong, or whose tendencies are at all in this direction. There is a principle involved; and all must, sooner or later, be either wholly for it or wholly against it. The existence of our country is at stake; and no half-and-half measures, no undecided, irresolute efforts, can save it. The sublime audacity of its enemies must be met by a sublime faith and devotedness of its friends. We must boldly face the Devil; call him by his right name; track him through all his disguises; like Luther, in holy indignation, throw our inkstands at him; crush him under our printing-presses; take the most radical means to rid ourselves of his loathsome presence; and thus drive him back to his chosen Southern home, to the Pandemonium he has made,—the devil, traitor, and rebel that he is. As we break the spell under which we have so long lived, as we gain our manhood, we shall lose our timid, selfish fears; and these are the only sources of his power. He is what we have encouraged and al-
<c06>
lowed him to become. He is the incarnation, the reflection and retribution, of all the evils that are un us; and the Scripture truly asserts, that evil can be overcome only by good. His strength is the measure of our weakness, his audacity, the measure of our faith: his triumphs, our most humiliating disgraces. All who have learned nothing by their past dealings with him, who still worship him, who tremble at his presence, and seek to be restored to his favor, are his already, body and soul his, his beyond redemption. He knows his own, and, sooner or later will gather them all to himself. This is one of the greatest harvest days of the world. The wheat and the rares, that have so long been growing together, are to be separated, bound into bundles, and put to their, appropriate uses. The terrible strife on the great battlefields is but one form of the great general conflict.
We have got to meet this diabolism in every form that it can possibly assume. The struggle for the next Presidency, to get possession of the enormously increased power and patronage of the Federal Government, will concentrate and bring into action all the worst elements of society: it will reveal a depth of depravity more surprising than anything the war has brought to light. All the selfish interests, partisan prejudices, and blind, reckless passions of multitudes, will be let loose, and directed by the most unprincipled demagogues that any nation was ever cursed with. Already the work has commenced. The number and variety of outrageous falsehoods put in general circulation; the public tacks on the most unsullied private character; the wholesale murder of unoffending citizens, and the destruction of their orphan asylum; the attempt to thwart the purposes of the Government, and protract the war through the whole of the present administration, are some of the signs of the times upon which we are entering. While we are thinking of the war as at a great distance from us, and dreaming of our personal peace and security, these men would seize the whole machinery of society, and use it for their own diabolical purposes. And this is but the opening of this political campaign.
With the great Rebellion still unsubdued, with all these corrupt and corrupting elements among ourselves, what a prospect lies immediately before us! and how practical the whole subject at once becomes! We must make wholly subordinate every local and personal consideration, and rise to the sublime height of the occasion. We must have an unconditional loyalty. We must make a religion of our patriotism, of our devotion to our country. We must resist, with all the energy of our nature, every thing that would turn away our attention from the one vital question now before us. We must, by boldness and decision, make our good more efficient than others' evil We must resist here at home, on every occasion and in every way that is opened to us, the same evils, the same classes of persons, that we have sent our sons, husbands and brothers to resist on the great fields of battle. This is our part of the work; and if we are truly faithful, wholly in earnest, we shall find abundant opportunities to exercise all the heroic virtues. We shall each one of us do all we can to form that sound, united, public sentiment, which shall seal the lips and end the audacity of evil men. We shall do our highest duty to God, to our country, and to all the great interests of humanity.

CONSERVATISM.
I find in the Missouri Democrat of the 18th of September so pertinent and practical an illustration of Conservatism, and of what I attempted an part to set forth, in a late article, that I must beg a place for it in the Liberator of this week. Let the reader suitably emphasize the last sentence of the following.
But before he begins to read, I wish to correct for him the misplacement of a semicolon in my remarks upon the Springfield Republican. As it is printed, it says, "even conservatism is powerless for good," as if that were surprising! Now put the semicolon after "even," and we have this wholesome thought: " Radical as righteousness—that is the only wise motto even." Now the semicolon. And now the following:—L. H.
"WHO WOULD NOT BE A REBEL? It has become a very common remark in the months of Union men, that the most favored parties in Missouri are rebels. The remark is as true as preaching. The fact stated is apparent in many ways. It is the easiest thing in the world, we are told by intelligent men who have travelled through Missouri, to tell rebels from Union men, when met upon the road. A traveller has furnished us the following tests. "The horse ridden by the stranger furnishes the evidence. If the animal is fat, sleek and healthy, he is the property of a rebel. If be is poor, weak and scraggy, you may be sure his owner is a Union man. The countenance of the rider likewise serves as an index. If he rides boldly on, with a contented, careless look, and seems to be indifferent to the dangers of the way, he is a rebel. If his eye, however, has a startled, unsteady gaze-if his countenance shows signs of watching and care, and every bush is closely scrutinized as he passes it, you may depend upon it you are gazing upon a Union man."
We have no reason to doubt that the foregoing tests are in the majority of cases reliable. It is in the nature of things, under the administration which prevails in this State, that they should be so. The rebel is favored in as many ways as the Union man is oppressed. Rebels are never bushwhacked. It is a remarkable fact, that in nearly al1 the accounts we receive of robberies and arsons, Union men are the sufferers. As certain as a man is a highway man, he is a traitor. The rebel can keep good stock, but the Union man can't. The rebel can safely ride a fat horse, but the Union man must content himself with a lean one. The rebel can raise fine fields of wheat and corn and tobacco, because be is allowed to stay at home in peace, and his niggers are protected by the State. The Union man can depend upon raising neither the one not the other, because Governor Gamble having succeeded in getting all the Federal troops removed, he is liable to be called away at any time to stand guard over the property of loyal and disloyal men alike. The State makes the Union man guard the secessionist's property, but does not or cannot prevent the secessionist from taking the Union man's property. And when the Union man comes to be paid for his services as a soldier, he finds that he has principally to foot his own bill. All of his property is taxed, while the negroes of the slaveholders, nine tenths of whom are disloyal, by the grace of the late State Convention are exempt from all taxes, "State, county and municipal." And if a Federal commander gets into a passion, and proposes to assess the property of rebels to make up for the losses of Union men, Governor Gamble posts off to Washington, or writes to Secretary Bates, the President rescind the order.
It is not to be supposed, however, that for all these privileges the disloyalists of Missouri pay no penalty. No, indeed! They have to swear-swear to support the Constitution of the United States and the Provisional Government of Missouri. The latter part of the oath they are expected to keep by voting to continue the members of the Provisional Government in office, and there is little doubt of its being faithfully observed. The first part of the oath is not expected to be kept, as the rule is to make a rebel swear every time he is caught-and then let him go. Such is conservatism.

A GREAT WORK!
EVERY MAN HIS OWN PHYSICIAN.
THE NEW ILLUSTRATED HYDROPATHIC ENCYCLOPEDIA: A Complete system of Hydropath, embracing the Anatomy and Physiology of the Human Body Illustrated; Hygienic Agencies and the Preservation of Health; Dietetics and Cookery; Theory and practice of Treatment; Special Pathology and Hydro-Therapestics, including the Nature, Causes, symptoms, and Treatment, of a11 known Diseases: Application to Surgical Diseases, to Midwifery and the Nursery. With 300 Engravings, and nearly One Thousand Pages, including a <illegible> and Index complete. By R.T. TRALL,M.D. Senprepaid by FRIST MAIL for $3.50. Address FOWLRE & WELLS, 308, Broadway, New York. Sept. 18-2w
JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ. ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW, NO. 6, TREMONT STREET, BOSTON. Oct 1