<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBULISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 23. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 10, 1859.
WHOLE NUMBER, 1595.

REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
From the Boston Courier.
THE BOSTON TRACT SOCIETY.
Let us say, in conclusion, that the foundation upon which the Boston Society rests is only one of sand, because it evidently assumes a ground upon which the Christian world disagrees. This must be admitted, or we exclude all those professing Christians from the pale of Christianity, who hold slaves. Many persons of Evangelical opinions in religion think slaveholding to be no sin. They believe that it is no sin in itself, only as it is used; and that the misuse of it affords no argument against its use. We state their argument; and the conclusion against it has not yet been reached by the general agreement of Evangelical Christians; and this fact excludes the discussion of the general subject from the Tract Society.
The Boston Society's position debars, and some may think uncharitably and presumptuously, large bodies of professing Christians from all title to the name. But cannot a slaveholder be a Christian? Or a slave? We wish that many persons who declare slaveholding the very sum of human wickedness, bore any comparison at Christians with multitudes of slaveholders, with multitudes of slaves. The minority of the Tract Society act upon the extreme anti-slavery doctrine. Most of them arrow it in unqualified terms; some of them declare it in language fitter for a gathering of rowdies, than for any congregation of Christians, men and women; those of them who do not admit this, only refuse to see the legitimated and inevitable connection of ideas. Whenever the point which they thus urge is settled according to their views, then, undoubtedly, the Tract Society should begin to publish against slavery, since then there will be a unanimity of sentiment on the subject among Evangelical Christians. Until then, while directly the conscience-keepers of the community fight an abstraction,-indirectly, they aim their weapons at the only means of eventually putting down all the sin and evil in the world. The extravagances of these impracticable are in an especial degree those good intentions, with which a certain subterranean place is said to be paved.
A very striking fact in regard to the Boston organization cannot escape notice, in the resignations of former officers. The venerable John Tappan, long its President, has retired; and of its Vice Presidents, Bishop East burn, Mr. Winthrop, Rev. Dr. Stow, Aimer Kingman, Esq. Mr. Ropes, who is re-elected, is in Europe, so we cannot tell what course he would have taken, if at home. We subjoin Mr. Winthrop's letter of resignation:-
BOSTON, May 18, 1859.
REV. J. W. ALFORD, Secretary, &c., &c., &c.
DEAR SIR:-Two or three years ago, without any previous assent or even knowledge on my own part, I had the honor of being elected one of the Vice Presidents of the American Tract Society of this city. I had been a life member of the Society for several years before, and had made an address at one of its annual meetings, expressing the earnest interest which I felt (and which I still feel) in the original character and object of its operations. It was then a harmonious and united association, in cordial co-operation with the National Society of New York, and its publications were such as appealed to the Christian mind and heart of every portion of our country.
An unhappy controversy has since sprung up among its members, which seems to have destroyed its unity at home, and to have involved in it a serious strife with the Association at New York. My own opinion in regard to the merits of that controversy is unimportant, perhaps; but it has not been concealed. In a note to your predecessor, the Rev. Seth Bliss, dated 5th April, 1858, and published with his well-remembered letters. I declared my conviction that the publication of Anti-Slavery Essay’s did not rightfully enter into the province of the society, and that they would be fatal at once to its unity and its usefulness.'
Nothing has occurred to alter this opinion. On the contrary, I have been confirmed in the apprehension that such publications will only be as mischievous at the South, as they are inapplicable at the North-irritating and inflaming the Southern mind, and retarding those very reforms which they are honestly intending to promote.
Entertaining such views, I am unwilling to leave myself open to misconstruction. I must beg you, therefore, to signify seasonably to the managers of the Society, that I respectfully decline a re-election as one of their Vice Presidents.
I am, dear sir, with the highest consideration for the officers and managers of the association,
Very sincerely and faithfully,
Your obedient servant,
ROBERT C. WINTHROP.

THE RIGHTS OF MAN.
The gospel has taught us to love our neighbor as ourselves, and to be followers of Him who was rich, but for our sakes became poor.
It is an old-fashioned doctrine this, and quite out of date, but one that deserves a revival and universal love. If all men would think of it, and feel it, there would be a grand change in the tune of the noisy reformers of our day, forever clamorous about the rights of man, as if the first of all duties was to get for every one his rights, and after that it will be time enough to make them good and happy. They forget that Jesus Christ, the Great Reformer, and Example of all Reformers, came to a people who had been despoiled of their rights, but he never said one word about asserting them. They were looking anxiously for one who should redeem them from the yoke of their oppressors. They would have hailed Jesus as King of the Jews if he had used his power to call legions of angels to hurl back the legions of Rome. But he taught them submission. When they invited him to say whether they should yield allegiance to the foreign despot, he told them to render to Caesar his due. And if he were now a traveling preacher in the United States of America, the burden of his discourse would be. ’Repent of your own sins and believe; take my yoke and learn of me. ‘He would not be found going about the churches, and stirring up strife and dissensions; nor getting up conventions to assert the rights of man manor of woman; nor disturbing the harmony of a great religious anniversary like the American Tract Society with clamor about the rights of man; nor denouncing his faithful followers as false to his cause when they confine themselves to the work he gave them to do. He would not be found in rebellion against the government, nor advocating disunion, nor seeking to get the Church to take action against this sin and that and the other, as if one sin or another could be repented of an forgiven while others were cherished. The Master Reformer, the Son of God, would be called’ behind the age, an old fogy, a conservative,' if he were among us now. When the noisy orators and writers of the radical reform pulpit and writers of the radical reform pulpit and press are shouting for RIGHTS, the lips that speak as never man speak would be telling us of our DUTIES. When a Missionary Society refuses to send the gospel where it is most needed.
<c02>
unless they who need it will first repent, the Master would GO to the very region which the Society taboos, and there He would peach the gospel to the rich and the poor, to the bond and the free.
He would teach us by his example, as he taught in by his words, to go into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. His daily life and conversation would be one grand sermon to all mankind, that they should each one repent of his own sins, and so make all the world free. This is the gospel. Its mission is to make nations free by setting each slave of sin free; by giving deliverance to the captives of Satan, and making them all the freemen of the Lord. It does not address itself to men as communities, but as individual sinners, not as men with rights communities, but as individual sinners, not as men with rights, but as men in prison, doomed to death, and certain to suffer unless saved by a Redeemer. It talks to men of pardon for themselves, reconciliation with God, and glory to be revealed hereafter.
Let us preach this gospel. Let us be concerned to do our duties, and think less of asserting our rights. -New York Observer.

THE ANNIVERSARIES.
From the Christian Intelligencer (Dutch Reformed).
Persons mindful of what our Religious Anniversaries once were cannot fail to observe, and lament over, the decay of that unity of spirit which once characterized them. A dozen years ago, or more, the gathering of the tribes under the banners of our national benevolent institutions was an event of joyful omen and Christian exultation. The fellowship of the saints found a practical illustration in the union and harmony of the multitudes who met to praise God for his gracious working. The harmony is broken. That union is at an end. The Anniversaries have come to be seasons of excitement, bitterness, and wrath. Angry divisions have been pushed into almost all our benevolent Societies, and their annual meetings show them to be indeed parts of the Church Militant.
The fierce and intolerant spirit of anti-slavery fanaticism is chiefly responsible for the havoc and ruin inflicted upon the fraternal concord and peace of these Societies. It has crept into the American Board and Home Missionary Society, and gained virtual control of those organizations. It has assailed the American Sunday School Union with but indifferent success. It has prostituted the Young Men's Christian Association of this city into easy fellowship with Unitarianism and Universalism, for the sake of making an anti-slavery compact against evangelical men and measures. It has thrust itself into the Tract Society, with the eager effort to break its constitution and destroy its usefulness. And this year, by a studied plan, this same magnet spirit planted itself in a hostile attitude to the American Bible Society, and held an opposition meeting at the hour, and near the place, when and where the Bible Anniversary was celebrated.
'Perish Bibles and Tracts, and all other appliances of Christian principle and purpose, until the rabid wrath of intolerant zealots be allowed to hurl them as projectile forces from the red-hot artillery of angry war,' is in effect the language of the men who create the noise and confusion of our Anniversary gatherings. Allied in closest intimacy with the anti-slavery furor is the violent sectarianism which, of late, under the lead of an intensely sectarian journal, has obtruded itself upon the business of Anniversary week. The new lights of Congregationalism are not willing that their ism shall be allowed to mingle any longer in the fraternal parties and courtesies of Christian union, and hence the strained efforts to get up collations for the cultivation of what The Evangelist styles’ gastronomic piety,' and other meetings of a purely denominational and sectarian sort. There are many sagacious men, here and elsewhere, who believe that anti-slavery is used as a mere hobby for modern Congregationalism to ride for its own purposes. Be this as it may, the two are unquestionably united in the unholy work of interrupting the continued flow of that good feeling which was wont to rise around the Anniversary seasons in this city.
These facts are becoming very well understood. Honest and fair men remember that it is their duty to mark them which create divisions, and withdraw from them. The Bible and Tract Societies, having been the principal objects of attack, showed conclusively this year that, notwithstanding all the clamor raised against them, their friends are legion, and their prospects of usefulness greater than ever before.
REV. DR. CHEEVER. It is not true that a commission of lunacy has, as yet, been issued to try the sanity of this gentleman, but it is true that he is reported to have said on Sabbath evening last, in his’ Peace' sermon to the peaceful flock whom it was his pleasure, then, to lead by the ‘still waters' of his eloquence, that-
'Now-a-days men come to consider the Sabbath a bag of exhilarating gas-a balloon by which political winners imagine they are exalted to heaven, south side ministers being paid expressly for the purpose. Or it may be considered as a drink decocted from hemp, by which man-stealers even have their souls elevated-a proper and deserved application of the original article on a week-day would bang them.’
Mild! modest!! meek!!! monomaniacal Cheever! Thus, with a wag of the tongue, to send all ministers who would mind their proper business-in a Sabbath balloon, to a promiscuous hanging! James and Jambres! we bid you applaud the courage of your successor!-Ibid.
Our ancient friends, the Garrisonian Abolitionists, exploded like a bunch of fire-crackers in an empty barrel. They abused Dr. Cheever, the reverend gentleman who has lately been preaching against the sin of slavery, in the most terrible way. They evidently consider him as an interloper in the camp-one who desires to infringe on their patent right to work for the amelioration of all the little niggers in the land. Their indignation is the more bitter, perhaps, because the British Exeter Hall sympathizers have been called upon to contribute to the support of Dr. Cheever's Church, on the ground that it has suffered pecuniarily on account of its pastor's labors in the cause of the slave. The Garrisonians do not relish any such poaching upon their preserves, and desire to have it distinctly understood that the Cheever wing is in no way entitled to any of the spoils which have hitherto flowed from British founts into the breeches' pockets of Massa Garrison.-New York Herald.
CROWING HENS. A meeting called in behalf of ‘Women's Rights' was held in Mozart Hall last week, on Thursday evening. Addresses were made by Susan B. Anthony (known as Reverend Miss Anthony), Mrs. Caroline H. Dall, Lucretia Mott, Mrs. Blackwell, Mrs. Ernestine Rose, and Wendell Phillips. The usual tirade against the usages of society and the common sense of mankind was the staple of the oratory of the evening. A large audience was present, many of whom disgraced themselves by indecent interruptions. The best way to put down these fanatics is to let them severely alone. But if one is led by curiosity to go and bear a hen crow, be ought to let her crow. To make a disturbance in a ‘female meeting' is about as mean as to strike a woman.-New York Observer.
<c03>
The Liberator.
SPEECH OF E. H. HEYWOOD,
At the New England Anti-Slavery Convention,
Thursday Evening, May 26, 1859.
MR. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:
The incidents of the evening, and the lateness of the hour, make it quite improper for me to occupy even one of the last moments of this Convention. I will say but a word in response to your call. Many of you came in to hear Mr. Phillips, whom I will not long deprive you or myself the pleasure of listening to.
Mr. Burleigh has told us that the condition of our cause, its advance or retrogression, may be determined by the social position of the colored man. He is a reliable measure of it. He is the thermometer on which the rise and fall of the anti-slavery sentiment is registered-the nilometer which records the ebb and flow of that regenerating flood which is to redeem and readorn our Egypt. We believe the negro a man; hence we are Abolitionists. We believe his rights to be as inviolably sacred as our own, and that to enslave him is to commit the greatest possible crime against God and man within the reach of human capacity; hence we are at issue with every organization formed at his expense, and demand the immediate dissolution of every compact in Church or State cemented with his blood. We ask for him simply justice-'justice in the name of humanity, and according to the law of the living God.’ This is the head and front of our ultraism.
But it is very perilous for Americans to concede humanity to the negro-much safer to regard him as the victim of an ‘economic subordination'. As Montesquieu says, ‘It will not do to allow that negroes are human, lest it appear that we are not Christians.' Even in the North, the colored population are only a convenient foot-ball for the diversion of political and pious respectability. The politician trample upon them with impunity. The clergyman may place the flaming sword of his authority at the gates of the public school and the church, to keep them from the free of knowledge and the tree of life. The church makes no systematic, definite issue with slavery. It <illegible> Countenance. It confines itself to ‘preaching the gospel,' which means, not to ‘meddle with politics or religion either.' It deals largely in what political economists call the ‘let alone doctrine.' Dr. Kirk said last year, that he voted’ to publish tracks against slavery for the same reason that he voted for Fremont-hoping he would not be elected.' Agains, two weeks ago, as the oracle of the Boston Tract Society, the vanguard of the anti-slavery tendencies of the New England churches, he said, ’While the Slave Power maintains itself-against political aggression, I sanction its course we represent no fierce radical sentiments, not peculiarly an anti-slavery sentiment.' Now, here is an evil, whose vital principle is the vilest and most atrocious infidelity and atheism,-an evil that actually and necessarily makes it a penal offence to teach the Bible or spelling-book,-that unavoidably abrogates the marriage relation, and rends families asunder at the auction-block,-that inevitably makes the State that protects it a band of pirates, and the Church that enshrines it a baptized brothel; and yet, Dr. Kirk, speaking for the New England churches, says, ’Let it be eternal; let those four million men fallen among thieves lie there in their blood, while we go up to Jerusalem and preach against infidel philanthropy.' Why, those old Dutch Democrats of Pennsylvania, who proved themselves worthy of the gallows by voting for Buchanan, (laughter,) even they have lately declared an eternal antagonism to exist between freedom and slavery, and that the latter must be put down. The Church feels the reproach rather than the sin of slavery. It does not lay the axe at its root, but only clips the twigs; 'beats’ about the bush'; attempts to whitewash its shadow, and leaves the pestilential, deathful Upas erect and intact (Loud applause.)
The Church has lately been declared to be the ‘conscience of the country in regard to slavery’-the force of which is to ensure its ‘total extinction.' It is true of Christ's church. But this chameleon, shifting its hues in every varying light of character, place and time-this puling, shrinking body, unable to grapple with the emergencies of its age-this purblind, spavined creature, stumbling among the dark mountains of popular sin-this truck-and-dicker joint-stock corporation, making all great principles of absolute right, making freedom, justice, God, succumb to mere selfish interest, to keeping the pulpit out of the poor-house, and the pews out of hell-this the church of Him who says, ’every plant which my heavenly Father hath not planted shall be rooted up'-whose apostles turn the world upside down rather than compromise with any sin! Christ is nailed to the cross-where's the Church? Parting his garments among them-casting lots. Christ sweats great drops of blood in the garden-where's the Church? Spending the price of his betrayal in anniversary collations Christ agonizes upon’ cold mountains in the midnight air’-where's the Church? Hunting him with demoniac Protestant bloodhounds! Conscience! Look at that meeting in the Academy of Music in New York, two weeks ago-clergymen convulsed, maddened at the touch of a resolution against the slave trade, which has been execrated for years by the barbarians of the world; the American Tract Society turned into an’ evangelical' mob; Isaiah Rynders and Tammany. Hall outdone; a row got up by Doctors of Divinity;’ total depravity' illustrated in real life. (Loud applause.) There is no peace to the wicked; they are like the troubled sea, hose waters foam out their own shame, and cast up mire and dirt.
I know there are a few within the Church struggling vigorously to deliver it from this body of death. God help them to confer not with flesh and blood! But, they seem as yet to make a pro-slavery organization ultimate. The project is utterly futile; it is putting new wine into old bottles. The ‘bulwark of slavery' must be overthrown. As Milton's angels whelmed the hosts of Satan. I want to see clergymen tear up the very hills of the North, and hurl them against the slave system. (Applause.) A philosopher, asked to define motion, arose, and walked
<c04>
back and forth in silence before the inquirer. So this cause needs not talk, rhetoric, denunciation; but action, life, principle walking on, two feet. It is the consistent, persistent, defiant protest which tells. A strong man breaking away from a corrupt organization, is as good as a thunder-clap in dog-days-it
clears the atmosphere. (Cheers.) The Romish Church trembles now with the stroke of Luther's hammer nailing those ninety-five theses to that old cathedral at Wittemberg. When Cheever slams his door in the face of the American Church, it will shake the continent. (Loud applause.)
That politics should make a direct issue with a great social evil like slavery is not to be expected with the present religious sentiment of the North. They are necessarily under the domination of selfish interests. There is little choice of parties in the long run. Dante relates that he saw at Malbolge a strange contest between a human form and a serpent. After glaring for a moment at each other, a wonderful metamorphosis took place. Each was transformed into the likeness of the other. The body of the snake put forth arms; the arms of the man shrank into his body; the snake's tail was divided into legs; the man's legs entwined into a tail. At length, the snake stood up, a man, and spoke, and the man sank down into a serpent, and glided hissing away. Such is the change that political parties undergo. Called into existence to redress some out crying evil, virtuous, upright, their forehead regal with the truth,' at first they stand forth champions of human rights; but, no sooner do they reach the seat of authority, than they descend to crawl and lick the dust at the feet of power. With us, politics have fallen so low that the beau ideal of a Democrat is one who can’ poll the most votes with the fewest men,' (laughter;) while the party of liberty begins its career by laying upon its altar, as its first terrible holocaust, four million bondmen. The Tribune gives up the doctrine of non-extension. The voters of the Worcester district have renominated by acclamation, and sent back to Congress, a man who is a mere bob to the kite of Douglas Democracy. The object of Republicanism, during the next twelve months, will be to find the most available candidate for the Presidency, who, on the only question at issue, will ‘stay un<illegible> freedom in order to clutch the post-office and the <illegible> house. Whether the voter be a slaveholder or an abolitionist, it takes him up to heights of national distinction, shows him all the kingdoms of official emolument, and says,’ All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt but fall down and worship me.'
Resistance to slavery, politically or religiously, has not yet reached the dignity of a substantive question, has not yet risen above the interest of party or sect, and is only a convenient sham. Clergymen dare not confess Jesus in the slave, for fear they shall be put out of the synagogue. Politicians, exorcised from one proslavery party, enter the swinish herd of another, lest they be tormented before the time. It is evident that slavery never can be overthrown, unless the North makes a direct issue with it. Here is the barbarism of the fifth century struggling for perpetuity among us-a barbarism that wrestled with and threw the mighty empires of Alexander and the Caesars. Think you it can be restrained with the gauze of compromise? As well attempt to bind a raging tiger with cobwebs. Slavery must be scourged forth from the temple of religion and justice,-
'Ejected out of Church and State,
And all things but the people's hate.' 
Lady Montague said to her lover,’ I will give up everything for you but you.' We may yield every thing for liberty but liberty. Our demands must he inexorable. Evasion, compromise, is the unpardonable sin. Let the name of every representative who voted against the Personal Liberty Bill be pilloried before the community, gibbeted so’ black and high' that it can be read from Barnstable to Berkshire. I meet some who refuse to sign that petition, lest it may lead to collision with the general government, revolution, and bloodshed. Was there ever a better cause for revolution? The demand of an unjust tax of twenty shillings from John Hampden inaugurated a movement that hurled a monarch from his throne, and brought him, with his primate, to the block. We look calmly on while one sixth part of our population is immolated upon the altar of the horrible Moloch of despotism. Every month, the crimes of this country against humanity, are more numerous and atrocious than that which revolutionized the government of England, and turned the Stuarts out to pasture upon the continent. (Laughter.) When, less than a century ago, John Bull laid his hand upon the American pocket, every New Englander was a revolution in himself. You who believe in Bunker Hill and Lexington ought to rejoice to see the hands of every slave smoking with his master's blood, to see every bondman of the South, as Curran said of his countrymen in the Irish House of Commons, rise and break his chains over the head of his oppressor. For one, I want to see these opposing forces in collision-hand to hand, foot to foot, shield to shield. I have no fears for the result. I look upon the legitimate and inevitable development of the slave principle at the South, and the free principle at the North, as the upper and nether millstones, which are to grind this general government to powder. 
As I said on rising, we want simply to lay judgment to the line, righteousness to the plummet; to rebuild political and ecclesiastical organizations upon the’ modeless base' of natural justice. The government trembles to its foundation at the wind of every political doctrine that strikes it. The Church rocks, and its crazy rafters sway to and fro, when the Abolition movement treads its floors. It is because they are based upon the sliding shoals and treacherous quick sands of compromise. Like the Swiss walking, up and down his valley, men hardly dare whisper among such institutions, lest the avalanche come down on either hand. It is this selfishness which, is the barrier to all reforms. It is the physician loving his pocket more than, the patient, the lawyer his fees more than justice, the minister the fleece more than the flock, the politician who’ sighs and groans for public good, and means his own. When Harvey discovers the true circulation of the blood, he writes in his diary that he’ fell mightily in his practice, lost caste with the doctors at once, the people called him
<c05>
a crack-brained enthusiast, and that none over forty years of age received the theory at all'-a salutary lesson to old hunkers that! (Laughter.) When the Test and Corporation Acts were repealed in Parliament, the Bishop of Oxford rent his robes, and Lord Eldon shed many tears. So the owl hoots fearfully 
when the morning dawns;-'his day is the night.' When Paul says woman ought not to speak in public, the lords of creation respond ‘Amen!’ but when Paul says it is not good for a man to have a wife, these same lords think he is mistaken-not that they love Paul less, but woman more. (Great merriment and pro longed applause.) Forgetfulness of self, aspiration for the general good is the motto of the true abolitionist. He has faith to put liberty above the Union, justice above the statute-book, Christ above the Church. As those old Puritans of New Haven voted in their first legislative assembly, let us be governed by the 
laws of God until we can make better. (Loud applause.)

From the Brantford [Canada] Expositor.
NEGROES IN CANADA-WHAT SOME 
FOLKS SAY, ABOUT THEM.
To the Editor of the Expositor:
SIR,-The late murder by three negroes furnishes occasion just now for an extra vending of an old base currency, in the shape of oracular utterances about negroes in general, which I submit are worthy of being put in print. They are usually prefaced with, ’I don't approve of slavery, but,'-or,’ I don't go for slavery, but!’ But what?’ But I would not have niggers about among white folks; the country is large enough, I would have them colonized off by themselves; I would have them sent back to their own country where they belong. I am opposed to amalgamation; I would have a law passed to prohibit their intermarriage with whites. Would you like your sister to marry a nigger? Would you like a nigger wench for a wife? Such marriages are unnatural. They are an inferior race, intermediate between man and monkey; look at their flat feet and their faces! And how they smell, too; lazy and thievish besides, neither your wood-pile nor hen-roost is safe if they are near. Would not allow my children to play in the streets with young darkies. Canada would be much better with­out them; they bring no wealth to the country; only a burthen and nuisance. I don't say that slavery <illegible> right, but the slaves are many of them vastly better off than thousands of white in the old country. Many of them <illegible> 
be glad enough to be back, if they only dared go. They were content till the meddling abolitionists made them dissatisfied. The only thing I object to in slavery is the separation of families; I say that is wrong, and ought not to be allowed. Here you must give niggers no countenance, or they will soon run over you. There is no getting along with them unless you keep them at a distance, and down; make them know and keep their places. Would you put yourself on a level with a nigger? Is a nigger equal to a white man?’
That, Mr. Editor, is an average sample by which you may judge of the rest, and of the spirit which dictates it. In the’ States,' such talk is sufficiently accounted for by the adage, that' we never forgive those we injure.' Four millions of the race are there held in slavery for the purpose of lucre and lust, and the only pretence, where there is decency enough to resort to a pretence, for the enslavement of negroes, is their alleged inferiority and incapacity for self-government. But the spirit which there enslaves them, out and out, in one-half of the sham republic, and subjects them to legal injustice and social proscription in the other half, is not confined to those’ States,' but is prevalent enough in this part, at least, of our boasted Victoria's dominions, where freedom and justice are reputed to be peculiarly at home. Now, are all these manifestations of baseness confined to the low blackguards, who find inspiration and approving audience about the bar-rooms of groggeries, and who, if their skins were well washed, would have nothing else but their white skins on which to found a pretence for preeminence over the race that serves as the butt of their vulgar abuse. Among those who make pretensions to respectability, education and religion, the sentiment of justice, when darkies’ are the object, seems to be the exception to the rule. A notable instance of this is just furnished by the Grand Jury of the late Assizes in recommending, in a stately official document, the separation of blacks and whites in jail! Did the high caste white criminals petition for relief from the degradation of contact with the low caste black rogues, I wonder, or, came this marvelous recommendation of the spontaneous fellow-feeling of the sage jurors themselves, who I presume were all white?
There is a rule for the regulation of human intercourse called the Golden Rule, from its supposed unsurpassable excellence, which neither great folks nor small can ignore with impunity, the rule of doing to others as we would be, done by. By this rule, let us estimate those utterances about the disposal of negroes, put ourselves in the black man's place, and from thence judge of those would-be-law-makers. ’Were my skin black, thus you would use me’-thus I would remonstrate where I supposed existed the remains of a little conscience-where my pearls would not be cast before swine: ‘Who are you to dictate where I shall live or not live, marry or not marry? I have as much right to live in Canada, or any where else in God's wide world, as you have. This is as much my country as it is your country. My black skin is of God's making as much as your white skin, and as such, is just as good as yours. How would you like to be treated as you treat me? In using me, and in your disposition to use me, as you would not that I should use you, you prove yourself one with the enslavers of my race, and one with the enemies of justice the world over. Were there any flesh in your heart, you would make some allowance for the disadvantage to which I have been subjected. If negroes are lazy and knavish, we come from a country where the laziness and the roguery of white people are provided for by law. If we steal chickens and cordwood, there the white folks steal babies, and men's and women. Our stealing we do in the dark, and by stealth; their white men do theirs in the day time, in their halls of legislation, in their courts of justice! in their churches and pulpits, and in their solemn assemblies on Sundays. A systematic provision for their laziness, roguery, and licentiousness, for the sum of all villainies, they call a ‘patriarchal institution.' They make it a crime to
teach black children to read, the name of the God who made them. If none but negroes are witness, white men can there murder black men and women with impunity. And when we make the desperate, and almost helpless attempt to escape from this hell upon earth; and brave the perils of an, unknown wilderness, and of savage, beasts, and more savage and treacherous men, and make good our escape to Canada, and bring with us the inevitable concomitant to of a life-long oppression, you make, that a matter of reproach to us! And furthermore, you refuse to discriminate between the better, and the worse disposed among us; classify us not by our deserts,
<c06>
but by the color of our skin; refusing recognition or appreciation of any virtuous aspiration or effort. The question with you is not, are we good or bad, struggling to get out of our degradation or otherwise, but are we’ niggers.' Our black skin you make an apology for the manifestations of your black hearts. Not because we are black, but because you suppose us weak and ignorant, and because we are friendless and oppressed, therefore you meanly give us additional kicks. You deny us the opportunities of improvement, and then reproach us with our degradation. Your horror of amalgamation is a lying pretence ’niggers s may shave you, cook for you, serve at your tables, dress your fair ladies, and be the bedfellows even of your s patriarch’ brethren of the’ States,' so long as they will consent to be your slaves. It is only when we aspire to the freedom of self-government, and to the equality which justice awards, that your turned-up noses discover that we smell badly, and that your amalgamation horrors commence. They would have to be negroes of the baser sort that would not be degraded by amalgamation with the like of you. You reproach us with our poverty; we bring no wealth to the province, forsooth! We bring what is better, a test for your morals, an occasion for the exercise of that justice, the meaning of which, you have well nigh forgot, and for a reinstatement of those principles of liberty which you would betray and banish. In repudiating Liberty and Justice, in the humblest occasions for their acknowledgment, you strike not only at the sources of all material wealth, but at whatever favorably distinguishes the present from the past in intelligence and goodness.'
So much, Mr. Editor, from the black man's point of view. For the correction of bad manners and bad morals,
Your humble servant, 
GEO. SUNTER.
Brantford, May 15, 1859.

SLAVERY IN CUBA.
Mr. Dana, in his entertaining little book, a Voyage to Cuba, and back, gives some interesting, information in regard to Slavery in Cuba. The number of slaves on the Island is variously estimated at from 375,000 to 700,000. In his opinion 600,000 is nearest to the truth. The number of free blacks is about 200,000, and of whites 700,000, making the proportion of blacks to be about one free blacks to three; and the whites not quite equal to the entire number of blacks, free and slave together.
The number of coolies it is difficult to ascertain. Some put it as high as 200,000, others as low as 60,000. Her two heads, the laws, and their execution. As the former, he remarks that the laws being enacted in Spain, do not emanate from the slaveholding mind; nor are they interpreted or executed by the slaveholding class. The slave benefits by the division of power and property between the two rival and even hostile races of whites, the Creoles and the Spaniards. Spain is not slaveholding at home; and so long as the laws are made in Spain, and the civil offices are held by Spaniards only, the slave has at least the advantage of a conflict of interests and principles between the two classes that are concerned in his bondage.
The large number of free negroes indicate that the laws favor emancipation. They also favor the free blacks. There is a colored regiment one thousand strong, in Havana, parading with the troops of the line.
In point of civil privileges, the free blacks are the equals of the whites. In courts of law, as witnesses or parties, no difference is known; and they have the same rights as to the holding of lands and other property. As to their social position, he thinks, it quite as good as it is in New England, if not better. Every slave has a right to go to a magistrate, and have himself valued, and on paying the valuation to receive his free papers. A slave may also compel his master to sell him to any person who will pay for him. This operates as a check upon the master, and an inducement to him to remove special causes of dissatisfaction; and it enables the better class of slaveholders in a neighborhood, if cases of ill-usage are known, to relieve the slave without contention or pecuniary loss. On complaint and proof of cruel treatment, the law will dissolve the relation between master and slave. No slave can be flogged with more than twenty-five lashes, by the master's authority. If his offence is thought greater than the punishment will suffice for, the public authorities must be called in. A slave mother may buy the freedom of her infant for twenty-five dollars. If slaves have been married by the Church, they cannot be separated against their will; and the mother has a right to keep her nursing child. Each slave is entitled to his time on Sundays and all other holidays, beyond two hours allowed for necessary labor, except on sugar estates during the grinding season. Every slave born on the island is to be baptized, and instructed in the Catholic faith, and to receive Christian burial. There are also provisions respecting the food, clothing and treatment of slaves in other respects, and the providing of a sick room and medicines, &c., and the government has appointed magistrates, styled Sindicos, numerous enough, and living in all localities, whose duty it is to attend to the petitions and complaints of slaves, and to the measures relating to their sale, transfer, or emancipation.
In regard to the execution of these laws, most of these enactments appear to be in active operation, especially those providing for the purchase of freedom at once, or by installments, and the compulsory transfer, and of considerable efficacy. Those in regard to marriage are not as strictly obeyed. But it is difficult to ascertain the exact truth as to the amount of protection they get from the special provisions respecting punishment, food, clothing, and treatment generally,
The following remarks might apply to those persons visiting the slaveholding States of our Union, who, like the Rev, Dr. Adams, see only the rose colored side of slavery.
‘If persons coming from the North are credulous enough to suppose that they will see chains and stripes and tracks of blood; and if, taking letters to the best class of slaveholders, seeing their way of life, and hearing their dinner-table aneedotes, and the breakfast table talk of the ladies, they find no outward signs of violence or corruption, they will probably, also, be credulous enough to suppose they have seen the whole of slavery. They do not know that that large plantation, with its smoking chimneys, about which they hear nothing, and which their host does not visit, has passed to the creditors of the late owner, who is a bankrupt, and is in charge of a manager, who is to get all he can from it in the shortest time, and to sell off the slaves as he can, having no interest, moral or pecuniary, in their future. They do not know that that other 
plantation, belonging to the young man who spends hall his time in Havana, is as abode of licentiousness and cruelty. Neither do they know that the tall full sounds chained at the kennel of the house they are visiting are Cuban bloodhounds, trained to and track and to wise. They do not know that the barking has night was a pursuit and capture, in which all the white men took part; and that, for the week past,
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is ‘a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.’
‘The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other. States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FARMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been, tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.' -WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
the men of the plantation have been a committee of detective and protective police. They do not know that the ill-looking man who was there yesterday, and whom the ladies did not like, and all treated with ill-disguised aversion, is a professed hunter of slaves. They have never seen or heard of the Sierra del Crystal, the mountain range at the eastern end of Cuba, inhabited by runaways, where white men hardly dare to go. Nor do they know that those young ladies, when little children, were taken to the city in the time of the insurrection in the Vuelta de Arriba. They have not heard the story of that downcast-looking girl, the now incorrigibly malignant negro, and the lying mayoral. In the cities they are amused by the flashy dresses, indolence and good humor of the slaves, and pleased with the respectfulness of their manners, and hear anecdotes of their attachment to their masters, and how they so dote upon slavery that nothing but had advice can entice them into freedom; and are told, too, of the worse condition of the free blacks. They have not visited the slave jails, or the whipping post, in the house outside the walls, where low whites do the flogging of the city-house servants, men and women, at so many reels a head.'

THE OBERLIN HABEAS CORPUS.
DECISION OF THE OHIO SUPREME COURT.
From the Columbus State Journal, May 31
The decision of the Supreme Court, in the application for a discharge of Bushnell and Langston, convicted of a violation of the Fugitive Slave Act, at the recent term of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, was announced yesterday afternoon, all the Judges being present. The decision of a majority of the Court-namely, Chief Justice Swan, and Judges Scott and Peck-was against the prayer of the relaters. Judges Brinkerhoff and Sutliff dissented from the majority of the Court.
Whatever may be the conflicting popular opinions upon the decision rendered by a majority of the Court, the people of Ohio will doubtless regard it as the deliberate judgment of the highest tribunal of the State, and will respect it accordingly.
We give below a synopsis of Judge Swan's opinions. We had hoped to have given the opinion entire in this issue of our paper, but it was retained by Judge Swan for revision. The synopsis, however, presents the main points:

JUDGE SWAN'S OPINION.
Judge Swan, Scott and Peck held:
I. That the provisions of art. 4, section 2, of the Constitution of the United States: 'No person held to service or labor in one State under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labor, but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service or labor may be due,' guarantees to the owner of an escaped slave the right of reclamation.
II. That a citizen who knowingly and intentionally interferes with, for the purpose of rescue, or rescues from the owners, an escaped slave, is guilty of a violation of the Constitution of the United States, whether the Acts of 1793 and 1850, commonly called the Fugitive Slave Laws, are unconstitutional or not.
III. That the question in this case is not whether the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850 is unconstitutional in respect to the appointment and powers of commissioners, the allowance of a writ of habeas corpus, the mode of reclamation, &c., but whether Congress has any power to pass any law whatever, however just and proper in its provisions, for the reclamation of slaves, or to protect the owner of an escaped slave from interference when duly asserting his constitutional rights of reclamation.
IV. That Congress, from the earliest period of the Government, has, by legislative penalties, vindicated the Constitutional right of the owner of slaves against unlawful interference.
V. That such legislation was adopted in 1793 by the II d Congress elected under the Constitution, composed of many of the members of the Convention who framed the Constitution; has, from that day to this, been acquiesced in by all departments of the Government, National and State; and the legislative power of Congress on this subject has been recognized by the General Assembly of the State of Ohio in their <illegible> by the Supreme Court of the United New York, Pennsylvania, Indiana, Illinois, California, by the Supreme Court of Ohio on the circuit, and, indeed, by the Supreme Court of every State in the Union, where the question has been made, and has never been denied by the Supreme Court of any State-the Courts of Wisconsin, notwithstanding the popular impression, not forming an exception.
VI. The right to rescue escaped slaves from their owners being denied to all citizens of the United States by the Constitution; Congress having prohibited it, and enforced the prohibition by penalties; the Supreme Court of the United States and Courts of the Free States having recognized and acquiesced in such legislative prohibition and punishment; if the question is not thus put beyond the reach of the private personal views of Judges; and if they possess judicial discretion or power to overrule, on the authority of their individual opinions, this unbroken current of decisions, and this acquiescence of the States of the Union, and change the settled interpretation of the Constitution of the United States; then there is no limit and no restraint upon Judges making, at any time, and under any circumstances, their own individual opinions the arbitrary interpreters of the Constitution.
VII. Whatever differences of opinion may now exist in the public mind as to the power of Congress to punish rescues, as provided in the Acts of 1793 and 1850, no such vital blow is given either to constitutional rights or State sovereignty by Congress thus enacting a law to punish a violation of the Constitution of the United States, as to demand of this Court the organization of resistance. If, after more than sixty years of acquiescence by all departments of the National and State Governments, in the power of Congress to provide for the punishment of rescuers of escaped slaves, that power is to be disregarded, and all laws which may be passed by Congress on this subject from henceforth are to be persistently resisted and nullified, the work of revolution should not be begun by the conservators of the public peace.
Judge Scott orally assented to the foregoing, as embodying his views, especially in its conclusions; although he intimated that he would, in a written opinion, modify some of the details.
Judge Peck delivered an elaborate written opinion, coinciding with Judges Swan and Scott, comprising a review of the. decisions of the Courts, and particularly of the State Courts, upon the questions involved in the case, and treating the whole matter as a res adjudicate.
Judge Sutliff also read a dissenting opinion, taking the ground that, according to the established rules of construction, no authority for Congress to pass the Fugitive Act could be found in the Constitution.
Judge Brinkerhoff also dissented from the majority of the Court, in a forcible opinion, which we give below.

JUDGE BRINKERHOFFS OPINION.
Judge Brinkerhoff said-Since the close of the argument of these cases-Sunday, and a visit to my family intervening-I have not had time to do more than hastily to sketch a brief outline of my opinion on the questions they present. This I give, and I may, or may not, as leisure or inclination may prompt, commit them to paper, with the reasons on which they rest, more fully and in detail hereafter.
I. Under the advice of the District-Attorney of the United States, the indictments under which the relators were convicted are appended to, and form a part of, the return to these writs. The question whether they charge a crime or not is, therefore, before us. Both indictments are fatally defective in this, to wit, that neither of them avers that John was held to service or labor in the State of Kentucky, 'under the laws thereof.' 2d section, 4th article, Constitution United States.
1. This defect is not a more error or irregularity. If it were, so far as this point is concerned, we should be obliged to remand the prisoners; for the writ of habeas corpus cannot be made to perform the functions of a writ of error. But 2d. This defect is an illegality. The averment omitted is of the essence of the crime; without the fact omitted to be averred there is no crime; for it is no crime to rescue from custody a person held to service or labor in another State otherwise than ' under the laws thereof.' If there was no crime charged in the indictment, the judgment of the District Court of the United States under which the relators are held, is coram non justice and void; they are illegally restrained of their liberty, and they ought to be discharged.
II. 1. The indictment against Bushnell contains
<c02>
but one count, which charges the rescue of John from the custody of an agent of the claimant of his labor and service in Kentucky-John having been arrested and held in custody without warrant or any color of legal process.
It appears, then, on the face of the record which is made a part of the return to this writ, that here was a person domiciled or sojourning in Ohio, a free State, and therefore presumed in law to be a free man, 'unreasonably seized' and 'deprived of his liberty,' not only 'without due process of law,' but without the pretence or color of any process whatever. This arrest and custody was in direct contravention of the fourth and fifth articles of the amendments to the Constitution of the United States. The rescue of a person thus 'unreasonably seized,' and 'deprived of his liberty without due process of law,' cannot be a crime; and any statute or judicial procedure which attempts to make or treat it as a crime, is unconstitutional and void.
2. The indictment against Langston has two counts; the first of which is entirely similar to that against Bushnell; and the second of which alleges a similar rescue of John while arrested and held in custody under a warrant issued by a Commissioner of the Circuit Court of the United States, authorized by act of Congress to issue such warrant, and, under the authority thereof, to arrest, hold, and remove the person described therein to a foreign jurisdiction as a slave.
The acts of Congress referred to clearly attempt to confer on these Commissioners the powers and functions of a court; to hear and determine questions of law and of fact; and to clothe their findings and determinations with that conclusive authority which belongs only to judicial action. And the issue of the warrant mentioned in the indictment was a judicial act.
These provisions of the acts of Congress referred to, and all warrants issued under them, are unconstitutional and void, for the following reasons:
These Commissioners are appointed by the Circuit Courts of the United States only; hold their office at the will of such Courts, and are paid by fees. Whereas, by the express provision of the Constitution of the United States, (Art. 2, Sec. 2, and Art: 3, Sec. 1,) the judicial functionaries of the United States must be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, hold their offices during good behavior, and receive a fixed compensation which may not be diminished during their continuance in office.
The warrant of such a commissioner, therefore, is a nullity; it could afford no authority to hold John in custody; and to rescue him from such illegal custody could not, by the law of the land, be a crime; and therefore the imprisonment of Langston, by way of punishment of such pretended crime, is an illegal restraint of his liberty, and he too ought therefore to be discharged.
III. These realtors ought to be discharged, because they have been indicted and convicted under an act of Congress upon a subject matter, in reference to which Congress has, under the Constitution of the United States, no legislative power whatever.
As to the correctness of this proposition, there does not rest on my mind the shadow or glimmer of a doubt.
The Federal Government is one of limited powers; and all powers not expressly granted to it, or necessary to carry into effect such as are expressly granted to it by the terms of the Constitution, are reserved to the States or the people. Amendments, Art. 10.
'No person held to service or labor in one State, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labor, but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service or labor may be due.' Art. 4, Sec. 2.
This is the only clause of the Constitution from which anybody pretends to derive, or in which anybody pretends to find a grant of power to Congress to legislate on the subject of the rendition of fugitives from labor. I can find in it no such grant. The first part of it simply prohibits State legislation hostile to the rendition of fugitives from labor. Such fugitive shall not be discharged 'in consequence of any law or regulation' of the State into which he shall escape, 'but shall be delivered up.' By whom? By Congress? By the Federal authorities? There are no such words, and no such <Illegible> the preceding portion of this article.
ART. 4. SEC. 1. 'Full faith and credit shall be given in each State to the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings of every other State. And the Congress may by general laws prescribe the manner in which such acts, records, and proceedings shall be proved, and the effect thereof.' Here, in the first place, is a compact between the States respectively-an agreement of the several States to and with each other, that the 'public acts, records, and judicial proceedings' of each shall have 'full faith and credit ' given to them in all. Had this section closed here, would any one claim that it embraced any grant of legislative power to Congress? I think not. But the framers of the Constitution thought that Congress ought to have the power 'to prescribe the manner in which such acts, records, and proceedings should be proved, and the effect thereof;' and hence they gave the power in express terms. When they intended a grant of power to Congress, and not a mere contract stipulation by, or injunction of duty upon the States, they say so, and leave us no room for cavil on the subject. But let us go on.
SEC. 2. 'The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States.'
'A person charged in any State with treason, felony or other crime, who shall flee from justice, and be found in another State, shall, on demand of the Executive authority of the State from which he fled, be delivered up, to be removed to the State having jurisdiction of the crime.'
That these clauses of section two are mere articles of compact between the States, dependent on the good faith of the States alone for their fulfillment, I suppose no one will dispute. They do not confer upon Congress any power whatsoever to enforce their observance. Then follows the last clause of section two, in respect to fugitives from labor or service, first quoted. And this, like all the other preceding clauses of this article, except the first, is destitute of any grant of power, or even allusion to Congress or the Federal Government. Now, if a grant of power to Congress was here intended, why this silence? If the framers of the Constitution intended a grant of power to Congress in this clause, why did they not say so, as they did say in the first section, in respect to 'public acts, records, and judicial proceedings'?
It seems to me that no rational answer can be given to this question, except by a denial of such intentions. Expression unius exclusion alterius, is a legal maxim as old as the common law. The express mention of one thing implies-the exclusion of things not mentioned. It is the dictate of reason and common sense. It is a maxim which applies alike in the interpretation of contracts, statutes and constitutions. Its application was never more obviously proper than to the question before us; and when applied, it seems to me to bring with it a force little short of mathematical demonstration.
Thus far I have reasoned as if we were ignorant of the history of the Constitution. But a glance at that history confirms the conclusions to which we are brought by the ordinary rules of interpretation, and makes 'assurance doubly sure.'
The Articles of Confederation under which the struggle for independence was carried through, and for which the present Constitution of the United States is a substitute, contain nothing but articles of compact. The fulfillment of its obligations was dependant upon the faith of the States alone. The Congress could make requisitions, but had no power to enforce them.
Again: Certain provisions of the ordinance of 1787, for the government of the territory north-west of the Ohio river, were in express terms declared to be 'articles of compact.'
Now, every one of the clauses of the fourth article of the Constitution above quoted were borrowed and transferred, with slight verbal alterations, from the Articles of Confederation and the Ordinance of 1787-the first three from the former, and the last from the latter-with this exception only, that to the first of these clauses was added a grant of power to Congress to prescribe the manner of proof and effect of public acts, records, and judicial proceedings. Here, then, we have certain articles of compact-admitted or declared to be such, and nothing more-borrowed and transferred from one instrument to another, with no intimation of any change of their character as articles of compact, except in a single instance where the change is expressly declared. The inference seems to me to be irresistible, that, except so far as the change is expressly declared, they reminded, after the transfer, the same as they were before articles of compact, and nothing else.
<c03>
I conclude, therefore, that the States are bound, <illegible> fulfillment of their plighted faith, and through the medium of their laws, legislation and functionaries, to deliver up the fugitive from service or labor, on claim of the party to whom such service or labor may be due under the laws of another State from which, the fugitive has fled. But the Federal Government has nothing to do with the subject, and its interference is sheer usurpation of a power not granted, but reserved.
But, it is said, the question is settled, and our argument comes too late. I deny that it is settled.
The federal legislature has usurped a power not granted by the Constitution, and a federal judiciary has, through the medium of reasonings lame, halting, contradictory, and of far fetched implications, derived from unwarranted assumptions and false history, sanctioned the usurpation. I deny that the decisions of a usurping party in favor of the validity of its own-assumptions can settle any thing. It is true that the courts and legislatures of several of the States have decided in the same way; but they have been decisions of acquiescence rather than of original and independent inquiry. The fact that such jurists as Hornblower, Walworth and Webster thought on this subject as I think, shows that the question is not settled. The fact that a majority of my brethren, as I understand them, admit that if this were a new question, they would be with me, and that they yield the strong leanings of their own minds to the force of the rule of res adjudicata alone, proves that this question is not settled. The truth is, it is not till recently that the mass of intelligent and inquiring mind in this country has been brought to bear upon this question. It required the enactment and enforcement of the Fugitive Slave act of 1850, overriding the most sacred and fundamental guaranties of the Constitution, and disregarding in its provisions even the decencies of legislation, as if for the very purpose of irritation and humiliation, and the fine and imprisonment under it of while men for the exercise of the instinctive virtues of humanity, to awaken general inquiry; That inquiry is now going forward. And so surely as the matured conviction of the mass of intelligent mind in this country must ultimately control the operations of Government in all its departments, so surely is this question not settled. When it is settled right; then it will be settled, and not till then.
But, cotemporaneous construction is appealed to. I admit its weight, and its title to respectful consideration. But cotemporaneous construction speaks with a divided voice. It is true Congress, as early as 1793, legislated for the return of fugitives from labor. But nearly if not quite every one of the old States had also legislated on the same subject in fulfillment of what they deemed a matter of constitutional obligation resting on them. And such legislation on the part of the States, old and. new, continued until the Supreme Court of the United States, in the Prigg case, as late as 1842 (16 Peters, 539), assumed for the Federal Government exclusive authority over the subject. And those who appealed to cotemporaneous construction should themselves respect it. From the foundation of the Government until within the last ten years, Congress claimed and exercised, without question, full and complete legislative power over the Territories of the United Stated; and as early as 1828, in American Insurance Company agt. Canters (1 Peters, 546), the Supreme Court of the United States, Chief Justice Marshall delivering its opinion, unanimously decided that in the Territories Congress rightfully exercises the 'combined powers of the General and of a State Government.' Yet in the recent case of Dred Scott agt. Sanford (19 Howard, 393) all this is overturned and disregarded, and the whole past theory and practice of the Government in this respect attempted to be revolutionized by force of a judicial ipse dixit. We are thus invited by the Court back to the consideration of first principles; and neither it nor those who rely on its authority have a right to complain if we accept the invitation.
I know of no way other than through the action of the State Governments, in which the reserved rights and powers of the States can be preserved, and the guaranties of individual liberty be vindicated. The history of this country, brief as it is, already shows that the Federal judiciary is never behind the other departments of that Government, and often foremost, in the assumption of non-granted powers. And let it be finally yielded that the Federal Government is in the last resort, the authoritative judge of <illegible> and limitations of the Constitution which the framers of that instrument so jealously endeavored firmly to fix and guard will soon be, if they are not already, obliterated; and that government, the sole possessor of the only means of revenue in the employment of which the people can be kept ignorant of the extent of their own burdens, and with its overshadowing patronage, attracting to its support the ambitious by means of its honors, and the mercenary through the medium of its emoluments, will speedily become, if it be not already, practically omnipotent.
These were my opinions; freely declared, for years before I had the honor of a seat on this bench; and, having learned nothing during the pendency of these cases to change, but much to confirm them, I know no reason why I should hesitate to avow them now.
I give my voice in favor of the discharge of the relators.

MASS CONVENTION AGAINST THE FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW.
CIEVELAND, May 24.
A Mass Convention of the foes of the Fugitive Slave act assembled here to-day; and was well attended. A very large number were present from the Reserve Counties. Every thing passed off orderly. The following Declaration was read, denouncing the Fugitive Slave law and the Dred Scott decision:-
This assembly of the people of Ohio, holding-
That, next to our duty to the Supreme Being, is the obligation to preserve our free institutions and our civil liberties:
That the greatest tyrants have been those whose titles have been least questioned:
That every violation of the Constitution should be watched with jealousy and resented with spirit:
That the history of every-free people has shown the impossibility of a cordial compliance with laws which neither embody nor execute the public will.
That the enforcement of such laws against an unwilling people is productive only of evils, threatening public order and the stability of governmental institutions:
And holding, furthermore-
That the history of the government of the United States, as recently administered, is a history of repeated injuries and usurpations, all having in direct object the Africanization of this continent by the diffusion and establishment of slavery, and the restriction and limitation of freedom, thus reversing the ancient policy of the founders of the Republic, which looked to the extinction of slavery and the extension of liberty; and
That the Dred Scott decision, reversing all the well-established rules which for ages have been the bulwark of personal liberty, yields its legitimate fruits in the recent atrocities committed in the heart of the Western Reserve, and calls upon us for new efforts and new sacrifices for constitutional liberty, do, therefore, publish and

DECLARE:
1st. That the several States composing the United States of America are not united on the principle of unlimited submission to their general government; but that, by compact, under the style and title of a Constitution for the United States, and of amendments thereto, they constituted a general government for special purposes, delegated to that government certain definite powers, reserving each State to itself the residuary mass of right to their own self-government; and that whensoever the general government assumes undelegated powers, its acts are unauthoritative, void, and of no force; and being void, can derive no validity from mere judicial interpretation; that to this compact each State acceded as a State, and is an integral party; that this government, created by this compact, was not made the exclusive or final judge of the powers delegated to itself, since that would have made its discretion and not the constitution the measure of its powers; but, as in all other cases of compact among parties having no common judge, each party has an equal right to judge for itself, as well of infractions as of the mode and measure of redress.
2. That the law, commonly called the Fugitive Slave law of 1850, was, in the opinion of this assembly, passed by Congress in the exercise of powers improperly assumed, and had it been presented as an original question to a wise impartial and independent Court, must have been held to be in conflict with the constitution, and therefore void.
3. That one of the most alarming symptoms of degeneracy in the general government is the pliant subserviency of the Supreme Court of the United States to the objects of party politics, thus greatly diminishing that public confidence in the Judiciary
<c04>
so essential to good order; that the extent to which the Supreme Court has thus compromised its character renders it incumbent upon the people to consider what measures are necessary to restore that tribunal to its ancient state.
4. That in the opinion of this assembly, an amendment of the Federal Judiciary system is indispensably necessary, so that the sovereignty of the states may be respected, and that individuals may be guarded from oppression. As a means to this end, it is strongly recommended that the life tenure of judges be abolished, and that the judicial office be limited to a term of years; that Congress so remodel the judicial circuits that a majority of the citizens of the United States shall have a majority of the justices of the Supreme Court.
5th. That the recent proceedings of the Federal Court for this District in producing the conviction of persons indicted under the provisions of the Fugitive Slave Law, by the employment of the most disgraceful partisan means, is without a parallel even in the modern history of despotism.

The Liberator.
BOSTON, JUNE 10, 1859.
ANTI-SLAVERY CELEBRATION OF INDEPENDENCE DAY.
The friends of impartial liberty and universal emancipation are invited to attend a MASS MEETING at the commodious and beautiful Grove in FRAMINGHAM, on MONDAY, July 4th, (under the direction of the Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society,) to consecrate the day to the work of breaking the fetters of the millions who are yet, in this false-hearted and hypocritical nation, groaning in the bondage of chattelism, whose unutterable wrongs are still crying unto Heaven for redress, whose claims on the sympathy and justice of all are constantly increasing in solemnity, and without whose liberation and rescue there is no possibility of the freedom and perpetuity of the American republic.
An arrangement has been made with the Boston and Worcester Railroad Corporation to convey persons to and from the Grove, on the direct line and the various branches connecting therewith, at about half the usual price. A strong array of earnest and eloquent speakers will be present on the occasion. [Particulars hereafter.]
FRANCIS JACKSON, Committee of Arrangements.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Committee of Arrangements.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., Committee of Arrangements.
HENRY O. STONE, Committee of Arrangements.
CHARLES A. HOVEY, Committee of Arrangements.

OBERLIN RESCUERS.
Meeting of Colored Citizens of Boston.
A meeting of the colored citizens of Boston was held on Monday evening, May 23rd, 1859, at the Twelfth Baptist Church, for the purpose of sympathizing with the persons implicated in the Oberlin Rescue case, and devising ways and means to assist them and their families.
William Wells Brown was called to the chair, and Edward M. Bannister appointed Secretary.
William C. Nell, Lewis Hayden and Nelson L. Perkins were chosen a committee to report resolutions.
The chairman then gave a history of the Oberlin Cases.
William C. Nell, from the committee, submitted the following resolutions, prefacing them by reminiscences of the men at Oberlin, and by reading extracts from the speech of Charles H. Langston:-
Resolved, That we have watched with absorbing interest the trials at Cleveland, Ohio, instituted by the Federal Government against the noble band of Oberlin Rescuers, who, for an attempt to save a brother from falling into the hell of American slavery-thus on their part obeying the golden rule, 'Whatsoever ye <illegible> them-have been arraigned and tried as guilty of crime.
Resolved, That our hearts have been warmed by their daily and constant exhibition of patience in suffering, their unflinching adherence to principle, in fact their martyr-like spirit, under unwarrantable and tyrannical inquisition of the slave power of this nation.
Resolved, That we rejoice in the revival of the organization known as the Sons of Liberty, under leadership of that veteran war-horse of freedom, Joshua R. Giddings, and transmit to them our hope and belief that when the emergency arrives, they will prove to the recreant sons of the Buckeye State, and slaveholders North and South, that resistance to tyrants is obedience to God.
Resolved, That the sympathies of our hearts are herewith tendered to the entire gallant company of rescuers, and we commend to the reading of the entire nation the manly, thrilling and eloquent speech of Charles H. Langston, delivered before the Court-a speech worthy of the occasion, and deserving high prominence in the annals of this the second revolution for liberty in the United States; therefore,
Resolved, That a Committee of Finance be appointed by this meeting for the purpose of collecting funds in aid of these our brothers.
In support of the resolutions, eloquent and stirring speeches were made by Rev. L. A. Grimes, Rev. J. S. Martin, (from Buffalo,) Lewis Hayden, Rev. William Johnson, T. W. Steambury, and others; when, on motion, the series were unanimously adopted.
A financial committee of ladies and gentlemen was then organized, which immediately commenced collecting, as an earnest of more material-aid.
At a subsequent meeting, held at the same place on Wednesday evening, June 1st, T. B. McCormick, of Oberlin, delivered an interesting and eloquent speech, detailing his observations and experiences in regard to the Fugitive Slave Law excitement in Ohio, and elsewhere, and presenting graphic sketches of the worthy men tried, and now imprisoned, at Cleveland.
He was followed by John J. Smith, Wm. H. Logan, Rev. J. B. Smith, and others; when the financial committee reported progress, having collected fifty dollars.
After perfecting arrangements for forwarding this and whatever more may be collected to its destination, and soliciting the publication of these proceedings in the Liberator, National Anti-Slavery Standard, Frederick Douglass's Paper, and Ohio Anti-Slavery Bugle, the meeting (which, was an enthusiastic one) adjourned sine die.
WILLIAM W. BROWN, Chairman.
EDWARD M. BANNISTER, Secretary.
NEW MUSIC. Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington Street, Boston, have just published-
THE CHILD'S FIRST MUSIC BOOK; or, Introduction to the Art of Playing the Piano Forte. By J. F. Craver. This collection contains more than thirty of the most popular airs and waltzes.
L'Elegance-Polka Melodique. Par Guillaume Kuhe.
In a lone and dreary chamber. Written by J. M. Cahart, on seeing the touching account, headed, 'Let me kiss him for his mother.' Music by L. O. Emerson.
Vocal Beauties of Luisa Miller. By Guiseppe Verdi. 'Rest to the Wanderer'-La Tomba e un Letto.
La Balloite-Valse de Salon. Par Rene Fararger.
Love in Absence. 'Be kind to the loved ones at home '-with brilliant variations. By C. H. Grobe.
Beauties of II Trovatore. Arranged for the Piano. By Charles Grobe.
Cherry Pipe Schottisch, as performed by Munck's Band, Arranged for the Piano Forte. By Johann Munck.
AlexandrinePolka-Polka Franchise. Composed by Johanna Strauss.
The Viennoise Empire, or Court Quadrille. Composed by Ed. Eichler.
<c05>
BEECHER ON TRACT REFORM.
The speech recently made by Henry Ward Beecher New-York, at a meeting of the Boston Branch of the National Tract Society, is certainly one of the most extraordinary speeches ever made by any one calling himself a Christian, and designing that his words shall honor Christianity rather than reproach it. The report of this speech upon which I shall comment covers seven close columns of the Independent, and is probably, as that paper represents it, a 'verbatim report.'
The object of this speech seems to be to show, in the clearest and most unmistakable light, and with illustrations of wholesome personality, the hypocritical and profligate character of 'The American Tract Society.' The language which its author uses for this purpose, perfectly just as far as its accusation of the Society is concerned, has never been surpassed in its severity of tone, or its particular expressions of indignation and contempt, by any used by Parker, Garrison or Phillips, men of whom he insinuates (carefully avoiding the direct assertion,) that they are infidels. The following are some of his most energetic expressions:-
'That the Tract Society should ever have needed that any should remind them of their duty to the poorest among the poor, and the most ignorant among the ignorant-four million American slaves-is itself enough disgrace. That when the voice of a Christian people sounding louder and louder every year, and coming up from twenty States, like the sound of many waters and mighty thundering, demanding that the Society which professed to express in its publications the full truths of the Christian religion, should give utterance to some religious truth bearing upon this most serious and most grievous evil of our times and nation, they should stop their ears, and taking counsel of sinister fear and secular interests, refuse to bear their testimony; that every year dumbness should be defended by them as a Christian virtue, and moral cowardice plead as a duty, was enough to bring up again into our ears that solemn denunciation which eighteen hundred years ago made Jerusalem tremble-'Woe unto you, scribes, Pharisees and lawyers?'
And now, upon this day, in compact of evil, stood again, in this extemporized temple, priest and lawyer, determined to justify their own recreancy, and to forbid other people the rights of that free speech which they had guiltily refused to employ. And this anniversary meeting of the Tract Society had for its primary object this one thing,-to gag men, and to prevent free discussion. They dreaded honest men's tongues.'
'Their object was to keep men from talking who had something earnest to say, and let those men talk who desired to say nothing.'
Here I should say, in explanation, that as the Boston 'management' last year engaged a particularly unscrupulous lawyer, Hon. George Lunt, to use his skill in averting that separation from the National Society which some of the remonstrants proposed-the New York 'management' this year engaged Daniel Lord, Esq., to plead their cause, and he entered into the spirit of the occasion so thoroughly, alike in substance, language and manner, that the daily press nick-named him 'Rev. Daniel Lord.' Of a particular part of his very ingenious plea, Mr. Beecher says-
'Here let me say that with all the apparent fairness of his statement, it is thoroughly deceitful, for it mentions the object or purpose for which these funds were contributed, and the plan of management, as if they were one and the same thing, and the words purpose and plan are used as convertible terms, as if they carried equivalent meanings; whereas, no distinction can be more important, no distinction can touch the very marrow of things more really than that which exists between the object for which funds are contributed, and the plan of administration by which they shall be used for that object.'
'Nor have we heard one indignant protest from any member of the Executive Committee, or of the management, of the Tract Society. If such things are right before a jury; if it be deemed right to gain a temporary victory for one's clients, at the expense of fact, and from any Courts of Justice, it certainly will not be deemed right by the reflecting and religious community, for a man to stand upon the religious platform of a prominent benevolent society and to declare so <illegible> and so false a thing as that the funds of this Society were solicited, and were originally given, for the purpose simply of circulating tracts without any regard to the contents which they contained.'
'Let every honest Christian man in these United States consider this abominable doctrine that the duty of a Christian Tract Society, in circulating the truth, is to be judged and limited by the wishes of corrupt and wicked men. If wicked men are willing to receive light upon their wickedness, the Tract Society is permitted to send them knowledge; but if wicked men do not desire that light should shine into their darkness, Mr. Lord declares, that without a perversion of their trust, the Tract Society cannot send them unwished-for and unwelcome Christian truth. He declares, most explicitly, that the preliminary business of the Tract Society is to ascertain whether men are willing to receive the truth of Christ, and that if they are not, they are in duty bound, as administrators of a solemn trust, to withhold that truth.'
'Mr. Lord dared to say-and there was not one priest upon the platform that chose to contradict the declaration-that tracts on slavery, and tracts against polygamy, and the like, must not be sent either to those that were guilty of either sin, unless they knew before hand that these sinners were willing to receive them.
And this is what the Tract Society, with all their high-sounding pretences, with all their paraded piety, and all their ostentatious conscientiousness, has at last led the Church to.'
'It would seem bad enough for the American Tract Society to refuse to proclaim a Gospel of liberty, or a Gospel of rights, to four millions of men on this continent; but to attempt to justify their guilty silence by decrying and gagging a Christian deliberative assembly, by undermining the foundations of free speech, by destroying faith in the wisdom of popular deliberative bodies, was to act as oppressors always act; for usurpation never fails to go on to injustice. Men whose rights have been taken away from them, are always forbidden to complain. The scepter and the gag go together, the world over. The American Tract Society, after contemptuously refusing to exercise free speech in behalf of the oppressed, next, and characteristically, muzzled free speech and free discussion on their own conduct. Every man knows that there was never a more ruthless thing done in a Christian assembly than that which took places yesterday. It is bad enough to see the gross and wanton injustice of arrogant men that manage the wires of political affairs; but to see a body of Christian ministers and laymen bringing into their service the supple bands of lawyers, springing every parliamentary trick and device in the face of free speech, dodging issues, and hiding their own moral delinquencies, by robbing men of the right of exposing them-this is one of the worst things that has ever happened in the long annals of degradation and crime brought upon us by Slavery. In a religious body, among clergymen from all parts of the United States; in a popular assembly, and by men reeking with devotion, and fuming with prayers, it is odious and disgusting beyond all reach of language.'
'I should admire to be an agent collecting money for this Society for a short period. (Laughter.) I should address the farmers with characteristic eloquence, describing, first, the unspeakable wants of the ignorant population of our land; and next, the unspeakable piety of the members of the Executive Committee of the American Tract Society; and next, of that mysterious power which God has given to welding gold and silver, to bring together the much-needed piety of the one extreme to the much-needing ignorance of the other. "This is your duty," I should say to the farmers, who, with hard toil and laborious economy, have been endeavoring, penny by penny, to put their sons through the academy or college, that they may make ministers or missionaries of them, or that they may become honorable civilians, or intelligent laborers of any grade-"It is your duty to help in this glorious cause of tract distribution." "But," says the farmer, in his stupidity, "what will become of my money if I shall give it-what will be done with it?" "Why, it is going into the treasury of the Lord." "But what treasurer is that who holds the Lord's bag?" "Why, it is held by these devout and sainted men who pray all day, and almost all night, and then deny free discussion on a platform for the purposes of the Lord." "But what is to be done with our money? What do they mean to print? What do they mean to circulate?" My friend, I should be obliged to say, "You are meddling with matters which do not concern you. It is your business to give the money: it is our business to spend it. If you wish to know how it is spent, in due time, after it is all gone, you shall find the tracks of it here in our annual report." '
'And so I imagine that country gentlemen who had, with very great pains and self-denial, been able to give twenty and fifty dollars, that they might become life-
<c06>
members and life directors of the American Tract Society, approached this great city at its recent Anniversary, and were present in the Academy of Music. They have come, as they fondly supposed, to take some part in the administration of affairs. When they go to the door of the Academy, he of the red ticket is put on one side of the house; and he of the white ticket on the other side; while he of the green ticket is mounted up to the place of privilege upon the operatic stage. The business proceeds. Something seems continually to be going on behind the scenes. There is whispering, and buzzing, and consultation. A fore-arranged result is to be dragged through the assembly. One thing there certainly is not to be; no discussion is to be allowed; no free, speech is to take any part in this meeting. At length, when the hour has passed, our country member and director go out, and, meeting in the passage-way, a little puzzled as to what they have done, one looks the other in the face, and says-"What did you do on your side of the house?" And the other replies, "And what did you do on your side?" and both join in saying, "What have they done on their side?''
I will defy anybody on earth to tell what has been done, except that two men have been duped, and a third has got the money. (Laughter.) This is a tolerably large game of thimble-rigging. It is supposed that the 'little joker' is under this thimble; but all the time it is neither under this one nor under that one, but in a much better place-the executive pocket. And all this takes place under the sweetest names of religion and devotion. These men propose no mischief without a holy sigh; they violate no right without a pious groan; they never decry free discussion without lifting up their eyes to heaven; they wrest from us no privileges, except with the clasping and holding up prayerful hands in the act of prayer. These are all good men, who read their Bibles, I think, until some places in them must have become worn out, and their contents forgotten. Surely, men must be very pious and very holy who can stomach, without a retch, conduct that would put to shame a Democratic political caucus.' 
'In this long conflict, that Society, which was originated by holy men, for just such solemn work as this; which was erected to be a platform from which the artillery of the Gospel might sweep every evil; which was organized that, by the power of organization, those tougher iniquities which defied individual labor, might find in its organic power more than a match; this great, this mighty battlement, has stood only to be dumb, to be traitorous to its own great trust, to admire itself, to laud its own fruitless piety, and, surveying its presses, its loaded, groaning shelves, and its sleek officers, to cry out, 'Is not this Great Babylon which I have built? If there be on earth, at this day, one sight more melancholy or more shameful than another, it is the sight of an American Christian Association, established for no other end than the propagation of Gospel moralities, that, for half a century, has refused to bear a testimony in behalf of four million men, overrun, and infested with every immorality which oppression can breed, weighed down with every evil which it is the intent of the Gospel to alleviate, destroyed by every malignant mischief from which the Gospel was meant to be a salvation. To withhold <illegible> from starving cities, medicine from dying hospitals, rescue from wolf-imperiled children, would be nothing compared with that stately and inhuman <illegible> which, for twice a score of years, has beheld without pulsation of piety, without one outreaching of the hands, without one utterance of the voice, this greatest error and wickedness known in our land and generation. If the crime itself be hideous, the excuse is yet more nefarious. The Tract Management have refused their supreme duty under the plea of preaching the Gospel! Thus telling the world that there is a Gospel that can be preached devoid of pity for the poor, empty of all sympathy for the oppressed, deaf to the groans of slaves, and dumb to all the petitions of the degraded and neglected! It were bad enough to despise God's poor, but to excuse it by a plea which maligns the very heart of Christ, and slanders the spirit of his Gospel, is a crime yet more unpardonable!
It is a pain and piercing to my heart that the Church of Christ has not been found, with banner advanced, far beyond all other bodies, leading on the world to a victory.'
I have given these large extracts for the purpose of showing how fully the charges which Abolitionists have been making against the American Society for twenty years past are now, at last, echoed and authenticated by Mr. Beecher. Just such. meanness and contemptible trickery, just such disregard of the rights of these opposed to them, just such falsehood in speech and dishonesty in action, and just such hypocritical pretences of acting 'for the glory of God' in the use of one after another of these infamous means of operation, have characterized the Tract Society ever since the first demand was made upon then for action against slavery. They have been consistently pro-slavery ever since their organization, in June, 1825. Their first tract, published in the same year, was written by a pro-slavery Doctor of Divinity, Rev. Gardiner Spring of New York, who has ever since been a member of the government of the Society. Southern clergymen and laymen (who, if slaveholders, were not at all objected to on that account,) aided it the first organization of it, and the Tract Societies already existing in separate slaveholding States almost immediately united themselves to it as auxiliaries, following the example of the Society at Boston, which did not recognize this partnership as in the slightest degree objectionable. This intermixture of pro-slavery members and officers in the Society from the beginning is thus affirmed by Rev. Seth Bliss, who, having acted as Secretary of the Society at Boston through most of the years of its connection as Branch with, the National Society, had the amplest opportunity of gaining accurate knowledge on that subject. Speaking of the Convention which met to establish the National Society, he says-
'The delegate from Augusta, Georgia, was placed on the Committee to nominate the Society's officers. At its public organization, as Rev. Mr. Summerfield, then from Baltimore, sat by the side of Rev. Dr. De Witt, and perceived heart meeting heart, he said to him, I hope this Society will be the means of cementing Northern and Southern Christians; and as soon after, Rev. Joseph Brown, of kindred spirit, was returning from a residence in Charleston, he called at the Society's house to say that any discussion of slavery must be fatal to Christian union. Nothing is more erroneous than the idea that differences on slavery were unknown or unconsidered in the Society's formation.' ['Letters on the Tract Controversy,' <illegible>
It appears, then, that, from the very commencement of the American Tract Society in June, 1825, an immense majority in that body-say the same proportion that hooted down Mr. Jay and Mr. Wolcott in the recent meeting in New York, or about nineteen -twentieths-are either slaveholders, or non-slaveholding defenders of slavery, or persons so accustomed to regard that system with acquiescent indifference as to be unwilling to lift a finger against it. This has been the state of things from the very beginning. And the only difference between then and now ( within the Society) is that, for a few years past, the small minority, which had previously been utterly silent, has been driven or shamed (by that full exposure of the Society's guilt which the abolitionists have spread before the community) into making feeble, half-way protest against some small fractional part of this gigantic iniquity; and that the great majority, previously quiet because no protest had been made within the Society, have stifled this recent remonstrance by trampling down all the rights of he minority, together with those of reason, justice, religion, and the slave.
The means by which the rights of the minority were thus cloven, down were three-fold. First, the use of false statements and gross sophistry, alike in the printed documents of the management, and the speeches of their clerical and legal advocates; next gross injustice in the presiding officer of the Society towards the protesting minority in the annual meetings; and lastly a support of the unjust decisions of the chair by brutal clamor and insult on the part of the majority, preventing the few speakers on the other side from either stating their case or proposing their remedial measures.
After this state of things had existed for years, with no change except increase of injustice following every renewed protest-after years of this systematized policy of pursuing shameful ends by shameful means-Henry Ward Beecher makes a speech in relation to it; and he makes (with a single exception, to be noticed hereafter) the very same charges against these people, and in the very same language, which the abolitionists have been making for six times the period in question. Both accuse the Tract Society of injustice, of
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
sophistry, of falsehood, of hypocrisy, of stealing the livery of heaven to serve the devil in; both accuse it of enforcing its oppression of the slave by oppression of its own protesting minority; the single point of difference is, that whereas the abolitionists affirm that systematic persistence in such meanness and wickedness shows the persons who practise it no to be Christians, Henry Ward Beecher emphatically and repeatedly admits that they are Christians.. He exhausts upon them the vocabulary of contemptuous indignation; he access them of such an amount of baseness, expressed in such terms of reproach, as would be sufficient to make the keeper, or the customer, of a common bar-room hang his head with shame; but throughout the speech, alternating with, and incorporated with, these scalding denunciations, we find the admission that he recognizes them, nevertheless, as Christians!
What proceeding can possibly be more suited than this to bring Christianity into public contempt? If these people are Christians must not men of common honesty and decency prefer not to be Christians? If they are regenerate, will not men who are accustomed to do justly and love mercy think it better to remain unregenerate? If they are decided by competent authority to be 'saints,' will not a man of average respectability do better, both for his reputation and his character, by staying among the 'sinners'? And finally, if ’heaven' is the allotted future residence of the President, Secretaries and Publishing Committee of the Tract Society, will not one who values good company, and wishes to avoid bad company, prefer to take his chance in almost any other of the 'many mansions' prepared, beyond the grave, for the large family of the Universal Father? 
Henry Ward Beecher is, ex-office, an 'Inspector of Christians.' People are accustomed to come to him, as an 'expert,' for examination, to have it decided whether they are fit to be publicly registered as Christians. If he says ’yes,' they are admitted to the class to which the Reverend Secretaries, Hallock, Wood and Stevenson belong; they are entitled to join those persons in celebrating the Lord's Supper; and they are exposed to be addressed by either of them, in public or private, with the epithet 'Brother!' Will any man of honor or honesty, or decent self-respect, henceforth join the church?
On the other hand, who can now be refused admission to the church as not good enough to join that body? If meanness, falsehood, dishonesty and hypocrisy, persisted in through a course of years, applied to the purpose of depriving others of their rights, and aggravated by the intense effrontery of pretending that all this is done ’for the glory of God,' be not a disqualification to take rank among Christians, what vice, what crime can be so considered? Will any man who thinks it worth his while to join the church henceforth be ever kept out of it?
For one, while admitting that the American church richly deserves the reproach implied respecting her in the exposure, by Mr. Beecher, of utter baseness in those whom she recognizes as members in good and regular standing, I wish to record my testimony against the dishonor thrown upon the name of Christianity by the recognition of those men as Christians. Church members they are, and so base has the church become through its long partnership with slavery, that this exposure will not tend in the slightest degree towards their arraignment as offenders before the church, still less involve their censure or expulsion. Pious they may be, since South-side Adams and Deacon Netherland are pious. But Christians they assuredly are not, unless that name has lost all its original significance of conformity to the precepts and example of Jesus of Nazareth, called Christ. To name the Reverend hypocrites of the Tract Society after him, to declare them, habitually guilty of manifold and multiform baseness, and claim, in the same breath, that they shall be no less regarded as followers of him, is surely to crucify him afresh, and put him to open shame!
The practical influence of such a misuse of language, upon a point so vital as the one in question, must be especially and pre-eminently disastrous upon church members, who are already urged by so many influences into docile conformity to the traditions of the elders. Almost the whole education which their religious nature receives, alike in the church on Sundays, in the prayer-meetings on other days, in the 'religious newspaper' which they read weekly, and in the pious books most popular among their sect, which they keep on the table at home to occupy their leisure moments,-tends to make them regard a fluent use of the technical language of religion, a familiar utterance of the ’evangelical' Shibboleth, as not only better evidence of a religious character than a life of practical, but unprofessing love to God and man, but as fairly counterbalancing much evidence of a positively depraved heart and vicious life in him who uses it. Nineteen church-members out of twenty, through the whole country, having heard that the late Dr. Johns, of Baltimore, expired with these words upon his lips-'Yes, dear Jesus, I come!'-could not possibly be persuaded to recognize his life of active and thorough maintenance of the institution of slavery as incompatible with a Christian character. So much has the vicious training already taken effect upon them, that a spending of the intervals of necessary business in distribution of tracts and attendance on prayer- meetings is the thing which they recognize as the Christian life, irrespective of what other elements it may contain. The New York Secretaries lead such a life, (having first, of course, ’made 'made a profession,') and therefore they are Christians! And the influence of Mr. Beecher's concession to the popular delusion respecting what constitutes Christian character, will live and bear evil fruit long after his true delineation of the guilt of the Tract Society shall have subsided into forgetfulness, classed as a petulant ebullition of eccentricity.
But Mr. Beecher's speech made before the Boston branch of the American Tract Society, was designed to represent that institution as in favorable contrast with its Principal, and as right in the particulars where in the National Society was wrong. I must, therefore, specify some of the points wherein this representation is erroneous.
The policy of this Society (as shown by the comparison, which proves in many cases to be the contrast, of its is words and actions) has been as ’thoroughly deceitful' as anything in the policy of the New York society or anything in that speech of its hired advocate, Daniel Lord, to which Mr. Beecher applies the epithet above quoted. Among the proofs of their deceitfulness, I will mention here that in spite of their pledge (P. p.3 of ’Address of the Execute' Committee' July 22d, 1858') of ’avoiding all attempts at any rival <illegible> movements'-they have been vigorously pushing various movements of unequivocal rivalry through the whole course of the past year. Here are four of them.
1. At Hartford and other places, the Boston Secretary craftily held meetings a week or ten days in advance of the regularly-recurring meetings of the auxiliaries of the New York Society there established, advertising them at meetings of the 'American Tract society and them forming auxiliaries to the Society at Boston, carefully refraining from mention of the fact that that Society still remained auxiliary to the New York one; thus, by one operation, taking men and money which would, without such ingenious management, have gone to swell the influence of the local New York auxiliaries.
2. The Boston Society has established a rival Tract office in New York, 348 Broadway, under the manage-
This Society, at its annual meeting in Boston, eleven days after this speech, voted, by a large majority, to separate from the American Trust Society, and selling wish the auxiliary relation which it has held to that body ever since 1825. The agents and friends of the Boston Society, therefore, can henceforth say truly that which they have been saying falsely through the whole year past in regard to that separation.
<c02>
ment of Rev. 'Israel P. "Warren, Secretary for New York.'
3. The Boston Society has established a rival monthly newspaper, to be simultaneously published in Boston and New York, called ’the Tract Journal,' 'which they are trying to introduce in place of the New York Society's publication,’ 'The American Messenger,' though this was praised, and announced as still to be circulated from the Boston Office, in the 'Address of the Executive Committee;,' above mentioned. The editorial introduction to the new paper even announces (with a sarcasm which certainly recoils on the Boston Society) that it shall in no degree fall short of its rival' in eminent spirituality'!
4. The motto of this new paper is-'Not shunning to declare unto you all the counsel of God.' This is evidently a fraternal stab at that New York Society which refuses to publish tracts respecting slavery. But what can be more’ 'thoroughly deceitful' than the adoption of such a motto by a Society which itself dares (and wishes) to go no further against the 'sum of all villanies' than to 'fraternally discuss those moral duties which grow out of it, and those more, evils which it is known to promote,' and which eagerly and literally copies, and retains as a satisfactory rule of conduct in regard to slavery, the deceitful manifesto issued by the New York Society containing the expressions above quoted; a proceeding which Dr. Cheever justly compares to 'an endorsement on a forged note.' 
Other instances of the dishonest character of this Boston Society may be found in a tract (for sale at the Anti-Slavery Depository, Boston,) entitled ' The American Tract Society, Boston.'
'I have space for but one more extract from Mr. Beecher, and I greatly regret the necessity of leaving untouched in it, with several other points that need comment, the deliberately calumnious insinuations respecting Mr. Parker, Mr. Garrison and Mr. Phillips. These, and also the idea of conformity to the catechism making these men better than they now are-the idea of their getting up into the society of persons 'who' make long prayers while devouring widows' houses’ must go without remark, since my business now is with the Boston Tract Society.
I affirm that the Gospel carries with it a three-fold form-the ideal or intellectual form, the sentimental or emotional form, and the practice or conduct form. The three must be combined in true religion, and he who has the ideal and emotional, and leaves out the conduct, is false and infidel. If I was called upon to state what would do most to promote infidelity, what would I say? I know what you would think I would say. Theodore Parker! No; I should not. I think he is the most harmless man on the continent, because he is open and above-board. If not him, then it must. be Garrison and Phillips-him of the iron tongue and him of the golden lips. [Applause.] No, no-not them. [Renewed applause.] If there ever were two men whose fault lies in the fact that they have no reversing lever to their engines, but must go ahead and never go back, they are those two men. [Laughter and applause.] Therefore,. I should not pick them out, though I know they are called very naughty in fidels, and I am afraid they are not as sound on the creed as I am. [Laughter.] They will need to get, more catechism before they will get up into the synods and presbyteries. It must be these Blanchards-these men who peddle infidel books. I should just as soon think of calling a man dangerous, who peddled cockroaches and rats, as to call them dangerous. The man who wants these books is spoiled already. [Applause.] You can't hurt him. I tell you who it is. It is the man who puts on a saintly garb, the man whose face is lubricated to sleek devotion, who evades duty, who has a text for every sin of omission and commission-it is the man who makes long prayers while devouring widows' houses, men who turn up their eyes whenever they mean to do a wicked thing, who stand in the very place where the Pharisees stood-they are the infidel men, who take the garments of Christ to do the work of the Devil. [Applause.] I do not fear the efforts of any man before my congregation to subvert! the Bible. If I cannot in fifty-two Sabbaths answer all he can urge, then my powers are weak indeed. I do not fear him in steel mail from head to foot, with his position plainly declared. It is these men who profess to do the work of righteousness while they impede he progress of true religion by their shams., These are the men from whom the temple ought to feel in peril. The temple stands again in Nassau street, and the priests and lawyers stand there as did the priests and lawyers in the temple of old. The Pharisees are now in precisely the same relation to the religion of the New Testament, as were the Pharisees in the time of Christ to the Old. And if this Society-this Bos­ton Tract Society, for whom I now speak, is going to stand on the same platform-if it is going to exclude free discussion and inquiry-if by-and-by, when it shall have gathered wealth and influence, it is going to stand for the rich, for the refined, and not for the wretched and the poor, I want my remarks to recoil upon it.'
If! indeed! If the Boston Society is going to take these two positions! If it is going to exclude free discussion, and to stand for the rich and not for the poor! As if it had ever, for one moment since its existence, held a position free from either of these vicious elements!
As to the first point, they are constitutionally pledged to exclude free discussion. The central idea of the association is, that only their side of any controverted matter shall be expressed, or even intimated, in their publications. Not a word of correction of the grossest of the many false statements contained in their publications can find admission into those publications, carrying the antidote to those to whom they have sent the bane; and (to give one specification) they would no more publish-either in a tract or in that newly-established 'Tract Journal' which assumes to declare all the counsel of God-either a true statement of the teachings of the Old and New Testaments respecting 'The Sabbath,' or the disproof which plainly exists in those books of their numerous falsified quotations and false representations on that important subject, than a defence of Romanism or Mormonism.
As to their position in regard to the relation of the richest class in American Society to the poorest-of the slaveholder towards the slave-they have held, from the beginning, a relation absolutely fraternal towards the former. They call him their 'dear brother in Christ!' Constantly meeting him and his clerical defender, one or both, at the prayer-meeting and at the communion-table, and at the anniversaries of the Missionary and Bible Societies, and in their negotiations with their principal (up to this time) in New York, they have constantly met him as a brother and as if he were a Christian. They have taken his counsel how to convert the heathen, have published tracts that he wrote, and have recently published one which he wrote and circulated among his brother, slaveholders, assuming that God authorised and approved their infernal 'institution.' And even now, impudently pretending to declare all the counsel of God, they have advanced only from a silence fraternal to the slaveholder, to a 'discussion' fraternal to him!
As to the slave the poorest of the poor in this country-from the foundation of their society to the present moment, they have utterly ignored him, not only as a person to receive aid in the most utter destitution, comfort in the deepest distress, knowledge in the densest ignorance, light in thick darkness, and all these elaborated into a system, and perpetuated and enforced by law by those very slaveholders whom they impiously call their” brethren in Christ"'-not only, I say, have they uniformly ignored him as a person to be thus addressed, but as a person to be addressed at all. They have never addressed one word to the slave. Pretending to believe that the first epistle of Paul to the Corinthians was given by inspiration of God, and designed for the instruction of Americans as well as Corinthians, they have never sent to the slave the important and intensely significant precept there addressed to him -'If thou mayest be made free, use it rather!' Even in the new ground they have taken, of extending their field of operation through the whole country, and even in the new opposition paper they have established (with the false pretence that it shall declare all the counsel of God)-a paper which is mainly occupied with a repetition of Just such old, stupid, dead husks of theological doctrine as
<c03>
the New York tracts and the New York paper contain-they neither address to the slave any counsel whatever, nor urge those readers, agents and colporteurs, who are within reach of the slave, to give him, without delay, this direct and most important message from God. Not a syllable of all this! But instead of it, fraternal discussions with the slaveholders!
C. K. W.


ADDRESS
TO THE LEGISLATIVE COMMITTEE ON CASTE SCHOOLS IN RHODE ISLAND' 
It was expected that Miss Holley would have been present before the Committee. She was, however, unable to meet them, and sent a brief but appropriate and forcible address to the gentlemen, which was read by a daughter of one of the most respectable colored citizens, and in a manner that must have convinced them that the white children do not monopolize the talent of Providence. This lady, a daughter of Mr. Ransom Parker, who pays a tax on real estate, valued at $1,400, cannot gain admission to the High School, in that city, notwithstanding her ample qualifications and excellent character, and only because she is a child of colored parents. The address will be found below:-
Gentlemen of the Committee:
That your petitioners appeal to you for a "measure of right and of justice, and one which, therefore, ought at once to be granted, we will attempt to show. 
Every reason which exists for the free admission of any one child to the public schools, equally exists for the admission of every child. This principle, that before the law, as before God, there is no distinction of persons, is the very vital breath of your free institutions. The violation by the least injustice of the right of the humblest citizen in the State is an invasion of the sanctuary of your own right, and that of all other citizens. To permit any disadvantage, disability or hindrance to the opportunities of education for a single individual, is not only to violate both the letter and the spirit of the Constitution of the State, which ordains ‘that 'it shall be the duty of the General Assembly to secure to the people the advantages and opportunities of education,' but to inflict a positive social injury.
Ignorance is the parent of vice, and a State has no better wisdom or policy than to secure to every member of the community the opportunities of education; and the result is, that wherever these opportunities have been fairest and most generous in the States of this country and of Europe, a higher morality prevails. It is, therefore, as a measure of public welfare that we ask that no person shall be excluded from the best opportunities of free education which the States provides. We ask it as a measure of greater security and happiness to all the people of the State, than a partial system of education affords. The very idea, the essence of the common school system is, that no one shall be deprived of the great boon of education, however humble his fortune may be. It is especially for the poor that the system exists. The rich can have education without common schools, but the weak, the poor, cannot. If there is to be an exception to an absolute equality, that exception should be in favor of the poor, the weak. By the present system of separate schools, the invaluable early years of study are lost to many of the young colored children, from the long distance at which they dwell from the school appointed for them,-while the door of the nearer school-house, which their fathers were taxed to I build, is shut against them. Is this just? Is it honest? Is it decent? Is it constitutional?
We find another argument for equal educational rights in the fact that children learn more from each other than from their teachers. And there is no association more important for those of humble and less refined homes, than that with children who have a more favorable lot, who bring with them into the school an atmosphere of good breeding, and all the gentler morals that adorn the better walks of life. The masses of white people in this country are more indebted to this influence for elevation of character than to any other. Nothing is so communicable as excellence in manners and morals. It is not the design of the common school system to shut out from its benefits the rude, the coarse, the vulgar, of whatever unfortunate origin or surroundings, but to bring all into the benignant circle of knowledge; to mitigate the sorrows of poverty and privation with the balm of intelligence; to awaken and develop the faculties which misfortune would crush and fetter; to unfold the immortal mind enshrined in every human form. This is the glory of the common school system, that it is the highest practical recognition we yet have of the democracy of the New Testament, 'Love thy neighbor as thyself.' Education is as dear a treasure to the colored man as to the white. It exalts him in happi­ness and usefulness as much; and before his Heavenly Father, his improvement in knowledge and virtue is of every whit as much importance as is that of the whitest Governor or Senator in Rhode Island: and, furthermore, his right to the provisions of the State for education is equal to theirs.
We would appeal to you by the enlightened spirit of the age to relinquish this distinction, founded only in complexional hatred, and the barbarous institutions of slavery. We would remind you of the fact that Massachusetts has preceded you, and with the happiest success, in according this justice to her colored population. Are the obstacles to free schools any more insurmountable in Providence than they were in Boston? We cannot believe they are. Schools, colleges, and universities of every grade throughout Europe, are as freely opened to people of color as to white persons.
Why should the schools of Providence and Newport be closed to persons whose color would be no bar to access and honors at Oxford and Cambridge, in England -at Heidelberg and Gottingen, in Germany-at Edinburgh and Glasgow, in Scotland? Numbers of colored gentlemen in this country have obtained, at some of these eminent universities, that liberal education which it should have been the pride and the honor of this, their native land, to have bestowed, but which, for no cause but a mean, selfish, cruel, disgraceful and wicked prejudice, was denied them here. Within a year, the highest prize at the Sorbonne, one of the oldest and most distinguished colleges of France, was awarded to a young colored man from Hayti,-the Emperor in person presenting him with one hundred and fifty volumes, the usual token of distinction and merit. Two other prizes at the same time were borne off by colored graduates.
There is in Newport, at this time, a modest, graceful young colored woman, whom the noble Earl of Shaftesbury educated, at his sole expense, at, an excellent school in London. She was once a slave in Maryland. Cannot sovereign Rhode Island match the generosity of the English Earl, by giving her own free citizens the education he dispensed with open-handed bounty to the poor stranger? Why cannot white and black young ladies recite their lessons as amicably to the same teachers -in Providence as in London? I gladly offer, my own testimony as to the entire practicability of the education of the white and the colored races at the same school, having graduated at a college justly celebrated for its humane and liberal policy, and from a class that contained a native African girl, (one of the Amistad captives,) and an accomplished young American lady of color. Both of them, in character, refinement, and scholarly attainments, were ornaments of their school. I refer to Oberlin College, Ohio.
We would cite you another fact, and beg that it may have all the weight in your judgment of this matter, that the example and opinion of no devoted a
friend of popular education can give., I allude to the Hon. Horace Mann, President of Antioch College. A year, ago, when Antioch College was making a life and death struggle for existence under its burden of $60,000 debt, a man of wealth offered to be one of
<c04>
the six whom he would obtain to assume the entire debt of the College, provided its doors should be shut in the face of a colored lady student, then ready to enter. Horace Mann, to the lasting honor of humanity be it told, refused to bargain away the sacred right of one colored girl to education, even for the boon of the existence of Antioch College, the dear object of his solicitude and hope. And, today, Antioch College rejoices in the favor of God, free from debt, its doors swinging in wide welcome, like the gates of Paradise, to all, whether white or black, who seek en­trance! This decisive victory over temptation seems to me the greenest leaf of laurel which crowns that honored head, one which the bright sun of immortality will not wither or fade.
To you, gentlemen, this honor is held out by the hand of Divine Providence to-day. We trust you will accept it, and not leave it for those who shall succeed you; for we are certain of our cause in the end. It is only a question of time. We shall never rest till the justice which is our due shall be meted out to us. We shall continue to boldly approach the hearts and conscience of the people with our claim; for, however high the towers of habit and the battlements of prejudice, we are confident we have friends in these citadels
SALLIE HOLLEY.
We are happy to state that, in the Rhode Island Legislature, on the 30th ult., the following majority report of the Special Committee on Colored Schools was presented by Mr. Blake, of Cumberland. We trust its adoption is certain. 
To the Hon. House of Representatives: 
The Special Committee of the House of Representatives, appointed at the last January session of the General Assembly, to whom was referred the petition of Isaac Rice and others, for equal school rights, with other papers relating thereto, beg leave to present this their report:
Your Committee have advertised the time, place and object of their assembling, and given full opportunity to the petitioners and all others, to appear and be heard upon the question at issue; only one party appeared, and that the petitioners, who were heard at length; and after a full and careful consideration of the various questions of fact, of right and justice suggested thereby, a majority of your Committee have come to the following conclusions, viz.:
1st. That the Constitution of this State makes no distinction among the people of the State on account of color.
2nd. That in admitting the colored population to citizenship under this Constitution, we guaranteed to them the full enjoyment of every civil right and privilege which that instrument secures to each and every other citizen. The language of the Constitution, article 1, sec. 2, is, 'All laws, therefore, should be made for the good of the whole.'
3rd. The Constitution, article 12th, distinctly recognizes the diffusion of knowledge among the people, as a duty being essential to the preservation of their rights and liberties, and charges upon the General Assembly, as a duty,’  'to promote public schools, and to adopt all means they may deem necessary and proper, to secure to the people the advantages and opportunities of education.' The language of the Constitution is plain and emphatic. It binds the General Assembly to the duty of promoting public schools-or schools open to the public, and to adopt such means as will secure to the people the advantages of education. The policy here inaugurated is as broad and comprehensive as the motive is high and sacred. The end is the education of the entire population, citizens and strangers; and the motto, 'The preservation of our rights and liberties.' The way in which this is to be accomplished is through 'Common Schools,' by which, in the language of Webster, is meant, 'schools open to all the inhabitants of a district or town.' Under this Constitution, therefore, every resident, as soon as he is domiciled, may claim of the city or town in which he has made his home, these equal opportunities and advantages of education for his household. If this is the privilege of the stranger, it is the right of the citizen-a right which cannot be with held, limited or abridged, without manifest injustice. It is plain also that any invidious distinction imposed upon any class of citizens on account of race, party, sect or color, amounts to an abridgment or denial of civil rights solemnly secured by fundamental law.
4th. It is also plain to the committee that what the General Assembly would not do by direct acts, it should not allow to be done by delegated power to any town or city. If caste schools are established in Providence, Newport and Bristol, they exist by virtue of power delegated to those towns by the Assembly; and if through them the just rights of any citizen are invaded, the Assembly is as much responsible as if those schools were established by direct act.
5th. It is plain to the Committee, that every citizen stands equal before the law, and that his children are entitled to equal privileges of education in the schools of his district, without respect to race, color or condition.
6th. It is also clear to the Committee that what is right in the case is also expedient. No evil is suffered, or even felt to exist in Westerly, Pawtucket, East Greenwich, Woonsocket, or other compact towns, by the education of all the children in the district in one class of schools; nor would any be experienced in those towns which have caste schools, were a different system to prevail. This is proved by the experience of cities in other States around us, which have tried both systems. Your Committee feel that justice would ever be the standing policy of the State; and that, in the language of the Constitution, 'every person ought to obtain right and justice freely, and without purchase completely, and without denial, promptly and without delay.' They believe that it is expedient to avoid any appearance of limiting or curtailing the just rights of any citizen, under this Constitution, on account of any prejudice growing out of race, color or condition; and especially expedient and proper to avoid the perpetuation of these prejudices through educational systems; and they thereupon recommend the passage of the act hereto annexed.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
ELLIS S. BLAKE, HENRY HOWLAND, HENRY H.LUTHER, Committee. 
The following act was reported:
An act in addition to title 13, of the Revised Statutes, 'Of Public Instruction.' 
SEC.1. In determining the qualification for scholars to be admitted to any school in this State, maintained wholly, or in part, at the public expense, no distinction shall be made on account of the race, color religious opinions of the applicant or scholar.
SEC. 1. Nothing contained in this act shall impair in any way affect Section 11, of Chapter 66, of the Revised Statute.
SEC. 3. So much of Section 11 and 12, of Chapter 71. of the Revised Statute, as is inconsistent herewith, and all other acts or parts of acts inconsistent herewith, are hereby repealed.
FUGITIVE SLAVE CASE. Edward B. Bacon, master of scholar. Elizabeth, of Hyannis, was arrested at Gloucester, on Friday morning last, June 3d, on the charge of returning to Norfolk the fugitive slave, Columbus Jones, who was brought into Hyannis in the brig Rolerson. Bacon waived an examination, and gave bail in $3500 to appear before the Superior Court at Barnstable


PHRENOLOGY IN BOSTON.
PROF. FOWLER will continue his Lectures on
this interesting science, during the next week, in TREMONT TEMPLE, BOSTON.
THE PRACTICAL USES OF PHRENOLOGY are: First, to teach us how to bring all parts of the system into harmonious and well-directed action. Second, to understand the function and uses of each separate organ. Third, to enable us to govern and educate each faculty and each propensity, increasing the power of some, and properly directing others. And, Fourth, by combining these lessons, it enables us to 'know ourselves,' and to account reading for each motive, thought and act, on SCIENTIFIC PRINCIPLES. And, furthermore, it enables us to indicate, with great exactness, in writing, the Profession, Occupation, or 'Calling' in life, in which each person may rest SUCCEED, and in which he may become most useful and happy.
Examinations daily, by PROF. FOWLER, Practical Phrenologist, 142 Washington street, Boston.
June 10.
<c05>
PLEDGES
At the New England Anti-Slavery Convention, May, 1859.
Francis Jackson, $200 00
Sarah Shaw Russell, Boston, 100 00
Abington Abolitionists, 150 00
Wendell Phillips, 100 00
George and H. B. Draper, Hopedale, 100 00
B. Snow, Jr., Fitchburg, 100 00
E.D. and Anna T. Draper, Hopedale, 50 00
Wm. S. and Abbis S. Haywood, do.25 00
Prince S. Crowell, Dennis, 25 00
Weymouth Female A. S. Society, 25 00
Bourne Spooner, Plymouth, 20 00
Mary G. Chapman, Boston, 20 00
Timothy Davis, Framingham, 20 00
M. J. Parkman, Boston, 10 00
J. B. Pierce, Lynn, 10 00
D. B. Morey, Malden. 10 00
W. A. Greene, Boston, 10 00
Reuben H. Ober, Boston, 10 00
T. C. Severance, Roxbury, 10 00
Caroline Remond Putnam, Salem, 10 00
J. G. Dodge, West Cambridge, 5 00
Mrs. Mary Sawyer, 5 00
Jacob Leonard, Bridgewater, 5 00
Alden Sampson, Charlestown, 5 00
H. C. Fifield, Weymouth,. 5 00
Elijah Hobart, Hingham, 5 00
Charles Follen. 5 00
A. Newhall, Stoneham, 3 00
C. B. M'M' Intire, Reading, 3 00
John Knowlton, 3 00
Anna E. Sibley, Chelsea, 3 00
H. M. Hagar, Newton, 2 00
G. W. Babb, Boston, 2 00
H. Banks, Waltham, 1 00
Eliza A. Lawton, 1 00
Mary R. Stickney, 1 00
Mary Willey, Boston, 1 00

DONATIONS
At the New England A. S. Convention, May, 1859.
Mary May, Boston, $50 00
A. M. Chase, Canton, 25 00
Richard Clap, Dorchester, 20 00 
Samuel Barrett, Concord, 15 00
Mrs. Denny, Clappville, 10 00
William Ashby, Newburyport, 10 00
James N. Buffum, Lynn, 10 00
Edward B. Perkins, Salem, 10 00
Eliza Lee. Follen, Brookline, 10 00
Abraham Folsom, Dover, N. H., 8 00
Louisa Willis, Boston, 5 00
Henrietta Sargent, Boston, 5 00
A. D. Manson, Bangor, Me., 5 00 
Nathaniel White, 5 00 
Effingham L. Capron, Worcester, 5 00 
Samuel May, Jr., 5 00
Francis W. Bird, Walpole, 5 00 
David Tenney, 3 00
A. W. Sprague, 3 00 
Nathan Webster, Haverhill, 2 00
E. H. Merrill, Danversport, 2 00
Jonathan Buxton, 2 00
Sarah D. Holmes, Plymouth, 2 00 
Mary L. Richmond, Abington, 1 00
E. N. Andrews, 1 00

COLLECTIONS 
By Finance Committee, for the Expenses of the New England Anti-Slavery Convention, May, 1859.
Perley King $2 00 Paulina Gerry 1 00
Mrs. L. L. Otis Jameson 1 00 H. G. Jackson 0 50 
Zenas Jenkins. 1 00
L. Thompson, 0 50 Gridley Beal 1 00
Joshua Perry 1 00 E. Sprague 1 00
Wm. Lloyd "Garrison 1 00 J. Stanley Shaw 0 50
M. W. Chapman 1 00 E. S. Cushing 0 50
E. L. Follen1 1 00 L. R. Putnam 0 50
J. H. Martyn 1 00 E. K. Waite 1 00
E. L. Capron 1 00 C. L. R. 0 25
R. Hassall 1 00 Bourne Spooner 1 00
J. T. Sargent 1 00 H. B. Spooner 1 00
S. May, Jr., 1 00 Mrs. Whipple 0 25
G. W. Stacy 0 50 P. C. Hiram 1 00
S. J. Ames 1 00 J. C. N. 2 00
Ignatius Sargent 1 00 D. U. Martin 1 00 
Richard Clap 1 00 E. D. Draper 1 00
T. W. Hartshorn 1 00 Francis Jackson 5 00
Charles K. Whipple 1 00 Jacob Leonard 1 00
Mary G. Chapman 2 00 T. C. Severance 1 00
Wendell Phillips 2 00 Parker Pillsbury 1 00
A. E. Wall 2 00 C, G. Ames 1 00
L. H. Bowker 2 00 D. Y. Lincoln 0 50
Mrs. Bowker1 1 00 William Boynton 1 00 
Rufus Bates 0 50 S. S. Russell 3 00 
Thomas H. Jones 0 25 C. F. P. 0 25
James B. Whitcomb 1 00 C. C. McLauthlin1 00
Perrin Scarborough 1 00 N. Richardson 1 00
J. O. Lovett 1 00 Lewis McLauthlin 1 00
Edmund Quincy 5 00 Mary Brigham 1 00
Abby S. M. Sexton 0 50 S. A. Barnard 2 00
Caroline R. Putnam 2 00 Emily Horn 1 00 
M. Augusta Crocker 1 00 F. M. Inman 0 50 
J. W. Sullivan 1 00 Ichabod Davis 0 26 
T. B. Drew1 00 Lizzie A. Elwell 0 50 
Mrs.  Drowne 1 00 Henry Elwell 0 50 
A. M. Bailey 1 00 A. T. Draper 1 00 
A. B. Burnham 1 00 Geo. & H. B. Draper 3 00 
M. C. Wilson 1 00 Mrs. Lawrence 1 00
S. J. Mclntire 1 00 John L. Whiting 2 00
James T. Ford 2 00 C. M. Otis 1 00
A. Folsom 2 00 Samuel Barrett 1 00
Eliza A. Lawton 0 50 Mrs. J. W. Lewis 0 25
C. Houghton 1 00 D. S. Whitney 0 50
I. Brown 0 50 Robert Johnson 0 25
R. R. Crosby 1 00 N. H. Whiting 1 00
Stephen Barker 1 00 M. H. Pool 1 00
J. B. Pierce 1 00 J. B. Yerrinton. 1 00
E. Richardson 0 50 John Curtis 1 00
Stephen Albee 1 00 Frances Mary Robbins l 00
J. M. Hawkes 2 00 C. F. F. 1 00
Sarah I. Nowell 1 00 C. Wellington 1 00
Mrs. J. 0 25 E. T. Mclntire 0 50
C. T. Hanson 1 00 A. R. Janes 1 00
R. H. Ober 1 00 C. A. S. Hall 0 50
P. Shaw 1 00 Azariah Smith 1 00 
Heinzen 0 50 Joseph Merrill 1 00
M. B. Goodrich 2 00 Sarah Marston 1 00 
E. R. Crosby 1 00 B. H. Barrett 0 25 
Mrs. Kent 0 50 Martha Clapp 1 00 
S. A. Rand 0 50 Louisa M. Alcott 0 50 
Nancy R. Hill 1 00 Mrs., R. Wheeler 1 00 
Prince S. Crowell 1 00 Stephen Clapp 1 00 
S. Boynton 0 75 Charles Wood 1 00 
Sarah Young 2 00 Caroline Wellington 1 00
Susan C. Cabot 2 00 Louisa Simes 1 00
Dr. York 2 00 John Sawyer 1 00
E. F. Burnham 1 00 Mrs. Southwick 0 50 
Elijah Hobart 1 00 R. H. Morrill1 00 
Louisa Hobart 1 00 A. B. Morey 0 60
R. Howland 1 00 A. C. Nowell 1 00
Friend 2 00 Helen E. Garrison 1 00
E. P. Perkins 1 00 S. M. Nowell 1 00
Gertrude Barrett 0 25 H. J. Ireson 1 00
E. H. Merrill 1 00 M. M. Brooks 1 00
M. Richards 0 50 Mr. Brown, Charles-
Abby Hinckley 0 50 town, 1 00
A. Merrill 1 00 B. W. Loud 1 00
John Bailey 1 00 Susan H. Cowing I 00
J. L. Heywood 1 00 Sarah H. Cowing 1 00
W. W. Dutcher 1 00 Mary C. Sawyer 2 00
Jonathan Buxton 1 00 S. D. Chandler 1 00
C. F. BaxterBaxter 1 00 J. M. Aldrich 1 00
James Baxter 1 00 A. B. Peck 1 00
M. W. 1 00 S. Newell 0 50
Mary May 2 00 H. W. Blanchard 0 50
E & E. A. Richards 2 00 D. B. Bartlett 0 50
Lima H. Ober 1 00 L. P. Danforth 1 00
H. C. Fifield 1 00 L. M. Child 1 00
M. K. Marcy 0 50 Mary Willey 1 00
A. A. Roberts 0 50 Thomas B. Rice 1 00
James N. Buffum 1 00 John T. Hilton 1 00
C. B. Mclntire 0 30 John Jones 1 00
M. G. C. 0 50 Cash, and friends, in
L. A. Allen 1 00 various sums, 21 46

WORCESTER COUNTY (SOUTH) ANTI SLAVERY SOCIETY.-A regular quarterly meeting of he Worcester County, South Division, Anti Slavery Society will be held in MILLVILLE and BLACKSTONE, on Sunday, June 12th. The meeting will commence at the Wesleyan meeting-house, in Millville, at 10 1-2 o'clock, A. M., and be continued at Blackstone Town Hall, at 2 and 5 o'clock, P. M. 
Among the speakers expected to be present are THOMAS W. HIGGINSON, ADIN BALLOU, SAMUEL MAY, Jr., and others. And all friends of freedom are invited to attend.
EFFINGHAM L. CAPRON, President.
WILLIAM A. WILSON, Secretary.
WESTPORT, Mass.-ANDREW T. Foss, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will speak on the subject of American Slavery, in Westport, at
the Christian Church, on Sunday next, June 12th.All are invited.
He will also lecture as follows:
North Dartmouth, Tuesday, June 14.
Dartmouth, Thursday, June 16.
Fall River, Sunday, June 19.
WORCESTER-The Anti-Slavery meetings of the last two Sundays will be further continued on SUNDAY next, June 12th, at the customary hours, at Birnley Hall. 
All communications for the undersigned should be sent to <illegible>Leicester, Mass.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr.
<c06>
REMOVED TO A HIGHER LIFE:
On the 23d ult., a  her residence in North Easton, Washington. County, (N. Y.) ESTHER WISUN, wife of JOB WILBUR, aged 67 years, after a protracted physical weakness, which she passed through with great composure, and firm reliance upon the ’good hand of Him that doeth all things well.' 
As water seeks its level, so has her purified spirit sought its level in the glorious realities of spiritual life. Her funeral was attended by a large concourse of sympathising friend and neighbors, upon which occasion, abundant testimony was offered of her true and earnest life and labors. The ancient language was repeated as being especially applicable to her character? in every particular:- 'When the ear heard me, then it blessed me; and when the eye saw me, it gave witness to me; because I delivered the poor that cried, and the fatherless, and him that had none to help him. The blessing of him that was ready to perish came upon me: and I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy. I put on righteousness, and it clothed me: my judgment was a robe and a diadem. I was eyes to the blind, and feet was I to the lame: and the cause I knew not, I searched out.'
'The friend of the slave, and yet the friend of all' -the widow, the fatherless, the destitute, and the trembling fugitive, always found a cordial welcome at her hearthstone, and a heart that beat warmly in sympathy with their necessities, and an open hand to render all the aid in her power.
Many an orphan child can testify that she has been indeed a mother to them.
She was one of the earliest to espouse the Anti-Sla­very cause; and though possessed of but a frail physical organization, yet no one in this county has ren­dered that hated cause more efficient service. She stood in no awe of public opinion. Ever vigilant, ever active, untiring, and unyielding for the right, yet she ’opened her mouth with wisdom, and in her tongue was the law of kindness.' In the midst of trials, temptations or proscriptions, she ever maintained the same calm, serene spirit.
She had no concern or desire to build up or foster any system of theology: with creed-making she had no sympathy, but was actively and earnestly engaged to pull down and remove out of the way whatever stood in opposition to the pure spirit of universal liberty and toleration.
Her desire for the elevation, liberty and happiness of all was far superior to her love or veneration for institutions.
She had been, from early life, a member of the Society of Friends, and steadily attended its meetings, when health and strength permitted; and as steadily did she bear an uncompromising testimony for the oppressed bondman, and against that spirit of conservatism and proscription which has been so sorrowfully manifested by much of that leading influence of modern Quakerism. Through her efforts, mainly, (although actively opposed by prominent members of that meeting,) the Friends' meeting-house at North Easton was first opened to Anti-Slavery meetings some eight or ten years since; and from that time, its doors have been kept open to the Anti-Slavery laborer, and to free discussion,
The numerous petitions that went up to Albany, during the past winter, from this town, for a Personal Liberty Bill, were first put in motion through her efforts. While others thought best to wait, and see the result in Massachusetts, she urged the importance of immediate action, saying, that much valuable time was lost by waiting to see the movements of others.'
-‘She did with cheerful will
What others talked of, while their hands were still
During the past autumn, she felt impressed to appoint some Anti-Slavery meetings in a neighboring town, which the writer attended with her. On our return, she expressed great satisfaction, saying, ’she felt her time for labor was short'-and with this view she thus employed her last remaining energies.
Her judgment was indeed’ like a robe and a diadem'; her unselfish spirit and pure instincts led her to clear and just perceptions of the right.
At the funeral, her husband, in a brief and impressive manner, spoke of 'his great and irreparable loss, and of the unselfish disposition she at all times manifested, especially during her illness; she often expressing her fear that too much was done for her.'
The constant, calm, and even cheerful smile of her countenance was lovely to behold. Death was no’ king of terrors' to her. She remarked that ’she feel it a blessed privilege to leave the mortal tenement, when it was no longer useful;" that she ’had no desire to live, after her capacity of usefulness had ceas­ed;' also, that she felt joy and satisfaction in contemplating her action in reference to reform movements, and hoped the young would press forward in the work of reformation and liberal Christianity. 
A short time previous to her departure, she asked her son if he thought she would continue long; and when answered in the negative, she said,' I am ready!' and again, ’Oh  how beautiful! all nature seems so lovely!' 
The following portion of WHITTIER'S soul-stirring lines was repeated at the funeral services, as being peculiarly appropriate:-
'Another hand is beckoning us,
Another call is given;
And glows once more with Angel steps
The path which reaches heaven.
The light of her pure life went down,
As sinks beneath the hill
The glory of a setting star-
Clear, suddenly, and still.
Alone, unto our Father's will,
One thought hath reconciled,
That He whose love exceedeth ours,
Has taken home his child.
Fold her, oh Father! in Shine arms,
And let her henceforth be
A messenger of love between
Our human hearts and thee.
Still let her mild rebuking stand
Between us and the wrong
And her dear memory serve to make
Our faith in goodness strong.'
At a regular meeting of the old Saratoga Anti-Slavery Society, held at Friends' Meeting- House, North Easton, 6th mo. 5th, 1859, the following, resolutions were offered by J. W.PECKHAM, and unanimously adopted, and voted to be forwarded for publication, in the Anti-Slavery Standard and Liberator:-
Resolved, That in the death of our beloved friend and coadjutor, ESTHER WILBUR, (since our last meeting in this place,) we feel deeply that 'mother in Israel,' one of the early advocates and main pillars of the Anti-Slavery enterprise, has been removed from our midst; and that we shall no longer be cheered by her living example and earnest words, and encouraged and strengthened by her wise counsels, her unyielding fidelity and untiring labors for the cause of the oppressed; that a vacancy has been left which it will be difficult, if not impossible to fill? that the Anti-Slavery cause has lost one of its most clear-sighted, radical and intrepid supporters, and every true reformatory movement, however hated or prescribed of, has met with a special bereavement.
Resolved, That in as much as to her efforts it was largely due that the doors of this house were first opened to our meetings, we feel that it is due to her
memory, to the cause of the slave, and to ourselves, that we thus give public expression of our sense of obligation to and admiration of her noble deeds and
heroic spirit! in which we recognize the religion of the good Samaritan.
Resolved, That the highest eulogy, and greatest respect to and admiration of her character, we can offer to her memory, is by imitating, to the utmost of
our power, her rare moral courage and noble virtue in laboring faithfully to carry forward those measures and principles so dear to her, and to which her earnest and true life was so especially devoted. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
THE NEW’GINEVRA.
'Frederika Bremer well said that “the fate of the negro is the romance of history." No other land has one of such profound interest. Would I could place you in a narrow room, where one of the bravest souls God ever gave first breathed the air of a free State. Her lover had placed her in a box,-a secreted slave, to be transported as freight to a Northern city, hoping it would come in the same train with himself. Imagine his agony when the found, on his arrival, that it had been left for another train! Set half on her head for many hours, the dust of the stuffing sifts down with every motion of the platform into eyes and lips: with superhuman effort she stifles every groan, remembering it is Liberty for which she suffers. Arrived at length, they dare not show any anxiety while the precious burden is borne unconsciously, lumbering through the careless streets. When the safe refuge is reached, and the door closed, no one present can articulate a syllable-so terrible the suspense! The box is opened-thank God, she lives! She leaps to her feet in glad and radiant joy. But the morrow brings fever, over which death hovers for a month till a happy heart gains the victory, and the two rest now under Victoria's flag-all safe!’-[Speech of Wendell Phillips, Esq. at Music Hall.
From lips whose earnest eloquence
Enchained us like a spell,
That wondrous tale in living words
Of deepest pathos fell:
All faces turned to meet that face,
Listening, with lips apart,
To the voice that swayed the multitude,
As if it bore one heart.
In every bosom, howe'er cold,
Swift sympathy upsprung,
Touched by the magic power of Love,
Divine, and ever young. 
Tears and glad shouts extolled the deed 
Heroic, that dare prove
That young pair's love of liberty- 
Their liberty of love.
A picture through my memory passed,
As that strange tale was told,
And in the poet's plaintive words
Returned the legend old
Of fair Ginevra, stealing up
In all her bridal bloom,
So blithe of spirit, as she passed
With smiles into her tomb;
No cruel fate pursued her steps,
No phantom of despair
Rose up between her and the heart
Whose love made life so fair;
No secret terror urged her flight,
No fear of human wrong-
But still her story lives, embalmed
In painting and in song.
A nobler legend of our times
Shall future poets tell,
A new 'Ginevra,' fair and brave,
In brighter tints shall dwell.
Within that narrow cell of pain,
Undaunted, undismayed,
The dearest blessing of his life
A lover's fond arms laid,
To count the long, slow hours depart,
With tortured limbs and stifled breath,
To wait for freedom, or the pangs 
Of capture, and of death.
But God was with her, and he spared
That valiant soul to prove
How much a woman's heart can dare
For liberty and love.
Oh men! whose eager hands and lips
Give to such deeds applause,
Bestow the tribute of your lives
To serve a righteous cause;
Remembering the faithful love
That blesses life for you,
Grow worthier of the gift, and learn
A chivalry more true.
Oh women! whose quick sympathy 
Spoke in your silent tears,
In the safe shelter of your homes,
Forget not coming years;
Make of your womanhood a shield
For human griefs and fears-
Give to God's noblest work on earth.
Brave labor, and not tears.
L. M. ALOOTT.
LIFE.
BY WILLIAM C. BRYANT.
Oh Life! I breathe thee in the breeze,
I feel thee bounding in my veins,
I see thee in these stretching trees,
These flowers, this still rock's mossy stains.
This stream of odors flowing by,
From clover-field and clumps of pine,
This music, thrilling all the sky,
From all the morning birds, are thine.
Thou fill'st with joy this little one,
That leaps and shouts beside me here,
Where Isar's clay-white rivulets run
Through the dark woods like frighted deer.
Ah! must thy mighty breath, that wakes 
Insect and bird, and flower and tree,
From the low trodden dust, and makes
Their daily gladness, pass from me-
Pass, pulse by pulse, till o'er the ground
These limbs, now strong, shall creep with pain,
And this fair world of sight and sound
Seem fading into night again?
The things, oh Life! thou quickenest, all
Strive upward toward the broad bright sky,
Upward and outward, and they fall
Back to earth's bosom when they die.
All that have borne the touch of death,
All that shall live, lie mingled there,
Beneath that veil of bloom and breath,
That living zone ‘twixt earth and air.
There lies my chamber dark and still;
The atoms, trampled by my feet,
There wait, to take the place I fill 
In the sweet air and sunshine sweet.
Well, I have had my turn, have been
Raised from the darkness of the clod,
And for a glorious moment seen
The brightness of the skirts of God;
And knew the light within my breast,
Though wavering oftentimes and dim,
The power, the will, that never rest,
And cannot die, were all from Him
Dear child! I know that thou wilt grieve
To see me taken from thy love,
Wilt seek my grave at Sabbath eve,
And weep, and scatter flowers above.
Thy little heart will soon be heal'd, 
And being shall be bliss, till thou
To younger forms of life must yield 
The place thou fill'st with beauty now.
When we descend to dust again,
Where will the final dwelling be
Of Thought and all its memories then,
My love for thee, and thine for me? 

CATCH THE SUNSHINE!
Catch the sunshine! though it flickers
Through a dark and dismal cloud;
Though it falls so faint and feeble
On a heart with sorrow bowed:
Catch it quickly-it is passing- 
Passing rapidly away;
It has only come to tell you
There is yet a brighter day.
<c02>
Catch the sunshine! thought ‘tis only
One pale flickering beam of light;
There is joy within its glimmering,
Whispering ‘tis not always night.
Don't be moping, sighing, weeping-
Look up! look up like a man!
There's no time to grope in darkness,
Catch the sunshine when you can.
Catch the sunshine! though life's tempest
May unfurl its chilling blast;
Catch the little hopeful straggler!
Storms will not forever last!
Don't give up, and say ‘Forsaken!
Don't begin to say 'I'm sad!'
Look! there comes a gleam of sunshine?
Catch it! oh, it seems so glad!
Catch the sunshine! don't be grieving
O'er that darksome billow there!
Life's a sea of stormy billows
We must meet them every where.
Pass right through them, do not tarry,
Overcome the heaving tide;
There's a sparkline gleam of sunshine
Waiting on the other side.
Catch the sunshine! catch it gladly!
Messenger in Hope's employ,
Sent through clouds, through storm and billows, 
Bringing you a cup of joy.
Oh! then, don't be sighing, weeping-
Life, you know, is but a span;
There's no time to sigh and sorrow-
Catch the sunshine when you can.

THE LIBERATOR.
WOMAN'S RIGHTS MEETING.
There are many among us who at this time are inclined to take discouraging views of the progress of reformatory ideas. The rumors of wars abroad, the arrogant claims of the slave power at home, fill the hearts of many with fears lest, after all, no advance has been made. Yet we think few who have attended the series of meetings of the New England Anti­Slavery Society held during the past week, and completed that course of annual instruction by listening to the array of speakers who stood on the platform of the Woman's Rights meeting held on Friday, P. M., at Mercantile Library Hall, but must have inclined to 
say, ‘The world moves still.'
There was a larger audience than even the warmest friends of the meeting anticipated, and great numbers, we are informed, found it impossible to get in. Mrs. Caroline M. Severance presided, and besides her own address, the audience listened with great attention to addresses from Dr. Harriot K. Hunt, (who reiterated her demand for the extension of the right of suffrage to women, in a very earnest and forcible manner,) Rev. James Freeman Clarke, Rev. J. T. Sargent, Rev. George Gordon Ames, late of Minnesota, and Wendell Phillips, Esq.-
Mr. Ames very wittily compared the dismay of those who are in fear lest each new step in progress shall overturn the laws of the universe, and bring chaos into society, to that of the’ home-keeping youth,' whose wits formed no exception to the opinion of such persons entertained by Valentine in the play, who, finding himself in a railway car, shut his eyes and held fast to what seemed most stable, until the vehicle stopped. At length, finding he’ still lived,' he dared to open his eyes, and inquired with trembling lips of those around him,’ if the darned thing had lit.' Mr. Ames's whole speech was full of wit and humor, but evincing a thorough understanding of the principles upon which the Woman's Rights movement rests.
Mrs. Dall's speech contained an admirable condensation of a very able article in the Edinburgh Review for April, on Female Industry. Mrs. Dall said she was sure her audience would share her own surprise on finding so many employments already in the possession of women, although it is still to be deplored that the wages of women continue to fall far below those given to men for the same kinds of labor. A very interesting extract from a letter was read by Mrs. Dall, giving an account of a young girl in Delaware, whose father was a machinist. She was very desirous to learn her father's business. On being allowed to enter the shop, she showed great ability, and made of rapid advance as to enable her (on the occasion of her father's death not many years after) to take charge of the business. Her younger sisters and brothers have learned the trade from her, and she is now a prosperous machinist; keeping the business of her father, and teaching it to her younger and dependent brothers, and presenting a living witness of the wisdom of allowing a girl perfect freedom in the choice of an avocation.
The whole speech was a most encouraging summary of the changes made, in respect to the ideas she advanced, since the year 1848, the date of the first Woman's Rights Convention. As one of the most encouraging signs of the times, she mentioned the formation of the Society for the Cultivation of Social Science in England, a movement which has both men and women of the highest social position and culture prominent among its leaders. We would suggest to Mrs. Dall the embodiment of the facts and figures contained in her address, in a lecture for popular audiences next winter. She may rest assured it will carry a conviction of the practicability of the ideas advanced by herself and her coworkers for the elevation of women, which arguments, however unanswerable their logic, seldom give to a lecture-going community.
Wendell Phillips made an address, which was a system of philosophy illustrated by examples from history. One of the most convincing arguments made by Mr. Phillips was that while, during the lifetime of her husband, a married woman is a legal nonentity, as soon as her husband dies she becomes a living, acting, responsible being; and he appealed to the memories of those who heard him in support of this statement. How many gay, frivolous women have we all seen made earnest and real by some change in their lives which exercised the faculties now lying dormant in women's natures! What Mr. Phillips desired was to have women so trained, or rather left to develop in such freedom, as should ensure the full use of their powers now, without waiting until sorrow or bereavement sting them to exertion. To see clearly that society would reap the rich fruits of such a change in the elevation of both men and women would not require a second hearing of the able argument of Mr. Phillips.
If it is possible, as has been proved in many instances, for the wife to differ from her husband in matters of religion, and the world not fall asunder, it surely might be possible in the infinitely smaller matter of politics for each to hold his or her opinions, and express them by votes, when women shall assume the right of suffrage. 
Notwithstanding the crowd, (many persons standing for more than two hours,) the extreme heat, and a degree of noise from without which made it an effort to hear, a most marked interest pervaded the assembly. We felt a little degree of pleasure, too, in noticing that the audience was no longer almost entirely composed of women. Years ago, few men, except those asso­ciated with reformatory movements, were to be found in these meetings; but now the men and brethren were well represented. We were glad to see the earnest attention of many young men; it is an encouraging token when in the afternoon of a week-day, even if it be in anniversary week, interest is felt strong enough to draw together a mixed audience of the size of the one mentioned.
We have heard a hint that the ladies in management design to make this meeting a regular feature of Anniversary week: we are sure it will prove a success if inaugurated, and we trust that, another year, we may meet in mot to a larger hall to listen to the words of encouragement 
<c03>
and counsel which these noble women and earnest men may have to offer to us.-E. C. W.
The noise of people entering at the commencement of the meeting, combined with the noise of the street, prevented the writer of the above from hearing the remarks made by Mrs. Severance on taking the chair. We have been fortunate enough to obtain, a full report of them from another hand, as follows:

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,-
In accepting the duties accorded me on this occasion, permit me to say a very few words in regard to the movement which this meeting represents. It enrolls itself among the efforts of the age, and the anniversaries of the week, as the most radical, and yet, in the best sense, the most conservative of them all. It bears the same relation to all the charities of the day which strive nobly, in their way, to serve woman, that the radical anti-slavery movement bears to all superficial palliations of slavery. Like that movement, it goes beneath effects, and seeks to remove causes.
Recognizing woman as an equal human being with man, before God and the State, it claims for her equality of freedom and of right, as an individual; equality of position and of action in the family-including an ownership of herself and an equal ownership of her children; equal opportunities of education, and of effort in society; and equal recognition and protection under government-recognition in other ways than those she now enjoys with us, as tax-payer, criminal, and debtor.
Accepting the family as an Institution, more undeniably than any or all others for which the claim is made, Divine in its origin and aims, this movement seeks to secure its integrity and purity, by removing from its sphere of causes all unworthy motives, all base necessities of food and shelter; by giving woman, to whom these temptations come, thorough education, worthy personal aims, profitable and honorable work. It seeks freedom and equal rights for her in the Family, in order that its highest uses and harmonies may be ensured; and that she may not need to seek them out of it, and in its overthrow.
This movement seeks, moreover, not only to correct the influences which beset woman in regard to marriage, and to secure for her considerate preparation for its high duties when entered upon, but it demands, as equally essential to the happiness and purity and true order of the home, a like preparation and an equal purity on the part of the husband and father;-that public opinion and the law should cease to clamor of the ‘outraged honor of the husband, by a misdeed of the wife, while his unfaithfulness may be notorious, and scarcely a crime in the eye of either law or public opinion.
It seeks, not to make secondary with woman the duties of the home, but to add others to them-or, rather, to replace the frivolities which are already, in so many cases, added to them, with graver duties and holier pleasures ; and to substitute for the delights of charity, the higher and no less pleasurable functions of preventive justice.
It would save individuals and homes from utter wreck, by educating woman to self-support, and to fill the father's place in the event of his inability, desertion or death; individuals and homes which now tax Philanthropy to its utmost, and furnish an ever renewed and discouraging supply to its hands and energies.
It will be seen, then, that, instead of confounding the philosophy of the new movement on behalf of woman with the theories which claim unlimited indulgence for appetite and passion,-or, mistaking the results of those theories for a legitimate outgrowth of this movement,-the world should recognize in the latter the cure, and the only radical cure, for such disastrous doctrine and practice.
Give woman access to culture and its rewards-freedom of action and ability to labor successfully-and you have fortified her against the ennui and indolence, or the poverty which lead to wrong-doing, you have educated a being who will help to raise the world out of its sordidness and strife, by the magnificence and magnetism of her own superior soul; and who, disdaining to profane marriage by seeking it for position and support, will therefore be worthy to find the noblest love, and home.
Allow me to repeat to you, in conclusion, the exquisite poetic stanza of Tennyson, so often read and heard, but never too often recalled-than which no statement could better define this movement of ours:
'The woman's cause is man's-they rise or sink
Together-dwarfed or godlike-bond or free.
If she be small, slight-natured, miserable,
How shall man grow?'
'The woman is not undeveloped man,
But diverse.'
'Yet, in the long years, liker must they grow,
The man be more of woman, she of man;
He gain in sweetness, and in moral height-
She mental breadth, nor fail in child-ward care,
Nor lose the childlike in the larger mind.'
'And so these twain, upon the skirts of time,
Sit side by side, full-summed in all their powers,
Self-reverent each, and reverencing each-
Distinct in individualities,
But like each other as are those who love.'
'Then comes the statelier Eden back to men-
Then reign the world's great bridals, chaste and calm;
Then springs the crowning race of humankind.'
And we, who are privileged with the poet to foresee this better Eden-we, who have
'The Future, grand and great-
The safe appeal of Truth to Time'-
adopting the ‘victorious cry of the crusaders, ’God wills it!'-may listen to hear above the present din and discord, the stern mandate of his laws, bidding the world ’onward! onward!'-and catch the rhythmic reply of all their movements,-
'WE ADVANCE!'

DEPARTUBE OF SENATOR SEWARD FOR EUROPE.
NEW YORK, May 8, 1859.
The friends of Senator Seward chartered the steamers Josephine and Alida, and went down to the Narrows, there to transfer the Senator to the steamship. The Herald of this morning has the following account of the scene:-‘Soon after arriving at the Horse-Shoe, the crowd gathered about Mr. Seward, and called loudly for a speech. Cheers were given for the first Republican President, ’Gov. William H. Seward, the next President of the U. S.,' &c., and an enthusiastic individual shouted, No danger, Governor, of revealing any secrets here. The 
wide expanse is all around us.' Mr. Seward then mounted a settee, and said:
Gentlemen-It would, of course, be impossible for me to persuade you that anybody could be insensible to the manifestations of such hospitality as I am receiving at your hands. I will, with your leave, however, undertake to interpret it, leaving out all its political bearings and relations, and will regard you not as politicians, not as ‘Republicans,' but as fellow citizens, and as friends, who, against my will, followed me to the house of my friend, where I was entertained, took me up at the door of my hotel, unwilling to leave me alone in your city, and who will not part from me now until you separate from me at the gates of the ocean. (Applause.)
Gentlemen-The sky is bright; the sun is auspicious. All the indications promise a pleasant and prosperous voyage, and it will depend upon my own temper whether out of it I am able or not to make the material for which. I go abroad-the knowledge derived from the sufferings and strivings of humanity in foreign countries-to teach me how to improve and elevate the condition of my own countrymen. I will only say, gentlemen, in expressing my thanks to you, now that we are at the point of separation, that I trust it may be my good fortune to return amongst you, and resume the duties, now temporarily suspended, in the great cause of Freedom and Humanity. But no one knows the casualties of life, and two voyages separate me from you. What may happen in that space and time, no one but a beneficent Providence knows.
If it is my lot not to return among you, I trust I shall be remembered as one who accomplished in his own life the laudable ends of an honorable ambition,
<c04>
and died far away from his native land, without an enemy to be, recalled, and without a regretful remembrance, and with the conviction, that he had tried to deserve the good opinion which his friends. entertained of him. 

THE PARTING SCENES
By this time the steamer Ariel was observed coming down through the haze from the direction of the Narrows. Mr. Seward returned on board the Josephine, which steamed out to meet the Ariel. The Josephine soon came along side, and was made fast. The gang-plank was run out, and Mr. Seward, with many kind greetings and God speeds, ascended to the deck of the ocean steamer. 
Governor Cary-'Our kind remembrance to Chas. Sumner,' cried one-'Captain, take good care of him. 'shouted another to the Captain of the Ariel-'My life for it,' answered the Captain, then the plank was hauled in, the ropes cast off, and the two steamers separated. Then Shelton's band played. national airs, the cannon of the Josephine pealed, loud huzzas went up, and hats and handkerchiefs waved. Then Senator Seward, his cane and a bundle of newspapers still in his hands, mounted the lofly wheel-house of the Ariel, his head bare, his dark gray locks waving in the breeze, and his form contrasting in sharp outlines against the dark sky, and bowed in response to the demonstration from his friends.
The Alida and the Josephine were following just astern of the Ariel, their decks dark with the cheering crowds, and just then the steamer City of Washington, bound for Liverpool, came up with an unusual large load of passengers on her decks, many of whom joined in the ovation. Flags were flying from all the vessels, and from the Telegraph Station at Sandy Hook Point. Handkerchiefs were waving, bands playing, cannon thundering, people cheering, and altogether the scene was one of the most exhilarating description. In this manner the four steamers reached the bar, all together, when the Alida turned back; but the enthusiasm on board the Josephine was at full heat, and the Captain was persuaded to make a turn beyond the Hook. Accordingly the Josephine steamed over the bar by the side of the Ariel, and accompanied her, dancing over the waves three or four miles out, the cannon firing until the ammunition was exhausted, and the people cheering until they were hoarse.
Long after the Josephine had turned. back, and when a mile or. two of water lay between her and the ocean steamer, the figure of a small man, with head bare, was discernable standing on the Ariel's wheel-house.

THE SICKLES VERDICT.
Bad taste in the reporters of American newspapers is perhaps to be expected and forgiven; but the counsel, who are apparently eminent in their professions, might be expected to know better. They appear, however, to have behaved infinitely worse, of. The opening speech of Mr. Ould, the District Attorney, is as disgraceful a composition as we ever had the misfortune to read. It is every thing which an opening statement in a capital case ought not to be. If Mr. Ould's speech was disgraceful, that of Mr. Brady, the counsel for the prisoner, can only be described as disgusting. The member of Marylebone himself, when he defended Bernard, never sank so low. For no less than seven hours did Mr. Brady pour out such a flood of fustian and nonsense, equally opposed to law, logic and common-sense, as the collective power of the whole Old Bailey bar-which is not without performers of a similar character-would not produce in seven years. After a, rigmarole preface, he laid down three positions:’ First, human laws do not shield us from the enjoyment of human rights. Secondly, love by Divine Law is perfect, though not regulated by human law. Third, the Divine law attaches responsibilities, to execute which does not constitute crime;' and he actually had the unscrupulousness and unblushing impudence to stand up in a Court of Justice, and maintain-without interruption or. rebuke from the Judge (who holds his office at the will of a mob whose daily bread is bunkum)-that every man has a natural right to kill any one who commits adultery with his wife, and that human laws cannot take away that right.
The stupidity of the defence is exactly on a par with its want of taste and law. Nothing but extracts can give a notion of its vulgarity. After a vast quantity of illogical rubbish about malice,' (in which it was maintained, first, that malice was not to be presumed without proof, and, secondly, that Sickles shot Key because he was angry with him for seducing his wife, which is the strongest kind of malice,) Mr. Brady proceeded to show that adultery was very wicked, and that adulterers might lawfully be killed. In support of this thesis, he reads every passage from the Bible in which adultery is referred to. Mr. Brady takes so much pleasure in quoting passages about adultery, and showing its turpitude in emphatic and almost descriptive language, that we can only acquit his performance of gross prurience by ascribing to him a degree of obtuseness of feeling which is in this country happily uncommon. Upon, the case itself it is unnecessary to say much. It was a most lamentable and most horrible one-just one of those cases in which a verdict of guilty ought to be inevitable, and to which mercy might properly be extended; but to recognize the fact, that a man has a legal right to avenge any wrongs whatever by the death of the wrong-doer, is to break up the very foundations of society. We have noticed the case as an illustration of the way in which justice is administered where the judge has no power, and where the people are above the law. It is a state of things which well deserves the notice of those who wish to introduce democracy into this country.-London Saturday Review.

'SICKLES.'
Some important deductions may be rationally drawn from the Washington farce. The following thought is not inopportune: In the first place, we see that the very class of men who have been distinguished for devotion to the LETTER of HUMAN enactments, when every principle of right has been cloven down-as, for instance, in relation to the’ bogus laws of Kansas and the Fugitive Slave Act-have, in this matter, been the loudest and most noisy declaimers in favor of the’ Higher Law.' The great point relied on by the counsel for Mr. Sickles was, that human laws did not protect the sanctity of the marriage bed, and that the prisoner was, therefore, necessarily, thrown upon the law of self-defence and self-vindication.
Apply this principle to the Slave System a moment. The Statutes of the South do not protect the sacredness of human liberty; therefore the slave is 
thrown back upon the law of self-preservation ; and, as the Divine law is,’ He that stealeth a man, and selleth him, or if he be found in his hand, he shall 
surely be put to death’; and, as human Codes in the Slave States fail to enforce this penalty and to protect the slave, he may,-nay, according to the logic of Mr. Graham, (Sickles' counsel,) he is bound to act the part of the executor of the Divine law, and send every slaveholder, who robs himself or his wife and children of themselves, SUDDENLY to his last account. And not only this-but, even waiving this law for the protection of human liberty, every colored man, bond or free, whose wife or daughter is debauched by one of the dominant; race-whether he be his ’owner' or not-is bound to execute upon the transgressor this same Divine law against adultery which is pleaded in justification. of Mr. Sickles.
We want the same principle applied all around. What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. What is law for Sickles is law for Sambo.' What 
say you to this, reader?-Erie True American. 

MORAL OF THE DIFFERENCE. 
On the 8th ultimo, in the city of Baltimore, it was computed that some thirty thousand people assembled to witness the execution of four wretched men condemned to die on the gallows. One of these criminals was a negro, who had been, guilty of shedding human blood because the victim had seduced his wife. And yet, tell it not in Gath! while this man-this colored man-was convulsed with the agonies 'of death a white man is being tried within forty miles for killing the seducer of his wife, concerning whom his counsel says, ‘Why should this
husband suffer when he rose in obedience to the instincts of his nature, and perpetrated an act for which he must receive the approval of every intelligent and reflecting man?'
How is this? What sophistry have we here? Why must Sickles receive the approval of ‘every intelligent and reflecting man,' for the very deed which hangs the negro? Why? Ah, in this case it is the color of the skin-there's the explanation! Such is justice in the United States of America, and such it will continue to be, while the monster slavery, like a giant incubus of evil, treads equity in the dust.-Christian Reflector. 
<c05>
DIABOLISM IN WASHIGTON.
We have before noticed the imprisonment and conviction in Washington of a free father for harboring his own son, born of a slave mother. In giving the conclusion of the protracted Sickles farce, the Washington correspondent of the State Journal says: 
When this trial commenced, there was a poor colored man in our jail, brought in guilty of harboring his own son, and Judge Crawford put off his sentence, it was understood, only for a day or two. But, the colored offender has lain in jail to this day, without a thought or a particle of attention, and if he rotted there-who would care? Remember that District Attorney Ould was paid by Ohio, and every other free State, to prosecute this poor man for feeding and sheltering his own son when he was in distress. Can you instance a more diabolical state of things in Europe?
THE SICKLES TRIAL. The moral of this whole, transaction is-Messrs., libertines! be careful not so much what you do, as to whose prejudice you do it. Select your victims carefully from among those who have no fathers, brothers or husbands, who can wield a club or aim a pistol-prey upon the orphan, the defenceless, the lowly, or you sin at the risk of your lives. But choose prudently, and there are for you neither legal nor illegal terrors-there is fear neither of the prison nor of the bullet-there is, in short, perfect impunity.-N. Y. Tribune.

From the American Phrenological Journal.
PHRENOLOGICAL CHARACTER OF THE LATE CHARLES F. HOVEY, ESQ.
The portrait of Mr. Hovey evinces the following characteristics: In the first place, he had a full, plump, robust, and energetic organization. His head was large, and amply sustained by a strong and well-balanced physiology. He had excellent lungs, first-rate digestive powers, and a free and energetic circulation. These qualities of body gave uncommon power to all his manifestations, and braced up his mind and character to meet any emergency. In considering his phrenology, in the second place, we observe that the forehead appears smooth and full, indicating excellent practical intellect, power to gather knowledge and employ it successfully in business, in education, and in whatever pertains to a useful and efficient course of life. The middle of the forehead appears to have been fully developed, showing excellent memory, power of retaining information, and of holding it in readiness for use whenever it was required.
He had large Order, indicating system, method, and neatness in all his affairs, while large Calculation, joined with his large Acquisitiveness, rendered him an economist, and an accurate financier and business man. He appears to have had a good memory of principles and ideas, but was more discriminating, critical, and practical than he was logical, metaphysical, and speculative in his cast of intellect. Such a mind always asks what is true, what is practical, what, is useful and available, but does not spend its strength upon visionary speculations and impracticable abstractions. He was preeminently a man of common sense and sound judgment, willing to follow truth, regardless where it might lead him, or how hard or how long he might be obliged to struggle to gain the victory. 
His Constructiveness appears to be large, which, joined to his practical sense, his economy, and his energy, would make him able to accomplish more business with the same means than most men, and to have every thing work with such admirable system and harmony, as to insure success when most men would fail. 
He had an excellent knowledge of character, and an intuitive judgment of the motives and dispositions of strangers, and also knew how best to address him­ self to persons of different casts of mind, in order to a produce the most desirable effects upon them; hence he was able to make himself personally acceptable to almost every body, however different their dispositions, or however much their opinions might differ from his.
His Benevolence was decidedly large, and, with so practical an intellect as his, and such courage and fortitude as are evinced by his organization, rendered him a ‘Good Samaritan' in all the avenues of reform and charity which commended themselves to his support. He never would take counsel of a cowardly or truckling expediency, or refrain from answering a good conscience, however hard or unpopular the course in which duty beckoned him onward.
He had small Imitation, as seen in the rapid sloping of the front part of the top head from the centre outward; hence he was no imitator, and, in his conduct and speech, would often be eccentric. This non-imitative disposition served to cut him loose from a desire to conform to usage, or to be governed by a conservative public sentiment. Whatever seemed true and right to him he adopted, and acted upon it, though it might be never so unpopular, and this he did with as much freedom and disregard of custom as if he had been alone in the world.
His Spirituality was also moderate, and Veneration not large; hence his mind lacked that faith and devotional feeling which leads to a religious manifestation. He was an ardent lover of his find, disposed to do justly to the last degree, and to exhibit philanthropy and kindness. More Veneration Faith, and Imitation would have been an improvement to his mental organization. 
His firmness, his independence of feeling, and his justice were paramount qualities, and these, hacked up by courage, made him heroic in the fulfillment of what he deemed his duty. His friendship and social attachment were remarkably strong, and he was enabled to call around him troops of friends who were true to him personally, though they might not harmonize with him in opinion. Few men have been more beloved, and few have done more to deserve it.

WILL OF THE LATE C. F. HOVEY. 
Among the leading items of the Will of the late Charles F. Hovey, Esq. are the following:
‘To his wife, $47,000, with household goods, plate, &c.; to two of his four sons, $17,000 each, and to the remaining two $15,000 each, to be held in trust until they become of age; to Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Stephen S. Foster. Parker Pillsbury, and Henry C. Wright, $2000 each. The remainder of the estate, estimated at from $30,000 to $40,000, is disposed of as follows by the words of the will:
‘After setting aside sufficient funds to pay all legacies herein made, I direct my said trustees to hold all the rest and residue of my estate, real and personal, in special trust for the following purposes, namely:
To pay over, out of the interest and principal of said special trust, a sum of not less than $8000 annually, until the same be all exhausted, to Wendell Phillips, William Lloyd Garrison, Stephen S. Foster, Abby K. Foster, Parker Pillsbury, Henry C. Wright, Francis Jackson and Charles K. Whipple, or their survivors or survivor, for them to use at their discretion, without any responsibility to any one, for the promotion of the Anti-Slavery cause and other reforms-such as Woman's Rights, Non-Resistance, Free Trade and Temperance, at their discretion; and I request said Wendell Phillips, and his said associates, to expend not less than $8000 annually, by the preparation and circulation of books, employing agents, and the delivery of lectures that will, in their judgment, change public opinion and secure the abolition of slavery in the United States, and promote said other reforms. Believing that the chains upon four millions of slaves, with tyrants at one end and hypocrites at the other, has become the strongest bond of the union of the States, I desire said Phillips and his associates to expend said bequest by employing such agents as believe and practise the doctrine of ‘no union with slaveholders,' religiously or politically, and by the circulation of such publications as tend to destroy every pro-slavery institution.
Wendell Phillips, Esq., and George O., Hovey, brother of the deceased, are appointed guardians of his sons, with an express desire that they should ‘all become industrious cultivators of the soil.
Gov. Wise has written a letter of thirty columns, ‘defining his position' on the slavery question. He is for national protection of the institution, and therefore he and his friend Douglas may be held to have parted company. The strength of a kiss, according to Byron, is to be measured by its length; and if the rule be made applicable to letters, Mr. Wise's is the strongest ever written. But it never will be known what its real character is, as no human being ever read it, or ever will read is, What Macauley says of Dr. Nare's Life of Burghley is applicable to the Virgina Governor's letter; ‘such a letter might, before the deluge, have been considered as light reading by Hilpa and Shallum.. But unhappily the life of man is now threescore years and ten: and we cannot but think it somewhat unfair in Gov. Wise to demand of us so large a portion of so short an existence,'-Traveller.
<c06>
AYER'S
PILLS
Are Curing the Sick to an extent never before known of any Medicine.
INVALIDS, READ AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELVES
JULES HAUEL, ESQ., the well-known perfumer, of <illegible> Street, Philadelphia, whose choice products are found at almost only oiled, says, 
"I am happy to say of your CATHARTIC PILIS, that I have found them a better family medicine for <illegible> use than say that within any other benefits my knowledge. Many of my it ends have realized <illegible> benefits from, them, and coincide with me in believing that day
possess extraordinary virtues for driving out disease and curing the sick. They are not only effectual, but safe and pleasant is to be taken-qualities which must make them valued by hte <illegible> the public when they are known."
The venerable Chancellor WARDLAW, write from <illegible>
-15th April, 1854,-
"Dr. J. C. AYER. Sir: I have taken your Pills with <illegible> benefit, for the listlessness, languor, loss of appetite, and <illegible> headache, which has of late years overtaken me in the <illegible> A few doest of your Pills cured me. I have used your <illegible> Pectoral many years in my family for coughs and colds with my failing success. You make medicines which cure, and I <illegible> pleasure to commend you for the good you have <illegible> doing."
JOHN.F. BEATTY, ESQ., Sec. of the Penn, Railroad Co., <illegible> 
"Pa. R. R. Office, Philadelphia, Dec. 13.<illegible> 
"Sir: I take pleasure in adding my testimony to the fickly of your medicines, having derived very material benefit from the out them in my family, nor shall I ever consent to be, while my means will procure them."
The widely renowned S. S. STEVENS, M.D., of <illegible> N. H. writes.-
"Having used your CATHARETIC PILLS in my practice, I <illegible> from experience, that they are an invaluable purgative,<illegible> In cases of disordered functions of the liver, causing headache, <illegible>, costiveness, and the great variety of disease that <illegible> they are a surer remedy than any other. In all cases where a purgative remedy in required, I confidently recommend them Pills to the public, as superior to any other I have ever <illegible> They are sure in their operation, and perfectly safe-<illegible> 
which make them an invaluable article for public use. I have for many years known your Cherry Pectoral as the best <illegible> medicine in the world, and these Pills are in no wise <illegible> that admirable preparation for the treatment of disease.
"Actom. Mc.", Nov. 25. 1853.
"DR. J.C. AYER., Dear Sir : I have been afflicted from my birth with scrotal in its worst form, and now, after twenty year <illegible> and an untold amount of suffering, have been completely cured in a few weeks by your Pills. With what feelings of rejuicing <illegible> I write, can only be imagined when you realize what I have suffered. and how long.
"Never until now have I been free from this loathsome <illegible> in some shape. At times it attacked my eyes, and made <illegible> almost blind, besides the unendurable pain: at others it <illegible> in the scalp of my head, and destroyed my hair, and has kept me partly bald all my days; sometimes it came out in my face, and kept it for months a raw sore.
"About nine weeks ago I commenced taking your Cathartic Pills, and now am entirely free from the complaint. My eyes are well, my skin in fair, and my hair has commenced a <illegible> growth; all of which makes me feel already a new person.
"Hoping this statement may be the means of conveying information that shall do good to others. I am, with every <illegible> of gratitude, Yours, &c,
MARIA RICKER'
"I have known the above-named Maria Ricker from her childhood, and her statement is strictly true.
ANDREW J. MESERTE
Overseer of the Portsmouth Manufacturing Co.
CAPT. JOEL PRATT, of the ship Marion, writes from <illegible> 20th April.
1854,-
"Your Pills have cured me from a bilious attack which <illegible> from derangement of the Liver, which had become very <illegible> 
I had failed of any relief by my Physician, and from <illegible> 
remedy I could try:; but a few doses of your Pills have <illegible> 
restored me to health. I have given them to my children for worms, with the best effects. They were promptly <illegible> I recommended them to a friend for costiveness, which had <illegible> aim for months; he told me in a few days they had curved him You make the best medicine in the world, and I am free is say so" 
Read this from the distinguished Solicitor of the Supreme Court whose brilliant abilities have made him well knows, <illegible> in this but the neighboring States.
"New Orleans, 50th April.1854.
"SIR: I have great satisfaction in assuring you that myself and family have been very much benefited by your medicine My wife was cured, two years since, of a seves and <illegible> cough, by your CHERRY PECTORAL, and since then has enjoined perfect health. My children have several times been cured from
attacks of the Induenza and Croup by it. It is an <illegible> 
remedy for these complaints. Your CATHARTIC PILLS have the
entirely cured me from a dyspepsin and costiveness which have grown upon me for some years: indeed, this care is much more an important, from the fact that I had failed to get relief from the best Physicians which this section of the country affords, and the any of the numerous remedies I had taken.
"You seem to us, Doctor, like a providential <illegible> to our family, and you may well suppose we are not unmindful of it.
Yours respectfully,
'LEAVITT THAXTER'
"Senate Chamber, Ohio, April 15th, 1854.

"DR.J. C. AYER. Honored Sir: I have made a through <illegible> of the CATHARTIC PILLS left me by your agent, and have <illegible> cured by them of the dreadful Rheumatism under which <illegible> he found me suffering. The first does relieved me, and a few <illegible> subsequent doses have entirely removed the disease. I feel in <illegible> health now than for some years before, which I attribute <illegible> to the effects of your CATHARTIC PILLS.
Yours with great respect.,
LUCIUS B. METCALR'
The above are all from persons who are publicly know when they reside, and who would not make these statements without thorough conviction that they were true.
Unprincipled dealers may attempt to put you off with one pills, on which they make more profit. Be not imposed upon by any such counsellors.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. AYER,
Practical and Analytical Chemist, Lowell, Mass.
THEODORE METCALF & CO.,}
BREWER, STEVENS &	 CUSHING,} Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N.H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every were. 6m may7
HUMORS OF THE HUMAN SYSTEM.
It is well known that the juices of the body it governed by natural laws, such as regulate the vegetable life in the change of seasons. In winter, they are congealed, or in common <illegible> , the ‘sap is down,' the pores are closed, and <illegible> whole body is hard and firm, and an accumulation of impurities takes place in our system.
The genial influences of Spring cause an <illegible> of all living matter, the sap rises in vegetable life also the juices of our bodies are given out and 
enter into the common circulation. 
This is a law to which every human being is subject, and the neglect of it has caused a whole summer of misery.
Now is the time to apply a remedy that clearness and searches every fibre and pore, and <illegible> every particle and sediment of humor that has hid stagnant during the winter.
Kennedy's Medical Discovery is well known to our readers as the greatest and best Blood Purifier the world has ever produced.
We advise each and all of our readers to use <illegible> bottle of it this Spring; we say one bottle, for that wilt cure the impurities of one season, and propose the system for the changes of the next.
Where the disease has fastened itself and become settled in the system, larger quantities are required. 
For Scrofula, Erysipelas, Salt Rheum, Scald Head, White Scales, Shingles, Pushes, Ulcerated Sore Legs, Humor in the Eyes, Running of the Ears from Scarlet Fever or Measles, the Medical Discovery can be relied upon to effect a perfect cure.
May 13.
WORCESTER WATER-CURE
DR. SETH ROGERS, being about to return from Paris, where he has spent several months in medical observations, will resume, after July 1. 1859, the medical superintendence of this Institution May 27. 3m.
THE PHRENLOGICAL JOURNAL
FOR MAY.
CONTAINS portraits of Dr. W. A. Alcott, D.R. Simmons, M. D., and Robert Allyn; Letter to a Dyspeptic; Organization, Life, and Mind; Remarkable Retribution; Self Esteem;: Practical <illegible> Self-Reliance Longevity among English Quakers; Importance of Sleep; Formation of Opinions; Woman.
Young men, and others, who would ’Rise in the World,’ and make the most of themselves, should read this Journal. Only $1 a year. Address FOWLER & WELLS, No. 308 Broadway, New York, or 42 Washington street,. Boston.
J. R. ANDREWS,
Gilder, and Picture Frame
MANUFACTORY,
No. 31/2 BEACH STREET,
(Near Washington Street,) BOSTON.
PICTURE FRAMES made of every variety, plan and ornamental, for Oil Paintings, Engravings and Photographs.
Gilding, in all its branches, executed with nearness and despatch.
Oil Paintings cleaned and varnished.
Old Frames handsomely re-gilt. A28 6w'
IMPROVEMENT IN CHAMPOOING AND HAIR-DYEING.
MADAM BANNISTER (formerly Madam <illegible> would inform her kind and liberal patron and the public, that she has removed to 323 Washington St., and 20 West st.; where will be found her Restorative, the most celebrated in the world, as it prevents hair from turning gray, and produces new in all diseases of the scalp. She stands second to none in Hair-Dyeing and Champooing. Ladies waited on at their residences, either, in of our of town.
Hair dressed in the latest style. She can refer to the first people in the cities of Boston, Providence, Worcester, and elsewhere. Come and try for your-
selves. October 8.
