THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNIMG,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance. 
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent 
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania; Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WEXDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMAND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. JERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 49. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1765.
<c01>
Selections.
SLAVERY AND REBELLION ONE AND INSEPARABLE.
[We give the second portion of Mr. Sumner's Argument as the reconstruction of the Union in his admirable Speech at New York, Nov. 5, 1864:]-
Surrender by acknowledging Slavery.
II. I have said enough of surrender by the recognition of the slave States, or, in other words, of the Slave Power out of the Union. It remains now that I should ask your attention to that other form of surrender which proposes the recognition of the Slave Power in the Union. Each is surrender. The first, as we have already seen, abandons a part of the Union to the Slave Power; the other subjects the whole Union to the Slave Power.
It is proposed that the rebel States should be tempted to lay down their arras by a recognition of slavery in the Union, with new guarantees and assurances of protection. Slavery cannot exist in any country which it does not govern. Therefore, we are to ask the rebel slave-masters to come back, and consent to govern us. Such, in plain terms, is the surrender proposed. For one, I will never consent to any such intolerable rule.
But the whole proposition is not less pernicious than that other form of surrender; nor is it less shameful. It is insulting to reason, and offensive to good morals.
Impossible, because it is a Compromise.
(1) I say nothing of the ignominy it would bring upon the country; but call attention at once to its character as a Compromise. In the dreary annals of Slavery, it is by Compromise that the slave-masters have succeeded in warding off the blows of Liberty. It was a compromise by which that early condemnation of the slave trade was excluded from the Declaration of Independence; it was a compromise which surrounded the slave trade with protection in the National Constitution; it was a compromise which secured the admission of Missouri as a slave State: and, without stopping to complete the list, it is enough to say that it was a compromise by which the atrocious Fugitive Slave Bill was fastened upon the country, and the Slave Power was installed in the National Government. And now, after the overthrow of the Slave Power at the ballot-box, followed by years of cruel war, another compromise, greatest of all, is proposed, by which belligerent Slavery, dripping with the blood of our murdered fellow-citizens, shall be welcomed to more than its ancient supremacy. Where is national honor that the criminal pettifoggers are not at once repudiated? Where is national virtue that such a surrender should be proposed?
This proposition is as specious in form as baleful in substance. It is said that the rebel slave-masters should have their "rights under the Constitution." To this plausible language is added the phrase, "the Constitution as it is." All this means Slavery, and nothing else. It is for Slavery that men resort to
this odious duplicity. Thank God! the game is understood.
Impossible, because Slavery has fallen, legally and constitutionally.
(2.) But any compromise which shall recognize Slavery in the rebel States is impossible, even if you were disposed to accept it. Slavery, by the very act of rebellion, ceased to exist, legally or constitutionsilly. It ceased to exist according to principles of public law, and also according to a just interpretation of the Constitution; and having once ceased to exist, it cannot be revived.
When I say that it ceased to exist legally, I found myself on an unquestionable principle of public law, that Slavery is a peculiar local institution, without any origin in natural right, and deriving its support exclusively from the local government; but if this be true-and it cannot be denied-then Slavery must have fallen with that local government.
When I say that it ceased to exist constitutionally, I found myself on the principle that Slavery is of such a character that it cannot exist within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Constitution, as for instance in the National territories, and that, therefore, it died constitutionally when, through the disappearance of the local government, it fell within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Constitution.
The consequences of these two principles are most important. Taken in conjunction with the rule, "once free always free," they illustrate the impossibility of any surrender to belligerent Slavery in the Union.
Impossible, on account of Proclamation of Emancipation.
(3.) If, in the zeal of surrender, you reject solemn principles of public law and Constitution, then let me remind you of the Proclamation of Emancipation, where the President, by virtue of the power vested in him as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, ordered that the slaves in the rebel States "are and henceforward shall be free," and the Executive Government, including the military and naval authorities, are pledged to "recognize and maintain the freedom of such persons." By the terms of this instrument, it is applicable to all the slaves in the rebel States; not surely to those within the military lines of the United State, but to all. Even if the President were not bound in simple honesty to maintain this Proclamation to the letter, he has not the power to undo it. He may make a freeman, but he cannot make a slave. Therefore he must reject all surrender, inconsistent with this Act of Emancipation.
It is sometimes said that the Court will set aside the Proclamation. Do not believe it. The Court will do no such thing. It will recognize this act precisely as it recognizes other political and military aces, without presuming to interpose any unconstitutional veto, and it will recognize it to the full extent, as it was intended, accorded to its letter, so that every slave in the rebel States will be free. But even if courts should hesitate, there can be no hesitation with the President or with the country, bound in sacred honor to the freedom of every slave in the rebel States. Therefore, against every effort of surrender, the proclamation presents an insuperable carrier.
Impossible, because it would not bring Peace.
(4.) But if you are willing to descend to the <illegible> degradation of renouncing the Proclamation, then in the name peace do I protest against any such surrender. So long as Slavery exists in the Union, there can be no peace. The fires which seem to be extinguished will only be covered by treacherous ashes, out of which another conflagration may spring to wrap the country in war. This must no be.
It is because Slavery is not understood, that people are willing to tolerate it. See it as it is, and there can be no question. Slavery has in it all common crimes. The slave-master is burglar, for by
<c02>
night he enters forcibly into the house of another; he is highway robber, for he stops another on the road, and compels him to surrender his purse; he is pickpocket, for he picks the pocket of his slave; he is sneak, for there is no pettiness of petty larceny which he does not employ; he is horse-stealer, for he takes from his slave the horse that is his; he is adulterer, for he takes from the slave the wife that is his; he is the receiver of stolen goods on the grandest scale, for the human being that has been stolen from Africa he foolishly calls his own. When I describe a slave-master, it is simply as he describes himself in the law which he sanctions. All crime is in Slavery, and so every criminal is reproduced in the slave-master. And yet it is proposed to give to this whole class not only new license for their crimes, but a new lease of their power. Such a surrender would be only the beginning of long-continued, unutterable troubles, breaking forth in bloodshed and sorrow without end. Impossible, because Slavery is the Rebellion.
(5.) But, lastly, this surrender cannot be made without surrender to the rebellion. Already I have exhibited the identity between Slavery and the Rebellion; and yet it is proposed to recognize Slavery in the Union. Such a recognition will be the recognition of the Rebellion.
The whole thing is impossible, and not to be tolerated. Too much blood has been shed, and too much treasure has been lavished, to allow this war to close with any such national stultification. The Rebellion must be crushed, whether in the guise of war or under the alias of Slavery. It must be trampled out so that it can never show itself again, or prolong itself into another generation. Not to do this completely, is not to do it at all. Others may do as they please, but I wash my hands of this great responsibility., History will not hold such surrender blameless. "An orphan's curse would drag to hell a spirit from on high:" but the orphans of this war must heap their curses heaven-high upon the man who would consent to see its blood and treasure end in naught.
Although the Presidential Election is over, the following letter is worth printing in the Liberator, in order that the personal record of General Butler, in regard to slavery and the rebellion, may be complete.
LETTER FROM GENERAL BUTLER.
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF VIRGINIA AND NORTH CAROLINA, In the Field, Va., Oct. 30, 1864.
Hon. Wm. Claflin, Chairman of the Republican State Committee, Boston, Mass.:
DEAR SIR:-I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your complimentary invitation to address the people of Massachusetts at Faneuil Hall upon the issue of the present canvass, and should be pleased if my duties in the field would permit a visit to my home, to confer with my fellow-citizens upon the great questions which are to be settled at the coming election.
Specially am I desirous to do so because I am fully convinced that the election determines the place of my country among the nations for all coming time; and were it possible, as your Committee are kindly disposed to believe, that anything I might do or say in Massachusetts could influence that result, it would be my duty, laying aside all else, to repair at once to the field where, in my judgment, the whole contest will be decided on the 18th of November.
But in such case if I had such power, I would not go to Massachusetts, for "they that are whole need no physician, but they that are sick," and I cannot believe for a moment that there can be any considerable portions of the citizens of Massachusetts so misled in their judgment, so blinded by their prejudices, so unreasoning in their party ties, and so unpatriotic in the effect of their misjudged action as to sustain by their votes the principles enunciated in the Chicago platform, specially as the canvass differs from every other in this-that the life or death of the nation as a power on earth depends on the action of the hour.
A vote to forget our manhood; to abandon the doctrines of our fathers; to give up the hope of republican liberty forever; to check at once and forever the American nation in its great missionary march of civilization, progress and Christian freedom; to abandon the hopes of millions yet to be, can never be given by Massachusetts, or the country. It is the profoundest conviction of my judgment that such is the effect of the vote demanded by those who seek to establish the principles of the Chicago resolutions.
We are asked to yield all our most cherished convictions, to give up our principles, to stultify our reason, to abandon the graves of our brothers and sons on every battle-field, to proclaim their lives a failure, and their deaths as nought! And for what? To open negotiations with those who refuse to negotiate-to try the not doubtful experiment of meeting with diplomacy those armed to the teeth for a fight-to make friends with those who have declared themselves enemies, and to extend the hand of fellowship and take the hands of those who are seeking with our brothers blood.
This I will never consent to do.
When by repentance and "works meet for repentance" the rebels acknowledge the wrong they have done the country and mankind, and submit to the laws of the country; when they have assumed their constitutional obligations and fulfilled their duties under the constitution, then will be the time for them and their friends to ask for their constitutional rights.
When they come bringing the olive branch of peace, let them be received in peace. When they come with the rifle and the bayonet, let them be received in war.
Thus have I ever read the glorious legend emblazoned on the shield of Massachusetts, "By the sword she seeks calm peace with liberty."
It has been said by the opponents of the government that the army vote would decide this contest. I earnestly and reverently pray God that it may; for if expressed without the intervention of fraud or deceit, it will end the contest by about the same majority over the opponents of the government that will be found of the tare men in the ranks of the army over the skulkers in the day of battle.
In any manner connected with the State issues at home, if there are any, there must be still less use of my being with you.
No one can doubt of the re-election of the present Executive Government of Massachusetts, for I believe no one has over questioned the ability, patties and zealous energy of the present Chief Magistrate. Although differing with him in some matters of policy and expediency, I have never, nor have the people of the Commonwealth ever questioned his fitness for his position, or the ability and integrity with which he has sustained it.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
Your obedient servant,
BENJ. F. BUTLER,
Major General
<c03>
MARYLAND.
"Come in, thou blessed of the Lord."
Maryland is free! free by a fair vote. It was fair to exclude the ballots of outright rebels, and the oath prescribed by the Convention was meant to exclude them. It was fair to let the soldiers who were fighting the battles of the country vote; who dare say it was not? If the old constitution made no direct provision for their vote, it was certainly within the power of a convention appointed directly by the people, for the reconstruction of the fundamental law of the State, to see well to it that the soldier's patriotism should not rob him of his franchise. And the Convention did it. It would have been base and pusillanimous not to do it. The lower counties rolled up wonderful majorities against the constitution, but Baltimore city and the upper counties and the soldiers out-voted them. It was a close contest, hardly and stubbornly fought; but Freedom and the Union have clearly and rightfully won, and the good old State rids herself of the lifelong incubus of slavery.
Such a thing once done, is done forever.-However it may be with small-pox, slavery once medicated out of the constitution of a State never attacks it again; like lightning, it never strikes twice in the same place. The work might have been done more easily and by a greatly increased vote, but such a gain would have been met by a much greater loss. If provision had been made for the compensation of loyal owners of slaves, if the school system had confined education to white children, it the representation of the slave counties in the legislature had not been reduced, multitudes of votes which were cast against the constitution would have been given for it. The Convention was one of reform; nay, of revolution. They went to the bottom of the State's ills. Their aim was to get rid of slavery, and, as the enemies of "the great evil," they were but little inclined to propitiate its lovers and upholders. They were determined not only to destroy it, but to sponge out its marks, and to make a fundamental law suited throughout to the new order. To accomplish this, a readjustment of the ratio representation was necessary; and this took power away from the slave counties, and gave it to Baltimore and to the counties which are populous with whites.
The question thus became one of power as well as of slavery, and the friends of slavery had thus another weapon placed in their hands. Besides, the new free State must, as far as possible, ignore the prejudice against its freed men, and hence the constitution must provide for education, irrespective of color. This gave the Maryland rebels another advantage. "The accursed negro was to be educated," and therefore elevated, and, to the apprehension of a certain class of white people, this was a crime of almost unimaginable dimensions. Now, add to these the total refusal of any sort of compensation, even to the most loyal masters, and you have the forces which the Convention threw in the way of emancipation, that their work might be thorough, and you have at the same time the magnitude and value of the victory.
Maryland is, therefore, thoroughly free; the work has been done from the very root. The State whose old constitution contained a clause expressly forbidding the legislature to "abolish the relation of master and slave;" the State which in 1859, under the lead of the immortal Jacobs, earnestly discussed the question of re-enslaving the free blacks, and which, under the same inglorious leadership, allowed several counties to vote upon the question of expelling these free people from their borders, has turned upon the dragon and slaughtered him. Instead of re-enslaving the free, she has loosed every bond; instead of driving the black man out, she has provided a system of education which embraces him without invidiously naming him; instead of securing his master the right of property in him, she frees him, and refuses to give compensation.
The war for the Union has brought its evils. Homes and hearts have been desolated without stint, wealth has been sacrificed, but whatever other States may have suffered, Maryland has gained incalculably. The rebellion meant to secure and advance slavery, and yet, by its aid, Maryland rends her fetters. What ages of peace would have been required to accomplish, the rebellion, sorely against its will, effects in a few months. In the very heart of the nation, her vacant lands stood asking for culture and population, her marshes for draining, her mountains to be relieved of their wealth of minerals, her bays and rivers and creeks of their abundant supplies of fish and oysters. "Remove from your soil that black and dishonoring cloud of slavery," said the waiting emigrants, "and we come." "That," said the aristocrat, "is our glory; the proof of our blood, the test of our nobility; and our State shall become a wilderness sooner than we will come down, and mingle with the slave less and rabble mass." But the war raised a counter cloud, whose gusts of power and freedom have swept the other from the whole sky, and made her rich and prosperous in her own despite.
The immigrant already contemplates an assault. The hedges of caste and prejudice that slavery had built up around Maryland are all down. The doors and gaps on all sides are open wide for the coming population. Baltimore will take a position worthy of the noble majority she has just cast for freedom. Cumberland will send before long a thousand tons of coal to one of her present trade. The Patapsco will be, like the Hudson, covered with villas and villages and gardens, down to where she pours her tide into the noble Chesapeake. The Chesapeake, several times as large as the bay of New York and quite as beautiful, shall rival it in fame, and its tributaries, now almost unknown, shall become famous in song and in story. And who can tell what may be the fortunes of sparsely populated lower counties? Their population, stimulated by the tone of freedom and elbowed by Northern enterprise, may soon wake up to the wealth of land and water around them, and yield to the voices which invite them to thrifty labor. The towns of that lower country may grow to respectable dimensions. Even Port Tobacco and Upper Marlborough may yet become villages, and Annapolis may grow to be more than a capital; it may reach the dignity of a city.
We hail Maryland with delight. We say to her as Laban said to Eleazer: "Come in, thou blessed of the Lord!" Come into the circle of the free States; come purified, into a purified Union; come into the spirit of the old Declaration of Independence; come, beyond the possibility of faltering, into the great conflict for the Union; come into the glorious competition of free labor, of free science; come into the world-group of liberal thinkers and noble actors and tyranny haters; come in, and call your true children with you. Let us have a song. Your new birth has stirred all the pulses of rhythm in the national heart. "What shall be the song?" say you. We answer, your own-the Star-Spangled Banner. We give it our. Now sing! Sing lustily! Let the whole choir sing, and the congregation of the nation join!-N. Y. Methodist.
<c04>
THE LIBERAL SPIRIT OF THE NORTH.
It is one of the many curious contrasts which our civil war has brought into distinct relief, that while the South, professing to be composed of high-minded, chivalric, refined and well-educated gentlemen, has exhibited a thoroughly savage, cruel and malignant spirit, the North, which is made up so largely of the mere industrial classes, is animated by the most kindly and gentle sentiments towards its opponents. From the beginning of the war, from the time of the rout at Bull Run, where, according to a Committee of the Senate, the most disgusting barbarities were perpetrated upon our dead and wounded, up to this hour, in which the re-election of Mr. Lincoln provokes from the Southern journals an almost fetid efflux of ill-will towards him and all our people, we have had occasion to remark upon this violent distinction.
Our readers will recall the many expositions we have had, from returned soldiers and others, of the heartless treatment that has so often been inflicted upon our poor prisoners of war in the various jails, dungeons and camps of the South; and particularly the impressive and almost heart-rending accounts collected by the Sanitary Commission; and lately published in a pamphlet. It is true that Jefferson Davis and his Secretary of War, in their late messages to the Confederate conclave at Richmond, accuse our authorities of neglect and severity in their treatment of Southern prisoners, but this we know to be untrue; we have the evidence before our eyes; and it is in the power of any respectable inquirer to verify the facts for himself-to learn, as he may easily do, that the unfortunate captives from the rebels are housed, clothed, fed and disciplined with as much humanity as was ever before extended to persons in their condition. In fact, we believe that a more generous spirit animates us in this respect than was ever shown by any other nation.
It is no self-flattery to say that in all other respects the North has evinced the greatest magnanimity throughout the war. When the Richmond journals cry out, as they now do, commenting on the recent election, that we are bent on purposes of ruthless strife and desolation, that we "have vowed to destroy them, to ravage their fields, to burn their houses, to beggar their children, and brand their names with infamy forever," they do it in order to "fire the Southern heart," not because they believe it. Our purpose is to assert the supremacy of the constitution and the laws against armed violence, and to maintain the national integrity at all hazards; and in order to reach these ends we shall use the strongest and sternest of military measures; but there is in this no animosity towards the South, no bitterness of dislike growing out of our ancient intercourse, and least of all a feeling of revenge for any wrongs, real or imaginary, it may have inflicted upon us. We are impelled solely by the determination to vindicate the majesty of the government, and to put down the fatal and wretched experiment of rising in arms against a popular vote. On that line we mean to fight it out if it takes, not only all the summer, but all the years. Further than that, however, we have no designs.
Our people are entirely conscious of their liberal feelings in regard to the deluded masses engaged in the war; but it will give them none the less pleasure to mark how distinctly disinterested and observant strangers have been impressed by this characteristic. One of the finest passages in the graceful address of Professor Goldwin Smith of Oxford, at the Union League Club, which we published in full yesterday, was this:
"I would, too, that the English people could witness as I witness the spirit of humanity which retains its power over all the passions of civil war, not-withstanding the greatest provocations; and the absence, which has most forcibly struck me during my residence here, of any blood-thirsty sentiment or any feeling of malignant hatred towards those who are now your antagonists in a civil war, but whom, when they shall have submitted to the law, you will again eagerly welcome as fellow-citizens, and receive back into the full communion of the free. Many a prejudice, many an error would be dispelled, many a harsh judgment would be cancelled, many a bitter word recalled, if only my countrymen could behold with their own eyes what I have beheld and now behold."
What is here said of the English public is no less applicable to the Southern public; but the leaders, alas! will not suffer the Southern public to know the truth of the matter.
No man in this war has occupied a more extreme position than General Butler; he has been vilified at the South with a more reckless and atrocious contumely than any other prominent person; and there are circles here at the North in which he is supposed to be a savage and cruel soldier, consumed with black passions and thirsting for blood; and yet in his speech at the Fifth Avenue Hotel last night, he proclaimed that our first duty now towards the South was to hold out the olive branch. He did not mean that the sword should be at once sheathed, or the slightest reconciliation impair the energies of war, but that the amplest opportunity for reconstruction, return, adjustment, in short, for every overture and work of peace, should be afforded to those who had broken away from the old ties; who, in a fit of madness, had cast off their inheritance, abandoned the wise methods of their fathers, set fire to the paternal home, and insanely sought the embraces of distant but designing and ambitious strangers. Let them come back, and we will forgive their folly, and welcome them as the Prodigal Son was welcomed. That is the spirit of the people towards all, except the guilty deluders of the South in their awful game of bloodshed and crime.-N. Y. Post.

THE PEOPLE TO ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
There is no mistaking the verdict of the people last Tuesday. They did infinitely more than reelect Mr. Lincoln. They proclaimed radical war against the rebellion-against not only the trunk and branches, but the roots of the fell crime. The Union sentiment of the country is hearty and intense. The strong and great soul of the nation is all in it. Not opinion, however unanimous and clear; not self-interest, however potent, but rapt devotion to country, has just spoken at the ballot-box. The mighty spirit of a great people engaged in a terrible and terribly protracted war can make no subtly false distinction. It can tolerate no special pleadings. It deals, and will deal, only with the naked fact as it stands plain to view, despite all the clouds of sophistry that bad men can raise around it.
Slavery made the war. It made it, not as a thinking and accountable personality, but as, in the nature of things, the efficient cause. Its guilt-so to speak-consists not in causing war, but in making atrocious war, and the war is atrocious solely because slavery made it in its own behalf, itself being a crime. It slavery be right, the rebellion is right. All the wickedness of the rebellion it takes from slavery. Yet the wickedness of slavery ap-
<c05>
pears in the rebellion, which is a terrible and truthful illustration of that wickedness. Justice never could appeal from the ballot-box to the sword. But, on the absurd supposition that she was forced so to appeal, then would popular government be a failure, and her appeal would be just. If the rebellion is right, it must so be because slavery is right and the rule of the people wrong. The identity of the Union cause with popular government, with the life of the Republic, and with the spirit of liberty, is perfect. The identity of the rebellion with armed hostility to popular government, with mortal enmity to the life of the Republic, and with the spirit of slavery, is as perfect. The popular intelligence and instinct has grasped the fact, forced upon its attention in a thousand modes, and has refused to accept any false interpretation or be diverted by any ingenious disguising of the fact. The fact is that slavery is substantially the rebellion, and the rebellion slavery. They are one. The treason has come from nothing except slavery, and was always latent in it.
The argument has all been heard. The decision is in. Abraham Lincoln is commissioned, even if he were not before, to execute the rebellion root and branch. At Baltimore the people declared this the duty to be done. In his response he avowed his readiness to perform the duty. It is now laid upon him. He had need be of stern stuff to stand unthinkingly up to the very task he has invited. Will he shrink from it? We pray that he may not. The people have chosen him in faith that he will not. They demand that he do not.-Missouri Democrat.

HOW DO WE VOTE FOR PRESIDENT?
Every Presidential election revives to some extent the discussion, or at least the apprehension, of the anti-Republican absurdities of our mode of choosing the highest officers of the Government. We profess to choose our rulers by the voices of a majority of electors; but the facts are quite different. We interpose between the voter and his choice a cumbrous machine, called the Electoral College-a machine in fact, according to later usage; and if a machine, of what possible use can it be? We go through the forms of executing a power of attorney to have done what we could do in a hundredth part of the time ourselves, and, of course, far more satisfactorily.
Let us see how this machinery works. Were the electors equal in number only to the members of the House of Representatives, the case would not, be so bad; were they thus apportioned and elected as Members of Congress are, singly, there would be a vast improvement. But we add for each state two senatorial or electors at large, thus directly invading the representative system, and giving the smallest states the greatest proportion of power. For instance: In 1860, there were fifteen states-Oregon, Florida, Delaware, Kansas, Rhode Island, Minnesota, South Carolina, Vermont, Arkansas, New Hampshire, Mississippi, Louisiana, California, Texas, and Connecticut-having a white population of 3,872,761, only 40,000 more than the single state of New York. These fifteen states were entitled to 42 members of the House of Representatives, while New York had but 31-the balance being made up by slave representation. This vast disproportion is bad enough, one would naturally say; but look at the electoral power. The fifteen states named would cast 42 votes for their representatives and 30 for their senators, making 72 votes, or nearly one-third of the whole number in the country; while New York, with nearly as much population, must be content with 33 votes. If anything could be more absurdly anti-democratic, it would be the contingency (which might easily happen) in which these 15 states should be carried by small majorities, or even pluralities, while the state of New York might vote solid the other way. For instance: The 15 states respectively choose McClellan electors by say 100 majority in each state, on an aggregate vote of 700,000; that would give McClellan 351,500 votes, to 347,500 for Lincoln. Now suppose Lincoln gets all the votes of New York-say 700,000; he would have in the 16 states 1,047,500 votes to 351,500 for McClellan, a Union majority of 696, 000. But in the Electoral College, Lincoln gets but 33 votes, while McClellan gets 72-exactly reversing the decision of the people. And this is effected by allowing senatorial electors mainly, and in part by choosing them in lumps rather than on a general ticket.
The reader may imagine that this is the worst phase of an absurd system: but it is not. The provision for electing a President in Congress, in case the Electoral College makes no decision, is even more undemocratic and absurd than what we have just described. Should the election devolve upon the House of Representatives, each state is to have but one vote (to be decided among its members), and a majority of such votes or state shall elect. For example: In 1860, six states-New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Illinois, Indiana, and Massachusetts-contained 13,000,000, or half the white population of the Union, and were entitled to 108 representatives and 120 electoral votes. There were six other states-Oregon, Florida, Delaware, Kansas, Rhode Island, and Minnesota-having 672,000 white people, with 8 representatives in Congress and 20 electoral votes. Yet these petty states, in a vote for President of the United States in the House of Representatives, have exactly the same voice as the six great states above named. The 671,000 people scattered here and there in the western wilderness vote down thirteen millions of other people; and, to carry out the illustration on this line, we may select 17 states, having but 53 representatives and but 87 votes in the Electoral College, with less than 5,000,000 of white population, that would elect a President in spite of the fifteen other states, having (in 1860) 188 members in Congress, 218 electoral votes, and 21,000,000 of free white population.
We have based these calculations upon the Congress of 1860, rejecting the three-fifth slave representation, and assuming that all the white people of the country north and south might be interested in a Presidential election-as they may be at no distant day. We profess to have a republican form of government. But what sort of republicanism is that in which not only property votes, but where there are a dozen standards of qualifications for electors, where immense majorities are neutralized by state lines, and where one fortieth of the voters can impose their candidates and their policy upon the other thirty-nine fortieths, and all in strict accordance with the laws of the land?
We must vote directly for President. To say nothing of the absurdities above exposed, what guaranty have the people that the electors will fulfill their expectations? What is there now to prevent the men just chosen from electing Vallandigham or Jeff Davis, instead of Abraham Lincoln? They are sovereigns in their functions-they are human; they are not likely to do anything of the sort-but what if they should? There is no law to punish them, no tribunal save the irresponsible people, where they could be arraigned. We repeat
<c06>
that direct voting by the people is not duly, desirable, but essential. We want the qualifications for voters to be based upon intelligence and good character, and such qualifications to be uniform throughout the nation; and then let every man east a simple ballot for Abraham Lincoln or George B. McClellan, as his judgment may dictate. Let every vote count direct; let every ballot, after one canvass, be taken up to Washington under seal, and if there is doubt concerning the result, re-canvass them there, and make a bonfire of them in honor of the successful candidate.
The next Congress will, in all probability, undertake to amend the constitution so as to abolish slavery. Let it also reform this absurd system of choosing our chief magistrate-a system under which, as we have shown, an insignificant minority of the people may rule and ruin the nation.-N. Y. Independent.

BROWNLOW ON PRENTICE.
A STINGING REVIEW OF FAMILY HISTORY-PRENTICEANA PERFORATED.
[From the Knoxville Whig.]
To George D. Prentice:
Since the opening of the Presidential campaign, I have been repeatedly assailed through your paper, either editorially or by such dismissed officers and humbugs as Wolford. I have never replied, either to your editorial attacks, or the attacks of different correspondents. I have felt assured that you desired to make some little capital for your Constitutional-Conservative-States-Rights-Pewee-on-any-terms ticket, and it has gratified me a little to know that my blows have been felt somewhere. In noticing your attacks at this late day, it will be apparent to all that I address myself to you, and not to the odds and ends of all God's creation, who compose the newly-organized party of Democrats and traitors with whom you are associated.
In your paper of the 30th October, you state, editorially. that "Brownlow, having received office from Lincoln, he now declares his approbation, as we understand, of all that Lincoln has done, and all that he may hereafter do. Every such man has his price."
This, Mr. Prentice, is a direct charge of bribery and corruption, and needs to be ventilated by a statement of facts, after which I propose to contrast my record with yours, and to take a brief view of the relations your family and mine sustain to this rebellion.
I hold an office in the Treasury Department, which was conferred upon me by Mr. Chase without my seeking it, or any friend applying for me. The pay is not equal to the labor performed, and at no time has paid the board of my small family, with my two sons in the army. I have retained the position because I desired to serve my friends in East Tennessee, and to unite with them in restricting the benefits of trade to the loyal men of the country.
During the first eighteen months of the war, you associated with others, held office under Lincoln, or, if you please, were mixed up with contracts; and when I fast saw you, in Nashville, summer was a year ago, you was staving and puffing along, to and from the front, moving heaven and earth to secure some big contracts to supply the army of the Cumberland, and writing the most sickening and flattering notices of Gen. Rescans, in the hope of winning upon him and his officials. But all your flattery failed, and all the letters yon presented failed to secure for you the contracts you sought; and thus refusing to give you your "price," you bolted from the support of Lincoln's administration. While you were interested in contracts under the Government, you was as good a Lincoln man as I was.
To be candid with you, Mr. Prentice, you figured badly in your scramble after contracts and clamor for extra privileges-others, associated with you, and making a tool of you, and using your position as a journalist, to worm themselves into positions where they could swindle the Government. Indeed, I heard the remark made by men who had always been your admirers, that it was humiliating, nay, mortifying and disgraceful, to see a poor old man, in his dotage, and under the influence of liquor and an inordinate love of money, in such a drive as you were in, going and coming to Rosecrans' headquarters, and calling at the St. Cloud Hotel, Nashville, to muster up additional backers.
While I was North, after I had spoken extensively, and my speeches were reported equally extensively, and I was made to say to the world what I really did say-that I endorsed Lincoln's entire war policy, and the putting down of the rebellion even at the cost of exterminating the Southern population-you wrote to me, and proposed to join, me in partnership in starting a new Union paper in Nashville-an offer I politely declined. It is due to you to state that, at that time, you were receiving your "price," and my principles were not offensive to you. You are the last man in America to talk about men having their "price," and selling out to Lincoln. 
There is a slight difference in the positions occupied by your family and mine, and, as a necessary consequence, your principles and mine must differ. My wife and little children, after I had been incarcerated for three months and sent oat of the country, were u unceremoniously forced to pack up and vacate their house and home, and go North, at their own expense, upon thirty-six hours' notice, and thus thrown upon my hands North, while my property remained here for the use of the Confederacy. I thought all the time, and still think, that the government ought to have done something more for me than to confer upon me this small office, although I have not expressed this opinion before.
My two sons entered the Federal army, and one of them is now at home on crutches, because of wounds received in leading his regiment of cavalry in a charge upon Wheeler's forces in Middle Tennessee. My other son is in General Gillem's command, and was in the fight when the Great Kentucky horse-thief, Morgan, was killed, under whom and with whom your sons have been fighting against the government upon whose bounty their rebel mother and contract-hinting father are living. One of your sons was killed in Kentucky while on a horse stealing expedition under rebel officers. Your other son is now on trial in Virginia for the murder of a brother rebel by the name of White. Your wife is an avowed rebel, and ought to be sent South by the Federal authorities; and you are but one degree removed from a rebel and a traitor, having completely played out. There is not a true-hearted Union man in your office, unless be some one of the employees. Your paper is no longer Union authority, but is rapidly sinking into disrepute, and meeting with that contempt its treason merits.
With pity for the sorrows of a poor old man, I am, &c.
W. G. BROWNLOW.
November 5, 1864.
NEW CHANGE OF BASE. Gen. McClellan still draws his supplies from New Jersey.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists hare the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS-POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a was power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAD POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
REBEL COMMENT ON SEWARD'S AND BUTLER'S SPEECHES. 
The Richmond Why says, the firm hold which the impression that Lincoln's re-election would be the signal for the whole Southern Confederacy to ground arms and submit without conditions, has taken of the Yankee fancy, is one of the strangest phenomena it has ever heard of, and goes on to criticize the speeches of Mr. Seward and Gen. Butler in the following refined and courteous style:
"Seward goes before others in his credulity He thinks we will not only knock under, but will give up the principle rebels, the ringleaders in this 'unnatural war,' as the defense of our homes is styled by certain politicians.
The Army of Northern Virginia, for example, paralyzed by the tremendous announcement that Abe Lincoln is re-elected, are expected to deliver up, bound hand and foot, that glorious chief who has so often led them to victory, that he may endure the extreme of Yankee vengeance. And to whom is it expected to deliver him? To that flogged, kicked, bastinadoed, disgraced Army of the Potomac, which it has made run so often that it has at last become almost disgraceful to flog it. To that horde of assassins, thieves, and house burners, for which Botany bay would be far too good a home of refuge, and which deserves nothing on earth but the gallows, That 'old flag,' the Yankee buzzard and gridiron, which has witnessed more disgrace than all the banners united that ever floated above the heads of armies, is to witness, at last, this humiliating of the Confederate Army.
Butter seems to be not less firmly convinced of the paralyzing effect which Lincoln's election was destined to have upon the Confederacy than Seward. Butler is a thief in his heart. The first idea that comes across his mind in connection with this anticipated surrender is the rich spoils it will afford. He is for giving the Confederacy a chance, a nominal one, just enough to save appearances for naming a day, not a long day, to allow sufficient time for parts of the Confederacy to be heard, from, but a day six weeks off. He is confident that the time is too short and that the surrender cannot be made, comes the plundering.
All the lands and goods of all the people of the Confederacy are to be taken form them, and to be divided among the Yankees. What an Eldora do, is opened to the avarice of that mighty race! What a source of wealth to Butler himself! We shall hear of Yankee proprietors owning whole counties! Or Yankee merchants and bankers outdoing Rothschild and the Baring. Not a shadow of doubt seems to disturb this beatific vision. Wait, says this arbiter of the fate of nations, until we hear from Sherman. Wait until Sherman has astonished the universe and the rest of the Yankee nation. Then it will be time enough to hold out the sword and the olive branch. Then we will be in time to show 'Our Southern brethren' that though we hate them, we love their property.
'Come back, come back now,' he tell us, 'and quit feeding on husks, and live with us on the fat of the land.' But until we want to associate with felons and outcasts, thieves, robbers, and murderers, we shall, we think, decline the gentle invitation. Husks, after all, though not a very generous diet, will keep us up for a time; and they are at least preferable to all the fat of Yankee land, if we have to live on that in Yankee company. It was kind, perhaps, in Butler to offer us the good things of his country; but he ought not to have had the impudence to offer to sit down with us at the same table."

SECRETARY CHASE IN CINCINNATI.
Secretary Chase spoke recently at Mozart Hall, Cincinnati. We extract a few passages from his speech:
REBELLION NOTHING TO HOPE FOR.
Again: This victory will assure the rebels that they have nothing to hope for from divisions in the loyal States. They "will no longer lay the flattering function to their souls, that, by divisions among us they may conquer. Every rebel officer, civil and military, and every rebel soldier, will have the news of this great victory, and it will take from him one half his strength; while, every Union soldier, having participated themselves in this great decision of the people, hearing the result announced, will feel that they are twice the men they were before. So that while victory divides the rebels' strength, it doubles ours. [Cheers.]
There, is another thing; The news, of this victory is already crossing the great deep, and in a few days it will reach the shores of Europe, and it will put an end to all doubt there. There will be no question hereafter in the British Ministry, whether America is to remain united or be rent asunder. They will feel in their inmost convictions, that a people who could vote and decide as this people has done, cannot be divided in any legitimate object they undertake [Cheers.] The same convictions will be felt in France, and every where there is an unfriendly sentiment to this country. Even our enemies will be obliged to respect the majesty of the people of America. We shall hear no more of intervention. No foreign power will hereafter venture to question either the will or the ability of this people to subdue rebellion.
LINCOLN'S LITTLE PLATFORM.
What else do we gain? We gain the opportunity for Mr. Lincoln to apply in practice that little platform which be made, and which I am going to read to you. It is addressed to you, because "it concerns you, and it is addressed, "To all whom it may concern." It was written about the18th of July which you may remember was a pretty dark time; but the President didn't flinch from what lie thought his duty. You may remember, too, the Chicago platform was being arranged about that time at Niagara, [Cheers,] and that certain gentlemen from Richmond had a part in it. And it was not long after I hat time when there was a council of the so called Sons of Liberty held in Chicago, at which we are told by one Horace Heffron who has become evidence for the Government, and who has been and may now be, State Senator from Indiana, every State but four was represented. This would include seven or eight rebel States. Mr. Lincoln was applied to sanction some terms of peace with rebels, and asked to give safe conduct for these persons to come to us, these rebels who were at Niagara on business very interesting to them. At that time, Mr., Lincoln just said this, and I think it was one of the noblest utterances be ever made:
EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, July 18.
To whom it May Concern:
Any proposition which embraces the restoration of peace, the integrity of the whole Union, AND the abandonment of slavery, and which comes by and with an authority that can control the armies now at war with be United States, will be received and considered by the Executive Government of the United States, and will be met by liberal terms on other substantial and collateral points, and the bearer or bearers thereof will have safe conduct both ways.
A. LINCOLN.
This is a little platform of itself; a little platform with big ideas. What are they? First, peace we all want. Second, the integrity of the Union, Third, freedom for all; the abandonment of slavery. [Applause.]
These are the ideas for which we have been contending, in this campaign for union and freedom, as essential conditions of peace, and the only sure the essential conditions of peace, and the only sure road to Mr. Lincoln said well, "that when these preliminaries are obtained, then we can be liberal, and will be liberal, upon other questions.
I do not know how far that liberality will be carried. I do not think that some of the men who have sinned so deeply against the people, and against the nation, and against God, will be likely to receive much lenity from him. But toward all those who have been drawn into rebellion by the overshadowing influence of the leaders-who have gone into it unwillingly, or even willingly, under mistaken apprehensions-to all except those who have formed, plotted, arranged, carried out this rebellion-to all except these criminals I suppose a liberal spirit may be shown. But upon the essential conditions there can no change. And those conditions are the Union and freedom. The Union, embracing every foot of the old republic. Union under the old flag, floating everywhere, freedom for all men, so that whosesoever the flag shall float, it will float over no master and no slave.[Applause].
This victory, then gives him the opportunity of carrying out that just and liberal platform, and I have no doubt he will do it. I have excited in that when he will fulfill the expectations he has excited in that regard, because I have heard him say that when he has put his foot down, even if it is not in exactly the right place, he did not like to take it up again.
<c02>
GEN. HOOKER ON THE ELECTION WAR DEMOCRACY.
General Hooker was at Toledo on the 10th, making a hurried examination of the harbor for defensive purposes. The Blade says:
On his way from the depot to the tug, he stopped at the Board of Trade rooms to get a chart of the river and bay. As soon as he entered the room, it was filled with citizens, and he was completely flanked. Seeing no way of escape, he surrendered handsomely, in a neat and patriotic little speech. Upon being introduced to the gathering by Harry Chase, Esq., president of the Board of Trade, he spoke substantially as follows:
GENTLEMEN: I am glad to meet you here today. My time and attention are entirely occupied with official duties. I was called from Chicago to Sandusky, and now stop here for a few hurried examinations, and must then pass on.
I said I was glad to meet you. I am specially glad to do so under such favorable auspices. Everything looks brighter for our country. The work which the people accomplished the day before yesterday will do more to put down this rebellion than anything done before. It was the greatest victory of the war. The hopes based upon the Peace party of the North have long been the chief prop of the rebels. They have been struggling along against defeats and difficulties for a long time, in the hope that the Presidential election of 1864 would bring them relief. They well know that armistice and negotiations mean nothing less than separation and dissolution of the Union, and hence their dependence upon the Peace party.
The managers of the Chicago Convention are dangerous men. Ohio sent one who claims to have put into the platform of that convention the declaration that the war was a "failure." That man claims to be a Democrat. I never was anything else than a Democrat, but I repudiate all such as him. He never had a drop of Democratic blood in his veins. I am satisfied, from what I heard in Chicago, that one half of the convention that nominated McClellan might be indicted for treason. The name of Jeff Davis was cheered there oftener than McClellan's. The. Democratic party never failed to stand by its country in time of trial and danger, and never will. The only Democracy now existing in this country was represented at the recent meeting of War Democrats in New York. They spoke my sentiments.
I do not rejoice in this result because I am so much a friend to the President, as I do for the success of the cause he represents, and I would support any man for the sake of that cause.
Gentlemen, I thank you for your kindness on this occasion. I have already said more than I intended to say.

ANDREW JOHNSON'S LATEST SPEECH.
The Vice President elect made a speech at a recent flag-raising in Nashville, in the course of which he said:
"Copperhead papers and speakers at the North had charged him with selfish motives in the course he had pursued. If losing all his negroes, if being robbed of forty thousand dollars in bonds, if sacrificing all that he had to sacrifice was selfishness, then he had been selfish. But the Government had been sustained in all its integrity, and he was more than recompensed. He had always been a democrat, but in its true sense. True democracy meant the elevation of the masses. He was a democrat, but at the same time an aristocrat; but his aristocracy was the aristocracy of labor, the men whose brains and muscle had planned and wrought out those great achievements that had made the laboring classes of America the true chivalry of the world. The men who sneered at' greasy mechanics' and 'small-fisted farmers' as the' mudsills of society,' were the very men who had not brains to conceive or ability to execute a plan. Labor was dignity, dignity was manhood, and manhood was aristocracy. Society was to-day in a chaotic state. The time had come to lay broad and deep the foundation of the new aristocracy, and by the blessing of God and the will of the laboring men it was to be done.
As for emancipation, he could say he was for it. The institution of slavery must go down like all other iniquities, but he was not only for emancipating the black man, but for emancipating and elevating the white men of the country. The democracy had prated of the' Rail-splitter' and the' Boorish Tailor.' He had been a tailor, and was said to have been a good one; he made close fits, did his work well, got it done according to promise, and had the best class of customers, it used to be said that it took nine tailors to make a man. Let them wait a while, and they will learn that it takes more than nine men of their stripe to make a tailor. The' Hail-splitter' and the' Boorish Tailor' might some day have something to-say about the affairs of the country."

ABOLITION!
"Abolition," the howling term with which Democrats have frightened their children to bed, arid with' submission for the last quarter of a century! "What is the use of being afraid of it now, when rebels propose to go into the measure to achieve Independence? They will abolish slavery rather than yield. To dissolve the Union, they will consent to abolition. Cannot all northern men, as the negro is to go free by one or the other parties to the strife, be reconciled to his freedom in a restored government, rather than to his freedom in a dismembered Union? Cannot Northern democrats go abolition for their country when slavites, their former political yoke-fellows, go for it to destroy the government? Will they still hang to slavery, to benefit their party, when assured that the slave-holders care more for independence, which now means escape from the halter, than they do for either the copperhead fraternity, now badly " out in the wet," or their slaves either? They are nearing 
the last gasp with their slave confederacy. Will you prolong their gasping, still blindly striking for what you have undone yourselves, politically, in trying to win for them, or will you let them go on with their dying as fast as possible, that a new and better superstructure may rise upon the old solid foundation of Union and Liberty?
Candid Democrats, you can damn yourselves deeper; you cannot beat back the tide flowing strong and deep for freedom to all men.-Fond du Lac Commonwealth.

ROBERT C. WINTHROP.
If there is one man in the nation who will contemplate with more bitterness than another the result of the election on Tuesday, that man is Robert C. Winthrop. Starting in life with every possible advantage, social and political, he has sacrificed his principles, ruined his last hope of advancement, and sullied his name as a patriot, by the course he has pursued in this Presidential election. Mr. Winthrop was once high in public favor. He commenced life with the most wholesome political views. He stood up for New England ideas well in the House of Representatives at Washington, and nobly in his short term of service in the Senate. Had he followed out consistently the career thus commenced, his would have been one of the most honored names in the State. But Charles Sumner and Henry Wilson crossed his path, and he could not forgive them To gratify personal antipathies, he turned his back on the entire body of Anti-Slavery Whigs, with whom he had acted, and went into alliance with their worst enemies. Gradually, from that moment, he passed out of the public mind. But an opportunity at length came to retrieve his reputation. The war, in its fusing fire of patriotism, melted away the remembrance of old errors. Mr. Winthrop might then have placed himself by the side of Everett, and all his sins would have been forgiven. It is sad for him that the demon of prejudice conquered the good spirit of patriotism. When Butler had led the way, and Gushing and Loring and Heard were preparing to follow, from the ranks of a party which even they had been brought to realize was no longer a place for patriots, Robert C. Winthrop deliberately went over to it, and signalized the event by appearing on a platform with Isaiah Rynders and Fernando Wood. But one thing could then have saved him even in appearance-the success of the men with whom he had allied himself. Instead of success, they have met the most crashing defeat on record. Alas for the once honored name of Winthrop! Alas for the perversity of the man who bears it in the present generation! Mr. Winthrop has lost his last opportunity. He has finally forfeited public respect and confidence, and has gone down politically past the hope of resurrection.-Roxbury Journal.
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1864.
RECONSTRUCTION.
The recent Presidential election has shown that it is the unfaltering determination of the people-no matter at what cost of treasure or blood-to put down the rebellion, and perpetuate the unity of the republic. The steadily advancing triumphs of the Federal arms, and the growing exhaustion of the traitorous Confederacy, demonstrate that the bloody struggle is drawing to a close. There is no doubt, therefore, in a military point of view, as to the final result. The Government will be victorious; every rebellious State will be brought under its authority, to the full constitutional extent; Jeff. Davis and his cabinet, together with the rebel Congress, will have to seek safety in ignominious flight or foreign exile, unless captured, and subjected to the penalty of their flagitious crimes. Then will follow a task as momentous as it will be anomalous-to recreate or reconstruct loyal out of disloyal States, and to admit them into the Union as though they had but just emerged from a territorial condition. For those States having thrown off their allegiance to the General Government, and for a period of four years acted as independently of it as though they were in Europe or Asia, are under general outlawry for high treason, and therefore have forfeited their relationship and terminated their existence as States, within the constitutional meaning of the term. There is no part of the Constitution to which they either can or do appeal for justification or clemency; they repudiate and scornfully trample upon it, in the concrete and in detail; they have ceased to be represented in Congress, and nullified all the old pro-slavery guaranties embodied in the three-fifths slave representation, the fugitive rendition clause, and the governmental duty to interpose, if need be, for the suppression of domestic insurrection. How they can either theoretically or practically be considered within the Union, while waging deadly war against it and violating all its obligations, they have never undertaken to show; of such folly and effrontery they have not been guilty. This monstrous paradox has been left to their Northern pseudo Democratic sympathizers to frame and advocate in their behalf. For themselves, they ask no pardon, acknowledge no criminality, propose no surrender, claim no exemption from any liabilities they have occurred, proclaim eternal hostility. If they are overcome they expect to pay the penalty; and if they succeed, it will be by the recognition of their independence.
Assuming that their subjugation is certain, and not far distant, the conditions on which they may be restored to the Union become a matter of the gravest importance. Whatever distinction, by way of grace or pardon, may be made by the President or by Congress between the rebel leaders and the more or less deluded rank-and file of the rebel army, there must be no consideration extended to the rebel States, as such, whereby they shall be recognized as legitimately organized, or possessing governmental functions They are in a state of misrule, anarchy, chaos, out of which order arid constitutional relations are to be evolved by the fiat of Congress, which alone has the rightful power to determine the fact of the existence of a State. No amnesty of President Lincoln, whether as civil ruler or under the war power, can lawfully transform the rebellious into loyal States. Before they can be in a suitable condition for the political action which must be precedent to their reconstruction the rebellion within their limits must be effectually suppressed, slavery abolished, and the supremacy of the Federal Government acknowledged. It must be for Congress to determine the limitation of military control, even after resistance has ceased; and also at what time, and upon what conditions, a civil government may be organized by the inhabitants-taking special care to guard the ballot-box, so that those who may be still treasonable in spirit and design shall not find access to it; and so that the truly loyal and the emancipated may not come under the State rule of their blood-thirsty enemies. No-other course can give repose or security, or make atonement for the horrible excesses of those revolted portions of the country.
Though the amnesty proclamation of the President, in regard to the reorganizing of loyal State governments in rebel territories, was unquestionably well-intended in the service of freedom, still it was at best only permissive, and evidently to meet a present emergency in the pathway of returning loyalty, without assuming to be absolute or final as against the action of Congress. However it may be interpreted, it cannot contravene the constitutional powers of Congress, nor place in the Union a bona fide State without the sanction of that body. If in Louisiana and Arkansas, State governments have been organized upon the terms prescribed in the amnesty-namely, the abolition of slavery, and the number of persons voting being not less than one-tenth the number of the votes cast in those States at the Presidential election in 1860-and if they have proved to be of local service, nevertheless, they must first receive the sanction of Congress, or give way to some other forms to be prescribed by the national legislature, before being represented in either branch of that assembly. The President was careful to remind those to whom the amnesty was addressed, "that whether members sent to Congress from any State shall be admitted to seats, constitutionally rests exclusively with the respective Houses, AND NOT TO ANY EXTENT WITH THE EXECUTIVE." Let Congress therefore act independently, and up to its full prerogative, and at the same time aim to preserve as much unity of action as possible with the Executive.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY for December contains the following:-The Highland Light, by Henry D. Thoreau; English Authors in Florence, by Miss Kate Field; a Tobacconalian Ode; Halcyon Days, by Caroline Cheesebro; On Translating the Divina Commedia, by H. W. Longfellow; House and Home Papers, XI., by Harriet Beecher Stowe; On the Columbia River, by Fitz Hugh Ludlow; Our Last Day in Dixie, by Edmund Kirke; The Vanishers, by J. G. Whittier; Ice and Esquimaux, by D. A. Wasson; The Process of Sculpture, by Harriet Hosmer; Bryant's Seventieth Birthday, by 0. W. Holmes; Leaves from an Officer's Journal, II., by T. W. Higginson; England and America, by Goldwin Smith; We are a Nation, by J. T. Trowbridge; Reviews and Literary Notices. Ticknor & Fields, Publishers.
THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY, for December, offers the following table of contents;-1. An Army; its Organization and Movements. Fifth Paper. By Lieut. Col. C. W. Tolles, A. Q. M. 2. Aphorisms. By Rev. Asa L. Colton. 3. AEnone. Chapters XVI. and XVII. 4. The Vision. By George B. Peck. 5. The Undivine Comedy. A Polish Drama. Part IV. By Count Sigismund Krasinski. Translated by Martha Walker Cook. 6. Self-Sacrifice. Analect from Richter 7. Shanghai: its Streets, Shops and People. By Henry B. Auchiccloss. 8. On Hearing a Trio. By Mary Freeman Goldbeck. 9. The Ideal Man for Universal Imitation; or, the Sinless Perfection of Jesus. A Positive Reply to Strauss and Renan. 10. Sketches of American Life and Scenery. VI.-To Saranac and Back. By Lucia D. Pychowsks. 11. Tidings of Victory. By C. L.P. 12. The Esthetics of the Root of all Evil. By George P. Upton. 13. Miracles. By Rev. Asa L. Colton. 14. Letter of Hon. R. J. Walker in favor of the Re-election of Abraham Lincoln. 15. Genius. By Richard Bowen. 16. Literary Notices-Editor's Table.
This is a very interesting number.
John F. Trowbridge, Publisher, 50 Greene Street, New York.
<c04>
LETTER FROM M. D. CONWAY.
28 NOTTING HILL SQUARE, BAYSWATER, LONDON W.
To the Editor of the National Anti Slavery Standard:
I have only to-day (Oct. 13) seen your reply to my letter about the black Sergeant and other matters, published in your issue of Aug. 27. This was on account of absence from London. Even if it were not too late to make a discussion useful, I would not care to prolong it. Mr. Garrison and those who agree with him have doubtless by this time seen the accomplishment of their object; and time will show whether they were wise or otherwise. But there are two points I am compelled to notice in your reply.
1. You say; "Mr. Conway appears to have a very inadequate idea of the nature of his mistakes in the correspondence with Mason." "Want of deference for diplomatic forms and proprieties was of little consequence compared with the lack of deference for truth which he exhibited when he deliberately wrote these words; I have authority to make the following proposition' (a proposition, viz; that if the Confederate States would abolish slavery, the Abolitionists would immediately oppose the prosecution of the war for the restoration of the Union) on behalf of the leading anti-slavery men of America, who have sent me to this country (England.)" "Now, (you say,) in the first place, it was not true that the leading anti-slavery men of America sent Mr. Conway to England; and in the next place, they had not authorized him to make any proposition whatever to Mr. Mason."
Permit me, in reply, to say that the Editor of the Standard appears to have a very inadequate idea of what he is talking about in writing thus. The leading anti-slavery men of America did send me to England, paying my expenses hither, and giving me such introductions as would secure my representing the American cause before English audiences. Wendell Phillips first proposed the trip to me, and Mr. Garrison at once sanctioned it, and with some twenty letters of introduction gave me much instruction and advice as to how I should work, attending me to the station as I was departing. If I misrepresented the opinions of Mr. Garrison and other leading Abolitionists, in saying that they would not support the war apart from the question of Freedom-that if the slaves were all free, they would not approve the slaughter of human beings for mere empire-why will not some of them come out and say that he would support the war were emancipation not at all so involved? If they-the leading Abolitionists-will not say that, it proves that I interpreted them rightly; that I correctly represented in my letter the motives with which they support the war, and commend it to anti slavery Englishmen. If they will come out and say that they would support the war were the freedom of no slave involved, I will then acknowledge my mistake, and try to show sufficient reasons for my making that mistake. Until then, I affirm that I had authority to declare, on behalf of "the leading Abolitionists who sent me here," that their support was given to this war only because it is a war of emancipation. Then you say that, "in the next place," they had not authorized me to make any proposition whatever to Mr. Mason. The terms of my letter do not assume that I had authority to make that proposition to Mason. The form in which I made it-the person to whom I made it-were of my own choice and on my own responsibility. I had again and again said in public addresses, that the South had only to abolish slavery to disarm Abolition support of the war, long before I wrote to Mason-a proposition I had authority to make. I asked you if you would support this carnage for a less principle; you refused to reply, calling it "hypothetical." It is not hypothetical to me, for it involves the question whether you have justly branded me with falsification; you are bound to reply, or else retract the charge that I made an unauthorized statement of the motives of Abolitionists in sustaining this war. In this connection, let me remind you that among all the criticisms made by Abolitionists in America on that correspondence, I have heard of no repudiation of the principle, but only of its being embodied in a proposition to the rebel Envoy-and that Mr. Phillips (who doesn't evade plain questions) earnestly and publicly endorsed that principle, without rebuke from the leading Abolitionists on the platform by his side.
2. I must protest against what is implied in the following; "In this he illustrates the spirit and practice of his school-a spirit alike narrow, censorious, into erant and divisive-a spirit which makes no allowance for honest differences of opinion, which gives an inch the importance of a mile, makes a mountain of every molehill, gives to that which is incidental and temporary the attention due only to what is primary and fundamental, and holds dissent from the blinds extravagancies of speech and action tantamount to betrayal of the cause." I protest that it is simply absurd to represent the difference between those Abolitionists who supported and those who opposed Mr. Lincoln's reelection as superficial and not fundamental Mr. Lincoln was opposed because he was deemed faith less to the cause of Freedom in its very ordeal. Is a molehill to have over a half million of men and women, legally free, held in serfdom with danger of re-enslavement for a year, or for one day? Does Col. McKaye's report tell of only "an inch" of wrong done under Banks, which Mr. Lincoln might have prevented (and has not) by a word? "Incidental and temporary;" The compromisers who made the Constitution so declared servitude in the South, and the slave trade-but we know how incidental and temporary they turned out to be. Those negroes of New Orleans are now held by Gen. Banks as a fund from which Mr. Seward may presently wish to help buy back the old Union. He can easily throw the odium of the work on the Supreme Court. Then perhaps you will acknowledge that the policy which so retained them in danger, instead of letting them go though they starved when restoration to slavery would have been impossible, was a fundamental wrong. It was but the delay of six hours on the part of Earl Russell that resulted in all the depredations of the Alabama. I trust and pray that it may turn out that these fears are groundless, though there seems to me a heavy cloud for the anti slavery cause ahead; but it is absurd to say that it is a light question-and not fundamental-whether in this tremendous crisis the helm shall be given to a friend or foe of immediate and entire emancipation. If-and here I bow to the justice of your indictment-I voted for Mr. Lincoln, I surely ought to try my best to undo the wrong I then did.
Yours, truly,
M. D. CONWAY.
REMARKS. We give Mr. Conway the benefit of the publication of his defensory letter to the Editor of the Anti-Slavery Standard, though not requested to copy it. Its confident assertions excite our astonishment, and his persistency makes any palliation of his conduct difficult even for the broadest charity.
In his absurd and ill-judged letter to the Confederate traitor, J. M. Mason, last year, he explicitly declared-"I have AUTHORITY to make the following proposition on behalf of the leading Anti-Slavery men of America, WHO HAVE SENT ME to this country." That proposition was, that the Confederate States should abolish slavery; in which case Mr. Conway pledged the Abolitionists of the North, that they would "immediately oppose the prosecution of the war on the part of the United States Government," and induce "the immediate withdrawal of every kind of support from it."
How this extraordinary announcement was regarded by the Abolitionists, as soon as it was received, may be seen by reading the following preamble and resolution, unanimously adopted by the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society;-
"Whereas, the public may infer from his statement, that Mr. Conway represents or is authorized to speak for the Abolitionists of this country, we deem it our duty to declare that he has no authority from this Society, nor, as we believe, from any member of it, or any sympathizer with it, to make any such offer-or, indeed, to enter into any conference with any one on national affairs, and that his visit to England, as far as we can learn, was entirely of his own motion, and that
<c05>
he was neither sent by the Abolitionists, nor is in any sense their agent. And while we have not the slightest doubt of Mr. Conway's zealous intentions a serve cause of impartial liberty, at home and abroad while we esteem hint for what he has said and done so heroically and effectively in behalf of the millions in bondage, to his own outlawry from his native State,-and believe the sole object of his correspondence with Mr. Mason was to unmask more clearly to the people of Europe the slaveholding designs of the Confederate States as the only ground and motive of their rebellion,-we, nevertheless, utterly repudiate his action in this particular as ill-judged and unwarrantable; deeming our Government wholly in the right in this struggle, and its success the best hope for all races and all interests on this continent; and regarding any other overture to the Confederate States, except that of immediate and unconditional submission, to be equally uncalled for and mischievous."
Also, by the following resolutions, unanimously adopted at an immense mass meeting of the Abolitionists of Massachusetts, held at Framingham on the 4th of July, 1863:-
"Resolved, That this assembly of anti-slavery men and women, gathered from every "part of New England, repudiates the act of Mr. M. D. Conway, is seeking any negotiation, with James F. Mason, of "Virginia, father of the Fugitive Slave Law, and now agent in England of slavery and the rebellion; and we declare that in this whole matter he entirely misunderstands and misrepresents the anti-slavery people and sentiment of America.
Resolved, That neither as Americans nor as Abolitionists, in both of which characters we stand openly before the world without compromise or concealment of any principle or purpose, we will never consent that Peace shall be asked of Jefferson Davis, or of any of his slave-breeding associates; and we earnestly hope our Government will never stop to treat with them in any other character than that of rebels, traitors and murderers."
Notwithstanding these emphatic denials and disclaimers, UNANIMOUSLY recorded, Mr. Conway has the assurance to reiterate that his untruthful declaration to Mr. Mason was based upon verity! And how does he attempt to make out his case? First, by saying that "Wendell Phillips first proposed the trip to me." Whether he did or not, Mr. Phillips assented to the resolutions we have already quoted. Suppose he did make the proposal, what then? To suggest to a friend a trip to England is one thing; to clothe him with official authority to make any kind of overtures to the rebel Mason, or to any other rebel, in behalf of himself personally or of the Abolitionists generally, is quite another. If Mr. Phillips did the first, (and we know not whether he did,) he certainly did not the second; nor was it dreamed of by any one that Mr. Conway would act in this unjustifiable manner.
Secondly, Mr. Conway pleads that we gave him sundry letters of introduction to Anti-Slavery friends in England. We certainly did so, at his request, and as a matter of good-will, thinking that as a Virginian, the son of a slaveholder, familiar with the workings of slavery from his childhood, and ostracised from his native State for his abolition sentiments, he might be very serviceable as a competent witness to the cause of freedom and humanity abroad; and especially in exposing the true character and diabolical designs of the leaders of the rebellion. He says that we gave him much instruction and advice as to how he should work. We sorely regret that he did not follow our friendly and well-considered counsel. He "sent" himself to England, and made personal appeals far and near to procure the means to defray his expenses-and that is the whole of it. Commenting upon his letter, an esteemed friend in Philadelphia, in a private note, writes to us as follows:-
"Mr. Conway insists that he 'was sent' to England. Now, the less he has to say on this point, the better. It was a pardonable euphemism in him at first, when speaking of this subject he put himself in the passive voice; but when he comes to treat it as a matter of fact, and to argue from it other things not less questionable as matters of fact, it is time for those who wish him well to suggest a caveat. If Mr. 'D. R.,' his newly converted friend-who some months ago thought that black was not white, but now on reflection, looking at the thing from another point of view, inclines to an opposite opinion-were as wise as he is zealous, he would let this part of Mr. Conway's history pass into oblivion.
Mr. Conway's mission-rhetorically so called-has a private as well as a public history. I happen to be one of those who know who was most earnest in urging the importance of this mission; and I happen also to he one of those who know who was most persistent in raising funds to defray the expense of this mission. I therefore say to Mr. Conway and his friends, the less said on this point of being 'sent,' the better."

A CHEERING WORD FROM A PROMINENT FRIEND OF OUR CAUSE IN ENGLAND.
41 DORSET STREET, HULME, MANCHESTER, (England,) Nov. 9, 1864.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, ESQ.;
MY DEAR SIR-By this date I hope the people have declared, by an unmistakable majority, that the Constitution shall be so amended as to preclude forever the possibility of slavery cursing your land again. I rest content that it is so, for my conviction, come to by patient and incessant study of their character, is very settled on that point. I am, nevertheless, impatient to hear the glad tidings, and I know all the friends of America are also waiting anxiously for the mail that shall gladden the heart and raise the cheers of a multitude on this side of the Atlantic.
The course you have taken in the Presidential contest has given great satisfaction to all your friends here, and, for one, I feel that it has been a crown of honor to your long career of suffering, watching, teaching, and faith. The mistaken view of some of your friends, and their withdrawal of support from the Liberator, only caused more to come into the ranks than you expected, and the vacant places to be supplied by new names, hut old and earnest friends. They will live to regret their position, and to honor yours.
Here, as the day approached for election, all the engines of the Slave Power were pouring their bitter streams on the public mind, trying to engender hatred, disgust and enmity towards the patriotic freemen of the States. Your people could afford to treat with contempt the adversaries of freedom, and we have likewise allowed them to have their way, keeping steadily and consistently ours. The administration most suited to the crisis being secured, and their course settled by the people, the way is clear for the future;
Still a great work has to be done. The education of people and Congress and President must go on. The dangerous time is yet to come. When the rebellion is crushed, the ambition of the leaders thereof blasted by the withered lightning of a people's power, and the people of the slave States are on their knees, suppliants for freedom, re-union, pleading loyalty and obedience, then will be the crisis. Firmness almost supernatural will be required, and a vivid recollection of the past will be needed to illumine the minds of those in whose hands reconciliation and reconstruction are placed, so that the causes of the fearful rebellion may be clear and distinct, and their sagacity, foresight and judgment in full vigor, sound and severely equitable. To do this, it will take all the forces of the free press, free speech, free platform and pulpit to accomplish, and therefore it is that I say, the great work is yet to do.
In the first flush of the returning prodigal, mercy and forgiveness may overcome justice and principle-that justice to the free who have been so outraged by the Slave Power for generations, and to whom there must be such a constitutional guarantee as shall, for all time, give to a free people security to property, person and speech throughout the entirety of the United States.
The last few years have indeed revolutionized the mind of your people, and the next four years will need all the Garrisons, the Beechers, the Sumner's, the Chases in your land to direct, guide and support the people in the new era of freedom in your history.
With warm remembrances to our George Thompson and yourself, allow me to remain,
Yours Very faithfully,
JOHN W. ESTCOURT.
<c06>
PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES.
The seventh lecture of this course was delivered on Tuesday evening last, at the Music Hall, by Rev. Charles G. Ames, of Albany, N.Y. It was <illegible>
The American Experiment."
We, the people of the United State, said Mr. <illegible> are going to school and learning about public affairs.
So many and so great are the public benefits that have grown out of our existing struggle that we may truly say-"It is good for us that we have been inflicted.
Society stimulates mental activity. The <illegible> forms of virtue as well as of intelligence are impossible to a hermit. Nobleness of soul comes from the<illegible> to live for thirty millions than for one. He was really lives only for one, lives for a very mean <illegible> really live, only for one, lives for a very mean war. The unity of this nation, formerly latent, and little more than nominal, has now become real and <illegible> The very word Union has experienced religion and now receives the right hand of fellowship from sympathizing millions. "E pluribus Unum" has takes for fathers. We must retain and cherish this enthusiasm The Republic is mighty only as the faith, hope and love of the people are mighty.
The decision of the 8th of November has sealed <illegible> of the Confederate conspiracy. But even in the midst of Thanksgiving, We must call to mind the new dangers and new duties of the hour. The prophecies of our ruin so confidently made by the English aristocracy should stimulate us to spare no effort and omit no precaution. 
Not only our institutions but ourselves have been on trial. We trembled as each annual election approached; much more at a Presidential canvass. Now we thank God and take courage. We match forward to meet the future with a security of confidence never felt before. Let the old nations, extol their monarchies. We believe that whatever a wise and good king may do, a wise and good people may do.
It is our system, and no man, that has saved us. We need, not a man, but men. God would not allow this need, not a man, but men. God would not allow this great country to be made merely a frame for a Major Generals ambitious of such a position. It was necessary that our idols should be smashed. The late dynasty (the lecturer said that the connection required him to accent the second syllable of that word)-the late dynasty has shown us with what despicable ideal the people sometimes content themselves.
It was said of Washington that he counseled much pondered much, resolved slowly, executed surely Lincoln is in these respects like Washington, The tallest man now in the world is Abraham Lincoln standing on a monument wrought from broken chains. Lincoln and his associates grew on this soil, amidst our institutions, the product of those institution. The came Butler's capacity, sagacity and audacity, Liberty has created her own defenders.
The tides of divine virtue rise highest in the character of a free people. Force, faculty and public spirit, it, combined with a love of freedom, can do wonders in the work of human advancement. Washington Jefferson and Madison, though slaveholders, were not committed to slavery. They saved their souls alive by the intensity and heartiness of their labors for freedom. Our political and social system make American life school for the public education of the people. And the war proves that our system works well.
John Stuart Mill has said that the advantage of Democracy is that it will not permit the people to be passive. We must move, we must move forward. Even should we fail in the present crisis, no argument thence arises against Republican institutions. Our Republic, from the beginning, was vitiated by admixture with slavery. Ours has not yet been a free government. Our evils have arisen from this foreign and I hostile element. When a vicious humor appears upon the surface in ugly blotches of rebellion, what quackery would it be to drive it back for the purpose of "restoring the original status!" Yet this is the desire and proposition of some of our political doctors.
We will return good for evil to the rebellious South. Instead of the three fifths representation, is will give her representatives in proportion to her whole population. And she will have this further advantage, that the added members will not misrepresent their constituents.
It is a lofty level to which we have been lifted. Impartial liberty, protected by impartial law that has been the vision we have seen. Every man for she Republic, the Republic for every man. This is the pattern which has been shown us in the Mount. Can we still parley with the deceitful Satan who would persuade us to relinquish it?
The question is not whether a Republic is possible but whether it is possible for such a people as we. War is a test which tries us, and will assign us our appropriate place among nations. Let us not shrink from the fiery trial. Only dross perishes in the fire. If we prove unworthy of liberty, the best thing for us is to be placed under masters. This is the best thing for those who show themselves unfit for any better.
Even if we repress the rebellion, many other dangers remain to be averted. What kills a Republic is ignorance. The ballot is a two-edged tool. No man has a right to vote till he can give a reason for his vote. We cannot realize the full benefit of free society until we have sense enough to put the right man in the right place.
Another great danger is of governing the Republic to death. We want a government omnipotent for certain purposes, and powerless beyond them. In war <illegible> in peace, the sphere of government should be limited to absolutely necessary things. The more lawlessness there is, the more law there must be. When the wild turkeys became tame, through allowing men to provide their food instead of seeking it themselves, they lost the power of flying, and incurred other obvious disadvantages. A people too much provided for by their government have a tendency to sink into mere poultry. Legislators should strive to reduce the amount of legislation. In this country, as well as in England, we have a vast number of laws, many of them a dead letter. Now laws dead but not buried have pernicious effect on the atmosphere. National legislation should be restricted to national affairs. Especially must we take care that philanthropy does not ride the hobby of legislation.
We are yet, however, to see an advanced system of social order. social order. The man of noble character is above the laws. Let us teach justice and self control, and seek to grow towards the position, both as individuals and a nation, of following the right for its own sake.
The brilliant lecture of which the above is but an imperfect sketch, lasted nearly an hour and a half, and received close attention and occasional applause from a large audience. The lecture next Tuesday evening will be given by Wendell Phillips,-C.K.W.

TO THE BENEVOLENT.
Thomas F. Small, formerly a slave, and for more than a year in the service of the United States, in the battles of Williamsburg, Malvern Hill, Fair Oaks and other places, having, while sick, been left with out help or care, froze his feet so that amputation became necessary; and not having been regularly enlisted, cannot receive a pension or pay from the Government; he, therefore, appeals to the sympathy of the kind hearted to help him in his efforts to obtain a sum sufficient to procure himself a pair of artificial legs-as in his present situation he can only more himself upon his knees. A portion of the sum needed for this purpose has been kindly subscribed by certain benevolent people in North Bridgewater; and it is very desirable that the whole amount should be made up speedily. Any donations sent to the Editor of the Liberator. or to Robert F. Wallcut, Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington Street, Boston, will be gratefully acknowledged. This unfortunate but deserving young man is about 20 years old, and his crippled condition demands the most compassionate consideration.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
"EDUCATION."
BY RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
On Sunday evening last, at the Melodeon, Mr. Emerson read the first of a course of six lectures which have been engaged from him by the Parker Fraternity. The subject o. the opening lecture was "Education." Before touching upon that subject, however, he congratulated his audience on the good omens of the hour.
He rejoiced with them on the fact that a large proportion of the people of the United States have deliberately given their voices in favor of social and statute order; have decided that this nation shall be a nation, and not a casual assembly of travellers who may remain or separate as the freak takes them; and have decided that a nation like this is not to be trifled with. Its character and position involve interests so momentous that it is an intolerable crime to treat them with levity. These relations should be held binding as marriage, binding as contracts of property, binding as the laws that guard the life and honor of the citizen. The people have decided thus. They have resolved that the unity of this nation shall be held by force against any attempt to break it by force; and they protest in arms against the violation of their rights by any minority, smaller or greater, proceeding by stealth and violence to disrupt the nation. This is not to decide that in no circumstances, and for no cause, shall there be a separation. But such separation, if it ever occur, must be a solemn and deliberate act, with the clearest expression of the will of the whole people, and with mutual guaranties and compensations.
Mr. Emerson proceeded to enumerate some advantages which have already grown out of the struggle in which we are engaged. True, the war has cost us many valuable lives, but it has made many lives valuable that were not so before, through the start and expansion it has given them. It has taught liberality to selfish old men, and devotion to thoughtless young ones. The papers tell us that it has demoralized many rebel regiments, but certainly it has moralized many loyal ones. See its effect on Maryland, on Tennessee, on Missouri, on the border Free States. It has enlarged the vision and expanded the hearts of the whole Northern population. In every one of their houses hangs, unrolled and daily studied, the map of the United States. The towns, rivers, hills and plains of our country are known now to each citizen as never before, and that map on the house wall indicates that the whole country is added to his thought. Men study the condition, the means, and the future of this continent. America means opportunity, freedom, power. The genius of this country has marked out her true policy; opportunity-doors wide open-every port open. If I could, I would have free trade with all the world, without toil or custom-house. Let us invite every nation, every race, and every skin; white man, black man, red man, yellow man. Let us offer hospitality, a fair field and equal laws, to all. The land is wide enough, the soil has food enough for all.
The lecturer then spoke of the immense importance of early education, both for our own children and for those of our immigrant population. We should cling to the common school, and enlarge and extend the opportunities it offers. Let us educate every soul. Every native child, and every foreign child that is cast on our coast should be taught, at the public cost, first, the rudiments of knowledge, and then, as far as may be, the ripest results of art and science.
The careful explanation of elements is the first office of education; the second is, incessant drill and practice in applying those elements. Wherever nature has supplied zeal and enthusiasm in the learner, the school and the college should beat hand to answer questions, to afford facilities. Not only the knowledge existing in the minds of trained persons is requisite, but skill in the art of conveying that knowledge is indispensable. A college is or should be a society of experts; of men selected for their skill in each department of art, and for skill and readiness in communicating what they know. Severity of training also is of the highest importance. When once the power of learning is secured, the pupil can learn anything that it is important for him to know.
Mr. Emerson found some objection to the large proportion of time devoted, in our colleges, to the higher mathematics, He wished that the living breath of America might blow through the present formularies of study, and effect large improvements. The professor ought to prove his claim to his chair. The scholar should prove his claim to every step of advancement. The student should prove his claim to scholarships and fellowships. And the class should have a certain share in the election of the professor, even if only this, the making their attendance on his lectures voluntary. The democratic sense which abides in this country ought to act upon all the departments of education.
Mr. Rarey might well be offered the diploma of Doctor of Laws. He has turned a new leaf in civilization. The Board of Education of Massachusetts could take a wise step by engaging that master to go to each College and Teachers' Convention in the State, exhibiting his pupils and explaining his treatment. What force, what excellence in his fundamental maxim, that he who would manage a horse must know neither fear nor anger! Mr. Rarey seems to be a sly satirist, reading sarcastic lessons to Colleges and Universities when he pretends to be thinking merely of stables. He knows horses, and likes them. The horses see that he is a solid good fellow, up to all their ways, and a little better than they are in their own way. The schoolmaster or the professor should stand in as real a relation to his pupils.
Whatever else a boy learns, Mr. Emerson thought, he should learn to harness a horse, to row a boat, to camp in the woods, and to cook his own supper. These are the first steps to power. The first duty of the man of thought is to secure his own independence. The questions which the world asks of every young Person are-What are you?-What do you?-What is your talent?-What is your contribution to the common weal?-Is there any decided tendency in your own life?-Can you help any other soul?
Mr. Emerson always has a good audience in Boston. On this occasion they filled the Melodeon, and listened for more than an hour with the deepest interest. The second lecture of the course, on "Social Aims," will be given nest Sunday evening.-C. K. W.

COLORED PEOPLE'S JUBILEE.
LEWISTOWN, (Pa.) Oct. 31. 1864.
A mass meeting of the colored people assembled at the A. M. E. Church, to take into consideration the emancipation of the State of Maryland, and its great benefits to the people of African descent.
The object of the meeting being made known by Samuel Molson, the Rev. Wm. Hollen was called upon as the President, and James Ritcheson and Samuel Molson as Vice Presidents. Helen E. Molson was chose Secretary.
J. E. Griffith was invited to address the meeting, which invitation he accepted, and occupied the attention of the audience one hour and a half. He depicted the sufferings and ill-treatment of the colored people whilst bound under hard taskmasters and tyrants. He also read the laws of Maryland, in reference to slavery and our race, showing the evil effects of slavery in general. He also painted a delightful picture of the former conduct of the citizens of Maryland, and the present conduct under the new and free Constitution. 
After the lecture, a vote of thanks was returned to the soldiers and citizens of Maryland for their hearty support of the Union and the President of the United States; and also to Gov. Bradford and all the leaders and framers of the new Constitution, which is now to be the rule and guide of the State of Maryland.
The meeting then adjourned till7 o'clock, P. M.
Rev. Wm. Hollen was appointed to deliver a sermon on the occasion, which he did in a most masterly style. The church was densely crowded.
<c02>
After the close of the evening service, J. E. Griffith was again called upon to make some remarks upon slavery, as it existed in former days. He gave the history of Maryland, from 1810 to 1884, and it showed some of the most barbarous transactions of modern days. The speaker retired amid great applause; after which, a resolution was passed as follows:-
That a Committee of three be appointed. Samuel Molson, James Richeson, and J. L. Griffith were appointed said Committee.
The following resolutions were adopted:-
Resolved, That the present Administration is the true meaning and spirit of the Declaration of Independence, that all men are created free and equal.
Resolved, That Abraham Lincoln, the President of the United States, is the friend of the oppressed, and a rod of chastisement to the enemy, and a friend to the Free Constitution.
Resolved, That we will support the Government of the United States and the present Administration, whether at war or in peace.
Resolved, That with fifty-four of our colored fellow soldiers who left this county and borough to fight for the Union, we will do all that we are able to support their cause at home, standing up, at all times, in favor of the Union and free government.
Resolved, That Generals U. S. Grant, Butler, Burnside, Hooker, Sherman, Rosecrans, Sheridan and others, in whose hands our sons, fathers, cousins and brothers have trusted their lives, will never sheathe their swords until the old flag shall wave over all the States of this Union.
HELEN E. MOLSON, Secretary.
THE HYGIENIC COOK-BOOK; containing Receipts for making Bread, Pies, Puddings, Mushes and Soups, with directions for cooking Vegetables, canning Fruit, &c. To which is added an Appendix, containing valuable suggestions in regard to washing, bleaching, removing ink, fruit, and other stains from garments, &c. By Mrs. Mattie M. Jones. New York: Miller & Browning, Publishers, 15 Laight Street. 1864.
The author of this little work well says that a cook-book containing directions for preparing a variety of hygienic dishes, which shall be at the same time practical, concise, and in a form cheap enough to bring it within She means of every family, seems a desideratum hitherto unattained. But we think she has made a successful effort; and we have no doubt it will prove of practical value to those desirous of learning a more healthful method of living.
PLEDGES made to the American or the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies are now payable; and it is earnestly requested of all who may be owing such to forward the amount of their pledges, without delay, to the Treasurers of those Societies respectively, or to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston.

GEORGE THOMPSON AT THE WEST.
Our eloquent coadjutor, George Thompson, Esq. is lecturing very acceptably at the West. He has spoken at Oberlin, at Chicago, and other places. The Chicago Journal of Nov. 23d makes the following reference to him:-
GEORGE THOMPSON. There need be no feeling of surprise, much less of mortification, on the part of the Hon. George Thompson, by reason of the smallness of his audience last evening; as it was owing solely and exclusively to the fact that he was not sufficiently advertised. The matter was managed with unaccountable carelessness.
The audience which did assemble, however, last evening, at Byron Hall, was highly gratified and deeply interested. Mr. Thompson gave a most eloquent and searching resume of our history, and the history of the anti-slavery agitation, (his own and ours,) with which he has been zealously and influentially identified for the last five and thirty years.
We are glad to learn that our citizens are to have another opportunity of hearing this veteran English champion of human rights and the American Republic. We bid him welcome to the Northwest, and bespeak for him the attentive hearing and hearty hospitality of our people.
The same paper has also the followings proceedings of the Chicago Board of Trade:-
The proceedings on Change, at noon, to day, were rendered unusually interesting by the presence of Governor Richard Yates, General John A. Logan, and Hon. George Thompson. The Governor was first introduced, and in a few remarks, highly complimentary to the Board and to the unflinching patriotism of Gen. John A. Logan, prepared the way for the reception of the latter. Throughout his brief address, the Governor was highly applauded.
On taking the floor, Gen. Logan was received with three rousing cheers. He said that he had but few opportunities of becoming acquainted with the citizens of Chicago, and was happy to meet them on this occasion. While all men looked with interest and pride upon the soldiers in the field, the labor and patriotism of such associations as the Board of Trade at home should not be forgotten. It has furnished noble regiments and a battery for the war; it has never neglected any opportunity for serving the soldiers; it has done so much and so well against the rebellion that it is honored and revered among soldiers. And it could well afford to do so much, for unless the integrity of the Government is preserved, this association would amount to but little; and this thought should be an incentive to other demonstrations of patriotism. He believed that in the suppression of rebels in the field and of traitors everywhere (applause) lies the permanent peace of this Government, which has the power to restore its integrity. But unity of sentiment and action, without regard to party, is necessary, for we can have no peace till every rebel shall lay down his arms. He had a duty to perform in the field; we, at home, have also duties to perform, and he believed that we should perform them until American arms shall accomplish union and freedom, giving us one flag, one country and one God, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, from the Lakes to the Gulf.
The General retired amid loud plaudits, when Hon. George Thompson, M. P., of England, and one of the strongest advocates of our Government there, was introduced, and received with much applause.
Mr. Thompson said, that if he ever had an unfriendly feeling towards this country, he would blush to meet so patriotic an assemblage as that before which he now appeared. But he never had. On the contrary, he had been its unflinching friend; and although there are those in England who are opposed to the success of your Republican institutions, they are not numbered with the democracy-the toiling, thinking millions of England-who cherish the names of Farragut, Grant, Sherman, Logan, (applause,) and awaited with interest the day when we shall attain our "Liberty and Union-one and inseparable-now and forever!" (Applause.) He desired the speedy restoration of the Union to its integrity. He had watched, with deep interest, the progress of the recent election, and seen in its results much that will soon lead to our national success and an unbroken Union.
The speaker retired, followed by enthusiastic applause.
BUST OF CHARLES SUMNER. Millmore, a young sculptor of more than common promise in his art, has just finished a most admirable bust of Senator Sumner. The artist has succeeded in representing the essential spirit of his subject, as he will be recognized historically, when seen by those sufficiently removed by distance to do justice to his power and his aims. Courage and dignity, tempered by the humanity of a large and commanding nature, are expressed with great fidelity. It is no ordinary achievement for the artist to mould a representative man so that the idea or principle, which is the substance of his life, should shine through the form. In this, Millmore seems so carefully to have studied his subject as to have succeeded. If, thus early in his career, he evinces so strong a hold on the spiritual requirements of his art, it is not too much to predict that he will eventually rank among its eminent masters.-Transcript.
We fully endorse the above appreciative notice of Mr. Millmore's admirable work. Copies of the bust are on sale at the store of Williams & Everest, together with those of the poet Longfellow, by the same artist.
NARROW ESCAPE OF GENERAL BUTLER. The Journal has a dispatch from Washington, as follows:
Yesterday as Gen. Butler and staff were on their way from Bermuda Hundred to Fort Monroe, in his dispatch boat, the Greyhound, the head of the boiler blew out, and the boat was enveloped in flames. Rafts were hastily constructed of settees and doors, on one of which Gen. Butler escaped, and all the passengers and crew were saved, being picked up by a passing tug. The boat sank in thirty minutes after the flames broke to. Gen. Butter lost his horses and nearly all of his personal effects.
<c03>
PLOT TO BURN XEW YORK.
NEW YORK, Nov. 26. The St. James, Lovejoy's and Belmont hotels were on fire last night, but suffered no serious damage.
The fires last night were made with phosphorus, and it is thought for the purpose of robbery. In Barnum's Museum, the panic struck audience was robbed most thoroughly, in the great smoke and confusion that ensued. In the hotels the robbers did not succeed so well. A woman hailing from Baltimore was arrested at the Metropolitan Hotel, under circumstances that involve her in serious suspicion. She strongly protests innocence. Several other arrests were also made.
The manner in which the fires were produced showed a preconcerted plot. In the hotels, the beds, clothes, I trunks, &c., were covered with phosphorus. Matches were also scattered in the beds. The fires were then set and the rooms locked. As in the July riots, the thieves swarmed about the hotel doors, ready to rush in and plunder when the fire was under way. But the timely appearance of the police prevented this portion of the programme from being carried out.
The panic at the Museum was intense, but fortunately the fire was quickly subdued. The bottle containing the phosphorus was found, and is like those used by incendiaries elsewhere.
At the Winter Garden, a terrible panic was created by some one simply crying fire.
The entire fire department was aroused, and together with the police measures were adopted for the safety of life and property for the remainder of the night. The attempt which was really well planned has failed. It has shown what might be done here and elsewhere, and will inspire increased vigilance throughout the North.
At Barnum's Museum, a quantity of phosphorus was thrown on the floor arid stairs to the upper story, and a fire was kindled, but soon extinguished. There was considerable alarm and several ladies fainted. The giantess became so alarmed that she ran down the main stairs into the street, and took refuge in a neighboring hotel.
Several hay barges were also set on fire Friday night, phosphorus being used in every instance. 
According to the theory of the police, it is supposed that the marauders numbered from fifteen to twenty-four, and were mostly commissioned officers in the rebel army-lieutenants, captains, &c. The plot probably originated in Canada.
The following letter was yesterday received at the Adjutant General's office for Mrs. Bixby, the lady of this city referred to in General Schouler's communication to the Journal of Monday evening last, as having" sent five sons into this war, every one of whom has fallen nobly in battle." It appears that she has also sent another son to the war, who is now suffering from wounds, at the United States General Hospital at Readville. On learning of her case, President Lincoln immediately forwarded this letter:
EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, Nov. 21, 1864.
DEAR MADAM: I have been shown in the files of the War Department a statement of the Adjutant General of Massachusetts, that you are the mother of five sons who have died gloriously on the field of battle.
I feel how weak and fruitless must be any words of mine, which should attempt to beguile you from the grief of a loss so overwhelming; but I cannot refrain from tendering to you the consolation that may be found in the thanks of the Republic they died to save.
I pray that our Heavenly Father may assuage the anguish of your bereavement, and leave you only the cherished memory of the loved and lost, and the solemn pride that must be yours to have laid so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of Freedom.
Yours, very sincerely and respectfully,
Mrs. BIXBY.
A. LINCOLN.
The names of Mrs. Bixby's sons who have fallen in battle are as follows: Sergt. Charles W. Bixby, Co. D, 20th Massachusetts Vols., killed at Fredericksburg May 3, 1863; Private Edward Bixby, 22d, died of wounds in hospital at Folly Island, S. C.; Privates Oliver C. Bixby, E, 58th, and Geo. W. Bixby, B, 56th, killed before Petersburg July 30, 1864.-Journal.
Geo. W. Bixby, of Co. B, 56th regiment, one of five brothers reported as killed in this war, was not killed, as has been supposed, before Petersburg, the 30th of July last, but was captured unhurt by the rebels. His mother has mourned his death for four months.
A WHOLESALE MASSACRE. The Home Guards of Georgia have met a horrible fate. It is thus described by the Chattanooga paper:
"A company bearing the title of the Georgia Home Guard has been rendering good service to the Union cause in the upper counties of Georgia during the past six months. The band was composed principally of deserters from the rebel army, men who had been conscripted into the rebel ranks and subsequently escaped, and a number of citizens of Murray, Walker and Catoosa counties, Georgia, and were commanded by Col. Ashworth, of Walker county. They had been out on a scout for several days, and had captured and picked up several squads of rebel prisoners, among whom was a colonel. On their return they did not preserve as good order and discipline as they should have done, and the homes of many of them being in that section of country, considerable straggling ensued. When near Elijah, about sixty-five miles northeast of Dalton, on last Friday, they were surprised by a force of rebels under the command of Tom Polk Edmonson. This rebel force is composed in the greater part of members of the First Tennessee Infantry, who got cut off from their main army at the beginning of the campaign last spring, and have remained in that county ever since. The Home Guard numbered one hundred and twenty-five men, while the rebel force consisted of over three hundred. Finding that they were surrounded, and that escape was impossible, the Home Guard surrendered, and then ensued the fearful part of the tragedy. The most of these men being deserters from the rebel army, as we stated above, and all of them being well known as having acted as guides for our forces, the rebels determined to show them no mercy. Taking the prisoners off into the woods a short distance, their inhuman captors shot or hung all but twenty-one of them! After the commission of this savage and unparalleled butchery, the monsters departed for their retreat in the mountains, taking their remaining prisoners-including Col. Ashworth-with them. On the road one of these prisoners managed to escape, and made his way into Dalton, where he made the above statement to the Provost Marshal. It is supposed that our authorities will be able to effect an exchange of Col. Ashworth for the rebel colonel whom the Home Guard had captured, and sent into Calhoun. A flag of truce for that purpose was to have left Calhoun last Sunday."
REBEL CRUELTY. BALTIMORE, Nov. 26. The correspondent of the Baltimore American, writing from Annapolis last evening, says such was the wretched state of our prisoners who have just arrived from Savannah, that our surgeons were appalled at the awful sight.
Not a man among the number but that had to be sent to the hospitals, many to leave them only for the grave. Surgeons Vanderkief and Parker, and their assistants, evinced the deepest interest in the poor fellows, and are doing all in their power to mitigate their sufferings.
The Yorkville Enquirer's correspondent at Florence, South Carolina, states that there are over ten thousand prisoners in the stockade there, and that one thousand have died from scurvy. They exchange rings, pipes, inkstands and straw hats for potatoes which are the only vegetables to be had. On electron day they opened polls, 1284 voting for Lincoln, and 19 for McClellan.
DEATH OF PROFESSOR SILLIMAN. The country has lost the pioneer of physical science on its present basis in America, and one of its most effectual promoters by pen and tongue. Benjamin Silliman was born in North Stratford, Conn., Aug. 8, 1779. He graduated at Yale College-as his father and grandfather had before him-in 1796. After teaching awhile, he began the study of the law, and was practising in New Haven when he was induced to accept the Professorship of Chemistry at Yale, tendered in 1802. He took two years to prepare himself for his new duties, upon which he entered in 1804. The next year he visited Europe, and on his return began a series of lectures on mineralogy and geology, to which subjects he was mainly devoted ever after. He was the author of two books of travel, and the compiler or editor of several scientific works. In 1818 he originated the "American Journal of Science," which is still in the full tide of usefulness, "owing in great part to the able editorship of himself and his accomplished son.
From the date of his first appointment in Yale College till within a few years, Professor Silliman continued his duties as lecturer on physical science. In that capacity he will be fondly remembered by many thousands of graduates. "Of a commanding figure, "says writer describing him, "serene, open, and pleasant countenance, musical and manly voice, the utmost self-possession arid composure, great coolness and dexterity of manipulation, and a high power of language both as to choice and flow of words he was the very prince of lecturers." His enthusiasm over a fossil or a mineral was apt to provoke merriment among those who listened to him for the first time; but that nature must have been cold and stubborn indeed, that did not soon find his love of nature contagious and inspiring. He was a man that would have won distinction in any walk of life; but it is questionable if in any other he could have left behind him a more beneficent influence and more honorable name than he has now done.-Boston Journal.
<c04>
The Augusta (Ga.) Chronicle of the 9th contains the following appeal to Georgians by Senator Hill:-
RICHMOND, Va., Nov. 18, 1864.
To the People of Georgia: You have now the best opportunity ever yet presented to you to destroy the enemy. Put everything at the disposal of our generals. Remove all provisions from the path of the invaders, and put all obstructions you can in his way. Every citizen with his gun, and every negro with his spade and ax, can do the work of a good soldier. You can destroy the enemy by retarding his march. Georgians, be firm, act promptly, and fear not.
(Signed)
D. H. HILL
I most cordially approve of the above.
(Signed)
JAMES A. SEDDON,
Secretary of War.
Eight escaped Union officers from Columbia prison came up in the Arago, who state that great consternation exists in Charleston, Savannah, &c., in consequence of Sherman's advance, and that while secreted in the woods and swamps, they daily saw small bodies of troops marching towards Savannah.
At the session of the Georgia Legislature, at Milledgeville, on the 17th inst., the public funds were ordered to be removed to a place of safety, and measures taken for a speedy adjournment. On the 18th there was a general stampede of the members, and most of them had gone home, or were wandering about studying out the problem how to get there.
A vote was taken among the Union prisoners contined in Columbia, S. C., for President, when the vote stood as follows:
Lincoln. McClellan.
Massachusetts, 48 5
Maine, 25 0
New Hampshire, 7 0
Vermont, 29 1
Connecticut, 34 8
Rhode Island, 17 0
160 9
Of sixty-four counties in Iowa thus far reported, only five give Democratic majorities, only one of them having a majority above 100.
Lincoln's majority on the home vote of Ohio is 27,752, being a gain of 1511 over the Union majority in October.
The soldiers from the Western Reserve District, Ohio, gave General Garfield, Union, for Congress, 2033 votes, and his Democratic competitor eight. Garfield's majority in the district is twelve thousand.
POLITICAL. The Chicago Tribune says of the election of that State, that the total vote is 345.786, with a majority for Lincoln of 31,088. In 1860, the entire vote footed up 349,693, and a majority for Lincoln of 11,946. The vote of 1864 is 13,907 less than in 1860. Illinois has at least 50,000 voters in front of the enemy, who were not permitted to vote.
Ten counties in East Tennessee cast 10,259 votes for Lincoln. It is a large vote, considering the numbers absent in the Union army.
The number of documents printed and circulated by Union Congressional Committees during the Presidential campaign was only seven million one hundred thousand!
WASHINGTON, Nov. 26. Information from the Army of the Potomac is to the effect that Thanksgiving day was truly a festive occasion among the soldiers.
Since the news of President Lincoln's re-election, desertion from the rebel army has increased largely.
It is said by deserters that the number of rebel soldiers known to be watching for a favorable opportunity to escape is astonishing; and the demoralization is so general, that the officers fear to trust any of their troops on picket. They have lost confidence even in South Carolina and Virginia troops.
Earl Russell had been installed Rector of the Aberdeen University. In the course of his speech he said: "There is another portion of the globe where we still have to lament scenes of bloodshed; we still have to lament that the bloody arbitrament of war has not been brought to a close; and if there is any bright spot in the dark scene, it is for the African race. But I cannot but believe that the civil war in America, whichever way it may end, whether the States again unite or whether there is to be a final separation, I cannot but believe that out of these events the African race will receive their freedom."
Major General Dana has reserved the plantations of Jeff. Davis and his brother, and General Quitman, for the use of freed slaves. These estates lie together in an easily defended "bend" of the Mississippi, called Palmyra Bend. They contain about ten thousand acres of arable land, and it is intended that cotton speculators shall be kept away from this point, which the negroes can defend, and where they can live in security and maintain themselves without expense to the government.
By a Brazilian decree of the 24th of September, all the "free Africans" existing in the empire were emancipated, whether in the service of the State or in that of private individuals, thus annulling the decree No. 1803 of the 28th of December, 1853, which exacted fourteen years' service from that date.
Western Copperhead papers are rapidly going by the board. The Illinois State Register, Bloomington, (Ill.,) Democrat, Madison, (Wis.,) Patriot, Evansville, (Ind.,) Times, Peoria, (Ill.,) Mail, and Lincoln (Logan county, Ill.,) Courier, have all become defunct. The people have no further use for copperheadism.
Mrs. Jeff. Davis was an unconscious contributor to the National Sailors' Fair at Boston; a box of clothing which was captured on the blockade runner Hope, intended for her, having been presented to the Fair.
More than one hundred lives have been lost in the Northern States alone, since October 31st, and nearly as many persons have been more or less injured, many of them for life, by railroad accidents. In nearly every case, these accidents might have been avoided by such precaution as the merest common sense would dictate.
The Richmond Dispatch recommends Congress to call General Lee before them, and ask his opinion on the great military question of the day, the recommendation of the President to employ forty thousand slaves as laborers in the armies, thereby releasing nearly the same number of fighting men.
Wood is selling at Richmond for one hundred dollars a cord, and scarce at that.
Gen. Butler, in an order dismissing Second Lieutenant John Clancy, of the Colored Light Artillery, from the service, says: "He was in a state of intoxication, which is reported as beastly, but that is evidently a mistake, as beasts do not get drunk."
Mrs. Joshua R. Giddings died at Jefferson, Ashabula County, Ohio, on the 15th inst.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 25. Charles Williams, a colored U. S. soldier, was executed by hanging in the yard of the Old Capital Prison, to-day, for killing a colored woman near Casey a short time ago.
A missionary, who travelled some forty miles with Price in Arkansas, reports that Price told him he lost over 10,000 men in killed, wounded and deserters, and that his expedition into Missouri had been most disastrous.
An Irishman was challenged at the polls in Windsor, Vt., and his naturalization papers demanded. After much hesitation, he handed over a paper that proved to be a bill against himself for two barrels of whiskey.
The receipts of the National Sailors' Fair at Boston, have not been correctly and clearly ascertained, but will exceed $200,000.
PRUDENCE OF THE NEGRO. A bundle of bank deposit books of the savings of Co. H, 35th Regiment U. S. Colored Troops, Lieut. H. W. Batcheller commanding, now stationed at Jacksonville, Florida, has been exhibited to us. The deposits were made in one of the savings banks of this city. We can but consider this as a curious development of the times, and a striking evidence of the advance from slavery and ignorance to knowledge and civilization of the blacks of the South. The amount deposited is about $2000.-Boston Journal.
Monticello, the former residence of Thomas Jefferson, in Albemarle County, Virginia, was sold at auction, a few days ago, under the sequestration act, for $80,500. Benjamin F. Ficklin, purchaser.
Wm. Burr, the inventor of the casemate ironclad system, died a few days since at Greenfield Hill, Ct. It was from the stolen plans of Mr. Burr that the rebel ram Merrimack was built.
WASHINTON, Nov. 28. Seth Kinman, a California trapper, presented a chair made of buck horns to the President this morning, receiving Mr. Lincoln's thanks for the gift in a few pleasant remarks.
Mrs. Sarah Hutchins, a leading Baltimore sympathizer with the rebels, has been convicted of having sent a sword to Harry Gilmer, and sentenced to pay a fine of $5000, and to be imprisoned for five years at hard labor in the Fitchburg, Mass., House of Correction.
NEGROES IN KANSAS. Not less than 10,000 negroes are said to have gone to Kansas from Missouri and Kansas. They now form an indispensable laboring population in that State. No complaints are made of them either as to pauperism or crime.
Mrs. Nancy Rhodes of Breman, Maine, had six sons in the army-four have been killed in action, another is made a cripple for life, the sixth is still in the service.
<c05>
THE TRIBUNE for 1865.
PROSPECTUS.
The Military and Naval successes of 1864, with the auspicious result of our Presidential contest, hare lifted a heavy weight from the breasts of the Loyal Millions of our countrymen. It is now felt, even by those who have been distrustful and faint-hearted, that the Union is to emerge triumphant from the deadly strife whereinto she was so wickedly precipitated by her assailants, and that Slavery, her relentless foe, is to encounter the fate of Haman. The perils of foreign intervention and of Western insurrection are safely passed; ABRAHAM LINCOLN, no longer assailable as the choice of a minority, holds the helm of State for four years longer; the Rebellion, palpably weakened by its defeats and losses daring the year now closing-with its credit so reduced that its purse-bearer officially declares that its Treasury Notes can only be exchanged for coin at the rate of twenty-five for one, while its bonds command but six cents on the dollar-but awaits the blow which shall soon strike the sword from its parricidal hand, and remit its master-spirits to the justice, or it may be the clemency, of a sorely wronged and justly incensed, but forbearing and magnanimous People. Such are the auspices which justify oar faith that the year soon to open will see the Stars and Stripes float unchallenged from every battlement in the Republic, and the perfect law of Liberty for All immovably imbedded in the Constitution of our Union.
The NEW YORK TRIBUNE, founded in 1841, will enter upon its twenty-fourth year with quickened hopes and enlarged means of usefulness. Its principles need no restatement: its aims are the diffusion of Intelligence and the inculcation of a spirit of freedom and Humanity. When this truth shall have been generally recognized and established as the basis of our institutions and policy, that injustice to the poorest, the weakest, the most despised, is a fearful mistake-that no community or State can afford to wrong even its humblest member-then will our land bask once more in the calm sunshine of peace and prosperity.
THE TRIBUNE has for the last year been published without profit to its proprietors, solely because of the depreciation of our currency below the specie standard, compelling us to buy paper and other materials at a cost considerably above the full amount received from our subscribers. On our Weekly edition, the net loss has amounted to many thousands of dollars; while our large receipts from Advertising have been wholly absorbed by the extraordinary expenses of Correspondence, Telegraphing, &c., devolved on us by the war. As we do not suppose our patrons desire that we should work for them at our own cost, and prefer not to be patronized by any who may desire it, we have somewhat advanced for the ensuing year the prices of our Semi-Weekly and Weekly, as we had already done with those of our Daily editions. This increase is purely nominal: there never before was a time when the farmers of our country could buy THE TRIBUNE for so little of their own products or labor as they can by the following
TERMS:
DAILY TRIBUNE.
Single copy, 4 cents.
Mail subscribers, 1 copy, 1 year-312 numbers, $10 00
SEMI-WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
Mail subscribers, 1 copy, 1 year-104 numbers, 4 00
Mail subscribers, 2 copies, 1 year-104 numbers, 7 00
Mail subscribers, 5 copies or over, to one address, for each copy, 3 00
WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
Mail subscribers, single copy, 1 year, 52 numbers, 2 50
Mail subscribers, Clubs of five, to one address, 10 00
Persons remitting $20 for 10 copies, to one address, will receive one copy extra, gratis.
Persons remitting $40 for 20 copies, to one address, will receive one copy Semi-Weekly, gratis.
Persons remitting $80 for 40 copies, to one address, will receive one copy Daily, gratis.
Drafts on New York payable to the order of "THE TRIBUNE," being safer, are preferable to any other mode of remittance. But where drafts cannot be conveniently procured, United States or National Bank bills are the next best, and may be sent by mail; but in case of loss, THE TRIBUNE will not be responsible, unless furnished with a full description of the bills, including the name of the bank, denomination and number, and the time and place of the mailing of the letter with the enclosures. Address
THE TRIBUNE, New York.
THE PIRATE FLORIDA SUNK.
Hon. Gideon Welles, Secretary of the Navy:
I have just received a telegram from the commander of the prize steamer Florida, informing me that she had sunk in nine fathoms of water. She had been run into by an army steamer, and badly damaged. I have not heard the particulars. I will inform the Department when I receive the written report.
(Signed)
DAVID D. PORTER,
Rear Admiral.
No COMPROMISE. The Washington correspondent of the Boston Journal pertinently says:-
"While Grant and Sherman are in the field, battling stalwartly against the foes of the Union, those in civil life should see that they are fully sustained at home. The plots and artifices of professed 'peace' men should be carefully scanned, and their deceptive plans for the betrayal of the Republic should be frustrated ere they ripen to maturity. Although a majority of the voters of the loyal States have unmistakably pronounced against the continuance of slavery, the cause of the rebellion, mischievous plotters (masked behind olive branches) are planning how to preserve what remains of their idolized "institution." They talk of compromise and of conciliation, but the PEOPLE want first to conquer a peace, and secondly to destroy the accursed cause of this cruel war. The able arguments of Senator Sumner, in his recent speech before the Young Men's Republican Union of New York, are hailed here as the keynote to the action of true men during the coming season of Congress. The rebellion is but belligerent slavery-destroy that, and we shall have the desired peace."
WASHINGTON REJUVENATED. A Washington correspondent gives the following cheering view of the change for the better at the Capital:-
"Although lamentations for the days of auld-langsyne are heard from the worshippers of slavery aristocracy who used to rule the metropolis, signs of real progress are visible on every hand. There are pleasant visiting circles of agreeable and educated people as well as the diplomatic, the army, the navy, and the secesh "sets." Churches of all denominations are well attended-so are two theatres and several concert halls. Nearly four thousand pupils are taught in sixty-three public schools. The horse railroad cars run regularly and a new horse railroad is being built from the Baltimore depot past the patent office to the equestrian statue of Washington. Stores are kept closed on Sundays, pavements have been mended, water is abundant, gas ditto, (for illuminating and for oratorical effect,) and the steamers are summoned to fires by the electrical telegraph fire alarm. In short, the national metropolis is fast becoming a city worthy of the great republic of which it is the capital, with all the modern conveniences."
GOOD FOR DENNIS CONNELLY. A hackman of the name of Dennis Connelly had the honor of driving Lieut. Gen. Grant from the residence of Col. Hillyer, in New York, to the Astor House, last Sunday night. After depositing his illustrious passenger, Dennis of course took a drink, and gave his friends the following toast: "Here's to meself, Dennis Connelly, the biggest man in Ameriky hut one. I've driven the Lieutenant General of the United States, and it's more than Bobby Lee ever did."
The Danish question has at last been settled. A treaty was agreed to on the 30th of October, and the German troops were to leave Jutland before the close of November, greatly to the pleasure of the people of that ill-used country.
One hundred thousand dollars were obtained in Liverpool in aid of Southern prisoners, by the Fair held in that city of slave-traders.
The Electors of President and Vice President meet on the first Wednesday of December, at the capitals of their respective States, to cast their votes, which are sent to the President of the Senate, and counted before both houses of Congress on the second Wednesday of February.
The most popular lyceum lecturers have raised their prices this winter. Beecher and Gough have $150 an evening, and the gentlemen who formerly asked $50 now demand $100.
Fred. Douglass delivered an address last Thursday night to an immense audience at the Bethel Church on Sharp street, Baltimore. He was accompanied by his sister, a freed Maryland slave, whom he had not seen since he made his escape, thirty years age. A number of white persons were present, and the enthusiasm of the colored population was raised to the highest pitch of excitement. His advice to them was most excellent.-Baltimore American.
<c06>
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will deliver a lecture on the State of the Country, in the Universalist Church, at North Hanson, on Monday evening next, Dec. 5th, at half past 7 o'clock.
DIED-In Lawrence, (Kansas,) Oct. 28, of bilious fever, EDWIN HUTCHINSON, of West Randolph, (Vt.) aged 24 years.

MR. GARRISON'S PORTRAIT.
THE Portrait of Mr. Garrison, the publication of which has been delayed in consequence of the severe and protracted illness of the artist engaged in transferring it to stone, is nearly ready, and will be furnished to subscribers in the course of a, few days. Orders may be addressed to R. F. WALLCUT, Esq., Liberator office, or to the Publisher. Price $1.50 per copy.
C. H. BRAINARD, Publisher.
Nov. 25. tf
A FARM OF 1500 ACRES
FOR SALE.
THE St. Mary's Lake Farm, 3 1-2 miles North from the city of Battle Creek, Calhoun county, Michigan, is offered for sale. The proprietor wishing to retire, offers this Farm for sale on reasonable terms as to price and time of payments. The Farm consists of 1500 acres of as rich agricultural land as can be found in the Northern States; 1000 acres of which are improved in the beat manner. There are on this road thirty-seven miles of rail and board fence, mostly new. St. Mary's Lake is one of the most beautiful sheets of clear crystal water in the country, and one of the finest fishing lakes in the State. This lake is in the centre of the farm, and is a mile and a quarter long by one third of a mile wide. The surroundings of this lake are unsurpassed for beauty of scenery. There are some eight or ten beautiful sites for residences on either side of the lake. No low marshy grounds connected with the shore of the lake. There are about 400 acres of timber, and 100 acres of the best marsh meadow land on the west side of the farm. The buildings are, the large Farm House, 88 by 50 feet, elevated 50 feet above the lake, commanding a view of a great portion of the farm and of the lake; also, a large frame Boarding-House, and even frame Tenements; two largo Barns, 153 by 70 feet each, with stabling below for 130 head of cattle; also, four other Barns, 50 by 40 feet; also, a Steam Circular Saw Mill, 80 by 60 feet-said to be one of the best mills in the State; an Orchard of 800 apple and 1200 of the choicest peach trees, all in fine bearing order; 350 standard pear trees, a large number of plums, cherries, quinces, and a great quantity of grapes and small fruits, too numerous to mention. Perhaps there is not a 1500 acre farm in the Union better adapted to cattle and sheep-raising than is this farm, every field of which has never-failing water. The land is moderately rolling, and no outlay need ever be made for manures. There is one of the most extensive Brick-yards on this farm in the interior of the State. A more beautiful residence cannot be found than is on this farm. A gentleman having sons to settle around him could arrange to make sis or eight beautiful farms, each having a large front on the lake, with a beautiful sandy beach. Battle Creek City is one of the best markets in the State, and is 120 miles west and 162 miles east from Chicago on the Great Michigan Central Railroad. No situation is or can be more healthy. All the water on the farm is clear as crystal, soft and excellent. This farm affords a rare chance to one wishing to go into stock and sheep raising; it is now seeded down to clover and timothy. The farm, with all the stock, sheep, house utensils and 250 tons of clover and timothy hay, is offered at the greatest bargain.
Letters of inquiry, addressed to me at Battle Creek, will receive prompt replies. I refer to Henry C. Wright, Charles C. Burleigh and Parker Pillsbury, who have visited the St. Mary's Lake Farm.
HENRY WILLIS.
Battle Creek, Nov. 18, 1864.
SENATOR WILSON'S BOOK,
ON THE CONDITION OF THE NEGRO POPULATION AS CONNECTED WITH THE REORGANIZATION OF GOVERNMENT IN REBEL STATES.
SHOWING what the present Administration has accomed for freedom. Being a
History of the Anti-Slavery Measures of the 37th and 38th Congresses.
CONTENTS.
Slaves used for Insurrectionary purposes made Free.
Fugitive Slaves not to be returned by Persons in the Army.
The Abolition of Slavery in the District of Columbia.
President's Proposition to Aid States in the Abolishment of Slavery.
Prohibition of Slavery in the Territories.
Certain Slaves to be made Free.
Hayti and Liberia.
Education of Colored Youth in the District of Columbia.
The African Slave-Trade.
Additional Act to Abolish Slavery in the District of Columbia.
Colored Soldiers.
Aid to the States to Emancipate their Slaves.
Amendment of the Constitution.
Confinement of Colored Persons in the Washington Jail.
Negro Testimony.
The Coastwise Slave-Trade.
Color no Disqualification for Carrying the Mails.
No Exclusion from the Cars on Account of Color.
12 MO.-EXTRA CLOTH-$2.
ALSO NOW READY:
THE YOUNG CRUSOE: OR, ADVENTURES OF A SHIPWRECKED BOY. By Dr. Harley. 12mo., with six full page and a profusion of smaller illustrations, in ANDREW'S best style. $1.50. Boys will find this one of the most entertaining and attractive books produced for their delight this year.
JUST PUBLISHED:
PHILOSOPHY AS ABSOLUTE SCIENCE.
By E. L. & A. L. Frothingham. 1 vol. 8vo. elegant. $3.50.
WALKER, WISE & CO.,
PUBLISHERS,
245 Washington Street,-BOSTON.
Oct. 21. 2w
Proclamation of Freedom
FINE Photographs, 18 by 13 inches, of Paine 3 Pen-and-Ink Drawing of the Emancipation Proclamation handsomely illustrated. The original was donated to the Brooklyn Sanitary Fair, and by a subscription of $500 presented to the President of the United State? A single copy sent by mail on receipt of $3.00. A liberal discount allowed to dealers or canvassers. It is a beautiful and artistic work.
Canvassers wanted for every section of the country.
Copy-right secured. Apply to
ROWLAND JOHNSON,
54 Beaver st., New York, 119 Market St., Phila.

A SCHOOL MAGAZINE FREE!
CLARK'S SUNDAY SCHOOL VISITOR-Vol. IX.-1865.
SEVENTY-FIVE CENTS A YEAR.
Readings, Dialogues, Speeches, Music, Poems, Mathematics, Grammar, Enigmas, Rebuses, &c.
THE Publisher of this popular DAY SCHOOL MONTHLY, in order to reach all parts of the country, will send the VISITOR ON E YEAR FREE to ONE PERSON, (who will act as agent,) AT ANY POST OFFICE in the United States.
Address, with five cents, for particulars,
J. W. DAUGHADAY, PUBLISHER,
1308 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

The Friend of Progress.
A NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE, loyal and responsible to all true educational, philanthropic and religious movements. The Publishers invite the co-operation of all who love their fellow-men. $2 per year. Single numbers 20 cents. No. 1 now ready.
C. M. PLUMB & CO., Publishers,
274 Canal street, Now York.
Oct. 21.

"FREE LOVE,"
OR a Philosophical Demonstration of the non exclusive nature of Connubial Love. To which is added, a Review of and Reply to the exclusive phase in the writings of the Fowlers, Adin Ballon, H. C. Wright, and A. J. Davis, on the Love and Marriage question. Price, (post-paid,) 50 cents, or to the poor, in paper, 35 cents. Sold by the Author-AUSTIN KENT, East Stockholm, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. Sept. 30.

B OARDING.
MRS. GIAGER wishes to <illegible> her friends and the public, that she has taken house 41 Washington st,, Cambridgeport, where she can accommodate a few boarders or lodgers. References exchanged.
Dec. 2. tf

GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood & Co's, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co's where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
in the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up; old Fixtures and Glass Drops Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Portion. Shop under the Marlboro' Hotel. Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall & Stowell's Provision Store, 132 Charles street, Boston.
NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co.
Oct. 30-ly
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
BRYANT'S SEVENTIETH BIRTHDAY.
BY OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.
O even-handed Nature! we confess
This life that men so honor, love and bless,
Has filled thine olden measure. Not the less
We count the precious seasons that remain;
Strike not the level of the golden grain,
But heap it high with years, that earth may gain
What heaven can lose-for heaven is rich in song:
Do not all poets, dying, still prolong
Their broken chants amid the seraph throng,
Where, blind no more, Ionia's bard is seen,
And England's heavenly minstrel sits between
The Mantuan and the wan-cheeked Florentine?
This was the first sweet singer in the cage
Of our close-woven life. A new-born age
Claims in his vesper song its heritage.
Spare us, oh, spare us long our heart's desire!
Moloch, who calls our children through the fire,
Leaves us the gentle master of the lyre.
We count not on the dial of the sun
The hours, the minutes that his sands have run;
Rather, as on those flowers that one by one
From earliest dawn their ordered bloom display
Till evening's planet with her guiding ray
Leads in the blind old mother of the day.
We reckon by his songs, each song a flower,
The long, long daylight, numbering hour by hour,
Each breathing sweetness like a bridal bower.
His morning glory shall we e'er forget?
His noontide's full-blown lily coronet?
His evening primrose has not opened yet.
Nay, even if creeping Time should hide the skies
In midnight from his century-laden eyes,
Darkened like his who sang of Paradise,
Would not some hidden song-bud open bright
As the resplendent cactus of the night,
That floods the gloom with fragrance and with light?
How can we praise the verse whose music flows
With solemn cadence and majestic close,
Pure as the dew that filters through the rose?
How shall we thank him that in evil days
He faltered never,-nor for blame, nor praise,
Nor hire, nor party, shamed his earlier lays?
But as his boyhood was of manliest hue,
So to his youth his manly years were true,
All dyed in royal purple through and through!
He for whose touch the lyre of Heaven is strung
Needs not the flattering toil of mortal tongue:
Let not the singer grieve to die unsung!
Marbles forget their message to mankind:
In his own verse the poet still we find,
In his own page his memory lives enshrined,
As in their amber sweets the smothered bees,-
As the fair cedar, fallen before the breeze,
Lies self-embalmed amidst the mouldering trees.
Poets, like youngest children, never grow
Out of their mother's fondness. Nature so
Holds their soft hands, and will not let them go,
Till at the last they track with even feet
Her rhythmic footsteps, and their pulses beat
Twinned with her pulses, and their lips repeat
The secrets she has told them, as their own:
Thus is the inmost soul of Nature known,
And the rapt minstrel shares her awful throne!
O lover of her mountains and her woods,
Her bridal-chamber's leafy solitudes,
Where Love himself with tremulous steps intrudes,
Her snows fall harmless on thy sacred fire:
Far be the day that claims thy sounding lyre
To join the music of the angel choir!
Yet, since life's amplest measure must be filled,
Since throbbing hearts must be forever stilled,
And all must fade that evening sunsets gild,
Grant, Father, ere he close the mortal eyes
That see a Nation's reeking sacrifice,
Its smoke may vanish from these blackened skies!
Then, when his summons comes, since come it must,
And, looking heavenward with unfaltering trust,
He wraps his drapery round him for the dust,
His last fond glance will show him o'er his head
The Northern fires beyond the zenith spread
In lambent glory, blue and white and red,-
The Southern cross without its bleeding load,
The milky way of peace all freshly strowed,
And every white-throned star fixed in its lost abode!

BRYANT ON HIS BIRTH-DAY.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
We praise not now the poet's art,
The rounded beauty of his song;
Who weighs him from his life apart
Must do his nobler nature wrong.
Not for the eye, familiar grown
With charms to common sight denied-
The marvelous gift be shares alone
With him who walked on Rydal-side;
Not for rapt hymn nor woodland lay,
Too grave for smiles, too sweet for tears,
We speak his praise who wears to-day
The glory of his seventy years.
When Peace brings Freedom in her train,
Let happy lips his songs rehearse;
His life is now his noblest strain,
His manhood better than his verse!
Thank God! his hand on Nature's keys
Its cunning keeps at life's full span;
But, dimmed and dwarfed, in times like these,
The poet seems beside the man!
So be it! let the garlands die,
The singer's wreath, the painter's meed;
Let our names perish, if thereby
Our country may be saved and freed!

BRYANT.
Not thine, O poet, is the song
Whose melody is heard afar,
Like music falling from a star
Upon a rude and heedless throng!
But like the sunshine and the air,
As healthfully as nature thrives,
Thy verse is woven in our lives,
And breathes around us everywhere.
Thy potent art is like to his
Who rears a statue in the mart,
And brings the people heart to heart
With being's dearest mysteries.
Thy genius is the living blaze
That burns at the great Mother's shrine,
In peace and war alike divine,
And most in these last awful days.
For thee the fountain flows again,
Whose waters lend enduring youth;
Thou drinkest, and, in deed and tenth,
Art young at threescore years and ten,
St. John, New Brunswick.

WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT.
A CHAST FOR HIS SEVENTIETH BIRTHDAY.
BY BAYARD TAYLOR-SET TO MUSIC BY LOUIS LANG.
One hour be silent, sounds of war!
Delay the battle he foretold,
And let the bard's triumphant star
Pour down from heaven its mildest gold.
Let Fame, that plucks but laurel now
For loyal heroes, tarn away,
And twine, to crown her Poet's brow,
The greener garland of the bay.
<c02>
For he, our earliest minstrel, fills
The land with echoes, sweet and long,
Gives language to her silent hills,
And bids her rivers move to song.
The Phosphor of the Nation's dawn,
Sole men above our toneless coast,
As Hesper, now, his lamp burns on-
The leader of the starry host.
He sings of mountains and of streams,
Of storied field and haunted dale;
Yet hears a voice through all his dreams
Which says, "The good shall yet prevail."
He sings of Truth, he sings of Right;
He sings of Freedom; and his strains
March with our armies to the fight,
Ring in the bondmen's falling chains.
God, bid him live, till in her place
Truth, crushed to earth, again shall rise-
The "mother of a mighty race,"
Fulfill her poet's prophecies!
[Oh, fair young mother! on thy brow
Shall sit a nobler grace than now,
Deep in the brightness of thy skies;
The thronging years in glory rise, etc. etc.
Bryant's Poems.']

The Liberator.
THE CRISIS-WEEK.
[We are kindly permitted to print the following portion of an excellent Sermon which was preached to his people on the Sunday after the late Presidential Election, by Rev. NATHANIEL HALL, of Dorchester.]
REV. 19: 6. "And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thundering, saying, Alleluia: for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth."
I know not how it may be with others, but I cannot stand in ray place to-day, and not give voice to feelings which the great public event of the week past has excited within me. Nor can I feel that I am slighting interests which claim here a predominant regard, if, taking your thoughts where I assume to find them, I attempt to lead them up and on to the higher aspects and broader relations of the event referred to, and to express and emphasize, before the God as well of Providence as of Grace, its sacred lessons. God's teachings, my friends,-as I have often said to you,-are not confined to a Book. Not alone through Prophet and Apostle and his Christ does He speak to us. Providence is a Holy Bible. Events are the pictorial representations of the Heavenly Hill. And the pulpit is no less true to its mission when it seeks to interpret these, in the light of His special revelations, than when it makes those revelations its direct and only theme.
I see a Providence, I see God, I see a divine significance, I see cause for religious exultation, in the result of that crisis-week, towards which we have so long been looking, in mingled hope and fear; in view of which loyal millions of our land have given their thoughts and care and labor, in the persuasion that Heaven had for them, for the time, no higher work. And while the spirit of our exultation should soar far above all mere party considerations-as if religious it must-it need not be restrained because of any personal reflections, of a rebukeful character, it may impliedly have. I will not so far distrust the magnanimity of any around me as to believe that they will object, for this, to honest, heartfelt utterances from the higher plane of thought and reflection; as to believe that the disappointment of defeat is not more than overcome by the consideration, that, in the judgments of such multitudes of the wise and good, if not their own, the cause of their country has triumphed. 
The crisis-week, so long looked forward to, by hoping, fearing, anxious millions, is to-day looked back upon; and we are allowed to see,-how should our hearts rise therefore in earnest gratitude!-a country saved, and its institutions standing in their integrity, unscathed, unshaken on their immortal pedestal-the golden sunlight beaming upon them, through the rifted cloud, more brightly than before. The hour has struck-greatest in our country's history, if not the world's-whose peal was listened for by the ear of nations; it has struck-and the watchmen on a thousand towers report, as the deep vibrations die away over valley and mountain and lake, "All is well." Aye, and did not celestial watchers, think you, say it to the listening spirits that went up from bloody graves, the love of country warm within their hearts,-"All is well-not vainly have ye died "? And the spirits that preceded them,-the fathers of the republic, the apostles of liberty, the martyrs for humanity, to whom our case broadens into that of universal man, did they not bend to catch the welcome tidings,-" all is well"; while, "as with the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters," they sang, anew, " Alleluia, for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth." The hour has struck;-and the great heart of the nation beats on, with steady throb, with emboldened hope, and feels the coursing of new life within her war-depleted veins.
Do I magnify the event's importance and significance? I do not believe so. I know the common proneness to exaggerate crises that impend. They loom, by their nearness, into deceptive proportions. But the issue which the nation was summoned, by its Constitution, on the 8th of November, to meet, was too palpably solemn and momentous for the possibility of deception. The self-same issue it had met in arms, was met in that bloodless encounter. Shall the nation, as a nation-free, united-live or die? Shall the institutions the fathers planted, the highest product of a Christian civilization; the nearest approximation the world has known to that point of social and political advancement to which Christ, by his religion, would lead the nations; institutions under which, as under no others, the natural, inalienable, God-given rights of man, as men, are acknowledged and secured,-shall they, with all their privileges and benefits, and hopes and promises, be reverently sustained, or trampled on and trampled out; be maintained in their integrity, be lifted to a higher perfection, or be surrendered-not directly, but surely-to the enemies and haters of them-foes of truth and man, of human rights and human progress? This was, virtually, the issue presented. Not, of course, in so many words; not understood or seen as such, strangely, by many, who, otherwise, would never have met it as they did; but, nevertheless, really this. Can the importance of that act well be exaggerated in which such an issue was deliberately and directly met; in which the nation's decision with reference to it was definitely and enduringly wade and recorded, entered on the scroll of history-a fixed, an unchallengeable, an ineffaceable fact? that act in and by which the nation set the seal to its destinies, for an unmeasured future; resolved whether to be true to the cardinal principles of its institutional life, or recreant to them; whether to keep on whither the star of its "high calling" leads-star flamed from Bethlehem's, or turn to the false lights which beckon backwards into darkness and shame? No decision of mere local and temporary interest-its consequences limited to ourselves, and bounded within a presidential term-is that which the nation has just risen, in its majesty, to record. Tell me of a people, of a tribe, of an isle of the sea, that is not remotely affected by it. Let this republic, providentially elected to occupy the van of the advancing civilizations; to which is committed the trust for a world's behalf of free institutions, which has been called to test before the gaze of the nations the competency of the people for self-government, called to bear, aloft the sacred torch of constitutional liberty-a rebuke to the oppressor, a hope to the oppressed, promise and pledge to millions of hearts of a better future;-let it have proved false in this mighty trial-hour to its glorious mission; let it have suffered itself to be displaced from its God-given position by the secret plotting and sophistical; reasoning and sordid appeals, through which slavedom
<c03>
failing in arms, sought to ensure its nefarious ends.-and who can tell how far reaching, how long-enduring, how afflictive the results!
We can never know, indeed, the evils we have escaped-the measure or duration of them. They might have been less than our fears. They could hardly have been greater. And never, I think, were predictions based on grounds more rational. It were a risk of mighty magnitude, when the Ship of State is rolling and plunging in the billows of bloody treason, and bracing itself, with all available force, in order to live through its sweeping storm, then, to change helmsman,-with a new policy, a new aim, a new constellation to steer by. Let the estimate of him of the friends of the unsuccessful candidate be just,-it would not have been he that would have stood at that high post, save nominally. But the majestic craft, and he himself, would have been in possession of those whom only the insaneness of charity could make less than the worst and wickedest that figure in the politics of the land; or could credit with a single throb of patriotism, still less of condemnation of that iniquity which made the war, and whose extinction alone can end it. We cannot know the evils we have escaped from; but we do know him who, called by Providence and a people's will from his obscure Western home, to the helm of State, through these tempestuous years has so bravely stood there. And we know that, whatever his deficiencies, he has a heart to seek the right, and a will to do it; has no ends lower than country, and no counselor nearer than God. Behold-as he stands, in his high place, while the nation's verdict is borne to him, and the cheers of congratulating thousands are rising around-with what a calm dignity, with what a childlike simplicity, with what an unaffected humbleness, he accepts it all; as less a tribute to himself, than a vindication of his policy; receiving with no throe of self-elation the laurel of success; indulging in no exultations over his opposes, no taunts towards his defeated maligners; returning not " railing for railing, but contrariwise blessing "-an example to us all of a Christian high-mindedness, and tolerance, and charity.
Friends, the event of the week, with its accompanying circumstances, may well increase our faith in the capacity of the people for self-government, our hope for free institutions. To what a test has that capacity, have those institutions, now been put! There could not have been a more terrible and fiery one. The whole war has been an ordeal such as no other people was ever subjected to; demanding a measure unprecedented of heroism, of sacrifice, of endurance. And how it has been met, let the thousands upon thousands who have gone forth, on field and wave, from loved and peaceful and prosperous homes, unforced, but by the stress of patriotic and conscientious impulse, to give their lives, if need were-and how many have given them-for their country's rescue; let the uncomplaining willingness to meet the increased taxation which the vast expenditures in the prosecution of the war has necessitated; let the free and munificent outpourings of private bounty, from every town and village and dwelling of the land,-let these answer. But a severer ordeal was that through which the country is just emerging, in the glory of a proved sufficiency. Was ever such witness given, by a great nation, of heroic strength, of manly principle, of patriotic loyalty, as when-in the face of a gigantic and accumulating debt; in view of bereaved homes, and aching hearts, and a lengthening death-roll; with universal longings for peace; longings for the return to their homes of the exposed and endangered, and their longings to return-when, against all this, the question was put to the whole people-virtually, though not in terms,-"Shall the war go on-with more treasure, more blood, more suffering, indefinitely more, as its inevitable cost, rather than be abandoned for a false, treacherous, unstable peace; in an ignoble compromise with an organized barbarism, in criminal and bloody revolt?-the people answered-freely, intelligently, deliberately, they answered,-"YES!" Two or three weeks ago, a noble Englishman-Goldwin Smith-in the course of a lecture, before an immense auditory, in Boston Music Hall, asked, in substance,-"Had you known all the costs and sacrifices of your war, would you have gone into it?" and, in spontaneous shout, they answered,-"YES." They answered for the country. And the country, to the question put to it, on Tuesday last,-"Whatever the future costs and sacrifices of the war, will you go on with it?" answered for itself,-"YES."
And it is a fact most notable and significant, that this result, which so many had made, for months, most strenuous and determined efforts to prevent, was attended and followed, in all the length and breadth of the land, by no one deed of disturbing violence. It was the voice of the majority; and as such respected. And the sun that went down upon that stern decision, went down in the stillness in which it rose-save sounds of irrepressible gladness; and these with no tone of taunt in them, and eliciting no angered response. The intense and passionate excitement of that momentous campaign culminated in quietness! Who now will doubt the capacity of the American people for self-government? Who now will question the stability of our free institutions? What trial can they be subjected to severer than they have borne?
Friends, how can we help but rejoice at these things, and give God thanks? Not that a party has been defeated-O no-but that a country has been saved;-a country as dear, I will not doubt, to many in connection with that party as to myself, or any. Let our thoughts ascend, and our hearts with them, above the low plane of temporary antagonisms and partial disagreement, to the broad table-land of Patriotism, where we are all one. Let us be willing to forget every thing personal, in the blessed fact that we have a country to love, to serve, to live for and die for; worthy our love, our service, our life; dearer for the perils through which it has been brought-for the perils which yet besiege and threaten, but through whose remaining waves the Good Providence that has thus far guided and guarded, shall still guide and guard, until the hour of Peace be reached, and her recreant tribes come back to their dishonored loyalty, and rally again to her sacred flag.
Aye, a Good Providence. Gratefully, reverently, be it recognized and praised, in the crisis past, and its train of antecedents. It is difficult, impossible, to trace the workings of a Power that works in and by human wills and agencies; to demonstrably prove that, here and there, in specific instances, what seemed accidental was brought about by influences whose hiding is with God. But who can doubt that a Divine Superintendence and Overrule has been graciously granted, in all this mighty conflict, for the salvation of the nation, against those who would divide and destroy it?-causing defeat to be better than triumph, failure the condition of a higher success; causing the weakness of personal ambition and the cunning of party intrigue to redound to patriotic ends; causing hostile machination to effect friendly aid, and plotted mischief availing good-the very things that were to tell against the country's cause, in innumerable instances actually promoting it; strengthening loyal; sentiment, increasing loyal numbers.
It was a faith that God was with us, that He loved our country, loved its cause, and would at length succeed it, which has been the strength of many a heart, and the brightness of its hope, in the frequent darkness through which the crisis drew on, amidst the noise and boast and unscrupulous effort and reckless assertion of an electioneering contest. And now that he has succeeded it; now that against all, at home and abroad, which bad been brought to oppose it, our cause--the country's cause-has so signally triumphed, while we may well feel rebuked for past despondency and distrust, we should be inspired with new confidence in His protecting Providence. We shall need it in the future. God only knows through what scenes, through what discipline, we, as a nation, are to pass; to what further tests of our fidelity we are to be subjected. May He make us equal to our day! May be breathe into, us a spirit of self-devotion, so that the cause of country, the cause of freedom and
<c04>
of man, shall never suffer for lack of what we may give it!
That cause must triumph. The event of the past week proves that it is clear to the American heart; that it will not be abandoned; that the sword drawn for it, by the clear mandate of Heaven, will be sheathed but with victory. The future of our country is full of hope. The great experiment, for which God chose it as the theatre, has not failed. The blood of its children has not been shed in vain. Its valleys and mountains shall again be vocal with the songs of Peace; aye, of a Peace that shall not be broken-for Righteousness shall have gone before it, and rent each fettering chain.

WELCOME TO GOLDWIN SMITH.
Professor Goldwin Smith, so well known in this country for his eloquent vindication of our cause in England, was entertained on Saturday, 12th inst., by a large number of the most distinguished citizens of New York, at the rooms of the Union League Club in that city, where an elegant breakfast was served.
Among the persons present were Major-General Butler, Bishop Potter, Professor H. B. Smith, John C. Hamilton, Professor J. W. Dwight, Charles Butler, Dr. Willard Parker, Henry Ward Beecher, John Jay, Professor Draper, George Bancroft, Rev. Drs. Cox and Osgood, W. J. Hoppin, Dr. Francis Lieber, George T. Strong, William C. Bryant, George Griswold, William Allen Butler, Dr. Horace Webster, S. B. Ruggles, John A. Stevens, ex-Governor Morgan, Jonathan Sturges, A. A. Low, John C. Green, William H. Webb, President Barnard, C. P. Kirkland, Dr. Bellows, H. J. Raymond, Colonel McKaye, G. W. Curtis, Parke Godwin, Wm. M. Evarts, Rev. Dr. Prentiss, W. T. Blodgett, Charles H. Marshall, Peter Cooper, Rev. Dr. Ferris, Wm. E. Dodge, Prof. Vincenzo Botta, and others, about seventy in all, representing nearly every Profession, and the best classes of society in this country, particularly the literary, commercial and benevolent institutions.
The gentlemen present were introduced to Prof. Smith in the Library; and at half past 10 o'clock the company eat down to breakfast.
Mr. Charles Butler presided. At his right, Prof. Smith was seated, and at his left, General Butler. At the conclusion of the breakfast, the welcoming address to Prof. Smith, on behalf of the company, was delivered by Mr. John Jay.
It was in excellent taste and spirit; and the reply of Prof. Smith was very felicitous. The most significant portion of it we gave in the last number of the Liberator. It gave high satisfaction, and was warmly applauded.
A letter from Gen. Halleck was read, and Gen. Butler was then called on to make an address on behalf of the army. When he rose, there was great applause, the company rising.
SPEECH OF GENERAL BUTLER.
General Butler said, that before paying that respect and the kindness of feeling which he was sure he could represent from the army of the United States to the distinguished guest, he would accept, not for himself, the kind greeting which the company had offered. (Applause.)
Our army,-the General continued,-of all those who have ever gone from home to battle for the right, is essentially a reading and thinking army, (loud applause,) and the fact that the men who, in the halls of science and learning, are calmly examining the course of events, and are approving and sustaining the army in that determined conflict of mankind, adds new courage to the heart, new strength to the arm. (Enthusiastic applause.) And therefore, he said, he could well give his thanks as the representative of the soldiers in the field, to our distinguished friend, (Professor Smith,) who was among the few that seemed to bid them God-speed. (Renewed applause.)
General Butler added his assurance that if the Professor, before leaving New York, would, as they say in the army, come down to the front, he would there be greeted with cheers to which those of the company were but faint murmurs-(loud applause)-murmurs in comparison with the grand chorus which should speak.
In a few weeks, or a few months, the General continued, there would remain as visible marks of our great conflict a few green mounds, a few unsightly lines of earth. But all would not have passed away. The heroism, the bright example of our glorious dead should forever furnish new teachings of right to coming generations.
General Butler, in conclusion, renewed his invitation to Professor Smith to visit the army, speaking of his own early return.
SPEECH OF MR. LAUGEL.
Mr. Laugel, one of the prominent writers for the Revue des Deux Mondes in Paris, and whose eloquent pen has often been used in defence of the Union cause before the tribunal of European opinion, spoke in the following pertinent and touching words:-
"Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen: Never before did I address an audience in another language but my own, but I feel that I must answer in a few words the remarks that have been made, and thank you for the manner in which you have received them. There is nothing for me to add to the high and well-deserved tribute which has been paid to your distinguished guest. You may well say of him what our great heroine of Arc said of the oriflamme at the coronation of her king: "As it has been with me in battle, let it be with me at the hour of triumph." For this is an hour of triumph. You have shown to the world that the North is united and in earnest, that your people are determined not only to re-establish the Union, but to extirpate that only germ of disunion among you, slavery. You have shown that your institutions can bear the most severe test; I mean the renovation of the Executive in times of civil war and under conditions of uncontrolled liberty. Leaving these topics, I must beg permission from your distinguished guest and from yourselves, gentlemen, to turn a moment to my own position among you. It is not often that a Frenchman has occasion to address an American audience. Allow me to seize this opportunity, and to explain to you, in a few words, what I consider to be the feelings of my people in regard to the great struggle in which you are engaged. Let me first draw a distinction between the French government and the French people. I will not here open an attack against the government of my country, but this I may say, because it is a mere fact, that government, especially in what concerns its foreign relations, is armed with an uncontrolled authority. I have not always been satisfied with its policy. I have deeply deplored the unnecessary haste with which it recognized the rebels of the South as belligerents; but that being once done, I owe it to justice, and I think you owe it to justice, to acknowledge that, whatever may have been its sympathies, it has adhered to the rules of neutrality. Leaving the government, I turn to the people. Here I feel more at home, and am happy to assure you that the sympathies of my countrymen are almost unanimously on your side. Ask a hundred Frenchmen if they believe in a restoration of the Union, and one in the number, I will admit it, will tell you that he does not; but ask these unbelievers if they desire the disruption of your Union, and all will tell you "No."
Your cause has had that singular privilege among us to unite people of the most conflicting parties; it has enlisted legitimists, who remember that the last glorious act of the dynasty they still adhere to has been to help you in the conquest for your independence; it has enlisted Catholics, who see the Catholic churches flourishing among your tolerant people and under the protection of your laws; it has enlisted all the liberals, Orleanists or Republicans; it has enlisted such men as Laboulaye, Gasparin, Cochin. Berryer, our greatest orator; Prevost-Paradol, Forcade, Lanfrey, our best journalists; Henri Martin, our popular historian; and how many others could I not name! Though the forms of government can-
<c05>
not, and, therefore, ought not to be every where the same, we all know how much we could borrow with advantage from your institutions, being ourselves a democratic people. We all admire your habits of self-government; we admire your powerful organization of parties, founded on that principle, and which, in the absence of an aristocratic class, are your means of transmitting great political traditions; we admire your public schools, your municipal institutions; we admire the ingenuity of your people in all branches of industry and agriculture.
Having so much to borrow from you, let me say that we have also something to give in return. Traveling over your great country, I have been sometimes surprised to find traces of French influence where I had least expected to find them. In the far West, I have seen a new house-roof built after the fashion of our great architect Mansard. Entering your houses, I see everywhere reminiscences of French art, of French fashion-that kind of art which we call-industrial art, and in which I may say, without false pride, that my countrymen excel, is peculiarly well adapted to the wants and habits of a good democratic community like yours. Let us not despise those humble efforts to bring an aesthetic influence into the channels of daily life. But, if I go to a higher sphere, I will say also, that it gave me great pleasure to see how those of your literary and scientific men, with whom it has been my good fortune to associate, are well acquainted with the works of our writers; of our philosophers, of our historians. Well, may all communication, personal, scientific, literary, commercial, become day by day more numerous; may soon the Atlantic swarm with vessels going from your shores to the shores of my beautiful country; may, above all, our tri-colored flag and your stars and stripes always meet, as always they have met, to bring tidings of love and good-will!
Addresses were also delivered by Wm. M. Evarts, Esq., Rev. Dr. Cox, Hon. George Bancroft, George W. Curtis, Esq., Peter Cooper, Esq., Rev. Mr. Putnam of Brooklyn, Wm. E. Dodge, Esq., Rev. Dr. Osgood, and Rev. Jonathan Sturgis.
During the proceedings, letters from President Lincoln, Secretary Fessenden, General Halleck, Attorney-General Bates, General Dix, Edward Everett,
W. M. Meredith, Professor Tayler Lewis, and others who could not be present, were read.

CHRONICLES.
BY C. C. P. MOODY.
Delivered at the Town Hall, Maiden, Mass., Nov. 15, 1864, on the occasion of the celebration of the victory at the late Presidential Election.
Abraham hath triumphed gloriously! The horse and his rider he hath overthrown in the midst of the slime pits of the Confederacy,
On a set day-even the 8th day of the 11th month-the battle was put in array: Abraham and his loyal legions against Mac and the powers of darkness.
And it came to pass, that before the sun went down that day, the man Mac was discomfited with a great confusion: and the men of Chicago have fallen into the pit their own hands have digged; and the platform they framed shall grind them to powder,-yea, they shall be abhorred as a stench in the nostrils of all loyal men, because they lifted up their hands against the government, and were in sympathy with those in rebellion against it.
Now Abraham was a just man-one who feared God and eschewed evil.
But wicked men envied him, and sought false witnesses against him, and said, We will cast him down, that he shall no more be ruler over the land.
And some cried one thing, and some another; but they could find none occasion against him, except that he was merciful to the poor, and made proclamation to let every bondman go free.
Now there were certain rabid democrats of the baser sort-and they waxed exceeding hot against him; in the West there were two, Vall and Voorhies-in the East there were two, Seymour and Wood; and they stirred up the people with many lies.
But Abraham feared them not, for he was a righteous man. He said, I am content; let the people cast lots. Howbeit, there were certain brave men who stood by him, ready to hold up his hands; and he called for one Benjamin, surnamed Butler, a valiant captain of his hosts.
And Abraham said-Behold that great Babylon, New York, the mother of harlots and every abomination; she sitteth as a queen in her iniquity, and saith, Who shall discomfort me, or make me afraid? Am I not mistress of the great Empire State?
Moreover, Abraham said unto Benjamin-Leave thou thy hosts for a time on the south river, even thy habitation at Dutch Gap, and come thou, stand in the gate of that great city, whose transgression is Seymour, and whose iniquity is Wood; draw thou thy sword from his sheath, and if any man lifteth up himself against the government, or opposeth the laws, hew him down, that there be neither root nor branch left.
Then Benjamin said, So be it done unto me, and more also, if I let one of them escape that maketh insurrection, or opposeth the laws; for thy servant is not a man to deal softly with the enemies of thy country, as thou knowest well, oh Abraham!
Then Benjamin girded on his sword, and came and stood in the gate of the city: and every Ishmaelite, and the heathen of every nation, and uncircumcised Philistines, and all the plug-uglies, and demons, and devils of every shape, gnashed their teeth, and were filled with rage exceeding great. And they said, Thy head shall fall from thy body, and the fowls of the air shall feed upon thy carcase.
Howbeit, they laid no hands upon him, neither did they set themselves to break the laws, for they feared before him.
Now when it-was found that the lot fell on Abraham to be ruler over the land, there went up a great shout from all the people, and they took up this song:-
The men of Mac are discomfited with a great overthrow, whereof we are glad; their chariot wheels are broken, and they sank as lead in the Dead Sea.
Lift up your heads, oh ye four winds, and blow the trump of liberty!
Sing aloud, How hath the righteous prospered, because he regardeth the poor, and hateth oppression!
But the name of the wicked shall rot, because he did magnify himself against the government, and cast contempt upon Abraham the just.
He that upholdeth the poor shall smite the oppressor, and the bondman shall be more honorable than his master.
Rejoice, oh ye waters, wherein go the mighty ships; for they shoot out fire, and smoke of brimstone, and hail of iron upon the rebellious cities of the South.
And ye mighty hills and mountains, how beautiful are the feet of Sherman and Sheridan! Their horses are swift-they neigh for the battle-they bring tidings of good. 
Ulysses, a mighty captain and a valiant man, lifteth up his spear, and maketh all the men of Richmond to tremble; for they remember all their wickedness that they have done in that they have rebelled with a very grievous rebellion.
Then Abraham, and all his hosts, and the inhabitants of the land, with the priests and Levites, the singers and principal men, sang with a loud voice,
"We are marching along, we are marching along-
Glory, glory, hallelujah!"
Ex-GOVERNOR James H. Hammond of South Carolina, whose death was recently announced, was the blackguard who, in a public speech, declared that free laborers of all classes were "the mudsills of society;" for which insult the "Natick cobbler" sewed up his mouth so effectually, that he never opened it again in the Senate in scurrilous abuse of the North. He was an original nullifier and secessionist, and had been Governor of South Carolina, and a Representative as well as Senator at Washington.
<c06>
SCIENCE AND SCRIPTURE.
TESTIMONY OF ENGLISH SCIENTIFIC MEN.
A number of the leading scientific men of England, in view of the present biblical agitations there, have signed the following
DECLARATION.
"We, the undersigned students of the natural sciences, desire to express our sincere regret that researches into scientific truth are perverted by some in our own times into occasion for easting doubt upon the truth and authenticity of the Holy Scriptures. We conceive that it is impossible for the Word of God as writhen in the book of nature, and God's word writhen in Holy Scripture, to contradict one another, however much, they may appear to differ. We are not forgetful that physical science is not complete, but is only in a condition of progress, and that at present our finite reason enables us only to see as through a glass darkly, and we confidently believe that a time will come when the two records will be seen to agree in every particular. We cannot but deplore that natural science should be looked upon with suspicion by many who do not make a study of it, merely on account of the unadvised manner in which some are placing it in opposition to Holy Writ. We believe that it is the duty of every scientific student to investigate nature simply for the purpose of elucidating truth, and that if he finds that some of his results appear to be in contradiction to the Writhen Word, or rather to his own interpretations of it, which may be erroneous, he should not presumptuously affirm that his own conclusions must be right, and the statements of Scripture wrong; rather leave the two side by side till it shall please God to allow us to see the manner in which they may be reconciled; and instead of insisting upon the seeming differences between science and the Scriptures, it would be as well to rest in faith upon the points in which they agree.
"Upwards of two hundred and ten names have already been received, including thirty F. R. S.'s, forty M. D's, etc. Among them are the following: Thomas Anderson, M.D., J. H. Balfour M.D., Thomas Bell, J. S. Bowerbank LL. D. Sir David Brewster, James Glaisher, Thomas Remer Jones, James P. Joule, LL. D., Robert Main, Lieutenant Colonel Sir Henry C. Rawlinson, Thomson Richardson, Ph. D., Henry D. Rogers, LL. D Adam Sedgwick M. D, Alfred Smee and John Stenhouse, LL. D."
Two eminent men, an astronomer and an author, have, however, declined to sign the declaration, and write as follows:
LETTER FROM SIR JOHN HERSCHEL.
COLLINGWOOD, September 6, 1864. 
"Sir: I received some time ago a declaration for signature, identical with its wording, or at all events in its obvious purport, with that you have sent me. I considered that the better course was to put it aside without notice. But since it is pressed upon me, and to prevent the repetition of a similar appeal, it becomes necessary for me distinctly to decline signing it; and to declare that I consider the act of calling on me publicly to avow or disavow, to approve or disapprove, in writing, any religious doctrine or statement, however carefully or cautiously drawn up, (in other words, to append my name to a religious manifesto,) to be an infringement of that social forbearanc which guards the freedom of religious opinion in this country with especial sanctity. At the same time, I protest against my refusal to sign your 'Declaration' being construed into a profession of atheism or infidelity. My sentiments on the mutual relations of the Scripture and science have long been before the world, and I see no reason to alter or add to them. But I consider this movement simply mischievous, having a direct tendency (by putting forward a new shibboleth, a new verbal test of religious partisanship) to add a fresh element of discord to the already too discordant relations of the Christian world. I do not deny that care and caution are apparent on the face of the document I am called on to subscribe. But no nicety of wording, no artifice of human language will suffice to discriminate the hundredth part of the shades of meaning in which the most world-wide differences of thought on such subjects may be involved; or prevent the most gently worded and apparently justifiable expression of regret, so embodied, from grating on the feelings of thousands of estimable and well-intentioned men with all the harshness of controversial hostility.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
J. F. W. HERSCHEL.
Capel H. Berger, Esq."
LETTER FROM SIR JOHN BOWRING.
"CLAREMONT, Exeter, August 27. 
"Dear Sir-In the general spirit of the document to which my adhesion is asked, I cordially concur. That all truth must ultimately harmonize-that one truth cannot be inconsistent with another truth, are propositions-axioms, rather-which cannot be contested; to proclaim an approval of them is as much a work of supererogation as it would be to publish an avowal of agreement with the demonstration of a mathematical problem. But it appears to me the period has arrived when we should endeavor to emancipate ourselves from the tyranny of all dogmatizing creeds-all enforced confessions, all foregone conclusions, all compromising declarations; perseveringly carrying out to their necessary consequences our own investigations and convictions, and encouraging others to exercise the same right and discharge the same duty. I do not know how the course of truth and the interests of religion can be better served than by allowing the utmost latitude to inquiry. It is not possible-nor, if possible, desirable-to prevent comparisons between the historical revelations of the past and the scientific discoveries of the present time. The Bible must be brought into the broad daylight-out of the darkness to which ancient, authority condemned it; it must be tested by inquiring knowledge, and taken from the custody of contending ignorance; it must be cleared from its cobwebs, and purged from its corruptions. Nothing less ought reasonably to satisfy those who believe; nothing more can fairly be demanded by those who doubt; but this much may be asked in the interest of all. There is no presumption in giving to be world conclusions soberly, seriously, and reverently formed, be those conclusions what they may. The best resting place for 'faith,' or hope, or comfort, will, after all, be found in allowing to the intellectual faculties with which God has blessed us their widest influence and action over the whole field of thought. By 'proving all things,' we shall be able to 'hold fast that which is good,' and we may be fully assured that the great verities which have stood the storms and shocks of agitated will remain unbroken through coming ages.
I am, dear sir, your obedient, humble servant,
JOHN BOWRING.
Professor Stenhouse, F. R S, &c., London.

THE VOTE OF BALTIMORE.
Where all have done their best, and many have done so well, it may seem right to avoid invidious distinctions. The Union victory in Baltimore, however, viewed in connection with antecedent events, is so remarkable, so magnificent, as to challenge especial commendation. Four years ago, Abraham Lincoln then, as now, the constitutionally elected Chief Magistrate of the United State, on his way to the seat of government, to be inaugurated, was obliged to pass through Baltimore, in the way Nicodemus, "for fear of the Jews," came to the World's Redeemer, viz: "by night." He actually reached Washington in disguise, so well founded were be apprehensions that in the "Monumental City" assassination stared him in the face. Subsequently, when it was found necessary to summon some regiments of soldiers from the North, to prevent the seizure of the capital by armed rebels, they met the fate, in that city, which only the President's well-timed prudence averted from himself. They were murdered, in cold blood, and under the gaze of the noonday sun, in the streets of that city. Compare with those events the result of last Tuesday. Now, this same Abraham Lincoln, in that identical city, receives between twelve and thirteen thousand votes of a majority for re-election, and the Maryland brigade of loyal soldiers, composed chiefly of Baltimoreans, gives him 1,224 votes, against 44 for his opponent! And, still better, Baltimore is the commercial emporium of a Free State, within whose borders the chains of slavery have forever ceased to clank! Verily, the world still moves. If any one doubts it, let him look at the election returns of the city of Baltimore.-Philadelphia Press.
