THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISION, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor. 
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 49. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1661.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
GEN MCCLELLAN’S REMOVAL
The fate of the Republic is growing darker every day. Some evil genius seems to preside over its councils in the Cabinet, and over its plans in the field and irretrievable disaster is the rule of the period. It is legitimately to be thought, that neither our Generals nor our Statesmen are competent to part the demands of the difficulties by which we are surrounded.
A new misfortune has now occurred. The brave General who made the grand army of the North, and who is the idol of the soldiers, has sullenly disobeyed orders from the Commander-in-Chief, and in punishment for act he has been disgraced. This is the most deplorable thing that has yet happened to the nation in the course of the present rebellion. It disheartens the whole army of the Potomac! The defeat at Bull Run, nor the week of unfortunate battles, nor the blunders of Pope, which exposed thousands to unprofitable slaughter, nor any other loss we have experienced, has had the wretched effect of destroying lofty confidence of our noble troops. But through a baleful destiny that evil has been brought about by the unmilitary conduct of the very officer by whom the men had been taught all their discipline,-under whose leadership all their victories have been won,-whose return to them after an unjust suspension, during which they had been hacked to pieces, made them forget their wounds; from whom they experienced kindness that made them look on him with affection that will never die; with whom they undid terrible disasters into which they were led by other commanders, and under whom it was both their proud hope and their lofty boast, that they would gloriously terminate the treason of the South by the very General of whom all these splendid facts are true; the confidence of the army is now dispelled, and despair has its place! The fact that McClellan’s disobedience has allowed the enemy to unite his forces is nothing; nothing else, that has yet occurred in the whole war could have been or can be of such dive consequences to the Republic, as freezing of the courage of the soldiers that has now been made. What splendid fighting can now be exported from our noble, patriotic soldiers? What victories can now be looked for from their valor? The brave fellows have been scandalously trifled with from first to last. The unpolished Lincoln exposed them to numerous carnages by his interference in generalship, and the disobedience of their favorite captain by putting all their hopes under foot, and making everything uncertain before them, has chilled up the veteran courage of their hearts! It is a shame, it is a scandal, it is a horrible ill-treatment to treat soldiers so badly, and it is almost curtain to be followed by disasters to the integrity of the nation that may not the soon removed. The confidence of the army turned into despair, and the rebel forces elated by the event. What is the future of the country? Still let us hope. We are neither few nor faint, and are fearless still. But it will take years to restore things to their original condition. And if our Statesmen and Generals do not do something, the people must take the power out of their hands, and give it to abler men.-(Irish Catholic) Pilot.

PHILLIPS AND HIS “CELESTIALS.”
Phillips has again spoken. Another blow has been given to the wedge dividing North from South. They are farther apart to-day than they were yesterday. Not because of just reasons, but because of this man’s power to poison the New England mind. His few brilliant utterances sink into the minds of young men, and of women, and they take root and grow into a sentiment of hostility to the South. Better that a mill-stone had been hanged about his neck and had weighed him to the bottomless deep, than that he had lived to plant the seeds of dissolution this Union.
With what assumption thus man speaks! The North represents all that is great and good in civilization: the South, all that is evil. This is false. But men will believe it; only those men, however, who have never looked beyond the horizon of New England. The South has virtues. Ask Dr. Bellows. He says her young men have chivalric manners, her young women a peculiar charm, the people as inbred habit of command, a contempt of life in defence of honor or class, a talent for political life, an easy control of inferiors, an essential good breeding and humanity. He says no base, cowardly, idle, worthless people could have waged war as the South better than Phillips. He has a larger brain, and is not so narrow in his sympathies. He is not pledged to a political fanaticism, to a contemptibly small section and interest of this Union. He goes and sees for himself, a thing Phillips could not do for his life.
Phillips means by the North the civilization of the nineteenth century; by the South, an element of ignorance, idleness; a mosaic of races based on despotism and supported by cruelty. What has the South done of which he speaks? It has furnished a Washington, than whom, in his sphere, a greater man has not lived. It has given us a Jefferson, a man endowed the best of any man in history with an intuition for democracy. It has given us a Henry, the shaft of fire that lit the Revolution. Madison and Monroe are honored names also. We have not forgotten a Clay, with great constructive genius and a matchless eloquence; and Jackson, with his iron will and broad patriotism. Say what you will of the South, it has furnished its full quota of the representative political genius of the Republic. To-day its force of individuality is so great that this boasted Northern nineteenth century civilization makes but slow approaches towards its citadels of power.
This cry of North and South is what has been our ruin. To Webster, to all our great statesman, there was no North, no South. Calhoun made a South, and Massachusetts sentimentalists and women have made a North. The “Superior North” has been instilled into the minds of the children in the nursery and in the schools, the pulpit has preached it, the lecturer has spent his wit in illustrating it, and the narrow-minded literary man of New England has taught it in song and in essay. Of course, this abstraction has grown up into a great individuality. Its natural state is an antagonism to the South. It looks upon the South as a mortal enemy, and war between them must be their normal condition as long as the ideas or facts, North and South exist. It is our duty to expunge these ideas from our thoughts, from our actions, these words from our dictionaries, this malice from our hearts. These ideas cannot exist in harmony with a great nationality. They must go down, or the Union must fall.
But these twin sisters of dissolution are creating now. They will soon begin to be realities. Phillips sees bad omens in the West. Well he may. He 
<c02>
has done as much as any man to create these omens. He has done much to make Radicalism in New England hated with a mortal hatred all over the Union. He now begins to shiver with the coming cold that New England is to be left out in. If he and his rule here much longer, he and his will be made worse slaves than the South has under foot, The Central and Southern States will turn and put their heel upon this viper that has stung them so long. Her bayonets will be shoved aside as so many straws of the east wind, her little flag laughed at, her contemptible navy ruthlessly knocked about, and her miserable metaphysical nationality will be a by-word and a scorn to the tens of millions of that other Republic which could not join bands with her. Her barren soil will pinch the faces of her starving farmers, and her Lowells and Manchesters swarm with a vice and slavery that England and South Carolina never knew.
Do these narrow-minded fellows suppose that they can usurp the wealth, the energies, the power of the central continent? Pshaw! What nonsense! They coolly stand up and proclaim that God is on their side, with their little puny purposes narrowed down to a sand-hill, a rock, and the New England Primer. All men not agreeing with them are traitors, tyrants, barbarians, forgotten and deserted of God! There is a beautiful majesty in this assumption! They talk of the Declaration of Independence, and the Bible, as though they alone held them in hand, when they, of all men on this continent or any other continent since Voltaire, Rousseau and Tom Paine, have done the most to trample them under foot. Proclaiming the Declaration, they have cursed it; proclaiming the Bible, they have utterly disregarded its precepts. They are only Catilines in disguise, for they are corrupting the minds of the youth to destroy our nationality. They cry out "Bloody Mary," and the "inquisition," when they only threaten the guillotine to their political opponents.
The whole column of this company which Phillips leads is the mortal enemy of this Union, of civil liberty, of the poor man's rights, of the Declaration of Independence, of the Bible, law, order, peace, safety, of everything that is the crowning pride and honor of the nineteenth century. We can tell it that it shall not hold New England. If the West and the Centre secede, New England will go with them, and leave the "Celestials" only in the cold.—Boston Post.

ABSURDITY OF THE RADICAL PLAN FOR EMANCIPATION.
A Republican editor in New York tells us that ail of the millions of slaves in the United States are soon to be emancipated, and that any scheme of! transporting or sending them out of the country is wild and impossible; that they must, in whatever relation to the whites and to the State and National Governments, remain in the South. But we do not see why he seems to regard as uncertain the nature of the condition in which they are to live. The "universal emancipation," that he insists on, precludes the idea of their being slaves; and, if they are not slaves, they must, in spite of an absurd and impracticable attempt at a system of Mexican peonage or San Domingo apprenticeship, be free—free to all intent and purposes. We do not suppose that he has any doubt at all upon this subject. He unquestionably expects all the myriads of slaves in the South to remain there, just as free as the white citizens, at liberty to labor as they please, and to be as idle as they please.
This, so far as we can learn, is the view taken by all or nearly all of the Republican leaders. Their fixed theory is that the millions of slaves are to inhabit the South as free men, confined, penned up by Northern legislation within the Southern domain, not permitted to set foot, without punishment, upon the soil of any State now free. But what fact or argument or fancy can have made them think that the white citizens of the South will ever submit to such a condition of things, we arc at a loss to conceive. The white men of the South might perhaps be destroyed by fire and sword, or they might possibly be driven utterly from their section, leaving it; either uninhabited or peopled only by the freed blacks; but there is no earthly or even heavenly truth more unquestionable than that they will never live with their present slaves except as owners and masters.
If the Abolition party, the Republican party, or; any other party expects, that, after the crushing of the rebellion and the restoration of the Union, the Southern States will occupy any other position in the Union than that of perfect equality with the Northern States, such party, unless it shall abandon its chimerical expectation, will very soon find itself annihilated. The Southern States will have and exercise, after the Union shall be restored, just the same rights and prerogatives that they had and exercised before the rebellion broke out, and any theory that they must or will permit their multitudinous hosts of slaves to be cooped up as free rovers and licensed vagabonds within their borders is most thoroughly preposterous. We know well that the war must of necessity, in the natural course of events, inflict tremendous injuries upon the slave interests, and to that necessity all loyal men South and North will unmurmuringly submit, but the great mass of the blacks will remain where they are, and exactly in the condition in which they are, their relation with their masters being neither changed nor modified in any essential or even unessential
particular. No other result is possible.
The President's proclamation of an intention to proclaim abolition has had its day. It has strengthened the rebellion in the South, created divisions and strifes, and caused the defeat of its advocates in the North, and weakened and disgraced us in Europe. We know that the President meant well in issuing it, and we trust that be will do well by repealing it, or suffering it to pass off as a dead letter. As we have said, we expect that the prosecution of the war in the South, if the rebels by their obstinacy compel us to prosecute it there, will interfere greatly with the slave interests. A hundred times we earnestly warned our Southern friends two rears ago that this would inevitably be the case, if, by secession, they should inaugurate war, and Heaven knows they have found our warnings partially, and will find them wholly verified. They are destined to find that they will, in consequence of the war, have fewer slaves, and that those they do have will be rendered more intractable and less valuable than at present. They will find the amount of their slave property diminished, and its necessary evils and dangers increased. Yet under no supposable circumstances can the evils of slavery be comparable to those of a condition of society composed principally of manumitted slaves.—Louismille Journal.
REPEAL or THE PERSONAL LIBERTY LAWS. The Detroit Free Press (satanic Democracy) says: The first great duty (!) of the Legislature of Michigan, this winter, should be to repeal the "personal liberty laws," as the pro-nigger statutes are styled by the abolitionists.
<c03>
VERMONT ANTI-FUGITIVE SLAVE-LAW LEGISLATION.
Our readers will observe from the report of the debates in the House at Montpelier, last Saturday, which we give in another column, that the sectional, anti-national and disloyal spirit that has so often pervaded and disfigured our Vermont Legislative action, so far from being subdued and worn out by the severe lessons which our present national calamities are teaching us, still lives and rules. The Committee on the Revision of the General Statutes, appointed last year, and on whose report the Legislature is now busied, took the opportunity presented to them, in recasting and recombining the old Statutes, to omit—among other things—the acts which our State, under the political excitement of the time, passed in opposition to the National Fugitive-Slave rendition law: such acts of the State Legislature being confessedly unconstitutional and anti-national, besides being in themselves foolish and uncalled for. The action of the Committee in this respect was very judicious, and should have been quietly and gladly acquiesced in by our legislators. A shameful excrescence upon our State code would thus have been silently dropped to the great relief of even many who perhaps would have disliked to again attempt its removal by express and specific, action against it. But the keen scent of the negro lovers and of the haters of Southern white men snuffed up the intended change, and they made haste to resist it, and moved the restoration of the omitted anti-fugitive slave-law acts. The motion thus made in the House—by our Burlington representative, Mr. Shaw, we believe—was promptly carried by a vote of 127 to 46.
We are sorry for the good name and for the true interests of our State, which are thus made to suffer anew by the foolish fanaticism and sectional hate that have so long characterized her legislative action upon the Southern negro-slavery question. The furthest removed of all the States from any contact with the negro-slave system of the South, and no way harmed or interfered with or troubled, socially, morally or politically by it; yet from the earliest agitation of the subject in our national politics, down to this latest intermeddling with it, our Legislature I and our people have only been too eager to step out of their way to "have a finger in the matter,” and to stir up a fierce sectional strife between the North and the South. In all this, certainly, we have been, perhaps, unconsciously and unintentionally, but none. I the less surely, undermining loyalty to the common Constitution, and producing a mutual distrust and bate between North and South. And now we are sorely reaping the fruits of it.—Burlington (Vt.) Sentinel, Democratic.

Selections.
PERSONAL LIBERTY BILL.
LEGISLATURE OF VERMONT—IN THE HOUSE.
Report by Mr. Shaw, of Burlington, for Select Committee, favorably, chapter 409, of Revision "Of I provisions relative to persons claimed as fugitive slaves and to prevent kidnapping," with amendments. Mr. Shaw explained that the amendments simply restored the law to the form heretofore existing, and secured the right of trial by jury in the case of attempted rendition of fugitives. He believed the question of the constitutionality of the law had better be left to the Supreme Court as the proper tribunal, and that the Legislature should not recede from their will formerly expressed.
Mr. Reed, of Montpelier, hoped the amendment would not be agreed to. The leading lawyers throughout the State were and had been agreed that these provisions were unconstitutional. He thought the Committee had given themselves needless trouble in attempting to restore them to the statute book.
Mr. Shaw replied that the Select Committee had simply inserted sections of the existing law which had been omitted by the Committee on Revisions. It was simply a question whether the Revision Committee should be permitted to change the law which the State had formerly derided should remain. The proposition of the Select Committee was not absurd, nor had they taken unnecessary nor unreasonable trouble. That a few leading lawyers should think this unconstitutional, was no reason why the people of the State should recede from their expressed will.
Mr. Balch, of Ludlow, thought the present no time to back down from the position which this State had assumed in regard to the Personal Liberty Bill. The mere opinion of lawyers should not be allowed to stand in the way of the resolve of the people in reference to securing liberty to those who may come within the limits of the State. The will of the people in this matter had overridden any such opinion in reference to constitutionality. It was not wise to yield to the Revising Committee who had seen fit to smuggle out of sight the sections under consideration.
Mr. Balch thought it ill became the dignity of the State of Vermont to back down from the position they had taken on the personal liberty question. He hoped, no matter what lawyers thought about the constitutionality of the law, that this House would restore those sections which the Committee of Revision had attempted to smuggle out. He didn't believe anybody but lawyers thought these provisions unconstitutional. He hoped the House would restore the sections by a large majority.
Mr. Denison said he should be unworthy the dignity of his profession if he sat silent and heard such slurs upon the members of his profession. The Committee of Revision had given their reasons for omitting these sections. He respected the opinions of that Commission who had revised our statutes; they were learned constitutional lawyers, and when they had said that, be respected that decision.
Mr. Royce, of Berkshire, was surprised that the Select Committee, if they agreed with the Revising Committee in reference to the constitutionality of the sections, had reported them as an amendment to the bill. It was true the gentleman from Ludlow bad struck a sympathetic chord, and perhaps no one could do it better. Yet it was really no argument in his view in favor of inserting in the statutes a provision that was undoubtedly unconstitutional. It was his fortune to be a member of Congress when these sections were discussed there. Not a man from Vermont could defend them. Judge Collamer did his best, but with his learning and eminent ability be was unable to defend them. Furthermore, these sections had been decided by the Supreme Court. He could not at this time refer to the decision to present. He did not think we could aid the slave by passing unconstitutional laws. They had disgraced our statute book long enough.
Mr. Shaw replied, saying, the Committee did not pass upon the constitutionality of the law. It had I not been decided by the court yet, for no question had arisen under them. [Mr. Royce referred to the
<c04>
Booth case, Wisconsin, He thought the same principle was then decided unconstitutional.] Mr. Shaw did not recollect the principle then decided. He thought it would be time enough to change the law when it was decided unconstitutional.
Mr. Reed said it was the general opinion of lawyers in this and neighboring States, that this law was unconstitutional. He had pride in the fair fame of Vermont. He did not wish to see her statute book disgraced by unconstitutional laws. It was a reproach for which there was no answer. In consequence of that law, Vermont has been classed as a nullifier and placed beside South Carolina, in opposition to the constitutional provisions of the General Government.
Mr. Henry favored the amendment. He thought the views of Charles Sumner upon these questions were correct. The President was going to do another very unconstitutional act on the first of January, and he hoped he would. He thought the opinions of courts were changing upon this subject.
Mr. Torrey called for the yeas and nays on the amendment, and they were—yeas 127, nays 46; so the amendment was agreed to.

THE LESSON OF THE LATE ELECTIONS.
The following article, from the Missouri Democrat, (says the Lawrence [Kansas] Republican,) so forcibly expresses our own views, that we copy it entire. The glorious triumph of the Republican party, under its own name and organization in this State, is a striking confirmation of the correctness of the Democrat's article:—
Wherever the Republicans, as such, and under their own proper name, have made the contest in the late elections, they have been victorious. This they did in Massachusetts; this they did in Michigan; this they did in Iowa; and in each of these States their success was everything which could be desired. On the other hand, in every State in which they discarded their party identity, and ignored the principles upon which they had formerly acted and formerly proved successful, nothing but defeat has attended them. This was the case in Pennsylvania, in New York, Ohio, Indiana and Illinois. In these States they indulged the cry against party, and went into the fight under the name of Unionists, which, in communities where all claimed to be in favor of the Union, signified nothing of a distinctive character, gave them no claim to sympathy of any class of voters, and consequently left them without weapons to fight the battle. True, they avowed their devotion to the Union, shouted and sang "Union," wrote "Union" upon their banners—but all this their adversaries did as well as they. It was impossible to make up an issue upon the Union question. There was no person to fight with. All professed to be agreed upon the point which was expected to be contested. The old Republicans were, therefore, left to beat the empty air, where they expected to bare an enemy and fight a battle.
Not so their adversaries, the Democrats. They had a party organization; they had a name, (and gay what we may about its nothingness, in politics a name is a power;) they professed to have the principles of a party, however barren in this respect they might have been, and professions were more acceptable to the people than the absence of both principles and professions. Very true, the anti-Democrats, as Republicans, had principles, and great principles—principles on which they had before been victorious, but as "Unionists," they appeared to have nothing of the kind. As "Union" men, they seemed to have nothing to distinguish them from others, while the abandonment of the name and organization of Republican bore every appearance of an abandonment of the principles and measures of that party.
Need we wonder, therefore, at the result? In a fight between an armed and an unarmed man, who is surprised at the defeat of the latter? We admit that the President's Proclamation was in existence, and it was understood that the "Union" men are generally in favor of it, but as "Union" men and nothing more, they seemed to have little claims to the championship of a Republican President. Was not the President sustained by the Democrats? Had they not volunteered in the armies of which he was commander-in-chief? Had they not in every part of the loyal country avowed themselves in favor of sustaining him and putting down the rebellion? Were they not, therefore, as good supporters of the President, argued they, as others? While the Democrats rallied to their help all who were opposed to the policy and the principle of the President's Proclamation, their opponents looked in vain for the cooperation of all who were in favor of them, because they did not make them the ground-work of their position. They made the campaign under a meaningless name, and upon a barren issue.
We do not hesitate to declare our belief, that the ill-fortune of the Republican party in the late elections in New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois, (for Republican party, in fact it was,) is attributable more to the apparent abandonment of their distinctive anti-slavery position, and their efforts to secure accessions from the Democratic party, upon the grounds that they were "Union" men, and in favor of the prosecution of the war alone, than any other circumstance. Had they stood up before the world boldly as Republicans—that is, as anti-slavery men—and supported the policy of the President, because he was a Re-publican, and his policy an anti-slavery policy, they would have succeeded infinitely better. They would then have had an independent principle around which they could call upon all of its friends to rally, and their call would have been heeded. Their voice would then have possessed the same inspiration which the principle was calculated to create. And nothing under the heavens is to calculated to reach the hearts of men, especially in this battle-hour between Freedom and Slavery, as an appeal to their love of liberty—their hatred of slavery, and, particularly, slavery in rebellion against the government they love. Never had a party a more favorable opportunity to call into being an unbounded enthusiasm in behalf of a measure which was rightfully its own. The President had given the opportunity of making such an appeal by setting an example of boldness in his proclamation of freedom. The party had simply to follow his example. It had only to declare itself the party of Emancipation—the anti-slavery party of the country, and the principle seen to be involved would have reached the hearts of the people, and brought the required support But the golden opportunity was lost, and the day of conflict ended in defeat.
That here was one great secret of the disaster is established by the fact that wherever the opposite policy was pursued—as Republicans, or as Emancipationists alone, relying upon the anti-slavery sentiment of the people for vindication, and discarding, or at least subordinating all other names and issues, they have triumphed. No clearer proof of this (act baa anywhere been furnished the here in St. Louis. Here, one party, embracing a considerable -
<c05>
number of Republicans, in possession of the vantage position of place and power, and enjoying every superiority which organization and political management could give it, entered upon the contest by ignoring the slavery issue. Another party, weak in point of leadership, without organization, without place or power, strong only in the strength of the principle it espoused, entered the field and grasped the banner which the other had abandoned, and fought the battle in view of the slavery issue alone. What was the result? In the city and county of St. Louis (leaving out of view the vote of soldiers, who, at a distance, could not understand the issues of the canvass,) the latter party gained a decisive and brilliant victory.
Thus would it have been everywhere, had the same course been pursued. Thus will it be everywhere, where the same course is pursued. Let the lesson of the late elections be needed. Let the friends of Emancipation—the lovers of a free government—the conscientious upholders of the policy of the Proclamation, return at once to the main issue. A better name than Republican was never devised— let it be uniform—let them not be known as Republicans in one State or district, as Unionists in another, and as Emancipationists in another. Let them, above and beyond all else, inscribe the principle of their faith boldly upon their flag, and when next they go into the contest, victory is as certain to succeed past defeat as day the night.

LET THE TORIES EXULT!
The severest stab which the Government has received since the assault was made on Fort Sumter, comes from the disfranchisement of the soldiers. Iowa, Wisconsin and Minnesota have made provision for an army vote; but the great States of the East, whose voices are omnipotent for good or evil, compelled their soldiers to surrender their citizenship as they went to battle. More than 100,000 good and true Republicans volunteered in New York. That number went from Pennsylvania. A like number went out from Ohio. Illinois was depleted in the same way. The elections which have been held among the soldiers from this State show conclusively what is the overwhelming political sentiment of the army. Republicans have done the fighting from Richmond to Arkansas, and from Kentucky to the Gulf of Mexico, while the Seymour Democracy of the North have remained at home to betray the country! They have taken advantage of the absence of our volunteers to carry out a conspiracy against the Government which has been aching for successful development since the inauguration of a Republican President. The time to strike for the triumph of treason was at a period when a million of soldiers were withdrawn from citizenship. That was the time to stir up the elements of combustion for a fire in the rear! That was the time to show the Confederate President and his co-conspirators that the North is in readiness to abase herself at the feet of her enemies, and accept of any disgraceful propositions which might come from the South.
It is refreshing to know that, in the absence of the soldiers, the tories have failed to secure control of the next Congress. The game was played well, but they are beaten. The next Congress will have a small but true Administration majority. In the meantime, new vigor will be infused into the war policy of the Cabinet. Even now, there are indications of unwonted activity on the Potomac. There are signs of life there! Before the Northern rattlesnake will have time to exhibit his fangs for a fatal strike, the work of subjugating the rebellious States will have been accomplished. There will be no dishonorable peace consummated. The results of emancipation will come in good time. Slavery, with its accursed tendencies to destroy the peace of society and murder liberal government, will feel a shock from which it will not recover. Its dying agonies may and will convulse a continent; but it shall surely die! The despised "Abolitionists” who have been made emancipationists by the brutalities of the rebellion, will see the desire of their souls. They will see the plague-spot effaced. The leper shall be cleansed. The Government will come out purified from the struggle! The Slaveholders' Rebellion will belong to the past! The curse will be removed and the Union restored!
Let the Tories exult!—Iowa Stale Register.

LIBERTY AND LIGHT IN MASSACHUSETTS.
The Continental Monthly, for December, contains an exceedingly instructive and valuable article on "The Union"—crowded with statistics in a comparison of Massachusetts with Maryland, (that it, of free labor with slave labor.) from the luminous pen of Hon. Robert J. Walker, of Mississippi, and concluding in the following eloquent strain:—
The press of Massachusetts circulated, in 1860, upward of one hundred and two millions of copies, equal to 279,454 per day, including journals and periodicals, each read, on an average, by at least two persons. This is independent of books and pamphlets, and of the very large circulation of papers from other States and from Europe. What a flood of light is thus shed daily and hourly upon the: people of Massachusetts! This intellectual effulgence radiates by day and night. It is the sun in its meridian splendor, and the stars in an ever unclouded firmament. It has a centre and a circumference, but knows no darkness. Ignorance vanishes before it; wealth follows in its train; labor rejoices in its association, and finds its products more than doubled; freedom hails its presence, and religion gives it a cordial welcome; churches, schools, academies, colleges, and universities acknowledge its mighty influence. Science penetrates the secrets of nature, and unfolds each new discovery for the benefit of man. Coal, the offspring of the sun, develops its latent energy, and water contributes its untiring hydraulic power. Machinery takes more and more the place of nerves and muscles, cheapens clothing and subsistence and all the necessaries of life, and opens new fields of industry, and more profitable employment for labor. Steam and lightning become the slave of man. He performs the journey of a day in an hour, and converses in minutes around the globe. The strength of man may not have been much increased, but his power is augmented a thousand-fold. His life may not have been materially lengthened, but, in the march of knowledge, a year now is a century, compared with man's progress in the darkness of the middle ages. The eternal advance toward omniscience goes on, but is like that of the infinite approach of the asymptote, which never reaches the hyperbolic curve. The onward march of science is in a geometrical ratio, so that in time, the intellectual progress of a day in the future, must exceed that of a century in the past. Knowledge is enthroned as a king, and grand truths and new ideas are his ministers. Science takes the diameter of the earth’s orbit as base line and unit of measurement, and with it spans infinity, and triangulates the nebulous
<c06>
systems amid the shadowy verges of receding space. Its researches are cosmical upon the earth and the heavens, and all the element minister to its progress. Sink to the lowest mine, or fathom the ocean's depth, or climb the loftiest mountains, or career through the heavens on silken wings, and it is there also. On—on—on; nearer—nearer—still nearer it moves forever and forever, with accelerated speed, toward the infinite eternal. Such are the triumphs of knowledge; and be who diffuses it among our race, or discovers and disseminates new truths, advances man nearer to his Creator. Ho exalts the whole race; he elevates it into higher and still higher spheres.
It is science that marks the speed of sound and light and lightning, calculates the eclipses, catalogues the stars, maps the heavens, and follows, for centuries of the past and the future, the comet's course. It explores the animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdoms. With geology, it notes the earthquake upheaval of mountains, and, with mineralogy, the laws of crystalization. With chemistry, try analyzes, decomposes, and compounds the elements. If, like Canute, it cannot arrest the tidal wave, it is subjecting it to laws and formulas. Taking the sunbeam for its pencil, it pictures man's own image, and the scenery of the earth and toe heavens. Has science any limits or horizon? Cast it ever penetrate the soul of man, and reveal the mystery of his existence and destiny? It is certainly exploring the (acts of sociology, arranging, and generalizing them, and deducting laws. It regards man in his social relations, in families, tribe and governments, savage, semi-barbarous, and civilized; beginning with the most simple, advancing to the chief, the patriarch, the king, the feudal military, the regal aristocratic, the pure democracy by popular assemblages, as in Athens and the school towns of Massachusetts, rising higher to the central representative, and to the highest, although necessarily more complex, the federal constitutional representative, carrying out the organic division, and the subdivision of legislative and administrative action—regarding the state, the national, and inter national policy, and, in the lapse of centuries, the confederacy, fusion, and unification of nations. The constitution of empire, with the legislative, judicial, and executive functions, furnish some of the elements of sociology. But we must take the history of man, past, present and future, note and arrange and generalize the facts, and thence deduce laws I and formulas. Sociology is not a mere accidental and disconnected series of facts, but it has laws, although far less known than those appertaining to the physical sciences. The work is commenced, and progresses here and in Europe. But, at this moment, at least in administrative action, Massachusetts is ahead of all the would in the science of sociology.
Man, elevated by knowledge in the scale of being, controls the forces of nature with greater power and grander results, and accumulates wealth more rapidly. The educated free labor of Massachusetts, we have seen, triples the products of toil, per capita, as compared with Maryland, and quintuples them (as the census shows) compared with South Carolina. One day's labor of a man in Massachusetts is to three in Maryland, and five in South Carolina. So, if we take our savage tribes, with their huts and tent, their rude agriculture, their furs, their few and simple household manufactures, their hunting and fishing, the average product of their annual labor, at four cents a day each, would be $14.50 a year, or more than a fourth of that of Sooth Carolina (56.91). So that Massachusetts, in material progress, is farther in advance of South Carolina, than that State is of the savage Indians. Thus, we have the successive steps and gradations of man: Massachusetts, with free labor and free schools, having reached the highest point of civilization; Sooth Carolina, with slavery and ignorance, (except the few.) in a semi-barbarous stage; and the lowest savage condition, called barbarous, bat nearer to South Carolina than that State to Massachusetts.
Slavery, then, the census proves, is hostile to the progress of wealth and population, to science, literature, and education, to schools, colleges, and universities, to books and libraries, to churches and: religion, to the press, and therefore to free government; hostile to the poor, keeping them in want and ignorance; hostile to labor, reducing it to servitude, and decreasing two-thirds the value of its products; hostile to morals, repudiating among slaves the marital and parental condition, classifying them by law as chattels, darkening the immortal soul, and making it a crime to teach millions of human beings to read or write. And shall labor and education, literature and science, religion and the press, sustain an institution which is their deadly foe?
But slavery is the enemy of free government. It has commenced and now wages an unholy war against this Union, and thus assails the liberty of our country and of mankind. It has franked a government based on the eternity of chattel slavery, and demands in its name to rule the larger portion of the Union. It seeks to sever the lakes from the gulf, and the mighty Mississippi and its vast arterial tributary system. It asks to be let alone in commission of all these heaven-daring crimes. In the name of my bleeding country, of the millions whom it has doomed to death, or wounds, or chains, or misery; in the name of the widows and orphan It has made, whose bitter tears sad agonizing signs I now fill our land with sorrow; in the name of the free and blessed government it seeks to overthrow, and the glorious Union it strives to dissolve; in the name of God and man, of religion and liberty, the world arraigns the criminal at the bar of justice. Now is the day of trial: humanity hones and fears. mankind await the verdict. It is rendered: Guilty upon every charge of the indictment; and heaven records the righteous sentence—Slavery must die, that the Union and liberty may live forever!

THE DAY OF EMANCIPATION.
As the day of emancipation approaches, what happy songs, like those that heralded a Saviour’s birth, begin to float on the atmosphere! Again we hear the angelic warbling. “Peace on earth, good will towards men!" Who now expects that the first of January will bring servile insurrection, spreading death and desolation through Southern homes? Even the authors of these lying predictions are ashamed to utter them now; they know there will be nothing of the kind. The change will come mildly and gently as the morning dawn. Three millions of bondmen will then emerge into the legal status of freedom. What shall be done, cries the alarmist, wits such an immense multitude suddenly let loose upon our borders? We-answer, Nothing! Do nothing with them, We want no officious intermeddling with the staves after they become free. No apprenticeship system here; no impressment for public works; no restoration of slavery under another name will be tolerated. If loyal negroes escape from their masters in a destitute condition, they are of COURSE to ha eared for in the same manner as whit refugees would be
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT or THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaver taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hustle armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."—J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
cared for. But the assumption that the negroes are to leave their hones and make a rush for the North, or for any other region, it aboard. There will be no general exodus of the colored race from their native soil. Every motive induces them to remain where they are. What was the effect of emancipation in the District of Columbia? Did the freedmen fly to seek refuse in the North, the moment they attained their liberty? Nothing of the kind. There was no motive for fight. They rose with the dawn on the morning of their emancipation, and west to their accustomed service with gayer hearts than usual. That was all. At the week's close, their masters gave them such wages as they thought proper; if the servant was satisfied, he remained another week; if not, he went where he could do better. So it will be in the revolted States. The change will be harmless as the falling dew. Even now it is faring initiated. Already the slaves are becoming accustomed to receive wages, wherever the Union arms have made slavery insecure. There is a complete change in the manner in which the slaves are treated To them, the past year has brought inestimable ameliorations. The whip and the chain and the stocks have been forgotten amidst the alarms of war. War upon slaveholders and not upon slavery? Impossible. We have been warring upon slavery. It is shaken to its foundations. The proclamation of President Lincoln is only a faint echo to the voice of destiny. We do not expect any immediate startling results of this edict. All we look for is that emancipation should keep pace with the advance of the army.—American Baptist.

EXTRACTS FROM THE ANNUAL MESSAGE OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
COLONIZATION.
Applications have been made to me by many free Americans, of African descent, to favor their emigration with a view to such colonization as was contemplated in recent acts of Congress. Other par-ties, at home and abroad, some from interested motives, others upon patriotic considerations, and still others influenced by philanthropic sentiments, have suggested similar measures; white, on the other hand, several of the Spanish American Republics have protested against the sending of such colonies to their respective territories. Under these circumstances. I have declined to move any such colony to any such State, without first obtaining the consent of the Government, with an agreement on its part to receive and protect such emigrants in all their rights of freemen. And I have, at the same time, offered to the several Slates situated in the tropics, or having colonies there, to negotiate with them, subject to the advice and consent of the Senate, to favor the voluntary emigration of persons of that class to their respective territories, upon conditions which shall be equal, just and humane.
Liberia and Hayti are as yet the only countries to which colonists of African descent from here could go with the certainty of being received and adopted as citizens, and I regret to say that such persons contemplating colonization do not seem willing to emigrate to these countries as to some others, nor willing to act as I think their interest demands. I believe, however, the opinion among them in this respect is improving, and that ere long there will be an augmented and considerable emigration to both those countries from the United States.

COMPENSATED EMANCIPATION.
On the 22d day of September last, a proclamation was issued by the Executive, a copy of which is herewith submitted. In accordance with the purpose expressed in the second paragraph of that paper, I now respectfully recall your attention to what may be called compensated emancipation.
A nation may be said to consist of its territory, its people, and its laws. The territory is the only part which is of certain durability. One generation passeth away, and another generation cometh, but the earth abideth forever.
It is of the first importance to consider and estimate this ever-enduring part. That portion of the earth's surface which is owned and inhabited by the people of the United States is well adapted to be the home of our national family, and it is not well adapted for two or more.
Its vast extent and its variety of climate and productions are of advantage in this age for one people, whatever they might have been in former ages. Steam and telegraphs in intelligence have brought these to be an advantageous combination for one united people.
In the inaugural address, I briefly pointed out the total inadequacy of disunion as a remedy for the differences between the people of the two sections. I did so in language which I cannot improve, and which therefore I beg to repeat.
One suction of our country believe slavery is right, and ought to be extended, while the other believe it is wrong, and ought not to be extended. This is the only substantial dispute. The fugitive slave clause of the Constitution, and the law for the suppression of the African slave trade, are each as well enforced, perhaps, as any law can ever be in a community where the moral sense of the people imperfectly supports the law itself.
The great body of the people abide by the legal obligation in both cases, and a few break over in each. This I think cannot be perfectly cured, and it would be worse in both cases, after the separation of the sections than before.
The foreign slave trade, now imperfectly suppressed, would be ultimately received without restriction in one section, while fugitive slaves, now only partially surrendered, would not be surrendered at all by the others.
SEPARATION IMPOSSIBLE.
Physically speaking, we cannot separate. We cannot remove our respective sections from each other, nor build an impassable wall between. A husband and wife may be divorced, and go out of the presence and beyond the reach of each other, but the different parts of our country cannot do this—they cannot but remain face to face, and intercourse, either amicable or hostile, must continue between them. Is it possible, then, to make that intercourse more advantageous or more satisfactory after separation than before? Can aliens make treaties easier than friends can make laws? Can treaties be more faithfully enforced between aliens than laws can be among friends?
Suppose you go to war, you cannot fight always, and when, after much loss on both sides and no gain on either, you cease fighting, toe identical old questions as to terms of intercourse are again upon you. There is no line, straight or crooked, suitable for a national boundary upon which to divide.
Trace through, from the East to the West, upon the line between the free and slave country, and we shall find that a little more than one-third of its length are rivers easy to be crossed and the country populated, or soon to be populated, thickly, upon both sides, while nearly all its remaining length is merely surveyors' lines, over which people may walk hack and forth without any consciousness of their presence.
No part of this line can be made any more difficult to pass by writing it down on paper or parchment as a national boundary. The fact of separation gives up on the part of the seceding section the fugitive slave clause, along with all other constitutional obligations upon the section seceded from, while I should expect no treaty stipulation would ever be made to take its place. But there is another difficulty. The great interior region, bounded east by the Alleghanies, north by the British dominions, west by the Rocky Mountains, and south by the line along which the culture of corn and cotton meets, and which includes part of Virginia, part of Tennessee, all of Kentucky. Ohio, Indiana, Michigan Wisconsin, Illinois, Missouri, Kansas, Iowa, Minnesota and tie Territories of Dacotah. Nebraska and part of Colorado, has above ten millions of people, and will have fifty millions, within fifty yean, if not prevented by any political folly or mistake. It contains more than one-third of the country owned by tax-United States—certainly more than one million of square miles, one-half as populous as Massachusetts already is, or would have more than seventy-five millions of people.
A glance at the map shows that, territorially speaking, it is the great body of the Republic. The other parts are bat marginal borders to it.
The magnificent region sloping west from the Rocky Mountains to the Pacific being the deepest and also the richest in developed resources in the production of provisions, grains, grasses, and all which proceed from them.
This great interior region is naturally one of the most important is the world. Ascertain from the statistics the small proportion of the region which has as yet been brought into cultivation, and also the large and rapidly increasing amount of its products, and we shall be overwhelmed with the magnitude
<c02>
of the prospect presented. And yet this region has no sea coast, and touches no ocean anywhere.
As part of one nation, its people now find, and may forever find, their way to Europe by New York to South America, and Africa by New Orleans, and Asia by San Francisco. But separate our common country into two nations, as designed by the present rebellion, and every man of this great interior region is thereby cut off from some one or more of the outlets, not perhaps by a physical barrier, but by embarrassing and onerous trade regulations. And this is true wherever a dividing or boundary line may be fixed. Place it between the now free and slave country, or place it south of Kentucky, or north of Ohio, and still the troth remains that none south of it can trade to any part or place north of it, and none north of it can trade to any part or place sooth of it, except upon terms dictated by a government foreign to them. These outlets, east, west and south, are indispensable to the well being of the people inhabiting and to inhabit this vast interior region. Which of the three may be best, is no proper question: all are better than either, and all of right belong to that people and to their successors forever. True to themselves, they will not ask where a line of separation shall be, but will vow rather that there shall be no such line. Nor are the marginal regions less interested in these communications to and through them to the great outside world.
They, too, and each of them, most have access to this Egypt of the West, without paying toll at the crossing of any national boundary. Our national strife sprung not from our permanent part, not from the land we inhabit, not from our national homestead. There is no possible severing of this but would multiply and not mitigate evils among us. In all its adaptations and amplitudes, it demands Union and abhors separation; in fact it would, ere long, force re-un on, however much of blood and treasure the separation might have cost. Our strife pertains to ourselves, to the passing generations of men, and it cannot without convulsion be hushed forever with the passing of one generation.

AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION.
In this view I recommend the adoption of the following resolution and articles amendatory to the Constitution of the United States:—
Resolved, By the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, two-thirds of both Houses concurring, that the following articles be proposed to the Legislatures or Conventions of the several States, as amendments to the Constitution of the United States, all or any of which articles, when ratified by three-fourths of the said Legislatures or Conventions, to be valid as part or parts of the said Constitution, viz:
Article—. Every State wherein slavery now exists, which shall abolish the same therein at any time before the first day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred, shall receive compensation from the United States as follows, to wit: The President of the United States shall deliver to every State bonds of the United States, bearing interest, at the rate of for each slave shown to have been therein by the eighth census of the United States, said bonds to be delivered to such State by instalments or in one parcel at the completion of the abolishment, accordingly as the same shall have been gradual or at one time within such State, and interest shall begin to run upon any such bond only from the proper time of its delivery as aforesaid and afterward. Any State having received bonds as aforesaid, and afterward introducing or tolerating slavery therein, shall refund to the United States the bond's so received or the value thereof, and all interest paid thereon.
Article—. All slaves who shall have enjoyed actual freedom by the chances of the war at any time before the end of the rebellion, shall be forever free, but all owners of such who shall not have been disloyal, shall be compensated for them at the same rates as is provided for States adopting abolishment of slavery, but in such a way that no slave shall be twice accounted for.
Article—. Congress mar appropriate money and otherwise provide for colonizing free colored persons with their own consent, at any place or places without the United States.
I beg indulgence to discuss these proposed articles at some length. Without slavery the rebellion could never have existed, without slavery it could not continue. Among the friends of the Union, there is great diversity of sentiment and of policy in regard to slavery and the African race among us. Some would abolish it suddenly and without compensation, some would abolish it gradually and with compensation, some would remove the freed people from us and some would retain them with us, and there are yet other minor diversities. Because of these diversities, we waste much strength in struggles among ourselves. By mutual concessions we should harmonize and act together. This would be a compromise among the friends and not with the enemies of the Union.
The articles are intended to embody a plan of such mutual concessions. If the plan shall be adopted, it is assumed that emancipation will follow, at least in several of the States.
As to the first article, the main points are:
First, the emancipation; second, the length of time consummating, (thirty-seven years,) and thirdly, the compensation.
The emancipation will be unsatisfactory to the advocates of perpetual slavery, but the length of time should greatly mitigate their dissatisfaction. The time spares both races from the evils of sudden derangements, in fact from the necessity of any derangement, while most of those whose habitual course of thought will be disturbed by the measure will have passed away before its consummation. They will never sec it. Another class will hail the prospect of emancipation, but will deprecate the length of time. They will feel that it gives too little to the now living slaves; but it really gives them much. It saves them from the vagrant destitution, which must largely attend immediate emancipation in localities where their numbers are very great, and it gives the inspiriting assurance that their posterity shall be free forever.
The plan leaves to each State choosing to act under it to abolish slavery now, or at the end of the century, or at any intermediate time, or by degrees extending over the whole or any part of the period, and it obliges no two States to proceed alike. It also provides for compensation, and generally the mode of making it. This, it would seem, must further mitigate the dissatisfaction of those who favor perpetual slavery, and especially of those who are to receive compensation. Doubtless some of those who are to pay and not to receive will object; yet, that the measure is both just and economical is certain.
The liberation of the slaves is the destruction of property—property acquired by descent or by purchase, the same as any other property. It is no leas true for having been often said, that the people of the South are no more responsible for the original introduction of this property than are the people of the North; and when it is remembered how unhesitatingly we all of us use cotton and sugar, and share the profits of dealing in them, it may not be quite safe to say that the South has been more responsible than the North for its continuance.
If, then, for a common object, this property is to be sacrificed, is it not just that it be done at a common charge? and if with less money, or money more easily paid, we can preserve the benefits of the Union by this means than we can by the war alone, is it not also economical to do it?
Let us consider it, then; let us ascertain the sum we have expended in the war ever since compensated emancipation was proposed last March, and consider whether, if that measure had been promptly accepted by even some of the slave States, the same ram would not have done more to close the war than has been otherwise done. If so, the country would save money, and in that view would be a prudent and economical measure; certainly it is not so easy to pay something as it is to nay nothing. But it is easier to pay a large sum than it is to pay a larger one, and it is easier to pay any sum when we are able, than it is to pay it before we are able. The war requires them at once. The aggregate sum necessary for compensated emancipation of course would be larger, but it would require really no cash nor bondsmen any faster than emancipation progresses. This might not and probably would not close before the end of the thirty-seven years. At that time we shall probably have one hundred millions of people to share the burden, instead of thirty-one millions as now; and not only so, bat the increase of our population may be expected to continue for a long tune after that period, as rapidly as before, because our territory will not have become full. I do not state this inconsiderately. At the same ratio of increase which we have maintained on an average from our first national census, in 1790, until that of 1860. we should in 1900 have a population of 103,208,415; and why may we not continue that ratio far beyond
<c03>
their period. Our abundant room, our broad national homestead is our ample resource. Were our territories as limited as are the British Isles, very certainly our population could not expand as stated. Instead of receiving the foreign born as now, we should be completed to send part of the native born away, but such is not our condition.
We have 2 963,000 square miles. Europe has 3,800,000, with a population averaging 73 1-3 persons to the square mile. Why may not our country at some time average as many? Is it less fertile? Has it more waste surface by mountains, rivers, lakes, deserts, or other causes? Is it inferior to Europe in any natural advantage? If, then, we are at some time to be as populous as Europe, how soon? As to when this may be, we can judge by the past and the present; as to when it will be, if ever, depends much on whether we maintain the Union.
Several of our States are above the average European population of seventy-three and a third to the square mile. Massachusetts has 157, Rhode Island 133, New York and New Jersey each 80; also, two other great States—Pennsylvania and Ohio—are not far below, the former having 63 and the latter 59. The States already above the European average, except New York, bare increased in as rapid ratio since passing that point as ever before, while no one of them is equal to some other points of our country in national capacity for sustaining a dense population.
Taking the nation in the aggregate, and we find its population and ratio of increase for the several decennial periods to be as follows: 1790, 3,929,827; 1800, 5,305,937—3.502 per cent, ratio of increase; 1810, 7,239,814—3.645 per cent, ratio of increase; 1820, 9,638,131—3.313 per cent, ratio of increase; 1830, 12,866,020—3.349 per cent, ratio of increase; 1840, 17,069,483—3.267 per cent, ratio of increase; 1850, 23,191,876—3.587 per cent, ratio of increase; 1860, 31.443,790—3.558 per cent, ratio of increase. This shows an average decennial increase of 3.460 per cent, in population through the seventy years from our first to our last census taken. It is seen that the ratio of increase at no one of these seven periods is either two per cent, below or two per cent, above the average, thus showing how inflexible, and consequently bow reliable the law of increase in our case is. Assuming that it will continue, it will give the following results: 1870, 42,323,341; 1880, 56,967,216; 1890, 76,677,872; 1900, 103,208,415; 1910, 138,918,526; 1920, 186,984,335; 1930, 251,680,914. These figures show that our country may be as populous as Europe now is, at some point between 1920 and 1930—say about 1925—our territory, at seventy-three and one third persons to the square mile, being of the capacity to contain 217,186,000, and we will reach this, too, if we do not ourselves relinquish the chances by the folly and evils of disunion, or by long and exhausting ware springing from the only great element of discord among us. While it cannot be foreseen exactly how much one huge example of secession breeding lesser ones indefinitely would retard the population, civilization and prosperity, no one can doubt that the extent of it would be very great and injurious. The proposed emancipation would shorten the war, perpetuate peace, insure this increase of population, and proportionately the wealth of the country. With this we should pay all the emancipation cost, together with other debts, easier than we should pay our other debts without it. If we had allowed our old national debt to run at six per cent, per annum simple interest from the end of our revolutionary struggle till to-day, without paying anything on either principle or interest, each man of us would owe less upon that debt now than each man owed upon it then, and this because our increase of men through the whole period has been greater then six per cent., and has run faster than the interest upon the debt.
Thus time alone relieves a debtor nation, so long as its population increases faster than unpaid interest accumulates on its debt. This fact would be no excuse for delaying the payment for what is justly due, but it shows the great importance of time in this connection, the great advantage of a policy by which we shall not have to pay until we number a hundred millions, what by a different policy we should have to pay now when the number is but thirty-one millions. In a word, it shows that a dollar will be much harder to pay for the war than will be a dollar for emancipation on the proposed plan, and then the latter will cost no blood, no precious life. It will be a saving of both.
As to the second article, I think it would be impracticable to return to bondage the class of persons! therein contemplate. Some of them, doubtless, in the property sense, belong to loyal owners, and hence provision is made in this article for compensating such.

THE FUTURE OF THE EMANCIPATED SLAVE.
The third article relates to the future of these freed people. It does not oblige, but merely authorizes Congress to aid in colonizing such as may consent. This ought not to be regarded as objectionable on the one hand or on the other, insomuch as it comes to nothing, unless by mutual consent of the people to be deported, and the American voters through their Representatives in Congress. I cannot make it better known than it already is, that I strongly favor colonization; and yet I wish to say there is an objection urged against the colored persons remaining in the country which is largely imaginary, if not sometimes malicious; it is insisted that their presence would injure and displace white labor and white laborers. It there ever could be a proper time for mere argument, that time surely is not now. In times like the present, men should utter nothing for which they would not willingly be responsible through time and eternity. Is it true, then, that colored people can displace any more white labor by being free than remaining slaves? If they stay in their old places, they jostle no white laborers. If they leave their old places, they leave them open to white laborers. Logically, there is neither more nor less of it. Emancipation, even without deportation, would probably enhance the wages of white labor, and very surely would not reduce them. Thus the customary labor would still have to be performed. The freed people would surely not do more than their old proportion of it, and very probably for a time would do less, leaving an increased part to white laborers, bringing their labor into greater demand, and, consequently, enhancing the wages of it. With deportation even to a limited extent, enhancing wages to white labor is mathematically certain. Labor is like any other commodity in the market. Increase the demand for it, and you increase the price for it. Reduce the supply of black labor by colonizing the black laborer out of the country, and by precisely so much you increase the demand for the wages of white labor. But it is decided that the free people will swarm forth and cover the whole land. Are they not already in the land? Will liberation make them more numerous? Equally distributed among the whites of the whole country, and there would be but one colored to seven whites. Could the one in any way greatly disturb the seven? There are many communities now having more than one free colored person to seven whites, and this without any apparent consciousness of evil from it. The District of Columbia and the States of Maryland and Delaware are all in this condition. The District has more than one free, colored to six whites, and yet, in its frequent petitions to Congress, I believe it has never presented the presence of free colored persons as one of its grievances. But why should emancipation South send the freed people North? People of any color seldom run, unless there be something to run from. Heretofore, colored people, to some extent, have fled North from bondage, and now, perhaps, from both bondage and destitution; but if gradual emancipation and deportation be adopted, they will have neither to flee from. Their old masters will give them wages, at least until new laborers can be procured, and the freed men in time will gladly give their labor for the wages till new homes can be found for them in congenial climes, and with people of their own blood and race. This proposition can be trusted on the material interest involved; and, in any event, cannot the North decide for itself whether to receive them again? As practice proves more than theory in any case, has there been any irruption of colored people northward, because of the abolishment of slavery in this District last spring? What I have said of the proportion of free colored persons to the whites in the District is from the census of 1860, having no reference to persons called contrabands, nor to those made free by the act of Congress abolishing slavery here. The plan consisting of these articles is recommended, not but that a restoration of the national authority would be accepted without its adoption, nor will the war, nor proceedings under the proclamation of September 22, 1862, be stayed because of the recommendation of this plan. Its timely adoption, I doubt not, would bring restoration, and thereby stay both. And, notwithstanding this plan, the recommendation that Congress provide by law
<c04>
for compensating any State which may adopt emancipation before-this plan shall have been acted upon, is hereby earnestly renewed. Such would only be an advance part of the plan, and the same arguments apply to both. This plan is recommended as a means not in exclusion of, but additional to, all others for restoring and preserving the National authority throughout the Union. The subject is presented exclusively in its economical aspect. The plan would, I am confident, secure peace more speedily than can be done by force alone, while it would cost less, considering the amounts and manner of payment, and times of payment, and the amounts would be easier paid than will be the additional cost of the war if we rely solely upon force. It is most likely, very likely, that it would cost no blood at all.
The plan is proposed as a permanent Constitutional law. It cannot become such without the concurrence of, first, two-thirds of Congress, and afterward, three-fourths of the States. The requisite three-fourths of the States will necessarily include seven of the slave States. Their concurrence, if obtained, will give assurance of their severally adopting emancipation, at no distant day, upon the new Constitutional terms. This assurance would end the struggle now, and save the Union forever. I do not forget the gravity which should characterize a paper addressed to the Congress of the nation by the Chief Magistrate of the nation; nor do I forget that some of you are my seniors, nor that many of you have more experience than I in the conduct of public affairs; yet I trust that, in view of the great responsibility resting upon me, you will perceive no want of respect to yourselves in any undue earnestness 1 (may seem to display. Is it doubted, then, that the plan I propose, if adopted, would shorten the war, and thus lessen the expenditures of money and of blood? Is it doubted that it would restore the national authority and national prosperity, and perpetuate both indefinitely? Is it doubted that we here. Congress and Executive, can secure its adoption? Wilt not the good people respond to a united and earnest appeal from us? Can we, can they, by any other means, so certainly or so speedily assure these vital objects? We can succeed only by concert. It is not, can any of us imagine better, but can we all do better whatsoever is possible? Still the question recurs, can we do better? The dogmas of the quiet past arc inadequate to the stormy present. The occasion is piled high with difficulty, and we must rise with the occasion. As our case is new, so we must think anew and act anew. We must disenthral ourselves, and then we shall save our country.
Fellow-citizens, we cannot escape history. We of this Congress will be remembered in spite of ourselves. No personal significance or insignificance can spare one or another of us. The fiery trial through which we pass, will light us down in honor or dishonor to the latest generation. We say that we are for the Union. The world will not forget that while we say this, we do not know how to save the Union. The world knows how to save it. We, even we here, hold the power and bear the responsibility. In giving freedom to the slave, we assure freedom to the free—honorable alike in what we give and what we preserve. We shall nobly save, or meanly lose, the best hope of the earth. Other means may succeed; this could not fail. The way is plain, peaceful, generous, just—a way which, if followed, the world will forever applaud, and God must forever bless.
(Signed,)
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
Washington, December 1, 1862.

The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1862.
THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE.
We have given, in preceding columns, all that portion of the President's Message which relates to the question of emancipation and the war. Of course, it will be read with the deepest interest, and doubt-less the greatest diversity of views will be elicited, through the press and in private intercourse, concerning it.
We shall express our own very briefly. In the first place, we maintain that, whatever may be his natural ability, the President is not competent to write his own official papers. It is evident that they are all from his pen; for they all bear the same marks of crudeness, incongruity, feebleness, and lack of method. There is no parallel to them among the State documents to be found in any nation. The Tribune says, "it is easy to criticise his rhetoric"; but there is a fitness in all things, and where there is not the ability to write in a style required by the dignity of the position, good sense and a respect for the critical judgment, of the world suggest the propriety of employing some one who is competent to put the wishes and opinions; of the President into well expressed language.
But this is of minor importance. The paramount object of concern is what the President submits as his method of bringing the rebellion to a close. And here,—while conceding to him all the "honesty" of purpose ever claimed for him, and also a sincere desire to see slavery some day or other banished from the country,—we cannot refrain from expressing our astonishment at the folly and infatuation evinced in his plan for buying up Southern treason "in lots to suit purchasers," and ending the rebellion by a shrewd regard for pecuniary considerations! In the midst of the most tremendous convulsions, and the fiercest civil war that the world has ever seen, with all the colossal forces of the government in battle array, the President—instead of proclaiming the duty and necessity of carrying on the war with a vigor not yet shown, and suppressing the rebellion as indispensable before any new proposition can be entertained—goes into a homily about the evils and disadvantage of disunion, treats the war as a matter of dollar and cents, recommends to Congress to chaffer with the traitorous men-stealers for the purchase of all their slaves at the expiration of the present century, and expresses the hope that they will signify their approval of his scheme before the first of January, so that his Proclamation of September 22d may be rendered null and void, the Union restored, and all the old pro-slavery guaranties of the Constitution rigorously enforced! And this, too, in the face of the uniform and unanimous declarations of the tyrants of the South, that on no consideration will they ever desist from slaveholding—that they regard slavery as paramount in importance and <illegible> To any other institution, and to be extended and perpetuated to the end of time as the normal condition of the laboring classes, black or white—that they have seceded expressly to make slavery the corner-stone of their confederacy and that they hold in measureless contempt and scorn the very idea of free institutions and a democratic form of government!!! The President is demented—or else a veritable Rip Van Winkle, who, for the last thirty years, has been oblivious to everything going on in the country!
To enable Congress to bribe the traitors, and buy up the treason, the President gravely proposes an amendment to the Constitution, (which will require the approval of three fourths of all the States,) giving that body the necessary authority, and the rebellion and slavery (the latter he admitting to be the sole cause of the former) till the introduction of the twentieth century to be metamorphosed into loyalty and freedom! This is something more deplorable than lack of common sense: it closely borders upon hope-leas lunacy. It will assuredly excite the astonishment of all Europe, the derision of the Southern traitors, and the pity of every true friend of freedom. It would, in our judgment, warrant the impeachment of the President by Congress as mentally incapable of holding the sacred trusts committed to his hands.
We need scarcely add, that we hold in abhorrence the renewed proposition of the President for the colonization of the colored population to distant shores. This is their native land; their labor it of immense value, and indispensable to the South in the cultivation of cotton, rice and sugar, as free laborers; they have as good a right to remain here as the President and his Cabinet; and to propose their expatriation is both to insult and outrage them, and to stimulate popular prejudice to wreak its spite upon them.
<c05>

FRATERNITY LECTURES.
The eighth lecture of the Fraternity course was given. Nov. 25th, by HON. Owen Lovejoy of Illinois, Its subject was, "The Death of Slavery the Salvation of the Republic." Among the gentlemen on the platform were Wendell Phillips, Senator Wilson, and Collector Goodrich. On being introduced by the President of the Fraternity, (with the remark that the Post of that morning had declared it an insult to present him to a Boston audience,) Mr. Lovejoy was received with prolonged applause.
He said that for many years he had maintained everywhere, in public and in private, that freedom is the inherent right of the slave, and that justice and humanity demand the concession of this right by the nation. Now, however, this action is required of us not by duty only, but by self-preservation. Emancipation is now essential to the safety and perpetuity of the Republic. It has become a national necessity. Various other slaveholding nations have found it a necessity. How can we avoid it? We must meet it. Freedom and Slavery, mortal foes, have now met face to face in a path so narrow that neither can evade the other, neither can turn, neither can retreat. The struggle is not for victory only, but for life. One of these two must perish.
The fundamental theory of our government is the equality of mankind. The practical denial of this equality is antagonistic to our government, injurious alike to its character and its action, and necessarily tending to its overthrow. Equality means that all men are equally entitled to life, liberty, and the fruits of their honest toil, and it is indispensable to the success of our system that this equality be maintained. We can neither afford to deny this principle and trample it under our feet, nor to let a part of the nation do so.
Putnam knew better than to content himself with killing, every year, a whelp or two of the wolf's litter. He knew that there was no safety for the flocks until the old wolf was destroyed, and he wisely took the risk of attacking her in her den. We must learn from this old hero. Rebellion is Slavery's whelp. Let the old wolf die! (Tremendous applause.)
Of course, an attack upon this source, inspirer and main-spring of rebellion, will be resisted with the in-tensest vehemence by those proud, and chivalrous, and magnanimous Southerners who live by stealing babies. (Let the reporter for the Post make note of that.) Nevertheless, let us thoroughly extirpate slavery, root and branch.
Numerous facts have shown slaveholding to be utterly incompatible with the safety of this Republic. That atrocious system interferes injuriously with every one of the purposes specified in the Preamble to the U. S. Constitution. While that system lasts, we can neither "form a more perfect union," nor "establish justice," nor "insure domestic tranquillity," nor "provide for the common defence," nor "promote the general welfare," nor "secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity." In every one of these particulars, slavery impairs or defeats the purpose for which our fathers founded this government. May God hold the President firm in his determination to wipe it out. (Loud applause.)
Is it necessary to make specifications to show the infamy of a system under which men earn their living by the sale of their own children? Among the articles of produce exported from Virginia, slaves amounted to $12,000,000, while all other articles of export combined were only $8,000,000.
Slavery interferes with the freedom of white as well as black, of North as well as South. We of the North have always been limited and hampered by it. I wish no stop to this combat until I, as an American citizen, can safely travel over every foot of American soil. (Applause.)
Slavery breaks down religious freedom, Of course it breaks down civil and political freedom.
Slavery interferes with the circulation of my frank, requiring each of its petty officials to stop and destroy the matter I send through the post-office to my constituents and friends. Shall I help reconstruct the system which does that? Never. I never have bent the knee to this infamous system, and I never will Let the Post take note of that.
Slavery interferes with a free press. According to the confession of its own organ in Richmond, it "hates ever thing with thee prefix free." Here Mr. Lovejoy made an affecting reference to the murder of his brother in Alton, Illinois, in 1837, blood shed in maintenance of the rights of a free press, the blood of the innocent shed for the guilty.
Our Declaration of Independence was framed to secure the rights of man as man. Our nation must continue to suffer till it is willing to recognize that truth. Those who deny it, and maintain that certain circumstances of color, race or condition, authorize the enslavement of the human being in whom they appear, must settle the matter with God, who made man, and with Christ, who redeemed him.
I am morally and physically superior to moat of the pro-slavery men with whom I am acquainted. But that gives me no right to enslave them.
The latest born justification of slavery is that the race enslaved never invented anything. I sever invented anything. The great majority of men of all races have never invented anything. What have the modern advocates of slavery invented? Only the pro-slavery theory; and even that they stole—from their father, the devil.
It has been made a question whether black men may even fight. Surely every one who is willing to fight for his liberty should be free. Loyal black men are at least good enough to kill disloyal white ones. I said in Congress that I was in favor of employing any muscle that would fight, in this war, and I think so still. In this particular, not only does common sense point out our right policy, but precedent authorizes it. Negroes fought, and did good service, both in our revolutionary war and in the subsequent war with England.
Robert Smalls is one of the greatest heroes of this war. The government has done well to give him half the prize he captured. It ought to have given the other half to his brave companions. But the theory of slavery is that Robert Smalls' former master owns that prize money.
But, say they, slavery was in the Union. So Satan was in heaven. But we do not hear that Jehovah had any constitutional scruples against his expulsion It is worse than folly to say that the Constitution prevents us from saving the life of the nation.
We want the Union for the purpose for which our fathers originally launched it, the maintenance of human rights. Among these the right of enslavement does not exist. I deny the very existence of a right of property in man.
How many of our best and noblest men have already been sacrificed by this war. Ellsworth, Baker, Winthrop, Lyon, have died for their country. Is slavery more sacred, more precious, better worth, than the thousands of lives it is now costing? It cannot be.
I am a radical, it is said, and I admit it There was a radical 1800 years ago, who laid the axe at the root of the vices growing in his time. The conservatives crucified him for it. Look now at where he stands and where they stand. Search all the sepulchres, and you will find no monument raised to a conservative.
With these convictions, I hail with joy the Emancipation Proclamation of the President. I have trusted in Old Father Abraham more than some of my friends in this State. I trust in him still, and believe he will I still bring us to victory through freedom. I believe it is written that the gates of hell (that is, the Bonier States) shall not prevail against the President.
On the 22d of September came John the Baptist, preparing the way. On January 1st will come the Messiah of freedom.
After an eloquent apostrophe to the approaching Genius of Liberty, Mr. Owen closed by saying-live the Republic, and let shivery perish.
At the close of the lecture, Mr. Phillip, was loudly called for, awl said a few words to the audience. He expressed his high gratification at Mr. Lovejoy’s reelection, and said, in testimony to the faithfulness of that gentleman at home, that when he (Mr. Phillips)
<c06>
spoke to Mr. Lovejoy', consent., the thought him not radical enough! (Laughter.)
The first speech he ever made on an anti-slavery platform was when the news of Mr. Lovejoy’s death at Alton came to Boston. He thanked God that he now saw the surviving brother laboring in the same work.
The audience next urgently demands from Mr. Wilson, who said—
I know not why you call upon me, unless that I may say ditto to Mr. Lovejoy, which I do with all my heart. If it he radicalism to insist on the utter extinction of slavery in America, then I am a radical.
Slavery has caused the war. I wish to see the war ended by the utter extermination of slavery on this continent.
I go to Washington to-morrow full of faith and confidence in a prosperous future. No day for months has seemed to me so hopeful as this.
The President will stand by the Proclamation. I am sure of it. He will save the country.
The ninth lecture of this course was delivered last Tuesday evening, by Gen. Richard Busteed, of New York. Its subject, to the disappointment of who had hoped to hear him speak upon matters of absorbing interest at the present moment, was "Knowledge, its Sources and Uses." He represented the principal sources of knowledge to be travel, books, the pulpit, the press, and the school. In connection with the department last mentioned, he spoke strongly upon the direct obstructions to the diffusion of knowledge in the laws and customs of the States where slavery exists. There, he said, they not only forbid Bible schools to the slave, but prevent him from reading the Bible, lest he should learn to say “Out Father.” The combined meanness and wickedness of this policy were sufficient, he thought, to authorize the expression that slavery thrusts a dagger into the back of knowledge. Yet the slaveholders, having sowed the wind, now have the assurance to complain that they are reaping the whirlwind.
After the lecture, an urgent call (in which the lecturer gracefully joined) being nude for Wended Phillips—
Mr. Phillips said—What can I aid to a treatment so exhaustive as the lecturer has given to his subject? Perhaps one thing remains—the mention of the lives and characters of great men among our sources of knowledge. This day is the anniversary of the death of John Brown. How much has this nation learned— how much more might she learn—from that glorious deed at Harper's Ferry; from that gallows, sharply cut against the clear blue sky of Virginia!
The Message of the President is a matter to-day in the thoughts of us all. He postpones freedom till the year 1900. That is a matter for Congress to settle, nor for us. But we like the Proclamation better.
A fellow-voyager with me, at the time when "graham bread" was under discussion, used to say—“White bread is good enough for me'' Between the President's Proclamation and his Message, I must say—The Proclamation is good enough for me. (Loud applause.)
The next lecture of the course is to be given by Mr. Phillips.—C.K.W.
A MALIGNANT SPIRIT. The editor of the Courier continues to mistake bitter personal defamation for fair criticism. Take the following specimen:—
"Mr. Owen Lovejoy delivered the eighth Fraternity lecture on Wednesday evening. From the reports we have of it, we judge it to have been a very poor performance, made up of cheap commonplace and vapid generalities—the same old scraps and patches from the anti-slavery ragbag with which every beggar and pauper of that persuasion tries to hide his intellectual nakedness withal. We are not surprised at this, and, indeed, we should have been surprised if it had been otherwise. We do not suppose that Mr. Lovejoy was selected to pronounce this lecturer because of his genius or his learning, for his depth thought or the graces of his style, but solely brass of his strong anti-slavery principles, and a course and abusive way of uttering them. He is one of the few persons in public life, outside of Massachusetts Republicanism is strong enough to be called Massachusetts proof; and as a Queen Anne farthing., though worthless in itself, has a value because of its rarity so this circumstance may have secured to Mr. Lovejoy a distinction to which he otherwise could never have aspired.”
Our valuable contributor, "C. K. W." has given in another column, an excellent synopsis of the speech thus basely misrepresented by the Courier—a speech that was highly appreciated and warmly applauded throughout, for its ability and patriotism, by the largest audience of the season, whose intelligence and critical discernment will not be questioned by any but habitual libelers.
A QUESTION ANSWERED. The Courier makes the following sneering personal allusion:—
"A correspondent of the London Times, writing from Richmond, under date of October 8th, asks: ‘Why does not Wendell Phillips take the field? Men older than he is are serving by dozens in the Southern ranks. Where is Charles Sumner's musket? The Senate could spare Senator Baker, in no wise Mr. Sumner's inferior in intellect; and it were a noble answer to the South, which sneers at non-duellists for want of courage, to show how one of that class can comport himself upon the perilous edge of battle.’ The inquiry is clearly pertinent after these two mouthing heroes; and the cry ought to go up every household in the North, which has sent its cherished inmates to the bloody field—Why are not Phillips and Sumner there? Alas! they are the heroes of lecture-rooms; ranch more likely to comport themselves with assurance at the perilous edge of petticoats, when they flutter in such safe scenes, than to risk anything upon fields bloodstained through their ‘infernal' trumpetings of frothy fanaticism.”
Is there any more obligation resting upon Mr. Sumner or Mr. Phillips to enlist for the subjugation of the rebels, than upon Mr. George Lunt, of the Boston Courier? And, if not, had he not better set the example, before making his fling at others, incomparably his superiors, and whose loyalty, unlike his own, is beyond doubt or suspicion?

HARPER’S NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE, for December, contains the following articles:—
1. Waiting for the Children. 2. Poland Over ground and Underground. II. Underground 3. A Withered Flower. 4 Gas and Gas-Making 5. A Man’s Life. 6. The Stamp Act Congress. 7. Love by Mishap. 8. Roll-Call. 9. Romola. By the author of “Adam Bede.” 10. Random Recollections of a Life. 11. Orley Farm. By Anthony Trollope. 12. A Camp Meeting in Tennessee. 13. Mistress and Maid. A Household Story. By Miss Mulock. 14. A Fairy in Search of a Place. 15. The Small House al Allington. 16. My First Sermon. 17. Monthly Record of Current Events. 18. Literary Notices. 19. Editor’s Easy Chair. 20. Editor’s Drawer. 21. Fashions for December.
The present number commences the twenty-sixth Colume of this Magazine. It will retain its character as an Illustrated Family Magazine, containing papers upon History, Biography, Travel and Adventure, Fiction, Poetry, Popular Science, Arts, Manufacture, and Criticism, carefully selected from contributions furnished by the best writers in America and Europe.
In the January number will be commenced a series of papers, by Mr. J. Ross Browne, describing a Journey to Iceland, to be profusely illustrated with Sketches of Character, Incident, and Scenery, from Original Drawings by the Author.
This Magazine furnishes a greater amount of matter, in a more pleasing form, and more profusely illustrated, than any other similar periodical, illustrations alone cost more than any other magazine expends for literary and artistic matter. It soon secured, and has ever retained, a greater circulation than any other periodical of its class.
Terms, $3.00 a year; two copies for the same period, $5.00
A. Williams & Co., 100 Washington street, Boston.
It is reported that another craft similar to the Alabama has sailed from Liverpool to capture and destroy any vessels sailing under an American flag, and another, it is said, would soon follow.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE FEELING IN ENGLAND.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, ESQ.:
DEAR SIR,—I see in your journal a letter from Mr. GEORGE THOMPSON, which mentions that no response was made to his proposition to lecture gratuitously in England. From the knowledge I have of the situation of affairs there, I am of opinion that any general expression of approbation on the part of the commons of Great Britain need not be expected, until the precise policy of the Lincoln Administration, supported by the approval of the people, shall convince them that there are no wooden nutmegs for sale by the United States.
At present, there is doubt among all classes in Britain, and on the continent, as to the sincerity of Mr. Lincoln, and he is looked upon as an exponent of the people. “If a man advertises to keep a nice house, and retains a set of filthy domestics, people cannot believe him to be in earnest.”
Until after New Year, not any thing efficient in our favor will be experienced, and then it will depend upon absolute proof of American honesty.
If Mr. Lincoln is firm, and his acts prove that ht desires to establish national justice, and he is supported by the people, the future consequences cannot well be foreseen, but the immediate ones will unquestionably fleet Prussia, Greece and Mexico.
The war with Mexico is unpopular among the French. In the troubles which are brewing for Austria, out of which is to emerge a new Germanic confederation, with free Protestant Prussia as leader, France will side against Prussia, and England with her. Palmerston, the leader of the liberals of Great Britain, but the rankest tory in the kingdom, as Mr. Cobden calls him, will give place to a representative of the people, and the United States will be relieved from the pressure now experienced by a conspiracy of the despotic powers.
But should Mr. Lincoln pursue a foxy, shuffling, (apparently Imbecile,) but really treacherous course, and by tolling back a few States into the Union, with a recommendation to sell their slaves to the Government, and re-establish the old Constitution with its guarantees of slave political power, everything would go adverse, the friends of freedom would despair of the capacity of the people to establish and maintain free government, and the swing back of the pendulum might be accompanied by an iron despotism. 
It must never be lost sight of, that, after the introduction of Christianity, the dark ages prevailed; and that, more than eighteen hundred years after Cicero’s oration against Catiline, the French nation denied that there was a God.
There is not a material difference between the oppression and darkness of those days, and the relation between the accursed slave-owners of the South and their slaves.
As nations are as much free agents as individuals, it ought not to be expected that the English, or any other people, should justify or attempt to assist the United States, until they are convinced that they are honest.
It is well understood, that there is no possible obstacle to the will of the American Commander-in-Chief. Military necessity is the law, and what he says the people will do. Nevertheless, it is believed that, hitherto, they have been betrayed, misled and murdered, but, supposing them to be honest, great interest is taken in their success in England, and, not-withstanding the utmost efforts to keep safe this feeling, it only has to be touched to explode.
As some proof of this, the following account is subjoined from a correspondent:—
“On Monday evening, Nov. 3d, I attended the meeting at the Metropolitan Institution, convened to testify sympathy for the North, or South, whichever it might be. This is the first meeting for this purpose held in London. It was got up by two Englishmen, on a wager. One was a sympathizer with the North; and he asserted that, if a meeting of Englishmen was called without advertisement, their expressed feelings, would be in favor of the Northern States of America. The other asserted the reverse. They agreed that the one against whom the sentiment of the people should be expressed should pay the expenses of the meeting.
A number of Americans were present, but no American was allowed to speak, as the meeting was to be expressive of English feeling only. There were some good speakers, and excellent speeches. Some of the speakers had been in the United States, and they set forth fairly that slavery was the cause of the war, and showed the difference between the two freedoms that the two factions are fighting for. Indeed, it is impossible to do the speakers justice in a short notice. They spoke well for the North, amid the repeated most enthusiastic applause of the audience, which was mostly of working men, the place being full.
One Englishman undertook to find unnecessary fault with our Northern people, and, consequently, brought the whole house down about his ears in such unmistakable terms of condemnation, that he very quickly changed his tactics. The meeting evidently thought that the people of the Northern States of America did not need fault-finding with their past sins, but support in the greatest degree in their endeavor to mend them.
So, when the resolution was put, whether the meeting and discourage the South, it was most enthusiastically carried. And when the opposing vote was taken in favor of the South, only three hands were held up. One was a boy, and another was a Southerner, who thrust himself upon the platform at the conclusion, and tried to compel the people to listen to him; bat he could not come it.
On Friday week, he, and his kindred, and Union Americans also, will have an opportunity to speak, at another meeting to be held at the same place.
This experiment was such a perfect success, that a Committee will hold another meeting on the 14th instant, and, if the attendance, &c., then justifies the expectation, they will take possession of Exeter Hall, the largest in London, for the next meeting.
This is only a beginning. These meetings will probably extend all over the kingdom. The people we beginning to speak; all they want is information, and truth, and honesty, and national justice, on the part of the American Administration; and it is to be hoped they will get it.” CARBON.
REMARKS. The fact admitted in the last paragraph of this letter, that all that the people of England want, to set them right on the American struggle, is correct information, proves the folly of those loyal Americans in London, who rejected the generous overture of GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., to give his services gratuitously, if they, would meet the incidental expenses of a lecturing tour through the kingdom, in order to disseminate the much-needed light—no man, either American or Englishman, being better posted in American affairs, of more disposed to uphold the cause of free institutions in this country, or more hostile to the rebellion and its success, than himself.
This rejection of his valuable services is an evidence of the existence of that proslavery spirit which still cruses so many “loyal” (?) Americans; and is all the more censurable, seeing that the Southern traitors are using every instrumentality in their power abroad, to debauch the minds and enlist the feelings of the English people in relation to the origin, design and atrocious character of the rebellion.
We are much obliged to our correspondent “CARBOX” for communicating the gratifying intelligence contained in the extracts he has made from the letter of an English friend.
BLACKWOOD’S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE, for November, is received. The following is its table of contents:—
1. Caxtoniana, Part X.: No. XV., The Organ of Weight; No. XVI., The Sympathetic Temperament. 2. The Scot in France. 3. Chronicles of Carlingford; Salem Chapel. Part X. 4. Clough’s Poems. 5. The Land Revenue of India. 6. Thiers on Waterloo. 7. A Deathless Love. 8. The Crisis of the American War.
Of course, this rabid tory organ is in full sympathy with the Southern rebellion, and eager for the lasting dismemberment of the American republic. The article on “The Crisis of the American War” is surcharged with gall and wormwood, and reeking with mendacity and insolence. We reserve it for our “Refuge of Oppression” next week.
For sale by A. Williams & Co., Crosby, Nichols & Co., and Redding & Co., Boston.
<c02>
"NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS."
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON:
I am truly glad that yon still keep up yow old banner motto, "No Union with Slaveholders.” It is a position to which I had come, long before the secession and war broke out, and I fully sympathized with what I then supposed to be your desire, that a dissolution of the union with that class of citizens should be effected, even, if necessary, by the secession of Massachusetts and any other anti-slavery free State; and at that time, I knew not that there was a whisper of any doubt of the perfect right of any State to make such secession, a doctrine which nil I seems to my mind the true one.
Under these impressions, I was rejoiced when the secession of the Gulf States was declared, as it seemed to me to be a great step to the separation you, according to your motto, desired and achieved with a facility and fatness with which it could not be done by any free State or States; and I perceived that, had it been extended to the other slave States, and peaceably acquiesced in by the Federal Government, it would have left the free States in a condition far more powerful, prosperous, free and moral, than they ever can be by a reunion, on any terms, with the barbarous and depraved South.
Viewing the subject in tins light, I. with many of your best friends, felt surprised and grieved that, instead of hailing this event with joy, you gave the encouragement of your great influence to the vigorous prosecution of the war, expressly designed to compel the seceded States into submission and reunion. I was indeed aware, that, although this war was not commenced with even a pretence of a purpose to abolish slavery, you still hoped it would effect that object by the impoverishment, desolation, or perhaps extermination of the slaveholders; and it probably did not occur to you, that the separation of the States, withdrawing the support to slavery of the North, would accomplish its abolition more surely and speedily than it can be done by any war; and, putting aside the idea of the criminality of war in itself, as extensive murder, and regarding only expediency, it is still a question whether the abolition of slavery, enormous as that evil is, does not cost too much, in the slaughters, losses and sorrows of war. It may be indeed said, that slavery is a crime as well as war. True; but it is a crime which States exempt from it are not called upon to remove or punish.
Seeing that you had taken your ground, and that it was contested by others, 1 did not express these views when they first occurred to me; but the occasion seems to me now to have arrived, when I deem it an act of friendship to advise you to return to your old position, which you can now do with more integrity and consistency than you can retain your present one. The varying successes of the war to this time, with the now fully ascertained determination of the Secessionists, never to come again under the Federal Government, have made it apparent to every far seeing man that a cordial, voluntary reunion with the seceded Slates has become impossible; that the most complete conquest of them can only result in holding them us conquered provinces, by a permanent military force; and, at the same time, the Government will be under constitutional obligation to protect slavery in all the States, or individuals who profess loyalty to the Union; whereas, if the independence of the seceded States wore recognized, and the terms of the President's Proclamation should be accepted by the Border States, (as they could not retain their slaves,) the free States would not only be exempted from all the evil and responsibility of slavery at once, but deprived of Northern support it would soon die out in the seceded States themselves.
It is clear, then, that slavery cannot be abolished in the Union, and only by separation. Whoever, therefore, aids in the prosecution of the present war, avowedly for reunion, virtually aids the preservation of slavery; and it is only by advocating the independence of the seceded States that you can truly resume your old position—" No Union with Slaveholders." 
Your, respectfully and amicably,
J. P. B.
REMARKS. We know of nothing that has fallen from our lips or pen, that should lead our respected correspondent to suppose that we are less tenacious than hitherto of the doctrine, "No Union with Slaveholders." If, however, he ever imagined that our disunionism was, in any particular, analogous or equivalent to that enforced by the perfidious traitors of the South, he certainly labored under a very strong delusion. It is no part of our moral philosophy to believe in doing evil that good may come, or to sanction robbery, perfidy. bloody revolt, perpetrated to give security and boundless extension to the accursed slave system; therefore, we are with the government in the rectitude of its proceedings on its own plane of action for the suppression of the rebellion; and all the more as we believe and maintain that it has now the constitutional right, and that it is its highest duty, to decree the emancipation of every slave in the land, and thus terminate the war in the speediest and most effectual way.—[Ed. Lib.

LETTER FROM REV. DANIEL FOSTER. 
FAIRFAX COURT-HOUSE, Va., Nov. 25, 1862.
DEAR GARRISON—I trust we have entered upon a new era in the conduct of this war. For eighteen months the nation has been paralyzed by an influence at the centre which has steadily opposed a vigorous prosecution of the war against the rebel slaveholders. From the potent power in the Cabinet came first the great compromising speech in the Senate, in the winter of 1861; then followed the delusive and foolish prediction that the war would be closed up in a few months; then wan adopted, through the same malign influence, the effort to propitiate the Border States by giving the most important commands in the army to pro-slavery Democrats, and snubbing the true, farseeing Generals like Fremont. Hence traitors have been kept in office in the Departments at Washington to give information of all movements to the enemy. Hence, also, rebels have been treated with great tenderness, their property guarded, and all their treasonable acts overlooked, while Union men have been left to merciless ruin at the hands of these very traitors. Hence, likewise, the four millions of colored American citizens of the South, although intensely hostile to the rebellion, and loyal in every hope and pulsation of their souls, have been treated as enemies, and shut out from our lines. The result is clear, to day, to all men, of such a policy. We have suffered shameful and needless defeats. We have won victories and lost all their results. We have revived the "Copper-Heads" to new life who were stricken down to an apparently hopeless torpor by the cannon of Sumter. So that now they have carried New York, New Jersey, Indiana, Ohio, and Illinois, in the recent elections, as a preparation to the conclusion of a peace with Jeff. Davis on such terms as he may dictate. We have won a disgraced name in Europe, and prepared the way for the appearance of French and English war ships in our waters to insult us, and compel us to admit claims opposed to right and the law of nations.
Such is the result of the engineering of one who has been thought a statesman, but has revealed himself a quietist and an optimist utterly unlit for this crisis. And yet, during all this time, the people have come forward to answer every call for men or money with a fervent patriotism and a patience under the patent mismanagement of the Government unequalled in the history of the world. But the signs of the times cannot be mistaken. The people are disgusted and discouraged with such folly and imbecility; and there must be a change, a thorough change, one not merely of the commanding general, but in the Cabinet, where is to be found the most injurious influence in all this fearful mismanagement of the world's greatest Hour.
All men believe the President to be an honest man and a sincere patriot. All believe that he is striving not to secure a reelection, but to save the country.
<c03>
In the name of the loyal suffering American people, then, let him, as Jackson in former times did, take the responsibility, and purge his Cabinet of all and every one who opposes an earnest, thorough prosecution of this war, and the faithful application of his proclamation of freedom to the slaves. Let him put the representative men like Fremont, Sigel and Hunter into responsible commands in the field. Let him accept the services of the thousands of brave and loyal colored Americans, who are anxious to help on this war for a free fatherland, and then the nation is saved, and the name of Abraham Lincoln enshrined in the loving remembrance of the good and the true of all coming time.
Has not this lesson of disaster and defeat been given to us long enough to lead us into the right way? God grant that our honest President may take the reins into his own firm grasp!
Thank God for the noble attitude of the Old Commonwealth! The "Copper-Heads" were long since effectually scotched in that grand old Puritan State. I see the country towns of New York have done nobly, but they are overpowered by the city, which Fernando Wood can carry by 30,000 majority. The President can now see who his friends are. I trust he will use them in earnest, and so end most gloriously his momentous work.
Yours, for God's justice, and His universal, all-embracing love,
DANIEL FOSTER.

MR. FOSS'S REPORT.
MANCHESTER, (N. H.) Nov. 25, 1862.
DEAR FRIEND MAY:
My last report of field labor left me at Claremont, N. H. From thence I crossed to Springfield, Vt.
Here I found an old and faithful friend—Jesse Stead-man—ready to receive me to his pleasant home. All necessary preparations had been made for my meeting. First, notice had been given in the county paper. Secondly, notices had been read in all the pulpits the two preceding Sundays. Thirdly, the meetinghouses having been denied him, he-had procured the large and convenient town hall, which was just as good as any meeting-house in the world. This is what I call making all necessary preparation. If the friends of the slave would, in all places, be equally earnest and vigilant, the work of the Anti-Slavery agent would be much more pleasant and effective. Of the two meetings holden there, father Steadman has already spoken in the Liberator. To me these meetings were greatly satisfactory as to numbers, earnest attention, and pecuniary aid to the cause.
This Springfield, (Vt.) is a remarkable place. It is in a most romantic location, and has one of the most beautiful waterfalls my eyes ever beheld. It is, in addition to this, one of the most enterprising business places to be found in all New England.
Here woman, more than in any place I have ever seen, finds abundance of remunerative employment. The slave has no better friends than friend Steadman and his excellent wife. Very pleasant memories of Springfield will live long with me.
Father Steadman, now eighty-one years of age,—but really younger than most men at sixty,—took me to North Springfield on Monday evening, where we had a good meeting.
On Tuesday, he took me on my way to North Charlestown, (N. H.,) where I had a good meeting on Wednesday evening.
From here I went to Chester, (Vt.) whither father Steadman had sent on an appointment, which, on arriving at the place, I found had not been given out. It was of no consequence that it had failed, as the evening was too stormy to have allowed any gathering of the people.
My next place was Brattleboro’. Here, as ever before, our friends had made all things ready for my coming. In consequence of the great storm, my meeting on Sunday evening was small, but our friends, nothing discouraged, said, "Try it again." So we appointed for Tuesday evening. A very large meeting then assembled, and, with great pleasure to myself. I spoke to the people; for I saw and felt that an earnest Anti-Slavery spirit was in them. Brig. Gen. Phelps, late in command at New Orleans, was in the house. I took occasion to say, in closing, that love of justice and fidelity to principle, connected with personal valor and military genius, constituted the true hero, and that we all recognized these elements of character in Gen. Phelps. Gen. Phelps was then called, amid the most enthusiastic cheering of the multitude, to take the platform. He did so, and spoke admirably for about twenty minutes. He insisted that justice was the only secure foundation for either nations or individuals to build upon—that there could be no peace to the nation till negro slavery should be blotted out. This he declared to be a great crime. The General has a great and clear sense of justice. If all our Generals had been like him, this rebellion would long ago have been crushed, and thousands, many thousands of precious lives would have been saved. I was sorry to learn that the General favored the President's scheme of colonization. Even the sun has its spots. I sincerely hope the Government will soon call him to some important command. I am sure if it knows its own interests well, it will do so speedily.
Our friend Stevens is a faithful, fearless worker in our glorious cause.
I had my home with Mr. and Mrs. Francis, of the "Wesselhoeft Water-Cure" establishment; and a pleasant home it was indeed. This is the oldest and by far the best Water-Cure in this country. The water is the purest in all the world. Here are all the baths known to Hydropathy in the greatest perfection. The plunge-bath is forty feet long by twenty, wide, and five feel deep. The room is warm, and waiters attentive. Oh, what a luxury to plunge in! The buildings are large and convenient. The house can give comfortable accommodations to one hundred and fifty patients. The scenery around is celebrated for its beauty. The drives and walks are delightful.
If there is a poor invalid in all the land who wants rest for body and soul, and the best means of recovery to health and happiness, let him come hither; and if it is possible to him, he will be sure to obtain them.
Our friends here want an Anti-Slavery Convention I hope they may be gratified.
A. T. FOSS.

LECTURE OF C. W. SLACK, ESQ.
The continued illness of Rev. J. Sella Martin compelled the Fugitive Aid Society to seek a substitute for Monday evening, November 24th, when, having been unsuccessful in several applications, Charles W. Slack, Esq. came to their relief, and delivered his lecture, entitled The Enthusiast, in which he selected as Representative Characters the following distinguished names:—Columbus, Faustus, Gottenburg, Schaffer, Martin Luther, William of Orange, Fulton, Morse, Daguerre, Ericsson, Horace Mann, Lyman Beecher, Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Dorothea Dix, and Florence Nightingale. Interesting sketches from their several Histories were presented, with the instructive reflections, which, from a reformer's standpoint, such lives would naturally suggest. They were indeed Historical Pictures retouched, and by so faithful and eloquent a delineator that the audience (which, by the way, was largely increased from the preceding evening) heartily responded to the vote of thanks submitted at its conclusion.
W. C. N.
Boston, Nov. 25, 1862.
THE REBELLION RECORD: A Diary of American Events, for 1861-'62. Part XXIV., containing finely engraved steel portraits of the late Major-General O. M. Mitchel, and Major-General Robert E. Lee, of the rebel array. Edited by Frank Moore, Author of "Diary of the American Revolution" New York: G. P. Putnam, Publisher, 632 Broadway. Price 50 cents. This work is admirably compiled, and of great historic value. We trust its circulation is commensurate with its merits. The complete aeries will be invaluable for reference.
<c04>
A WISCONSIN OFFICER ON THE CONTRABANDS.-By the following correspondence, (says the Racine Advocate.) it will be teen that the slave-drivers in the army have attempted to make Col. Utley serve their purposes. How welt they succeeded, the following correspondence will show. Good for Col. Utley!
"COLONEL,—You will send at once to my headquarters the tour contrabands, john, Abe, George, and Dock, known to belong to good, loyal citizens. They are in your regiment, or were this morning. 
Your obedient servant,
L. A. SWAIN, Brig. Gen."
“HEADQUARTERS 22d REG., WIS. VOLS.
General Gilmore:
SIR,—I have just received your order to deliver up certain contrabands, said to be in my regiment. Permit me to say that I recognizes your authority to command me in all matters pertaining to the military movements of the army, but I do not look upon this us belonging to that department. I recognize no authority on the subject of delivering up contrabands, save that of the President of the United States. You are, no doubt, conversant with the Proclamation, dated September 22d, 1862, and the laws of Congress on that subject. In conclusion, I will say that I have not had anything to do with their coming into camp, and I shall have nothing to do with sending them out.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. UTLEY, Col. Comd’ng 22d Reg. Wis. Vols.
Col. Utley was Adjutant General of the State, until he was made Colonel of the 22d.
HOW WESTERN VIRGINIA SOLDIERS RECEIVE THE PROCLAMATION. The army correspondent of the Cincinnati Gazette in Western Virginia, thus speaks of the reception accorded to the President's Proclamation by Western Virginia soldiers:—
"Many of them—doubtless a large majority—are men who utterly despise the negro, and who care but little for his weal or woe. Quite a large number, especially among the officers, are pro slavery men; and one year ago were pledged to each other, in some instances, to resign and leave the service, should such a proclamation ever be issued by the Government. I have conversed with a number of intelligent, and, I believe, truly loyal men, who declare that, if this had been done ' ten months since,' they would not have remained in the service ' ten minutes.' But now they say, (and this is this universal expression,) there is a 'military necessity,' which fully justifies the President in this course, and they therefore cheerfully 'acquiesce' in the judgment pronounced against slavery by the legitimate head of the government. In some instances, too, I find men who rejoice to hear the 'glad tidings' of this more than 'Royal Proclamation,' because it promises to rid our country of the 'accursed institution.' The feeling is quite common among Western Virginians, that slavery, in the eastern part of the State, has saddled a burden upon the west which has seriously interfered with its growth in population, and the development, of a material prosperity, in the elements of which it is so munificently rich.”
TESTIMONY OF AN OFFICER. Extract from a private letter from an officer in the army of the West: "I think, from what I have seen, that more damage has been already done the rebels by the proclamation than by all the battles we have fought. A parolled officer whom I have just seen, does not hesitate to say that every negro in the South knows the date and the very words of the proclamation."—Cleveland Herald.
PATRIOTIC RESOLUTIONS. The Baptist Convention recently in session in Trenton, including representatives of all the churches in New Jersey, adopted the following patriotic resolutions with great unanimity:—
1. Resolved, That we fully and heartily approve of the recent proclamation of the President of the United States, declaring forever free all slaves in any section of the country that shall be in rebellion on the 1st day of January next.
2. Resolved, That while we cherish that esteem and honor for the Chief Magistrate of our country which the Scriptures command, yet we lament that more active measures have not been taken to thrust out of official stations men who have manifested by their intemperance, their profanity and recklessness of life and government property, their total unfitness for the positions they occupy.
3. Resolved, That the times emphatically summon us as a nation and as individuals, to special and earnest prayer that we may be duly humble beneath God's mighty hand, and that, in the plenitude of his mercy, he will speedily interpose for our deliverance as shall be for his glory, and the best interests of our common humanity.
This solemn utterance of a body of intelligent and Christian men, representing all parts of the State, and comprising men of diverse political opinions, is worthy of most serious consideration by all who honestly and sincerely wish to discharge their duty to their country in this hour of its trial.
THE PRESIDENT'S PROCLAMATION. The General Convention of the Methodist Protestant Church, in session at Cincinnati, passed the following:—
Resolved, That we heartily endorse the emancipation proclamation of President Lincoln, because it strikes at that baleful cause of all our civil and ecclesiastical difficulties, American slavery—the sum of nil villanies, the darling idol of villains, the central power of villanous secessionism; but now, by the wisdom of the President, about to be made the agent of retributive justice in punishing the culmination of villanous enterprises, the attempt to overthrow the most glorious civil government that God's providence ever established upon earth.
HANGING BY WHOLE SALE. The Indian war in Minnesota being ended, three hundred of the red skins have been convicted, by a military commission, and condemned to be hanged. The execution of the sentence depends upon the action of the authorities at Washington. We hardly think they will sanction this wholesale hanging, though an example or two may be necessary. It is said that the people of Minnesota, to a man, are in favor of their immediate execution. They have suffered severely, and naturally seek revenge, but it should be remembered that revenge is unchristian, and that the Indians, atrocious as have been their acts, were not without provocation in the outset. We have not, as a nation, dealt so justly by the Indians as to be entitled to punish their misdeeds with unrelenting severity.—Portland Trans.
FROM SOUTH CAROLINA. Active preparations are in progress for military operations. Gen. Brannan is still in command, and Gen. Sax ton is successfully raising a negro brigade. The epidemic has ceased.
Reports from Charleston say that General Beauregard is at Pocotalico, and has declared the city indefensible. The rebels have mounted a large gun on Fort Sumter.
The inhabitants of Charleston are removing their families and property into the country. They are much disconcerted by the expeditions made with the negro soldiers from Hilton Head, and declare that if Charleston is taken, they will set their houses on fire.
WASHINGTON, NOV. 28. Everybody knows that the President went down to see Gen. Burnside on Wednesday, and returned last evening; but the following is not generally known: He went entirely alone—had not even a body servant. When he stepped from his carriage at the steamboat wharf, there happened to be a few boards in the way, which some men standing by proceeded to remove, when the President pleasantly remarked—" Never mind, boys, my legs are pretty long, have brought me thus far through life, and 1 think they will take we over this difficulty."
A CONTEMPTIBLE PIECE OF BUSINESS. The residence of Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, No.82 Columbia street, was some nights since besmeared with a black, oily substance, and the front, of stone brown, has been much disfigured in consequence. The windows are well as the walls were daubed, but no further injury appears to have been done to the premises. The adjoining house, No. 84, was also damaged in the same way. The substance is of such a nature, that it I cannot easily be removed, and when scraped off, will leave a stain. The family of Mr. Beecher being absent from the city, he stays at the house of a friend.-Brooklyn paper.
MURDERED BLACKS. A letter from Gen. Grant's army states that a squad of cavalry recently found the dead bodies of five negroes near Lagrange, Tenn., who had evidently been murdered. No information could be procured concerning the affair; but the indications were that they had been killed while attempting to escape to the Federal lines. The slaves who escape from below occasionally tell frightful tales of brutality on the part of their masters whenever they suspect them of a design of escaping. There are vague rumors of the burning of several negroes in northern Louisiana.
SERIOUS ACCIDENT. Yesterday forenoon, as Rev L. A. Grimes, Pastor of the Twelfth Baptist Church, was passing from Howard to Hanover street, he was knocked down and run over by a job wagon, and very seriously injured about the head and upper part of the body. He was carried into Dr. Sampson's apothecary establishment, corner at Court and Hanover streets, and properly cared for; after which, he was conveyed to his home in Grove street. The accident will prevent the Reverend gentleman from attending on his duties for some weeks, in all probability. — Transcript, 29th ult.
<c05>
NEW YORK, Dec. 1. The Times Washington despatch says—"We Warn that the rebels continue to strengthen their position on toe outskirts of Fredericksburg; that they are throwing up earthworks nearer the town, and that four or fire separate forts are already completed and ready for the guns, which had not been mounted on Friday morning.
The rebels are evidently preparing for an obstinate resistance."
THE TEST. The Chicago Tribune, speaking of the manner in which the removal of Gen. McClellan was received in that city, says: "It is noticeable—and we call the attention of our readers to the test, as equally available at all times—that if any individual was heard loudly exclaiming against the measure, you had only to ask a single further question to ascertain that he was of that stamp that believes devoutly that Abolitionists are worse than Rebels. No other class are pallbearers for McClellan or Buell."
The Prince de Joinville, with whom General McClellan was found drinking champagne on a (team-boat whilst his troops were fighting the last of those disastrous battles before Richmond, furnishes the London Press with a detailed account of the reverses of our army on that occasion. In the course of his description, it became necessary for him to whitewash his favorite General, and he does it with a will. His endorsement of the retired General will gratify the traitors at Richmond and elsewhere.—Chester County (Pa.) Republican.
DEATH OF A PHILANTHROPIST. Hannibal Hamlin, namesake and cousin of the Vice President, and a gentleman whose labors in behalf of the National Freedman's Relief Association (of which he was President) have commended him to all friends of freedom, died suddenly in Washington last week, leaving his useful labors hardly more than just begun.
CRUISE OF THE VANDERBILT. The steamer Vanderbilt has arrived from a search after the pirate Alabama. She has steamed 4000 mites, having cruised from the Grand Banks to the southward of Bermuda. She spoke a large number of vessels—but only one, the barque Resolution, spoken Nov. 23, lat. 34 15, Ion. 70 44, had seen her. viz., in lat. 27 20, Ion. 70 15.
FROM NEW ORLEANS. The Union meeting at St. Charles Theatre is represented as having been a very crowded and enthusiastic affair. When Gen. Butler entered and took his seat, the entire house arose, and gave him successive rounds of applause. Another grand Union meeting was announced to be held on the 21st ult.
MORE OF THE HACKMAN. GOV. Andrew of Massachusetts has taken the earliest opportunity to thank Mr. Win. Ryder, the kind-hearted hackman, who conveyed a sick and feeble Massachusetts soldier to the cars without charge, in an autograph letter. Mr. Ryder's address is 96 Laurens street.—N. Y. Tribune.
Rev. James McNeil, formerly Secretary of the American Bible Society, has left hit post as editor of the North Carolina Presbyterian for a time, and entered the army.
Advices from Port Royal give an account of an expedition of a colored regiment to Doboy Sound. The negroes behaved very commendably. The expedition brought back 200,000 feet of sawed lumber. Three of the negroes were wounded.
They are making preparations in St. Louis to give a magnificent ball in that city in commemoration of the recent emancipation victory in Missouri. Gen. Fremont and other distinguished emancipationists will be present.

OBITUARY.
DEATH OF DANIEL ANTHONY.
ROCHESTER, N. Y., NOV. 29, 1862.
DEAR MR. (GARRISON,—The friends of impartial justice and universal freedom have just lost a most valuable and devoted coadjutor in the death of DANIEL ANTHONY, of this city; the father of our esteemed friend Susan B. Anthony, and of Col. D. R. Anthony, of Kansas, aged 69 years. He died on Tuesday night the 25th inst.
He was a man distinguished for his personal integrity, and of rare traits of character. Of Quaker education, he outgrew the limits of mere sectarian association, and gave himself unreservedly to world-wide humanity. He was among the earliest advocates of Temperance, and as early as 1827 organized a Temperance Society in Washington County, N. T., which proved an instrumentality of great good.
Subsequently, he became interested in the Anti-Slavery cause, sad for a long series of years he has been an earnest, steadfast friend of the enslaved and persecuted colored race. No higher tribute eon be accorded to any one than to say that he was emphatically the colored man's friend.
He was, also, much interested in the Woman's Rights movement. He saw very clearly, and felt keenly, the injustice of the many disabilities growing out of the position of legal inferiority assigned to woman. In an unostentatious way, be did much by his personal efforts to advance the interests of this comprehensive human rights cause, and gave an invaluable moral support and encouragement to her, who inherits his name, in the good works by which she is widely known, and as highly esteemed.
He had an active, independent mind, and vigorously grappled with the problems of life. He acknowledged supreme authority, neither in Bishop nor Book, but rather in the revelations of the "inner light" in his own soul.
Unobtrusive in manner, he was best and truly known only to those nearest him in social and friendly relations. He was a loving, devoted husband, an affectionate father, and a true friend. From his cherished fireside, and his accustomed social circle, to which he imparted much of life and interest as a most genial companion, he will indeed be greatly missed.
The funeral services were held this morning at his late residence, a large assemblage of relatives and sympathizing friends being present. The exercises were conducted very impressively by Rev. Samuel J. May. Fitting and appropriate tributes to the memory of the deceased were also given by Frederick Douglass, George W. Clark, and Aaron M. Powell. His memory will ever be precious to us; and in his living exemplification of rare personal merit and beautiful simplicity, he has left a rich legacy to all who knew him. A. M. P.
All the Rochester papers pay a well-deserved tribute to the character and worth of Mr. Anthony. The Democrat says—"He always maintained an enviable reputation for strict honesty and business integrity. He was a good citizen, an upright man, a useful member of society, and his death will be deeply regretted."— [Ed. Lib.
DIED—At the Fifth Avenue Hotel, New York, on the 24th ult., Mrs. LOUISA MAT WILLIS, wife of HAMILTON WILLIS, Esq., of Boston, aged 43.
Though long subjected to frequent and distressing attacks of the disease which finally terminated her mortal existence, she uniformly exhibited a remarkably elastic, radiant, magnetic spirit, which strengthened and refreshed all who came into her presence, and were permitted to enjoy her friendship. Her heart was ever full of sympathy for suffering humanity, in its multifarious aspects, especially for the millions in bondage whose galling chains yet remain to be broken, and whose cause and its faithful advocates she lost no opportunity in vindicating with rare moral courage and great intelligence. In the tremendous struggle now going on in the land, she took a vital interest, watching every phase-of it with reference to the triumph of liberty, and the utter abolition of slavery.
The grave has seldom enclosed the Mortal remains of one more pure in heart, gentle and affectionate in spirit, faithful in the performance of duty, and unfaltering in her convictions of right. "The inevitable hour," for which all living wait alike, came to her as one fully prepared for the translation, "dressed for the flight, and ready to be gone “:—
“O glorious hops! that through the gloom
Can thus, with eye of faith,
In joyful ness and peace discern
That far off Land for which we yearn,
And 'mid the shades that darkly loom
From out the portals of the tomb,
Can triumph over death!
Blest one, to whose inspiring right
Such visions fair were given;
When painlessly, in dreamless steep.
Thine eyes were closed, we could not weep,
But softly said, 'An angel bright
Hath joined the throng enrobed in white,
Who know the bliss of Heaven.'"
[Ed. Lib.
In this city, on Friday last, Mrs. ABBY FENNO MANLEY, wife of John R. Manley, Esq., aged 45. Endeared to a large circle of relatives and friends by years of wonderfully patient suffering, and by the possession of the highest worth, her memory will long be cherished by them, teaching a beautiful lesson of fortitude, resignation, and reverent trust in God, under the most trying circumstances. Her name was enrolled among the manners of the Ladies’ Subscription Anniversary for the furtherance of the Anti-Slavery earn, and her spirit enlisted in all the humane and progressive movements of the.—[Ed.Lib.
<c06>
FRATERNITY LEOTURES.
FIFTH COURSE.
The public of Boston and vicinity are respectfully informed that the FIFTH COURSE OF LECTURES under the auspices of the Fraternity of the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society will be continued on
TUESDAY EVENING, December 9, 1862, at TREMONT TEMPLE, when an address will be made by 
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
To be followed on Successive Tuesday evenings by lectures from the following persons:—
December 16.—HENRY WARD BEECHER.
December 23.—JACOB M. MANNING.
December 30.—GEORGE WM. CURTIS.
Lectures to commence at half-past 7 o’clock. Course Tickets, admitting the Bearer and lady, at $2 each, may be obtained at Williams & Everett’s, 234 Washington St,; Oliver Ditson & Co’s. 277 Washington St.; of Solomon Parsons, Esq., Superintendent of Temple; and of either member of the Lecture Committee, who in former years have had the disposal of tickets.

BOSTON FUGITIVE AID SOCIETY.
A Course of Lectures in aid of the suffering Freedmen of Washington, D.C., to be delivered at joy Street Church, 
December 8. Prof. C.L. Reason.
December 15. Rev. R.C. Waterston.
December 22. Frederick Douglass.

TEMPERANCE MEETING AT LEICESTER.
The first meeting of the Worcester Central District Temperance Union will be held in LEICESTER on Thursday, December 11th, at 10 o’clock, A.M. This will be, it is expected, an important and interesting meeting, and all friends of temperance in the towns included in the District are cordially invited to attend. An address is expected >From Rev. S.S. ASHLEY, of Northboro’, and other able speakers will attend, among whom are EDWIN THOMPSON, Rev. ELNATHAN DAVIS, of Fitchburg, Rev. Messrs. DADMUN and SOUTHER, of Worcester, and others.
THE FUGITIVE AID SOCIETY of Boston have effected an arrangement with Mrs. LOUISE DEMORTIE, the talented young colored dramatic reader, to give readings wherever the benevolent may be willing to assist, for the purpose of alleviating the sufferings of the freedmen or “contrabands” of Washington.
SARAH A.L. MARTIN, 26 Myrtle St.,
President of the Fugitive Aid Society.
ANTI-SLAVERY MEETING AT WORCESTER.—
A quarterly meeting of the Worcester Country (South Division) Anti-Slavery Society will be held at Washburn hall, Worcester, on Sunday, Dec. 7th, commencing at half-past 10 o’clock, forenoon, and continuing at 2o’clock, afternoon, and at 7o’clock, evening. Theodore D. Weld and Parker Pillsbury are expected to be present to participate in the discussions.
JOSIAH HENSHAW, President.
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Sec’ry.
E.H. HEYWOOD will speak in
Warren, Friday evening, December 5.
Springfield, Sunday afternoon and evening, December 7.
Holden, Monday evening, December 8.
AARON M. POWELL will lecture upon Emancipation, in New York, as follows:
Little Falls, (Herkimer county,) Friday, Dec, 5.
Fairfield, (Herkimer county,) Saturday, Dec 6.
Fairfield (Herkimer county,) Sunday, Dec 7.
Middleville, (Herkimer county,) Monday, Dec 8.
Herkimer, (Herkimer county,) Wednesday, Dec 10. 
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, will lecture as follows;—
North Andover, Friday, December, 5.
Haverhill, Sunday, December, 7.
South Newmarket, Tuesday, December, 9.
Newmarket, Wednesday, December, 10.
Great Falls, Friday, December, 12.
Rochester, Sunday, December, 14.
Members and friends of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, who are indebted for Pledges made to the Society in January last, or previously to that time, are requested to pay the same as early as practicable, either to the Treasurer, EDMUND JACKSON, or at the Society’s office, 221 Washington Street.
The very valuable and still timely tract, by Mrs. L. Maria child, entitled “The right Way the Safe Way proved by Emancipation in the British West Indies, and elsewhere,” (108 pages,) will be sent by mail to any person requesting it, and enclosing six cents in undefaced postage stamps. Address SAMUEL MAY, Jr.221 Washington St., Boston.
A few remaining copies of the American anti-Slavery Society’s Last Report, entitled “The anti-Slavery History of the John Brown Year.” Will be sent in the same way, on the receipt of the postage, viz., fourteen cents.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M.D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and children
References.—Luther Clark, M.D.; David Thayer, M.D. Office hours from 2to 4, P.M.
DIED—In this city, November 21st, WILLIAM S. JOHNSON, aged 21 years and 2 months.
His many excellencies of character had endeared him to a large circle of friends.
The funeral ceremonies, at the Twelfth Baptist Church, were very impressive. The Young Men’s Friendship Association, of which he was a member, were conspicuous mourners, and attended his remains to the cemetery at Wood Lawn.
In Shirley, Mass., (Shaker Village,) Nov. 30th, DANIEL WILLARD, aged about 60. He was one of the Elders of the church of the “United Believers.”

A GOOD CHANCE TO MAKE $50 to $100
PER MONTH, AND EXPENSES.
AGENTS WANTED, immediately, to sell J.T. Lloyd’s cheap and elegant Maps in Maine and New Hampshire. J.T. Lloyd’s Maps of the United States, Map of Virginia, and Map of Southern States. Sent to pedlars and others, without delay, to any part of Maine or New Hampshire, by express.
Address H.J.L. STANWOOD & CO., Brunswick, Maine, with stamp inclosed. Dee5tf

WEIS & ZOEBISCH.
MANUFACTURES AND DEALERS IN 
European and Fancy Furs,
308 Washington Street, 308
OPPOSITE BOSTON THEATRE, BOSTON.
Particular attention is paid to altering and repairing Old Furs.
Furs preserved during the summer.

THE BOOK FOR THE TIMES.
THE BLACK MAN,
His Antecedents, His genius, and His Achievements, with Biographical Sketches of fifty distinguished Individuals of the Race.
BY WILLIAM WELLS BROWN.
The work will contain about 300 pages, printed on good paper, and bound in muslin. Price $1. It will be Published on Monday, Dec. 1st, by THOMAS HAMILTON, 48 Bookman Street, N.Y., and R.F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington Street, Boston; and to be had of all book sellers.
Owing to the increased number of pages of the work, and the advance in the cost of paper, the price will be $1, (as above stated,) instead of 75 cents, as at first announced.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry
THE SOLDIER'S MOTHER.
It is night-almost morning-the clock has struck three;
Who can tell where, this moment, my darling may be?
On the window has gathered the moisture, like dew;
I can see where the moonbeams steal tremblingly through;
It is cold, but not windy-how dreary and damp
It must be for our soldiers, exposed in the camp!
Though. I know it is warmer and balmier there, 
Yet I shrink now from thought of the chilly night air;
For he never was used to the hardships of men,
When at home, for I shielded and cherished him then ;
And to all that could tend to his comfort I saw.,
For he seemed like a boy till he went to the war!
He is twenty, I know; and boys younger than he,
In the ranks, going by, every day we can see; 
And those stronger and prouder by far I have met,
But I never have seen a young soldier as yet,
With so gallant a mien or so lofty a brow-
How the sun and the wind must have darkened it now! 
How he will have been changed when he comes from the South, 
With his beard shutting out the sweet smiles of his mouth!
And the tremulous beauty, the womanly grace, 
Will be bronzed from the delicate lines of his face,
Where of late only childhood's soft beauty I saw, 
For he seemed like a child till he went to the war!
He was always so gentle, and ready to yield-
And so frank, there was nothing kept back or concealed;
He was always so sparkling with laughter and joy,
I had thought he could never cease being a boy;
But when sounded the cannon for battle, and when
Rose the rallying cry of our Nation for men, 
From the dream-loving mood of his boyhood he passed;
From his path the light fetters of pleasure he cast,
And rose, ready to stand in the perilous van, 
Not the tremulous boy but the resolute man-
And I gazed on him sadly, with trembling and awe;
He was only a child, till he went to the war!
There are homes that are humbler and sadder than ours;
There are ways that are barer of beauty and flowers;
There are those that must suffer for fire and for bread,
Living only to sorrow, and wish they were dead; 
I must try and be patient-I must not repine- 
But what heart is more lonely, more anxious than mine?
Or what hearth can be darker than mine seems to be,
Now the glow of the fire-light is all I can see- 
Where my darling in beauty so lately I saw- 
He was only a child, till he went to the war! 
"THE TRUE SOUL KNOWS NO REST."
Tide of the river, welling up forever;
Wave of the sea, whose motion ceaseth never;
Spirit of man, that in thy high endeavor
To grasp at truth art never fully blest:
Thou low night breeze forever, ever sighing ;
Ye clouds of heaven, onward, still onward flying,
Ye have a voice, to my heart's voice replying:
" The true soul findeth upon earth no rest." 
So long as Truth 'neath Error's heel is lying, 
So long as Spirits are in bondage sighing, 
While the lone Prisoner in his cell is dying, 
While men bow down t' Oppression's stern behest; 
While the crushed Slave his fettered limbs is bending,
And to God's throne his anguished prayer upsending ;
Shall we lie down inert, all effort ending?-
No! onward still! "The true soul knows no rest." 
Awake to effort! Many an eye is weeping,
Many a soul in ignorance is sleeping, 
Fell Superstition in her thrall is keeping
Spirits ordained to be earth's first and best 
Is the way dark? The light of heaven shall cheer thee;
Is thy path lonely? Angels shall be near thee;
Weak though thou art. Oppression's hosts shall fear thee;
And God, at last, shall give thy true soul REST. 
From the Salem Gazette. 
HOME. 
Home in the wilderness ; green trees are waving,
There stands the wigwam in Freedom's wild air;
Dark eyes are beaming, children are bounding, 
Love in the wilderness, home, it is there,- 
Home, home, sweet, sweet home; 
Love in the wilderness, home, it is there.
Home in the desert, though barren and dreary;
Where the swarth Arab's tent looks like a speck;
There rest at night the heads that are weary, 
Love folds its wings, and a dwelling can make. 
Home, home, sweet, sweet home; 
Love in the desert a dwelling can make. 
Home where the icebergs in majesty thunder, 
Deep in the heart of the cold, chilly north;
Ties that are formed there, no ages can sunder,-
Warmth in the heart bids the blossoms put forth.
Home, home, sweet, sweet home; 
Love makes the summer, the home, of the north. 
Home in New England ; the wide open fire place 
Gathers its circles the same as of yore- 
Though false refinements of living and fashion 
Hide them from sight like the moss on the door.
Home, home, sweet, sweet home;
Home in New England, the loved homes of yore. 
Home in the Heavens to which we are tending;
The thought of us all is a rest and a home- 
The vision of friends a glory is lending, 
A power to draw us wherever we roam. 
Home, home, sweet, sweet home;
For all, home in Heaven, wherever we roam.
L. L. A. V. 
THE WATER DRINKER'S SONG. 
I drink with a goodly company-
With the sun that dips his beams,
And quaffs in loving revelry 
The pure and sparkling streams ;
The laughing streams 
That catch his beams, 
To flash them back in light;
The glittering streams 
Whose ripple gleams 
Like liquid diamonds bright. 
I drink with a blooming company- 
With flowers of every hue 
Whose fragrant lips take daily sips 
Of sweet and odorous dew;
Of morning dew
So fresh and new, 
That tenderly distils;
The balmy dew
So pure and true, 
That every petal fills.
I drink with a merry company- 
With every bird that sings,
Carolling free a strain of glee, 
As he waves his airy wings-
Wild soaring wings- 
And upward springs 
Filling the air with song;
The woodland rings, 
And echo flings 
The warbling notes along.
I drink with a noble company- 
With all the stately trees
That spread their leafy shade abroad,
That flutter in the breeze; 
The playful breeze, 
That loves to please 
My comrades great and small; 
I'll drink at ease 
Pure draughts with these- 
They're water-drinkers all.
MELANCHOLY.
Alone alone upon a mossy stone 
Until her drowsy feet forgotten be, 
She sits and reckons up the dead and gone,
With the last leaves for a love rosary;
Whilst the all-wither'd world spreads drearily,
Like a dim picture of the drowned past, 
In the hush'd mind's mysterious far-away,
Doubtful what ghostly things will steal the last 
Into that distance-grey upon the grey.
HOOD.
<c02>
The Liberator.
MATTERS AND THINGS. 
Had the nation observed the axiom, "The laborer is worthy of his hire," and treated the colored man as a human being, this judgment of a civil war would never have been visited upon us; and nothing is more natural than that every colored man's presence should bring home to the thoughts of all-THE WAR, and its cause, SLAVERY.
A young colored man was some weeks since attacked and beaten by a gang of Irish ruffians, who at noonday intercepted him near the Charlestown (Mass.) Navy Yard. He had but one arm with which to defend himself, having lost the other while serving a gun on board the Pinola, in an engagement with the rebel forts below New Orleans.
These sympathizers with Jeff. Davis and the slave-holding confederacy could not brook the sight of a patriotic colored American, and hence their cowardly demonstration.
The hydra-headed monster, colorphobia, which happily has not been very active of late in this city, hissed out some of its latent venom when Edward Garrison Walker was presented for initiation in the Grand Division of the Sons of Temperance, October 15th. But, as has been already announced, the right prevailed ; and in the centre of about sixty candidates he was initiated, taking the obligation "to extend the fraternal circle until it shall embrace the entire brotherhood of man." Mr. Walker is a practising lawyer at the Middlesex Bar, and a son of the late David Walker, whose "APPEAL,"-published in advance of the Liberator,-created a great excitement, North and South; so that Mayor Otis was induced to pay him an official visit at his store on Brattle street, the result of which he communicated to the South,-that he had discovered nothing to warrant his arresting the author of said pamphlet.
The outpourings of the Southern press over Walker's pamphlet prompted the following toast, at anniversary dinner in Boston, by Domingo Williams, a well-known colored citizen:-
"May the slaveholders of the world he like the whale in the ocean, with the thrasher at their back, and the sword-fish at their belly, until they rightly understand the difference between freedom and slavery." 
This was pronounced a "horrible toast" by a New Orleans paper. Had Mr. Williams lived till this day, he would have beheld its fulfilment; for between the armies of the North, and the black soldiers of the South, the monster must soon sink beneath the fiery waves of a world's indignation.
One of the most impressive utterances of Mr. Sumner, in his recent Faneuil Hall speech, was where he alluded to "the slave as the humblest and grandest figure of our times."
The People's Party in Massachusetts was heralded by a caricature of Mr. Sumner conferring favors upon a colored child, while a white one stood beside, whose appeal for alms was neglected-the ridiculous plea being put into its mouth-" I'm not to blame for being white, sir." The malicious purpose of this lithograph was easily interpreted. Soon after, a revised edition attracted crowds at the shop windows, who recognised the truthfulness of its new reading-"True, my girl, but charity ought to begin where it is most needed; and you, certainly, are the better off, having more friends and less oppressors."
That colored man at Faneuil Hall who shouted, "God bless Charles Sumner," as Mr. S. mounted the rostrum, and which gave an impetus to the cheering, making the welkin ring, probably remembered Mr. Sumner's exertions for the equal school rights of colored children in Massachusetts. He remembered those electric words in that same Faneuil Hall in 1850, when denouncing the Fugitive Slave Law-"I was a man before I was a Commissioner." He remembered his entire brilliant record as a statesman and philanthropist, and by that shout gave expression to the heart emotions of every colored man, woman and child throughout the country. Every colored voter rallied at the polls on election day, pledged against every candidate who was not unalterably in favor of returning Mr. Sumner to the United States Senate. They knew their calling, and rejoice to-day in having helped to make his election sure.
It will be remembered that, during the summer, the colored citizens of Cincinnati were subjected to a series of mobocratic outrages, perpetrated by adopted Irishmen, and instigated by pro-slavery Democrats; and then, soon afterward, were forcibly compelled in a barbarous manner, by the city authorities, to defend the city from threatened rebel assaults. Here is an extract from a letter from one of the victimized:-
"September 3d, 1862, was a day long to be remembered by us of this city. The July riots were magnificent in comparison with the indignities of that day.
The trouble arose from the temporary dependence of the martial upon the civil authorities. The latter, who had never lost occasion to exercise their hatred of us, improved the opportunity of their double power to oppress us-first, by refusing to have us understand that the call for assistance included us who had once been indignantly rejected, and then by arresting us as only rebels should be seized, wherever we were, till we were collected in gangs to be driven like so many beasts, whose very sight was loathsome. I had often reasoned upon our utter helplessness as a class; but the events of that time reduced to practice what had been theory. I am sick, yet, of the realizing sense, and believe nothing in the power of the authorities will ever wipe out the effect of our treatment.
And while I would not withhold from Col. Dickson, and all who were of like sentiments, the merit of acting justly by us, I am not of those who feel called upon to reward that merit with a show of lasting gratitude. The way we were abused has increased the tenacity of my self-respect. 
I have been among those who desired the acceptance of our services in crushing the rebellion, but am changed now. A motive to that desire has been that we might earn a title to equality before the law.
I have come to the conclusion that, having suffered with unexampled patience all our lives, we do not need additional suffering to give us that title; and, moreover, the extremity which we will be indebted to for our acceptance is so completely of the spirit which keeps us in hateful subordination, as promising to deny us the voluntary action which has, until now, been held out to the whites, with heavy bounty inducements, presents us the prospect of doing only as those in bondage do, involuntarily submitting to peremptory orders."
Another friend writes:- 
"I confess, I am not patriot enough to fight or dig trenches for 'the Union as it was,' 'the Constitution as it is,' and the negroes as they are; and so, for the time being, change my base of operations." 
We apprehend that no one can successfully controvert the argument put forth from this standpoint of our friends, but we feel moved to place on record here the opinion that colored Americans are inspired to rally for the nation's defence, in this its trial-hour, from the three fold motives of patriotism, magnanimity, and hope predominant. All they ask is, fair play, an equal award for services rendered, personal protection against brutal outrages, and humane treatment.
Were one disposed to trace the history of those men, throughout the United States, who have by mobs and otherwise persecuted the colored man and his friends, the result would go far towards proselyting them to the theory of a special providence; for signal retribution seems to have overtaken at least a majority of the most prominent thus far. For instance-of the actors in the mob at Alton, Illinois, where Lovejoy was murdered, John Francis was afterwards sentenced to the Missouri penitentiary a term of forty years for attempt to murder; Dr. Jenning was killed at New Orleans in a bowie-knife fight; Dr. Beals was killed by the Camanche Indians at Santa Fe; Dr. Hope is now under arrest for treason. When the record is made up of the promoters of pro-slavery mobs in New York, Philadelphia, Cincinnati, Boston, and elsewhere, it will be seen that Nemesis has been faithful to her vocation. They are all doomed men.
In concluding this summary of events, (which could be greatly extended,) it seems to me appropriate, Mr. Garrison, to append two stanzas from your poem on Universal Emancipation, published in the first number of The Liberator, January 1, 1831. The first is prophetic of events now at hand-the other, an expression.
<c03>
of heart-felt desire for a bloodless termination of slavery, and by peaceful instrumentalities:-
"Though distant be the hour, yet come it must-
Oh! hasten it, in mercy, righteous Heaven! 
When Afric's sons, uprising: from the dust, 
Shall stand erect-their galling fetters riven,
When from his throne Oppression shall be driven, 
An exiled monster, powerless through all time;
When freedom-glorious freedom, shall be given, 
To every race, complexion, caste and clime,
And Nature's sable hue shall cease to be a crime! 
Not by the sword shall your deliverance be;
Not by the shedding of your masters' blood;
Not by rebellion-or foul treachery, 
Upspringing suddenly, like swelling flood;
Revenge and rapine ne'er did bring forth good. 
God's time is best! nor will it long delay: 
Even now your barren cause begins to bud,
And glorious shall the fruit be! Watch and pray, 
For, lo! the kindling dawn that ushers in the day!"
Boston, Nov. 1862. W. C. N. 
GATHERINGS AND COMMENTS. 
A REBEL REVIVAL. Think of it! The par excellent saints, and Evangelical at that, dwelling in the Sodom of the South,-women-whippers and cradle-plunderers,-talking about an "interest in Christ," and a great desire to "serve the Lord"! If there be a pit, and Satan personal, there must be merriment in that location, and from beneath the ribs of the oft-mentioned devil.
Hear Dr. Stiles on the spiritual condition of the rebel army, among whom he is laboring as an evangelist:- 
"My only object in addressing you a note at this time is to apprize all sympathizing Christian brethren and sisters in Richmond of the happy religious condition of that part of the army of the Potomac which lies within the range of my present observation. At his earnest request, I preached to Gen. Pryor's brigade last Sabbath. Upon one hour's notice, he marched up twelve or fifteen hundred men, who listened with so much interest to a long sermon, that I was not surprised to hear of such a religious interest in various regiments of the brigade as issued in a half-way promise on my part to fall in with the proposal of the General to preach very early to his soldiers for a succession of nights.  In Gen. Dawton's brigade there is a more decided state of religious excitement.  The great body of the soldiers in some of the regiments meet for prayer and exhortation every night, exhibiting the deepest solemnity, and present themselves numerously for the prayers of the chaplains and church. Quite a pleasant number express a hope in Christ.  In all other portions of Gen. Early's division (formerly Gen. Ewell's) a similar religious sensibility prevails. In Gen. Trimble's and the immediately neighboring brigades, there is in progress, at this hour, one of the most glorious revivals I ever witnessed. Some days ago, a young chaplain of the Baptist church-as a representative of three others of the same denomination-took a long ride to solicit my co-operation, stating that a promising seriousness had sprung up within their diocese. I have now been with him three days and nights, preaching and laboring constantly with the soldiers when not on drill.
"The audiences and the interest have grown to glorious dimensions. It would rejoice you over-deeply to glance for one instant on our night meeting in the wild woods, under a full moon, aided by the light of our side stands. You would behold a mass of men seated on the earth all around you, (I was going to say for the space of half an acre,) fringed in all its circumference by a line of standing officers and soldiers, two or three deep, all exhibiting the most solemn and respectful earnestness that a Christian assembly ever displayed. An officer said to me, last night, on returning from worship, he never had witnessed such a scene, though a Presbyterian elder, especially such an abiding solemnity and delight in the services as prevented all whispering in the outskirts, leaving the congregation, or reckless change of position. I suppose, at the close of the services, we had some sixty or seventy men and officers come forward and publicly solicit an interest in our prayers, and there may have been as many more who, from the press, could not reach the stand. I have already conversed with quite a number, who seem to give pleasant evidence of a return to God, and all things seem to be rapidly developing for the best." 
Alas! how horrible it seems, in the light of His Gospel who came to "preach deliverance to the captives," to hear this professed Evangelical preacher talk about men coming forward to "solicit an interest in prayers"! What can prayer mean in the estimation of those who are hurling destruction around, and fighting like tigers to eternize a system of piracy and robbery, the blackest upon which the sun ever shone! God forgive them, and save us from the blasphemy of naming the Christian religion in such a connection! 
REPUBLICAN OASIS. HOW fortunate that the readers of the Springfield Republican have a green spot upon which to bless their eyes! "Warrenton" is a live and pungent writer, and his hits of men and things are terse and racy. It must be refreshing to all who are not lost in the mazy path of hunkerism to turn the eye to "Our Own Correspondent from Boston." His last article is more sparkling than usual. The hunkers and honest Abe are set forth in an amusing light, and a running account is given of matters fresh in interest. After touching off George Francis Train, and his misfortune in being too young to take Mr. Sumner's place in the Senate, proposing a vote of thanks to Rev. Mr. Dexter for diverting the wrath of Judge Parker in consequence of his defeat, then touching lightly on the defender of Mr. Saltonstall in the Courier, he thus closes:- 
"People wait patiently for army news, and are hopeful of good results. The efforts of the pro-slavery press to stir up sedition in the army and the country appear to be total failures. The moneyed men still hold on to their faith in the government, and the people are sound. On a certain day a fortnight ago and a little more, in three or four big States, the votes were against the great cause, but the next day and ever since the minority of votes, reinforced by the patriotism and hope of the country, becomes a majority again. The administration goes on. The Passaic's big gun is a success; Seymour does not stop work on the iron-clads; Ohio does not block Burnside's path, nor try to do so; Indiana does not attempt any insurrectionary movements; negro brigades begin to fight, and to show themselves good soldiers; half-hearted officers are weeded out of the army, or sent to courts of inquiry; money is plenty; courage and devotion more plenty than ever; Charleston is threatened, and Savannah and Mobile; Butler wins victories, and punishes negro stealers in New Orleans; the slave is everywhere welcomed to our lines; Order No. 3 nonsense has gone up; "iron hand" is to be used to crush rebellion of masters, and not of servants; constitutional treatises which recommend paralysis are disregarded; war has become war; the army is an army, and not a posse comitatus; above all, emancipation approaches, and is only forty [twenty-six] days off. Courage! courage!" 
Action seems now to distinguish the army, and the daily news gives evidence that Rebeldom must stand from under. The President meets the Kentuckians fairly, and sticks to his proclamation, saying he would "rather die than take back a single word." Good for Abraham,-a thousand blessings on him rest! What an unfading crown will he gain in making the first of January, 1863, the Jubilee of disenthralled millions! Oh, that will be a proud day for America, when Cowper's words respecting England shall be true of our own native land:"
"Slaves cannot breathe in England ; if their lungs
Receive our air, that moment they are free;
They touch our country, and their shackles fall: 
That's noble, and bespeaks a nation proud 
And jealous of the blessing."
G. W. S. 
NEGRO LABOR QUESTION IN CHICAGO. The workmen employed in the slaughter and packing houses of South Chicago held a meeting the other day, and the following preamble and resolutions were adopted:- 
"Whereas, it has come to the knowledge of the meeting, that it is the intention of one or more of the leading packers of this town to bring negro labor into competition with that of the white men for the purpose of reducing the wages of the latter to the lowest possible standard; 
Resolved, That we, the packing house men of the town of South Chicago, pledge ourselves not to work for any packer, under any consideration, who will, in any manner, bring negro labor into competition with our labor; and further, 
Resolved, That if any member of this society should so far demean himself as to work in a packing house where negro labor is employed, his name shall be striken from the roll of members of this society, and such persons shall henceforth cease to enjoy the confidence of, or derive any benefits from, this society.
JOHN FEELY, chairman Chairman.
M. W. J. BONFIELD, Secretary pro tem." 
Short-sighted, selfish, grovelling persecutors of a class entitled to equal rights and privileges!
<c04>
REMARKABLE SPEECH BY A FRESH CONVERT TO THE REBELLION. 
Gen. Pemberton, who was in the service of the Union when the Rebellion broke out, but who turned traitor, went into the rebel army, and has superseded Van Dorn, recently made a speech, of which the following is a copy. His reference to Lovell, formerly of New York, as a street scavenger, is pungent:- 
"Soldiers,-In assuming the command of so brave and intelligent an army as that to which President Davis has assigned me, I desire at once to win your confidence by frankly declaring that I am a Northern man by birth; but I have married, raised children, and own negroes in the South, and, as such, shall never consent to see my daughters eating at the same table, or intermarrying with the black race, as the Northern teachers of equality would have them. I take command of you as a soldier, who will not fear to lead where any brave man can follow. I am no street scavenger-no Gen. Lovell. (Cheers.) If any soldier in this command is aggrieved by any act of his superior officer, he must have no hesitation in applying to me personally for redress. The doors of my headquarters shall never be closed against the poorest and humblest soldier in my command.
Come to me if you suffer wrong, as fearlessly as you would charge the enemy's battery, and no Orderly shall turn you off, or tell you, as has been too much the case in our army, that the General cannot see nor hear the complaints of his soldiers. (Applause.)
In regard to the question of interference by Europe, we want no interference in our private quarrel. (Great applause.) We must settle the question ourselves, or fail entirely. The moment England interferes, she will find us a united people, and she will have to meet with the armies of the South as well as of the North.  (Cheers, and cries of 'Yes, yes, yes,' from every quarter. 'No interference.' Let us settle it between us.') I am glad to see you thus united on this question; and with a reliance on ourselves, and a firm trust in the God of Battles, in a few days your General will again fling your banners to the breeze, and march forward to retrieve the recent disasters we have suffered in this Department." 
THE REBEL WOMEN OF THE SOUTH. 
To persons acquainted with the South, the fact of its being a great sham in its assumptions of culture, generosity, elegance and chivalry, has long been familiar. Still, there are many of our officers who had no knowledge of Secessia until they had "invaded its sacred soil"; and it is amusing to hear the surprise they express at what they have seen. So much had they been imposed upon by the professions of Southern people and the Southern press, that they had expected to find beautiful and intellectual women, tasteful and luxurious homes, broad and sunny fields, charming and hospitable towns, this side of Mason and Dixon's line.
They have looked in vain for the seductive groves, the murmuring fountains, the fascinating divinities in crinoline, they had conjured up to their excited fancy. But in their stead, they have found dreary forests, stagnant pools, and homely, snuff-dipping females, whom no poet's imagination could idealize into loveliness, or soften into grace.
Last Sunday, I attended three of the churches in La Grange-the Methodist, Presbyterian and Episcopalian-and took an artistic view of the best feminine society of the town. One of the least ill looking of the number I observed was privately engaged in that peculiarly Southern accomplishment of "dipping," which prevails hereabout to a most disgusting extent.
Indeed, the custom is almost universal. The poor whites and the rich whites vie with each other in this aesthetic habit, and have suffered greatly and complained bitterly of the lack of snuff in the South since the breaking out of the war. Poor creatures, how are they to be pitied! 
Nearly all of the women I have met in Tennessee-at the public houses, in the streets, and in church-are unmistakable evidences of their attachment to this great social vice. Some of them expectorate like a tobacco-chewing sailor, and nauseate the shocked sense that beholds this degradation.
What hope can there be of Southern beauty and Southern refinement, when the delicately-reared women of Secessia persist in a habit which must disgust every man of feeling, deal a death-blow to all the gentle emotions of a kindred sympathy, and strangle the gallantry that every gentleman entertains for a cultivated woman? 
In this part of Tennessee, the most rabid of the Secessionists are men originally from the North, not a few of whom are in the "Confederate" army, outdoing the Rebels in their active prosecution of the Rebellion, and earning for themselves the unenviable title of the most traitorous of the traitors. One of these was captured the other day, at Lamar. His name is Cloud. He holds a Captain's commission in the Southern service, and was formerly a resident of a small village in northern Vermont. He went to Mississippi some seven or eight years since, in the capacity of a school-teacher, and soon captivated the affections of a young woman who possessed a very bad education and a number of negroes, (by the way, the Yankees seem to be particular favorites with the Southern women,) and married her plantation, including her among the incumbrances.
At an early day he assumed the attitude of a violent and uncompromising Disunionist, and was one of the first persons in his adopted State to raise a company of cavalry for the war. Since then he has obtained an extended reputation for skill, energy and daring-has fought two duels, and led a number of gallant charges, losing in one of them two-thirds of all his men.
The Southerners laud him to the skies, and do not hesitate to pronounce him as brave a fellow as ever drew a saber. It is singular that Northern men, when they do go South, outdo the Southerners in all their own boastful achievements-drinking more, boasting louder, playing higher, and fighting better than the choicest sons of the pseudo chivalry of the land of cotton and contumacy.- Tennessee corr, of N. Y. Tribune. 
Another army correspondent of the Tribune, writing from Mississippi, says:- 
The women hereabout are female Ananiases. They can tell more colossal fibs (only men tell lies) than Baron Munchausen or the organs of Secessia in Virginia and South Carolina. Whenever they are asked any questions by our officers, they are the most charmingly ignorant persons in the world. They have no more knowledge of the condition of things in this vicinity, if one believes them, than if they had just dropped from the clouds.
A case in point is the following: Colonel Edward F. Noyes, of the 39th Ohio, sent one of his officers to the house of a Major Maxwell, who had left this home to join the Rebel army, to determine whether there were not various supplies on his land which deserved confiscation.
The wife of the Major saw the National officer, and after informing him that she had nothing to live upon, that she had been utterly ruined and was desperate in fortune and broken in heart, she retired and sent her daughters-two young women of unusual comeliness for this section-to hold further interview with the "barbarous Yankee." 
The daughters were elaborately gotten up for the occasion, looked their finest, and played the part of pretty and sentimental martyrs to perfection; related a most tender story of their woes; lamented the cruel war, and ended, as most women's pathetic  narratives do, with a passionate burst of liquid grief; believing, no doubt, with Campbell, that-
"Beauty's tears are lovelier than her smiles." 
This was a severe test to the officer. Few men with the least tincture of gallantry can withstand the tears of a pretty woman. As written in "Festus":-
"It is the sorest and the saddest sight-
One's own love weeping." 
And every woman may become one's "own love" on proper provocation.
The "Yankee" was affected, but resolute. He assured the "young ladies," in the most polite manner, that he believed them from the bottom of his soul; but that, unfortunately, he must make a search of the premises, to satisfy his superior officers.
He made the search; discovered forty bales of cotton, and a number of barrels of molasses, lard and pork, which, as he learned from one of the negroes in the place, were to have been sent to the Rebel army on the day following.
When the daughters of the house of Maxwell
<c05>
learned that the concealed property had been found, their assumed gentleness and tenderness vanished, They came out of their dwelling like two furies; abused the "Yankees," as fishwomen would have done, and employed such language as a gentleman could not repeat.
Gods, but they did rave, and in their wrath did it hesitate to violate the third article of the Decalogue. The fair Rebels swore until the officer of the 39th, with his men, was out of hearing, and would no doubt have poisoned him a hundred times, could they have done so. 
This is a fair specimen of the Secessionists in petticoats. They were ten times as intense as the men; more cunning, more reckless and more wicked. Nothing they would not do for the Rebellion. Their traitorism has unsexed them, and depraved those who were once able to appear like fine women, until they act like drunken harlots. 
THE PRESENT STATUS OF THE NEGRO. At Memphis, a State Judge of Tennessee having charged a Jury in a manner to lead to a collision of authority, General Sherman has ordered the Provost Marshal to issue a proclamation to the following effect:
"Any attempt to execute State laws at variance with the orders of the President and military commanders, will be construed as a contempt of the authority of the United States, and will be summarily punished. The status of the negro is involved in the war now existing, and will in its progress be clearly determined. In the mean time, runaway slaves must be treated as free, and people encouraged to give them employment as such." 
"ONE NEGRO SHORT." The New Orleans Delta has this paragraph:
"It strikes us that Capt. James McQuoid, of the steamer Iberville, is in a tight place. He went up the river, the other day, and, upon his return yesterday, was 'one negro short.' Inquiry was instituted, and it turned out that he sold the man. Gen. Butler has locked McQuoid up in the Parish prison, 'there to remain until he returns the negro.' We like the conditions, although old Barker will call us by the fearful name of 'Abolitionist' for saying so. In the language of the Roman Consul, Capt. McQuoid might as well be a cat in h-ll without claws as to try to cheat the Commander of the Department of the Gulf." 
ANDREW JOHNSON'S OPINION OF GEN. BUELL'S COURSE. Extracts from a letter written by Governor Johnson of Tennessee to the President, criticising the course pursued by Gen. Buell while in command of the army of the West, have found their way into print. We copy a passage or two:-
"General Buell is very popular with the rebels, and the impression is that he is more partial to them than to Union men, and that he favors the establishment of a Southern Confederacy.
I will not assume that General Buell desires the establishment of a Southern Confederacy and a surrender of Tennessee to the rebels, but will give it as my opinion that, if he had designed to do so, he could not have laid down or pursued a policy that would have been more successful in the accomplishment of both these objects." 
GEN. BUELL ATTEMPTING TO RETURN A SLAVE. A short time before he was superseded, General Buell issued a written order to a Colonel to return to slavery a negro who had by timely information preserved the regiment which that officer commanded, from destruction. The Federal Colonel wrote on the back of the order, "Go to h-II!" and returned it to Buell. He was not court-martialled for his disrespectful language, nor was the slave given up. N.Y. Evening Post. 
THE CHANGE OF COMMAND. The Washington correspondent of the St. Louis Republican, (Democratic,) has the following in relation to the change in the command of the army of the Potomac:-
"Attempts have been made to connect Gen. McClellan's removal with the recent Democratic victories. Those who know the President best will know how to receive this. It is understood he has received assurances, from high Democratic sources, that he must accept the recent results at the polls as a protest against delays and inefficiency in the prosecution of the war." 
THE REMOVAL OF GEN. MCCLELLAN. The Cleveland (Ohio) Herald says that this act of the Administration will of course be received with varied comments, but, at the West, the change of commanders will meet with the hearty approval of the great mass of the people, and for the reason, solely, that they believe the command of the army can be committed to more efficient hands. 
A SECESSIONIST BOWED OUT. A ball was given in Toronto, last week, in honor of Lord Monck's visit to that city, and several of the Windsor Secessionists visited Toronto. One of them, who wished an invitation to the ball, called upon a member of Lord Monck's Cabinet, and presented his card-"Mr.-, Southern
Confederacy." The gentleman took it, examined it, and remarked-" Mr.-, of the Southern Confederacy, ah! Well, sir, our Government is not aware of the existence of such an 'institution.' There must be some mistake, sir"; and the Secessionist was courteously bowed out. 
WHAT IS SAID OF THE PROCLAMATION ABROAD. The Consul-General of Frankfort-on-the-Maine, in Germany, writes to a gentleman of New York city:
"The Emancipation Proclamation gives very general satisfaction. It has increased the value of American securities here, and likewise made us hosts of friends."
Frankfort being the chief city of Germany, as New York is of America, the value of this opinion is very great.
SUDDEN CONVERSION. "I suppose you have heard how suddenly loyal the people became, in view of the approaching confiscation. Fifty-five thousand (55,000) people suddenly became aware of the duty they owed their-pockets, and hastened to renew their allegiance to their natural protector. A few thousand registered themselves as enemies; but many of them returned, and, very sensibly, had that stain wiped out of their lives."-New Orleans corr. of Boston Journal. 
CONNECTICUT TREASON. A meeting was held at Wethersfield, Ct., on Tuesday, at which the business of a draft was considered. The meeting came to an extraordinary conclusion, and voted first, that they would have no draft; secondly, directing their Selectmen to pay no attention to any orders for a draft, if the Governor issues them; and, thirdly, paying the fine imposed by law upon Selectmen for refusing to draft when ordered. [That smacks of treason as strong as a Wethersfield "onion," and is well worthy of the State which gave birth to Benedict Arnold.] 
TEXAS REFUGEES. Seventy-three Texas refugees, a fine, rugged set of men, clad in the garb of Texan Rangers, arrived in this city this morning, from Matamoras, Mexico. They come to join the Union army to return to Texas, and fight for their homes and property, from which they have been driven by the secessionists.-N. O. Delta, Oct. 28.
FIVE JUST MEN IN SODOM. The Richmond Examiner enumerates five men in the North whom it compares to the "five just men in Sodom"-Franklin Pierce, C. L. Vallandigham, Fernando Wood, Thomas and Horatio Seymour. 
GEN.  HOOKER has recently received a letter from the Comte de Paris, in which the Comte kindly inquires after the General's wound. He regrets that he was not with the Union army at Antietam, and says that the friends of freedom and humanity all over Europe manifest the greatest interest in the success of the Union armies in the field. 
NOT TO BE SOLD. A colored voter of New Bedford, Mass., was asked what ticket he intended to vote; to which he replied-"The Republican." "How much will you ask," inquired his interrogator, "to vote the People's ticket!" The colored man answered: "I have not much principle now; if I should sell that, I will not have any left." 
AMUSING INCIDENT. During the capture of Galveston, Commander Guest of the Owasco went ashore to spike the guns, the heaviest of which he towed off to and mounted on his ship. Great was the surprise in Pensacola when the Owasco came in with her new and formidable armament, the extra portion of which proved to be Quaker-guns from the rebel fort at Galveston! 
THE CONTRABAND QUESTION. Only about two thousand two hundred contrabands have made their way into Illinois since the war began. Of these, full two thousand were snapped up by the so-called Democrats of Egypt. Not more than two hundred have ever come North of the St. Louis and Cincinnati road. All these blacks were sent to the State by Democratic Generals, the chief of whom is Grant, who voted for Breckinridge.
LOVEJOY'S MAJORITY. In Lovejoy's district in Illinois, the Democrats get a tremendous hoist by their own petard. They got a Republican, so-called, to run against him. Whereupon, a Democrat, named Graham, was also put up, and the number of Lovejoy’s plurality is the precise number of votes Graham obtained. 
CALIFORNIA SUGAR. California papers state that considerable quantities of sugar and syrup, of a better quality than the imported article, have been made in that State. Tulare county will, no doubt, be able to supply her own population with sugar and moasses.
<c06>
GEN. ANDERSON has been assigned to the command of the troops, and fortifications surrounding Convington and Newport, Ky.
GOVERNOR OF TEXAS. Hon. A. J. Hamilton has been appointed Military Governor of Texas, with the rank of the Brigadier General, and authority to raise two brigades of loyal Texans.
STARVATION PRICES. The New Orleans Delta reports flour fifty-five dollars, a barrel in Pass Christian; and children's shoes are fifteen dollars a pair.
ALBANY, N. Y., Nov. 19. The official vote for Governor is as follows: Seymour, 307, 063; Wadsworth, 296,491. Seymour's majority, 10, 672.
Albert Horn has been sentenced to five years in the State Prison for fitting out the slaver City of Norfolk.
The Southerners are beginning to run of their slaves and sell them in Cuba. The Blanche, of whose destruction we gave an account last week, had some from Texas.  She was under the British flag by the way; and a Spanish war steamer is said to have brought some from Louisiana.
The New York Herald congratulates itself upon the fact that Semmes, the pirate, preserves its files whenever found in vessels taken at sea, deeming it the best endorsement of its reliability as a newspaper.  "A kindred feeling makes us wondrous kind."
The last words of the will left by the late General Mitchell, dictated a few hours before his departing, mingle the spirit of a devoted Christian with the fondness of a parent, for he exhorteth his children thus: "Serve God sincerely, and each other fondly are the last words of your dying father."
According to the Comercio of Lima, a Mr. J.C. Berne is introducing savages from Oceanica into Peru, for the purpose of selling them as slaves.
George H. Burger, of Esopus, Ulster county, N Y., was forced last year, by the rebels of Charleston, to serve in their army. He was captured when attempting to desert, tried, and condemned to be shot. The sentence was carried into effect on Thursday, Oct. 31st, at Sullivan's Island, South Carolina.
A deranged woman in Ulster county, (N.Y.) in 1860, while being conveyed to the Insane Asylum, threw up her hands and said: "In 1861 the war will be begun; in 1862 we'll have all we want to do; and in 1863 we'll all be free! Glory to God!"
Capt. Ericsson has published a card regarding the recent gun experiments on board the Passaic, (iron clad,) in which he says:
"I have much satisfaction in assuring you that our success is complete; not a single difficulty remains to be overcome. We handle the 420-pound guns with as little discomfort, and with more facility, than <illigeble> and Perry handled their 40 pounders."
Gen. Villipigue, whose death is announced, was an officer of considerable repute in the rebel army. He was in command of the enemy's forces at Vicksburg during the assault upon that place by our gunboats last summer, and has since figured conspicuously in the rebel army movements in Southern Tennessee and North Alabama.
 Archibald Babcock, Esq., late of Charlestown, Mass, donates by his will six thousand dollars to the town of Ashford, Conn.  Three thousand dollars <illegible> for the purpose of organizing or employing a band of music to play on public occasions, free to all the inhabitants of the town. The remainder constitutes a fund for a town library, the interest to be applied yearly, for fifteen years, for the purchase of Books only.
One of the Massachusetts Colonels, wounded fatally at Manassas, asked for pen and ink to writes home, but the pen dropped from his pulseless hand, and he passed into the valley of shadows with the whisper on his lips, "My wife, my boy, my country!"
Lewis's Normal Institute
 FOR- 
Physical Education,
No. 20 ESSEX STREET, BOSTON, MASS.
[Incorporated in 1861.]
This Institution is a pioneer in a new profession. Indies and gentlemen of enterprise and industry will find in this field health, usefulness, and large profit.  Thus eminent medical men teach in the departments of <illegible> my, Physiology and Hygiene. Prof. LEONEARD has deep of Elocution; Dr. DIO LEWIS of Practical Gymnastics and the Movement cure. The course continues ten week. Tickets $75. Matriculation $5. Diploma $10. These prices are reduced 25 per cent. to Ladies. Two courses during this year-the first beginning on the 2d of January, and the 2d on the 5th of July.
For a full circular, address Dr. DIO LEWIS, Box 12, Beston, Mass.
Dr. Lewis has solved the problem; he has marked <illegible> the way. Many eminent teachers are pursuing it with the most excellent results. We recognize the debt due Dr. Lewis; he has done us teachers and our pupils a vast amount of good.-D.B. Hagar, Pres. of the American Institute of Instruction.
I am now satisfied that Dr. Lewis has found the true scientific process for physical development. It was my privilege to welcome Dr. Lewis at his very first arrival here, and every thing since then has only confirmed my confidence in his ability to superintend the work.-Rev. Dr. Kirk, at the first Commencement of the Institute.
Henceforth we shall delight to think of Dr. Lewis as one who holds our welfare very near his own; we shall turn to him for sympathy and encouragement in our failures, and shall love to bring our successes to him, as belonging more to him than to ourselves.-Miss May, Veledictory at the first Graduating Class.
I rejoice, Mr. President, that the Normal Institute for Physical Education has been established in Boston. I rejoice that it has at its head a gentleman so admirably qualified to give it eminent success. I believe that no individual has ever, in this country, given the subject of physical Education such an impulse as has Dr. Lewis. He deserves the credit of it.
You may not know it, ladies and gentlemen, but this Institution is famous in every part of the land. There is not a live educator in America who is not looking to see what is to be the result of Dr. Lewis's institution in Boston. These excercises can be introduced into any school room with desks. The problem is solved.
I trust, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the commencement of a new era, and that the system taught by Dr. Lewis will be universally introduced into an schools.-Extract from a speech delivered at the second Commencement of "Lewis's Normal Institute," by J.D. Philbrick, Esq., Superintendent of the Public Schools of Boston.
IMPROVEMENT IN Champooing and Hair Dyeing, "WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET.
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoractives, in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
DENTISTRY.
DD. DANIEL MANN has removed his office to 14$ Harrison Avenue. He has, for the past five years inserted artificial teeth on the vulcanite base, in the use of which he has made some improvements. It is better than gold, when well made, being lighter, stronger, and more durable, and is also much cheaper.
Dr. M. also uses a somewhat similar preparation for filling teeth too tender or too far decayed for filling with gold. His prices are as moderate, at least, as those of any responsible dentist.
Boston, September 20 1862.
IOH DIEN.
GLOBE HOTEL
WILLIAM P. POWELL, PROPRIETOR,
2 DOVER STREET, (near Franklin Square,)
NEW YORK.
A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
EARLVILLE, La Salle Co., Ill.
Especial attention given to securing and collecting Claims for Eastern Merchants.
August 8. tf. 

