THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE,21 CORNHILL
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance. 
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary, concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00. 
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GRARRISON, Editor 
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 6. BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10,1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1520.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
PRESIDENT LORD'S LETTER.
President Lord, of Dartmouth College, has written an elaborate letter in reply to one from Mr. Conrad, of Virginia-a former pupil-respecting the general sentiment in the Northern States as to John Brown's raid We reprint the larger portion of it:-Boston Post.
DARTMOUTH COLLEGE, Dec. 1, 1859. 
To J. M.CONRAD, ESQ-My Dear Sir:-Your favor of the 224ult is at hand. It proposes a difficult question, viz.: 'What is the predominant sentiment among your population with regard to the recent invasion of our soil, and interference with our institutions? Do they value the Union as it is? And it so, do they not feel that dissolution must inevitably follow such demonstrations?’
The question, however, is difficult mainly in view of its relating to other questions which you have not asked. The raid at Harper's Ferry, as an isolated transaction, is viewed by all but a few fanatics among our people, with mingled feelings of disgust at its folly, and indignation at its wickedness. It were almost doubtful whether it should be treated with a strait-jacket for its madness, or a rope for its method, were it not that the wheel of justice is so often turned aside upon plausible pretences of insanity. But, at best, it is abhorrent to all our commonly received ideas. Such demonstrations startle us the more from their direct or incidental tendency to precipitate general disorganization and disunion. On that account, the vast majority of our people would stamp them with reprobation, and join you in battle, if that were necessary, to suppress them. 
But the mad attempt of Brown and his co-adjutors cannot be wisely viewed apart from its relations. It is complicated with all the questions of slavery which now so much confuse and agitate the country, and which, as I sometimes fear, will not be settled without a servile and civil war. In that view, public sentiment is more divided, and the division awakens more concern among thoughtful men.
According to my judgment, public opinion at the North is mostly represented, in this respect, by these several classes. 
1.Those who study the subject of slavery by the method of faith in the lights of moral government as reflected from natural and revealed religion. These are worthy persons of grave pursuits in Church or State, who look at things as they are revealed from Scripture and experience. They regard all men as depraved beings guilty and condemned by the law of God, yet reprieved by the Divine goodness, placed providentially in various states of probation, according to their diversities of character as individuals, nations of races, and subjected to different degrees of restraint and discipline by governments in the family,. State or Church, as constituted and appointed by God, to serve the end of probationary state. Slavery is one of the constituted forms of government, and its power and duties are accredited and described, both in the Old and New Testament. It is widely adapted to the ruder portions of mankind, and, in some conditions of the social state, necessary to its best conditions, or to its preservation during the appointed time. The necessity grows out of the imbecility and untractableness of those ruder classes. Some hold it to be a judicial necessity entailed upon a particularly disorderly race, as a sign of the divine displeasure for peculiar wickedness, as signified by the curse of Canaan, and having analogy in the judgment now for a long time inflicted upon the Jews. Yet mercy is mingled with judgment, and the doomed derive benefits that they would not, or could not, have received, but for such a providential ordering of affairs. The discipline may serve eventually to a higher reformation and lifting up than could otherwise have been possible during the present derangement of the moral system.
But this gives no right to superiors to oppress and inflict inferiors injuriously, for their selfish ends; and all abuses of a right institution react, providentially, to the casting down of oppressive and unscrupulous rule: for God is no respecter of persons. He holds the men who, like the patriarchs and early Christians, use his ordinances agreeably to their design, but punishes the evil-doers. And his government over individuals and nations is one, and uniform in this respect in all the ages. 
Men of the class here described are sprinkled over all New England. Their insensible influence serves to regulate, in some measure, the confused masses, and to counteract the destructive movements of the insame. But they are not comparatively numerous, and could not, as things are, greatly affect the generality. They are looked upon with distrust, are frequently maligned, and their conciliatory influence is opposed. Their reasons are often condemned 
without: examination, criticised without judgment, or misrepresented for bad popular effect. For that reason they retire, for the most part, to their secret places, and wait to be justified by the providence of God.
These men are filled with grief and indignation at the late disturbances in Virginia. They regard all such attempts, by whomsoever conceived, or stimulated, or carried on, as unchristian, immoral and impolitic, having no tendency but to exaggerate the very evils, real or imaginary, which they profess to remedy. That abuses of slavery exist at the South they deny not, just as they acknowledge the manifold abuses which exist in the social system of New England. But they see nothing to justify the vituperation and incendiarism which are excited by infidels and fanatics at the North, and are encouraged by mere unprincipled politicians, or hood-winked teachers of morals and religion. Good and evil exist in our institutions as well as yours, and we are both inexcusable if we bite and devour one another because of the bad accidents which belong to our respective different organizations or administrations of the social state. You might as well lay us waste with fire and sword for our errors and sins, as we you for yours, and, for aught I know, in this case, with greater reason. in as much as there are probably fewer men at the South who hold slaves injuriously than there are infatuated men at the North who subject themselves and others, so far as their influence extends, to the worse yoke of wilful ignorance, intoxicating delusions and malignant passions.
2. The subjects of this intellectual and moral servitude constitute another class at the North. I mean the wild men, about whom you do not inquire, and of whom I need not speak particularly. They are known and read of by all men. Their history is the same in all countries and periods the history of a want on imagination, unscrupulous ambition, bewildered judgment, immoderate vanity and self-conceit, or fiery passions ever driving them onwards to a fatal plunge.
Yet they are not-numerous-probably not as numerous or "powerful as you imagine. There are scarcely five in a village, and fewer in the rural districts. They are mostly congregated in the cities where they can collect a rabble by their fiery eloquence, and sometimes more decent people, whose vagrant curiosity, or love of indiscriminate excitement, masters their discretion they are not oth-
<c02>
erwise formidable than as a knot of burglars and incendiaries, who sometimes area to a panic through a town or country by a few midnight outrages that for a while elude detection. That there are not laws for such delirious men argues, as yet, a moral soundness of the people. The public voice measurably controls them. "The time may come when, they will require forcible restraint. I sometimes almost fear it. But I should fear that then all laws I would lose their power, and we should begin the horrors of a civil war, which certainly many politicians hitherto have not seemed-anxious to prevent. These caterers to the unholy sympathies and antipathies of men, do what they can to precipitate that result. And they have a wide field in our third and largest class. 
3. This third class is the great body of the people.
Strictly, this class should be largely subdivided, for it is composed of all varieties, from learned and professional men to operatives in the mills and day laborers in the fields. In no part of the world are ‘there greater diversities of sect and parties, of temperament and tastes, of fashions, pursuits and interests, than at the North. All are shrewd, intelligent, capable and earnest. They study books, read the newspapers, talk politics, and discuss morals and theology. They differ, dispute, divide, separate and quarrel. But as yet, they have a common vinculum that holds them, viz.: the constitution, and the laws. To these, all have a principled and, I strung attachment, as the old Jews had to the ark of the testimony. With all their differences in matters of Church or State, and occasional heats of political or religious controversy, they et with one accord on the Fourth of July, and celebrate fraternally the nation's freedom. They would lay aside all the jalousies of faction and competitions' of rival interests, and fight together for their magna charla. That this bond has been somewhat weakened by unprincipled demagogues who have extensively subsidized and prostituted the press, and misappropriated the influence of place, is out of question. The work of demoralization has been going on to the great alarm of considerate, conscientious and patriotic men. But it has gone on unperceived in general. The people in mass are unconscious of ‘any want of zeal for their chartered institutions. They were never more inflated than at present with the dream of progress; never more exultant, over their' image of the nation's destiny. Their I false guides have never presumed to avow, in terms, I what may have been the aim of some of them, or; what has been their unconscious drift-the revolutionizing of their country, Any show of this would now destroy them. As yet, our general soundness is out of question. 
But, among all the varieties of this large class, what has struck me with greatest concern, in reference to the future, is the almost universal confusion of ideas on the subject in hand. Babel was hardly worse confounded. Slavery is our great theme. Its incidents furnish one topic for the press, the pulpit, the lyceum, the table, and the street. But its true' nature, design, uses and abuses, its political and ecclesiastical relation, its history, and its bearings, upon all the related interests of the country and the world, and especially its more vital concern with' the moral government of God-all these become mere occasions of increasing bewilderment. Our principles are unsettled,-reasoning is without a guide, the sentiments are disordered, discourse is warm, but fickle and unmeaning, a moral and practical uncertainty reigns, in which men see double, and are scared by shadows and chimeras. The generality yet mean well; but their faculties are clouded; their sun is darkened by the streaming1 vapors of an unbelieving, visionary, and impracticable philosophy; they cannot take an observation, And the winds and currents are setting them upon the rocks. Slavery is the terrific spectre of the storm-it scares them from all their natural proprieties, and still more from a Divine guidance and reliance, and they resort to all manner of spiritualistic subtleties and conjurations, seeking deliverance where they only plunge into greater confusions, and more formidable dangers.
But our time is not yet. I look for estoppels and reactions. The sea ebbs and flows during its appointed time. Neither the North nor the South are yet ready for dissolution. They could not effect it now. There is too much at stake for both, for all, to admit of any violent disruption, and nothing but violence could part us. There is too much in jeopardy, not only of principle, which we are losing sight of, but of propriety, which we hold in more account, and of safety and happiness, which are above all price. We start back when we look into the chasm of disunion. The baldest quail before its unimaginable terrors. Harper's Ferry is a providential omen enough to Mare all but the hopelessly insane. Those bewildered men who have played consciously or unconscious into the hand of fanatics and driven such men as Brown to the gallows and Gerrit Smith to the asylum, will retreat, with as much grace as possible, from their false positions. They will, indeed, shoot back their harmless arrows as they fly, and persuade whom they can, that not they but their adversaries have been at fault for the, murderous foray. But their zeal will slacken, and many will go back to find the only effectual remedy for social evils in the old Gospel, rather than in the new specifics. The people yet are too wise and virtuous, or, at least, too calculating, to encounter the crisis of revolution. The present furry, like that of Southampton, will soon be over, perhaps a few more Presidential campaigns will pass without violent disturbance. But the popular idol is not broken. The groves are not cut down. The high places yet smoke with unhallowed incense. New temptations will consequently arise, and the demolished forces of society will yield to more seductive influences of overwhelming outsets. Every successive fever, of course, weakens more the constitution and the fatal paroxysm comes at last. The same law is upon nations as individuals ashes to ashes, dust to dust.' Wise and good men may defer the catastrophe, but cannot avert it, and they will have their reward. But woe to the empirics who cling, and stimulate, and sweat the patient, through all his stages, till the silver cord is loosed, and the golden bowl is broken! Would to God that we might have the balm of Gilead, and the physician who is there. But he comes not to reluctant homes. He administers not till unhallowed specifics are renounced. There is no fellowship between Christ and Belial, whose children crucify their Redeemer, and make Barabbas-the robber-the murderer-their hero, their Saviour, and their God. 
But whenever dissolution comes, it will be general, not between the South and North only, but the confederation. For it is not sufferable that in such an issue all classes will be equally recreant to first principles, or to the old covenants which have bound oar so long together. The lawless and malignant passions which should provoke the fatal controversy, would meet resistance. Radical frensy, on the one hand, would stir up conservative indignation on the other. Their exasperated forces would, for various reasons, have recruits from the right or left of the before confused and unresolved masses. Every State and town, and district and family would quarrel on its own account, and every one of these with ever
<c03>
other one. Battlements would be erected on every border, and the fairest heritage which God ever gave to man would be laid waste. The bread of the West, and the raw material of the South, and the manufacture and commerce of the North, would destroy each other, and three millions of vagrant, 
lawless, slaveling blacks, if it were possible for them to survive the havoc, would be scattered everywhere to consume the fragments. Even dreaming of a perfect state would then cease, for the last and best experiment of rational freedom would have failed, the last is spot of earth fitted for it become desolate, and, nothing could rise up from the ruin but Power-the power that puts chains on maniacs that compels the children of broken covenants and wasted inheritance and prostituted blessings to grind in the mill for a poor subsistence, and vainly attempt the mirth and the songs of Zion in the remembrance of a lost Jerusalem. God save us from such a day! 
But whether we have democracy, anarchy, or despotism, we shall not be rid of slavery till the day of the Lord. Its existence depends not on forms of government, or philosophical speculation, or political manoeuvres, or legislative enactments, or judicial decisions, except as these may temporarily change its name, aspects or conditions, or vary its locations. The world must live on to its appointed period. It can live, as things are, only as it lived, more or less, with all varieties of race, character, and condition, There will find their appropriated spheres and places, not according to more human judgments, but by God's providential ordering of Shem, Ham, and. Japhet, agreeable to physical laws and the plan of moral government, in reference to the ends of the present probationary state. Wherever there is a place and work for slaves, there they will be found. All things are fitted to all other things, and general laws will have their course. Our only wisdom is to study them, and live under them, and by them, in subserviency to their mixed righteous and benevolent design.

FOAMING OUT HIS OWN SHAME.
LETTER FROM HON. CHAS. J. INGERS0LL.
The following letter, written by the Hon. Charles J. Ingersoll, in answer to an. invitation to attend the Eighth of January celebration at Tammany hall Hall, is highly commended by The Pennsylvanian, the organ of Mr. Buchanan and the Democratic party:
PHILADELPHIA, Thursday, Jan. 5, 1860.
GENTLEMEN,-The triumph which you invite me to celebrate was neither the first nor the last of the heroic statesman whose memory, with you, I earnestly venerate. Gen. Jackson's last victory over the King of Terrors,-the most signal of all his triumphs,-was a lesson of piety and patriotism admirably suggestive of what ought to be common, if not universal sentiment, at this conjuncture, if liberticide vituperation of negro slavery has engendered dangers of that disunion which, he deemed the direst of American republican calamities. Dying of a most painful and incurable disorder, in the midst of all his sufferings, with the Bible on his pillow, looking forward with Christian resignation to departure from this for entrance on another and better life, he administered consolation to his negro slaves, weeping at his bedside the loss of a master who was their owner. Has, or can any of those who, from the press, the pulpit, the forum and the lecture-room, denounce negro slavery as sin, rest on his death-bed and leave this world with us clear a conscience and well-founded a hope of blessed immortality as Andrew Jackson?
Philanthropists like Franklin, Jay, Jefferson and other exemplary Americans have laudably sought to free black, as well as white, from servitude, by gradual, judicious and conservative emancipation. But Abolitionists are not emancipationists, but land pirates-robbers of other men's property-like sea pirates, enemies of mankind, upon whom summary punishment ought to be relentlessly inflicted.
The first Abolitionist in this country was that reprobate English-infidel drunkard, Tom Paine. The first-Abolitionist in Europe was that awful French monster, Robespierre. Before Wilberforce or any of the English began their work of emancipation, Paine and Robespierre united in the Jacobin Club at Paris, proclaimed revolutionary freedom for negro slaves, together with the overthrow of Christianity, with an age of what they called reason, instead of religion set up a strong-minded strumpet, in Bloomer clothes, as the Goddess of Reason, to be worshipped-abolished Sundays, week-days and months by sacrilegious and sanguinary violence striving to revolutionize not only politics, but property, morals, States and society, from top to bottom propagating, by the guillotine at home and the saber, abroad, their destructive abominations. were arrested by President Washington, with his Secretaries, Jefferson and Hamilton, snatching, the United States by a state-stroke of executive energy one of the most memorable and admirable coups d'etat of modern history from ruinous war fare.
Of those miscreants of misrule, American root and-branch Abolitionists are lineal offspring; with the same defiance of God Almighty, the same hatred of the Christian religion and their neighbors, the same delight in robbery and spoliations, the same clergy demonized, the same shameless women on the town, the French sans culottes, that is bare-breeched ‘as Robespierre, Paine called themselves the women with their clothes tucked up to display their person in public like strumpets and she strumpets. These American disciples of French infernal apostles strive by public riots to reverse their Saviour's precept that on love of God and of neighbors hang all the law and the prophets, for which their age of reason substitutes hell-fired hatred of fellow-countrymen. Fortunately, this odious alienation has not yet proved so fatal as fear and disgust naturally misconceive. For much as our Eastern have contrived to foment hatred between themselves and their Southern fellow-countrymen in union, still that abomination is by no means so desperate or dangerous as the hatred of other united people-English and Irish for each other in the British Union; Austrians Italians, Hungarians and Crotians in the German Union; Poles and Russians in their union; and hardly greater than that of the Gascons and Alsacians in France, who, though they cannot understand each other's language, yet are held together by wonderful concentration of patriotic loyalty to the same country.
Republican loyalty, founded on consent and content, is so much stronger than mechanical allegiance, controlled by force and compulsion, that no jeopardy, has befallen the American Union, which, on the contrary, is corroborated by every strain. We see now a South Carolina Senator, with a thousand negro slaves, clinging to the Union upheld against Abolition, with intense attachment; and that suigeneris monster, John Brown, is almost, if not quite, the only American traitor ever executed. Since Liberty and Slavery were united in this Republic by nature, by territories, by rivers West and seas was East, by language, lineage and other indissoluble ties, Abolitionists flatter themselves, with false unction laid to heart, when they think that they can dismember such a Union. After the present
<c04>
Brown temporary hubbub passes away, as it soon will, the chief result of Brown's treason will be the election next year of a Unionist for President, strongly pronounced against Abolition, beyond all doubt, by a large majority. No future event can be more certain.
For Brown has been the only genuine, heroic Abolitionist that has appeared. Their railing at slavery from a distance is like dogs baying at the moon. Sincere, earnest and determined Abolitionists would, like Brown, march upon the negro quarters, storm them and covet martyrdom, how ever inevitable. Preaching, praying and lecturing at a distance where there is no slavery, howling homilies over that martyr's carcase after he was hanged, all such coars sentimentality, either prefatory or posthumous, is sheer nonsense of abolition, Lecturing Abolition at twenty-five cents a ticket, or preaching it on a salary of so much a year, may feed and perhaps celebrate the play-actors of modern spectacles, caricatures of Roman panem et circenses for the entertainment of chambermaids, idlers and other rabble. But hundreds of miles from the scene of action, it is but sterile poltroonery, although misdemeanors indictable by common law. Every honest, efficacious Abolitionist must imitate, that Beelzebub of their demoniac saints, John Brown, by which alone can they either free slaves, whether willing or not, or sow in prison or on gibbets the seeds of an effectual martyrology. A few clergymen hanged in their canonicals, with strong-minded women in short petticoats, would be a spectacle not indeed to be desired, but which might, at least, vouch the sincerity of those who only bowl at it when there is danger, and most of them because they reckon on the gullibility of their auditors, like Anti-Masons, Know-Nothings, or some other hypocritical false pretence of partisan contrivance. Without some heroic risk of life like Brown's, all the rest is leather and prunella. To bring out Victor Hugo's French or old Harriet Martineau's English impertinence, there, must be something more striking than hired preachers keeping their precious persons hundreds of miles from any scene of action, railing, as nothing is easier or more useless, like that at Turkish polygamy or Chinese infanticide.
If the Abolitionists will not attest-their sincerity by martyrdom, the only other remedy for their sufferings is disunion. And as root-and-branch. Free Soil, Kansas Aid Societies, territorial devices, and all other contrivances by acts of Assembly, Governors, Judges, mobs and what not, to nullify the Constitution, are palpable violations of it, the true and permanent relief for Abolitionists of all shades,' denominations and degrees, will be separation of the States, departing from the pledges of their forefathers, and constituting themselves openly in another, if they think so, better Confederacy, without the contamination of slavery.
The New England States, with New York colonized by them, confederated with the Canadas and other British North American provide, might form another Union-a North-Eastern Union-separated, from us, who can endure our present condition. The North-Eastern Union would have the benefit of all the English abhorrence of slavery, with fifty thousand fugitive slaves to exemplify their humanity, and we should be left in the South-Western Union, as always heretofore, with politics, interests, habits and progress such as Washington, Jefferson, Madison, Monroe, Jackson, Tyler, Taylor and Polk, slaveholding Chief Magistrates, have, from first to last, impressed on us, and, as we think, much to our prosperous development; all the Northern Presidents, the two Adamses and Mr. Van Buren, concurring in their system of government.
With filial reverence for the Federal Constitution as framed originally, I shall deplore any such faction as this last of all, its-North-Eastern faction, and, being of New England lineage, part with regret from the New England States. If they can no longer endure the slave communion, I hope we shall part in peace, as a venerable founder, but inveterate slaveholder, Abraham, said to Lot, Let there be no strife between us, because we be brethren; there is room enough for all of you of the North-Eastern Union. Go to Sodom!
We of the South-Western Union can abide content without Canada.
“I am, gentlemen, your humble servant, 
C. J. INGERSOLL.

SELECTIONS.
From the Newcastle-upon-Tyne (Eng.) Chronicls
JOHN BROWN AND JOHN BULL.
If there is an iniquity to palliate or a wrong to justify, a wicked monopoly to be bolstered up or a good principle to be undermined, if a reconciliation can be spoiled or a quarrel renewed, if a good intent can be defeated or a bad one helped to action, the most facile, apt, and willing instruments are the unprincipled and reckless pens which contribute 'editorial matter ' to the columns of the Times newspaper. They will write on any side of every, question without any regard to political consistency; they supported the Corn Laws till the cause was hopeless; they abused Lord Palmerston till the Editor was invited to Cambridge House; they had "written for and against reform with equal earnest-ness:-they have argued that capital punishment was necessary and unnecessary; they have advocated and opposed the sale of commissions in the army; they have ministered to every panic and fostered every national hostility till the plunder which was the fruit of such false terrors has been shared among the panic-mongers. The Times hounded on our soldiers to India to merciless and unparalleled vengeance, and advocated the murder of helpless women and children in cities whose walls were to be razed to the ground; it has done its best to hush up the practice of torture by the employes of the East India Company, and when the wickedness could no longer be concealed, it endeavored to justify the barbarity of which Europeans had been guilty. It justified the Opium war with China, and preached a war of extermination against the inhabitants of Canton it has brought us to the verge of war with America-by its abuse, and has done its best to destroy our friendly relations with the French. It maligned the Poles; in turn praised and belied Russia, and uniformly slandered Kossuth. As an enemy of the industry, and commerce, and peace of this country, no more pernicious influence exists than the Times. Bad, shameless, and unprincipled as all its preceding course has been, nothing can exceed the malignant falsehoods with which it has recently sought to support the cause of negro slavery in the southern states of North America. 
The history of the heroic John Brown, and the melancholy fate of those who shared his fame and ignominious death, are already known to our readers. If his zeal, were fanaticism, and his philanthrony were in error as to the mode through which it sought to accomplish its purposes, it is impossible not-to respect the stern adherence to conscientious convictions which characterized the man, and the devotion to principle-'faithful even unto. death. It was only after a patient effort of years to bring
<c05>
about the abolition of slavery by moral suasion that John Brown at List resorted to force. He had nothing to gain by the abolition, but he believed that it was his mission to bring about its destruction. With the stern resolution of the best of the Puritans, he did his work fearlessly and unselfishly; and with the calmness and joy of a martyr, he shed his life blood for the principles he had vowed to uphold. This is the man whom the Times, with its accustomed malignity, calls a 'malefactor,' and the accomplice and 'instigator of assassins.' And, sad to relate, there are a large number of people who, in foreign lands, will, on reading the columns of the misleading journal, believe that John Bull regrets having emancipated his own slaves, and is now actually ready to become the partisan of the southern planters against the ‘free soilers' of the northern states! It is a pity that an action cannot lie for defamation of character; but the national debt itself would be required to pay the damages inflicted upon our national character by the dishonest 'free lances' of Printing-House Square.
In the columns of the journal to which we have alluded, we find a deliberate attempt to justify slavery and to belie the Abolitionists, who are accused of instituting a crusade for the slaughter of the white ‘people and the institution of a half-caste republic' Never was uttered a more vile and disreputable piece of slander. The Abolitionists have perpetually declared that free labor would be found cheaper than compulsory toil, and have from time to time warned their southern countrymen of the dangers, in which they placed themselves by continuing the 'domestic institution' of slavery. The costliness of slave labor has been proven by the impoverishment of the districts where it prevails, and slave-breeding has been adopted in some of them as the only means of saving the landed proprietors from bankruptcy and ruin. The national exchequer is drained by the necessity for large armaments to protect the white population in the south, and the cost of this protection is paid by the tax-payers of the north. A large majority of the Abolitionists are not only opposed to any violence to accomplish the emancipation of the negro, but are in the fullest sense peace-at all-price men, belonging to the non-resistant school. John Brown himself proposed to effect a peaceful solution of the question, and taught those who joined him at first the most ultra-pacific principles. He and his companions armed, at last, to resist expected attack. But if this had not been so, if Brown had been as warlike, bloody, and quarrelsome as the Editor of the Times himself, it would prove nothing against the class of Abolitionists slandered by the libeller of Printing-House Square. When a discussion recently arose on the subject of the condition of the free blacks in our West India Islands, this same journalist suppressed all the facts on the free-labor side of the question, and exaggerated all the statements upon the other.
What are facts in this case about the 'half-caste republic,' which, so says the Times, the Abolitionists have sought to establish? There is not the remotest ground for such an assertion, and if there were, it would avail nothing against the rights of the colored people to be free. In the Northern States, the black population indicate no desire to intermingle by marriage with the whites, nor the whites with the blacks. The half-caste is to be found almost solely in those States where slavery has degraded, debased, and demoralized the white population. The Times hopes that these degraded, demoralized, brutalized, and impoverished slave-owning and slave-breeding States will be protected against' the efforts of the Abolitionists, who are charged with treason to the Confederation. Protected against what? Against efforts for their moral redemption and commercial regeneration? No other efforts have been made by the class known as Abolitionists. On the other hand, the slave-owners have sought repeatedly, in defiance of constitutional law, to revive insidiously the traffic in African kidnapping, and have endeavored to commit the United States to daring fillibustering expeditions, by which they hoped to obtain fresh breeding-grounds for slaves, or new channels through which, in defiance of their own law, and in flagrant violation of their solemn treaty with Great Britain, they thought they could open up a new channel for the importation of kidnapped Africans. These violent southerners, whom the Times has for its clients for awhile, are those who bring the young Republic into disrepate; they are the low ruffians who destroy the dignity of the Senate, and who reply to the arguments of the Northerners with murderous bludgeons, instead of arguments. How long will the people of Great Britain allow it to be supposed that the English advocate of American slave-owning bullies expresses the opinion of the nation at large? Are we, who have sacrificed millions of treasure to wipe from our escutcheon the blot of slavery, to stand before the nations polluted by the infamy of supposed approval of the wickedness of the slave-owners of the United States; or how long; is our national flag to be dragged through the mud, to promote the interests of this unprincipled print? The British Liar does not represent the British Lion.

AMERICAN SLAVERY-DR. CHEEVER'S POSITION-JOHN BROWN'S EXECUTION.
Public Meeting in Edinburgh-Speech of the Rev. Dr. Candlish, of the Free Church of Scotland. 
A large and influential meeting was recently held in the Queen Street Hall, Edinburgh, Scotland, for the purpose of expressing sympathy with the Rev. Dr. Cheever of New York. On motion of sir John Melville, the Lord Provost was called to the chair, who, after a few pertinent prefatory remarks, introduced to the assembly the Rev. Dr. CANDLISH, who was received with loud cheers.
After referring to the private manner in which the movement in behalf of Dr. Cheever had been hitherto gone about, and to the drawback necessarily incident to this, he said, that if the cause with which that eminent man was identified had been brought before the community of Scotland in the. way in which such cases ordinarily were, it was his impression that the steam would have been up long ago, and a national enthusiasm would have been kindled. It was, however, now made abundantly plain that Dr. Cheever was suffering for his faithfulness in advocating the cause of emancipation, and that the movement now making, on his behalf, on this side of the Atlantic, had his thorough sanction, and that of the large and overwhelming majority of his congregation. Having adverted to the attempt made, during his absence on sick leave, by some of the wealthier portion of Dr. Cheever congregation, to get him to resign in consequence of his preaching on the subject of slavery, and to the failure of this attempt, Dr. Candlish next stated that than parties now withheld all support from it congregation; and observed that the tendency, if not the design of all their proceedings was, that Dr. Cheer should be shut up to the necessity of abandoning the prominent position which he held as pastor of the Position Church of the Puritans in New York, And it is. (continued Dr. Candlish.) for the purpose of enabling Dr. Cheever to continue in this position and to continue in it without the risk of being troubled
<c06>
from year to year, that the movement is made by his friends and bis congregation, and that we are asked to aid in it. The object of that movement is not merely to provide for the passing year, but to provide such a sum as shall enable the Church of the Puritans to clear themselves of all encumbrances, and so to maintain its position as a church, in whose pulpit Dr. Cheever thunders his anathemas against all sin, and the sin of slavery among others. (Cheers.) I do trust that, now that this cause has been fairly brought under our notice, in this public way, we shall give to it our most cordial sympathies, and shall, with one heart and one hand, combine to support Dr. Cheever in his influential position. (Cheers.)
Among other questions, this has sometimes been asked, Is it not strange that in such a city as New York, and in such a country as America, and especially in the North, where, although public sentiment is to a large extent, I fear I may say debauch ed, by the political entanglements in which the North is involved with the South—where, not with standing this, there is notoriously a very large and influential anti-slavery party, how comes it, some say, that Dr. Cheever is nut sustained by the friends of the anti-slavery cause in the States of America themselves? and how comes it that when, as is alleged, there are a good many ministers—not a very large proportion,—for even those most favorable to the clergy of America admit that it is a very small proportion, —but while there is a considerable body of ministers, in the Northern States of America, who are avowedly anti-slavery, and who make no hesitation about declaring their sentiments—how comes it that Dr. Cheever, in particular, should suffer more than they do? I confess I bad some difficulty on this very point myself, when the matter was first brought under my notice; but on getting, information up on it from the American newspapers—not from these favorable to Dr. Cheever, but chiefly from one newspaper rather hostile to him, and more especially from reading Dr. Cheever's own book, ' God Against Slavery,' I got the enigma or riddle thoroughly solved, for I found that the peculiar offence of Dr. Cheever consists, not in holding abstractly anti-slavery views, or in propounding them, but his peculiar offence is that be launches forth, with an eloquence worthy of the old masters of oratory in Greece—with an eloquence, I would almost say, rivalling the denunciations of the prophets, in so far as uninspired eloquence can rival that of in spiration,—he seta himself not merely to the general advocacy of emancipation, but he sets himself tooth and nail against the measures of the American Legislature sanctioning, promoting, and extending slavery—he sets himself practically to work against the Kansas atrocity, against the Fugitive Slave Law —he sets himself against every form by which the Legislature of America has been abetting and encouraging the evil; and be does so in the way just of strong and pointed appeal to the consciences of all American citizens, calling upon them to exercise their political franchise, as in the sight of God, and against this abominable sin. (Load cheers.) This is his special offence; and here, I believe, he stands almost alone among the ministers of America. I believe he might have gone on denouncing slavery in the abstract as long as he chose, and in pronouncing anathemas against it, and preaching up emancipation in the abstract; but here he comes home to men's bosoms, to men's business, and to men's purses,—he comes home to them as citizens, and he calls upon them to consider that they are responsible for the enormous sin which the Legislature of the States is committing, in not merely tolerating slavery where it exists, but in building for it bulwarks to preserve and perpetuate the institution, and in opening up new fields, through bloodshed and violence, for the entering in, and triumph of it on the free soil of the States of America. (Loud cheers.) This is the head and front of Dr. Cheever's offending, and we will at once see that this places him in a somewhat peculiar position.
Dr. Candlish then referred to three classes of antislavery men in America; first, those who bear a milk-and-water testimony; second, those who, opposed as they may be to slavery, cannot be expected to enter very cordially into a measure bearing even in the slightest degree on ecclesiastical organization, <illegible> upon the maintenance of a minister belonging to another church; and third, those who, opposed to slavery out and out, and more or less distinctly on Christian grounds, take up the position that they night to enlighten the public mind on the subject, but ought not to interfere either by force—as John Brown had been doing—or by anything approaching political agitation, which, unquestionably, was the offence of Dr. Cheever; and said that none of these classes could be expected to sympathize much with Dr. Cheever in his present position, or In the effort now making to secure his position in the Church of the Puritans. Now, there can be no question.(continued Dr. Candlish) that Dr. Cheever stands out, I don't say as the martyr John Brown, but as a confessor of this great principle— and I bold it to be a great principle—that the opponents of slavery in America are bound to make their opposition to it tell on the hustings—(cheers)—thus they are bound to make their opposition to slavery tell through the ballot-box; that they are bound to testify to their fellow-citizens everywhere that those who field the reins of power, and those who, in the last resort, rule their country, are responsible for the measures that are drawing down upon America, if America pause not, the righteous indignation of Him who will have all men to be free. (Loud cheers.)
Having made this explanation us to Dr. Cheever's position, will you allow me just to advert for a little to Dr. Cheever's way of advocating the anti-slavery cause? I thoroughly agree with Dr. Cheever, that all men in America who hold the truth on this subject are bound to be energetically active, not merely testifying, but acting and calling upon all their fellow-citizens to act too. Why, some years ago, there might be some pretence for saying that it was enough for anti-slavery men in America to bear testimony against slavery, to circulate information on the subject, and to endeavor, through the press and otherwise, to leaven the public mind with sound views; there might be some shadow of pretence for this some years ago, when, as it seemed, the line was drawn, and slavery was limited and pent up within a certain space, within which there was some prospect that it might die oat in course of time; that enlightened views might come to prevail, and that slavery might expire under the influence of truth; but the course of things has been entirely and altogether altered since slavery has taken the aggressive; since slavery in America, not content with being tolerated in the places to which it was restricted, became aggressive in the worst sense, aggressive not merely in a lawful way., through she Legislature, in procuring the passing of inch infamous acts as the Fugitive Slavs Law, but aggressive by the bowie-knife and the rifle, (cheers,) as witness a Senator shot on the floor of the Senate; aggressive, moreover, by force of arms, as witness the atrocities and illegal proceedings that have disgraced the province of Kansas. (Renewed cheers.) And, worst of all, these movements of slavery, so far from having been checked by the general Legislature of America, are getting the countenance of that
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FARMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for locking at it fully, dispassionately, and with, manly and Christian, resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Legislature, so that such enormities as those of Kansas, confessedly illegal as they are, are really supported and upheld by the whole force of the United States army. (Cheers.) Now, in these circumstances, the case has been altogether altered; and, as to any hope which might have been entertained of the evil being pent up in certain localities, and silently and gradually disappearing under the progress of enlightened views, these must be given up; for we have here a hostile power-hostile to liberty, hostile to God, and hostile to man-raising itself in increased strength, drawn forth, not from above, but from beneath, bursting the bounds within which it was hoped it had been fettered, and coming forth to pollute the free air of the North, and debauch men's minds all over America, and by sheer force of arms, and by the sheer force of importunity in the Legislature, threatening to break up the Union, and to compel the free soil of America to be stained by the curse of slavery. (Cheers.) The time has now, therefore, fully come for Christian men and Christian Churches acting upon this belief, and especially in the whole of the Northern States, and for awaking to a sense of their responsibility in connection with the exercise of their political rights.
Dr. Candlish here referred to Dr. Cheever's volume, 'God Against Slavery,' and stated that, after having read it, he found that there was no ground for the supposition that Dr. Cheever entertained ultra or extreme views on the subject of slavery, or advocated the cause in an injudicious spirit, but heartily subscribed to every sentence and word in this noble work, as he thought it was fitted to carry conviction, and ultimately to enlist the enthusiasm of every friend of the gospel, as well as of every friend of the slave. He further stated, that a considerable portion of the volume was taken up with Dr. Cheever's defence of himself against the allegation of political preaching, because he denounced slavery, pointed out the national sin of which they were guilty, and declared that it would bring down on the land that tolerated it the judgments of heaven; and showed, by an appeal to the Old Testament prophets, and especially Jeremiah, that the same charge could be brought against them as had been brought against him; for Jeremiah, in the most emphatic and indignant terms, denounced this very sin of man-stealing, man-selling, and slaveholding, on its first entrance systematically into the land of Israel, and of Judah, as filling up the cup of Judah's iniquity.
Dr. Candlish quoted from Dr. Cheever's work, in illustration of this, and also for the purpose of showing that Dr. Cheever held no extreme views in regard to the sin of slaveholding, in the sense that he would make no allowance for any circumstances that might hinder a man from getting rid of the possession of slaves, but who, at the same time, were not regarded or treated by him as such, but that his statements in this respect were singularly cautious, candid, and charitable. He also referred to the address sent by the General Assembly of the Free Church of Scotland to the Presbyterian Church of America in 1846, on the subject of slavery; the views of which, in substance, corresponded with those of Dr. Cheever;- said that the reply of the American Presbyterian Church was to the effect, that they would beg them not to trouble them any more about this matter; and, returning to Dr. Cheever's book, said be believed they had in this book a conclusive proof that no such a thing as slavery-nothing approaching to a man-stealing another, and holding him as goods and chattels-existed in the nation of Israel down to the very eve of the Babylonish captivity, when the institution of slavery filled up the measure of Judah's iniquity. For that service they owed Dr. Cheever inestimable thanks. The system that prevailed among the Jews was not a system of buying and selling men; it was a system of a man purchasing a man from himself, and for a limited time and nothing more; and there was nothing in the slightest degree analogous in it, either to man-stealing, or to man-selling, or to slaveholding, the sin with which America was chargeable at this moment; and those who were standing up to denounce this great national sin deserved the sympathy of the community of Great Britain.
Evidently matters are coming (said Dr. Candish) to a crisis in America. Talk as they may about the risk of the Union being dissolved, most plain it is that the parties of the north and the south, the free and the slave parties of America, must now either come to an understanding, or they will he met by an earthquake or volcano. I do not find that Dr Cheever advocates any very extreme views, even as regards abolition itself. The stress of his book is against the iniquity of those laws and proceedings that tend to defend and extenuate slavery. So far as I recollect, he refers to abolition much in this way-that if there were proclaimed a law that, after fifty years, there should be a jubilee, as there was in the land of Israel, great good would be done. Of course, I understand that Dr. Cheever means this, that he is clear for a law for proclaiming a jubilee at the end of fifty years, when all should go forth free; but he is for instant, immediate abolition, as much as I or any man could be who advocates immediate abolition. (Cheers.) He would instantly abolish anything like a right to sell or buy men,-anything like a right to disqualify men from entering into the domestic relations of life,-anything like a restraint upon the education of any man,-anything like interference with his civil rights, or that reduced men to mere goods and chattels. (Cheers.) All that, of course, must be instantly and immediately abolished; but what I understand him to mean is, that if this were done instantly and immediately, there would be time for such a gradual preparation as would make the ultimate establishment of equal rights for all Americans a safe and practicable thing. (Hear, hear.) I don't for my own part think, and I don't think Dr. Cheever believes, that anything of that sort is now practicable. I believe it has-as it was in the case of our own West Indian colonies-come to be a question of now or never. (Cheers.) Instant and immediate abolition will be carried, or America is gone. Events are thickening; and I believe that the event that has been announced within these few days, of the execution of John Brown, is the first blow of the axe that is to be laid to the root of the noxious tree of slavery. (Cheers.) I believe that that event-I know it, indeed, for I have evidence of it in the American newspapers-in raising men in the north, even those who were apt to be passive and quiescent, -even those who had great doubts about John Brown's proceedings,-is rousing them to a ferment of indignation; and in the very first meeting of Congress, the two parties met,-the party demanding inquiry of the north as to John Brown's expedition, met by the party demanding inquiry of the south as to the proceedings in Kansas. Let them meet, and let them fight it out! (Loud cheers.)
Of that expedition of John Brown, which ended so fatally, I am not now to speak. Let every one remember, however, that that expedition is a fruit of the atrocities of Kansas. (Cheers.) There, John Brown was exasperated, if ever man was. There, by the loss of two noble sons, and by other inflictions too much almost for humanity to bear, this man was roused-I had almost said roused perhaps to madness; but, no!-all about his proceedings bears the aspect of calm, deliberate, temperate judgment. There is no bloodthirstiness, no desire for violence. There is simply a desire to emancipate some, more or less, of his poor oppressed fellow-men. (Cheers.) In the expedition he played a high game; and he has lost and paid the forfeit in the loss of his two sons, and that of his own life. I am not here to discuss the question as to the expedition. One may ask of that terrible execution of John Brown-what less could Virginia have done-Virginia, backed as it was by the whole power of the United States? There is one thing I will state, viz., surely that man was entitled to be tried by the whole of the United States, and not by one particular province of it; it may have been law, but I speak of justice. But supposing that the State of Virginia could not do otherwise than execute John Brown, I would just say that in the same sense I would be called upon to admit of the days of old that, with the power held by Lauderdale and his crew, they could not do otherwise than execute Argyle, Guthrie, and the men who fought at the Pentlands. (Cheers.) And, then, if I am asked about the expedition, I would be very much inclined to say, that if I am to shrink from answering whether it was treason or not, whether it was defensible or not for men to rise, I must have shrunk in the days of old from the question put, under the pressure perhaps of the 'boots.' whether I condemned the rising of Bothwell Brig as rebellion and treason,- yes or nay. (Cheers.) I am very much inclined to put the two in the same category-(renewed cheers) and I would be as loath to condemn John Brown as I would be loath to condemn the rising of Bothwell Brig-(continued cheers)-and, therefore, I hold that just as the blood of those martyrs,-martyrs for Christ's Crown and <Illegible> in those days of old, kept alive the spirit of liberty, even when the days were getting darker 
<c02>
and darker, and ultimately insured the triumph of civil and religious liberty,-so it is my firm and deliberate conviction that this first shedding of blood on the scaffold by the slave power, in the person of such a man as John Brown,-a man of God, I say, Sir, for all the evidence proves him to have been so.-a man misled perhaps; but if misled, which I don't admit he was, he was misled by his compassion for poor, wretched, degraded men lying under the lash of the master-(cheers)-I say the shedding of this man's blood will rouse the spirit of liberty, and will keep it alive until slavery shall lie prostrate, as Dagon did, a stump before the ark of God, in the idol's temple. (Loud cheers.)
And now my own impression is, that in supporting Dr. Cheever, we are supporting him in doing, in a thoroughly legal way, very much what John Brown attempted to do. If John Brown had succeeded in carrying off some 300,000 or 400,000 slaves to Canada, who would not have cheered him, and called him patriot and philanthropist?-who would not have been glad to fall down at his feet, and hail him as his country's deliverer? (Loud cheers.) He did not succeed; but I will not on that account consent to his being denounced and slain as a murderer. (Loud and prolonged cheers.) Dr. Cheever is doing practically very much the same thing legally that John Brown attempted by the hand of force. Dr. Cheever is attempting, and attempting successfully, to rouse the consciences of men practically, in immediate connection with the discharge of their own duties as citizens, in relation to this enormous sin of American slavery. I trust Dr. Cheever's testimony will rally round him a noble land who will throw themselves into the same cause, and with the same cordiality and enthusiasm which he has manifested. If we had at this moment some dozen Dr. Cheevers in the Northern States of America-if we had some dozen ministers like-minded with Dr. Cheever, and working with equal energy in the cause, we might hope for a settlement of this great question without anarchy, division, or bloodshed; but, if there be not such a body of men ready to rally round him, I really fear that the sore must go on, getting more and more exasperating until nothing but the immediate interposition of God, or God leaving the nation to utter anarchy, and confusion, and bloodshed, will solve the deepening difficulty of this great question of slavery. (Cheers.)
Dr. Candlish concluded by moving a resolution to the effect that the meeting concur in a resolution adopted privately, that there was evidence enough to show that Dr. Cheever had borne testimony against the sin of slavery, which had involved him in great pecuniary difficulties; and resumed his seat amid loud cheers.
The resolution was seconded by Rev. JONATHAN WATSON, who, in complimenting the speech of Dr. CANDLISH, said-'A nobler display of British eloquence and of manly Christian sentiment than that to which they had just listened had not been heard since the days of Dr. ANDREW THOMSON.' The resolution was carried by acclamation.
Earnest and eloquent speeches were then delivered by Rev. Dr. ALEXANDER, Rev. Dr. GUTHRIE, and Rev. WILLIAM REID.

A MINISTER LYNCHED.
The Lafayette Journal gives the following account of the lynching of an Indiana preacher in Texas:-
'We have learned from a gentleman residing in the South part of this county, that Solomon McKinney, well known in that section as a Campbellite minister, has recently returned from Texas with a furlough, and a pass written on his back. The gentleman referred to is well known about Newton and Pleasant Hill, in Montgomery county, and we have heard that an actual inspection of his back in both of these places left no doubt in the minds of those who saw it, that he had received a most unmerciful flagellation.
We learn that Mr. McKinney, with his wife, and an acquaintance also with his wife, went to Texas some time since on a visit to friends residing there. It is said that the reverend gentleman while in this country entertained serious doubt as to whether black men had any souls at all, and was considered decidedly pro-slavery in his notions.
While in Texas, he was invited to preach a sermon on the duties of master and slave, which he did. He was soon after waited upon by a company of men, with the request to leave the country at once; and one of the party, by way of enforcing attention to the order, shot at him, without, however, injuring him. He commenced making immediate arrangements to leave.
That same night, however, a company of men again called on him at midnight, and under pretence of carrying him and his friend beyond the reach of a mob, which was represented as on the way to hang them, got them away some distance from the house, bound their hands, and administered to them ten lashes apiece, making about eighty lashes for each one of the prisoners. They were then released, with positive orders to leave at once, which they did. Mr. McKinney's friend is said to be a man eighty years of age, and he is probably fifty. These are the facts as currently reported in the neighborhood of Newton, Sugar Grove and Pleasant Hill, where the parties are well known, and given to us by Aaron Insley, a well-known and highly respectable farmer of that neighborhood.'

A CONSERVATIVE MINISTER DRIVEN FROM NORTH CAROLINA. The Rev. B. C. Smith, of Prattsburgh, is sojourning temporarily in the ' Old North State,' having the double object in view of benefitting his health, and laboring in his calling with such ability as is left to him. He went out under the auspices of the Southern Aid Society, after having correspondence with a prominent public functionary of North Carolina. At Washington he was warmly welcomed by Hon. John A. Gilmer, of that State, and furnished with kindly passports to the confidence of that gentleman's family and friends. He carries with him the earnest hopes of troops of friends that the mild Southern skies may be beneficial to him, and that there, as here, he may have strength to proclaim those essential doctrines of Christianity which be so well understands, and which alone constitute ' the glorious Gospel of the blessed God.'
We copy the above from the last Advocate- Before its publication, the Rev. B. C. Smith had returned from the ' Old North State,' without 'having proclaimed' to its citizens ' those essential doctrines of Christianity which he so well understands,' and without having materially benefitted his health. Notwithstanding he went thither under the auspices of the Southern Aid Society, and with ' passports' from Hon. John A. Gilmer, the fact that he had breathed the air of freedom was an insuperable objection, and he was not allowed to enter a pulpit. Learning that a Methodist brother was in 'durance vile' across the way, on suspicion of entertaining anti-slavery sentiments, the Rev. B. C. Smith bade adieu to adieu to 'mild Southern skies,' and returned to his Northern home. Mr. Smith was regarded here by a portion of his congregation as 'pro-slavery,' and would have been the last man in the world to give offence to the advocates of the peculiar institution, but he has returned the victim of, if not a firm believer in the 'irrepressible conflict.'-Northern Christian Advocate.

The Liberator.
BOSTON, FEBRUARY 10, 1860.
THE TWENTY-SIXTH NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY
SUBSCRIPTION-ANNIVERSARY.
1860.
This annual reception of the friends of freedom, by the Anti-Slavery families in and around Boston, was never before so strengthening and effectual in the service of the Cause.
At a moment of sharp revolutionary crisis, before the intellect has had opportunity to change the course, or sentiments and principles have had time to bring forth fruit from the hearts they have won while effectually repelling the hearts they could not save,-at such an hour an increase in funds and numbers is a sure criterion of success. We salute our absent associates,-'Saints that be in Rome,' and elsewhere the world over,-with our congratulations; for this evidence of its progress our Cause has just had: this guarantee of its rapid advance, during the coming season, its servants have just received. We welcomed to its duties and its joys a far larger num-
<c03>
ber of persons than in any former year. They came to give, and not to receive; and their gifts, the aggregate, including the European subscriptions, amount on this occasion to $6,000.
We entreat every one of these treasured names, In both hemispheres, to receive the renewed assurance of our gratitude, for the sake of that great sacred Cause in which all futurity is bound up: and while receiving the smallest offering, we have gratefully remembered how much easier it may often be for an American to risk his life for a great object, than to make to it the sacrifice of his means of living.
We see in these gifts, not in every instance, the measure of the giver's devotedness, but the assurance of their sympathy, and the token of their desire that slavery should exist no longer. For none of these names are wrung from their reluctant owners,- like so many of those that were lately dragged to Faneuil Hall in the name of Union, by a few selfish-advocates of the barbarous custom that dissolves every human tie. They have all offered willingly;-some all that they have, even their living,-some the little emblematical gift, which tells that they have before devoted all, as those who have learned what life is for, and are using it accordingly.
Our thanks are unitedly tendered to all who so kindly aided our preparations to convert the Music Hall into a saloon of reception for the occasion, and helped us to decorate it in a manner befitting the object, with the busts and pictures that consecrate our homes, and make the friends of freedom of both races, both hemispheres, and North and South alike, a kindred band.
A file of letters of great interest, from all parts of the world, remain to be answered. They have all been profitable to us, whether by suggestion, approbation, reproof, or sympathetic encouragement, and the respected writers shall receive, in due season, the fuller private expression of our gratitude. Of these most gratifying letters, three demand a special reference, as illustrative, in contradiction of the Times newspaper, of the temper of Great Britain towards our enterprise. One from a leading mind in London, thoroughly conversant with the popular mind through the realm, reads thus: 'The name of John Brown is known and revered throughout England, even in the kitchens and cottages. Our servants read all that has appeared about him with an avidity, and sympathy, and admiration of his character, which I could not describe, while the cheap publications have borne the facts of the affair into the humblest peasants' cottages in all parts of the kingdom.'
The second letter, from one whose rank qualifies for observation from the highest social and political point of view, says: 'As to the feeling in England, you cannot doubt it is entirely with you.'
The third letter is from a friend of leading influence in Ireland, and whose study of twenty years it has been to understand the Anti-Slavery movement in the United States, that he might be qualified for that co-operation with it which every good and great mind throughout the world denies. He warmly approves of the stringent principles and the peaceful measures of the beneficent undertaking which he has observed and aided so long, and calls upon every Irishman in America to be faithful to it, in the name of his country and his religion. This letter will appear hereafter.
All our English correspondence shows that the Daily News and the Morning Advertiser are the organs of English public sentiment-not the Times.
Many friends, whom we especially remember, we regretted to have been unable especially to invite, for want of their respective addresses; and we learn with disappointment that a package of notes sent to friends in the State of New York, was lost on the way. This we mention, that they may know we did not fail to remember them.
The conversations during the evening were of surpassing interest, covering the whole ground of the Cause in all Its history, purposes, collateral bearings and tendencies. The occasion was too nearly a private one to permit us to reproduce them, but our friends who make the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY STANDARD their organ of communication will not fail hereafter to treat appropriately in its columns of all the great themes then suggested. We emphatically commend that paper, with the LIBERATOR, to all who wish to understand their own time as a whole, and to co-operate for the best employment of it.
The anxious tone in which we are continually asked by persons not their own men, but under the dominion of some interest vested in slavery- 'What do you do with this money?'-proves to us that, as business people, they are fully aware of the vast amount of moral, ecclesiastical, political and social influence for Abolition that lies in a few thousand dollars a year, well expended.
We shall not enter into a mere partisan canvas- that surface work so exhausting to free-soil-that most delusive form of 'gradualism'-that systematic adjournment of our action. We shall neither organize Anti-Slavery churches, nor found colored schools and hospitals, nor redeem single slaves, nor run them off in bodies. These things,-in our early time the refuges of hostile hypocrisy, or the excuses of compassion unequal to the highest occasion,-will more and more spring up hereafter in the Anti-Slavery future as the natural harvest of cur tillage. We have, as the advance of a national movement, a mightier work to do. We have, as heretofore, to press, beam-deep, this plough that must run straight through the field of the world, in conformity with its real great interests, over the ruins of its fictitious little ones,-our own among the first: and we are able to assure those trembling on the brink of anticipated sacrifice, that neither the first nor any other step in this direction costs, in comparison with the shameful cost of not taking it.
Wherever we find a neighborhood in ignorance, a church filled with obdurate hearts, ministers trembling in the presence of the pew-trade, merchants bowing down respectfully to the slave-trade, Republicans standing by slave-hunting, gentlemen and ladies, unaware of their responsibilities, as such, to the great cause of Liberty, we send to them the living voice and the printed page that are sure to be reproduced in Congresses and conventions in due season. We shall take the initiative in the elevation of the public mind, knowing that, otherwise, every word or deed will fall fruitless upon it.
There were noble works of Literature wrought for our Cause before our beloved HARRIET BRECHER STOWE: there was a saint and hero martyred for it before our venerated friend JOHN BROWN. But it is ever only a man silently put to death and a book unread, till at least one generation has spent itself in the toil of preparing the public conscience. Next year, the wheels of the American Congress, which have never moved but to bear down the principles of Liberty, and torture the enslaved and their advocates, will be held back longer than eight weeks from their customary crushing. The choice will hereafter be between the formal dissolution of a Union which has long had no existence but for evil, or the inauguration, by constitutional amendment, of true union, which only can become practicable when the dissolvent is east out.
We now see our heart's desire, touching slavery, in process of fulfilment; and we affectionately remind all who are not
'Unworthy of the Grand Adversity,'
that the greater the number that apply their strength at the precise point of public instruction and influence, where ours is expended, for the peaceful, immediate, unconditional abolition of slavery itself, the sooner will it be trodden out by the majestic advance of the world.
If ever our country become a battle-field, and the slaveholders and non-slaveholders two camps, (which, in this dawning of the twentieth century, we do no
<c04>
apprehend-being guaranteed against it by the worst and the best traits of our people's character,) it will be because men of leading positions and sufficient cultivation are too ignobly slow of heart to act seasonably in this all-comprehending Cause. It is to kindle among them, and all those they influence, the sacred fire of Truth, and Love, and Liberty, that we spend and are spent-not without success.
The following lines, sung by a volunteer choir of friends, were written for the occasion by Mrs. LYDIA MARIA CHILD. [See last week's Liberator.]
The friends, to whom we owed that music obliged us in no ordinary degree; for they fulfilled the last request of one whose name-the most tenderly be loved and widely honored of all-will appear with ours, in this behalf, no more.
This brief record of a festival, saddened by her death, is not the place to praise or mourn ELIEZA LEE FOLLEN; but never has one so peculiarly reverenced and cherished been borne from among us to the grave. Her eulogy was fitly spoken by WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON to the hearts of the great sorrowing audience, gathered to our Cause from the whole land, at the Tremont Temple: 'She did not need to be translated to become an angel-she was one here on earth.'
May this annually recurring festival of the heart, which, among a thousand other Anti-Slavery labors, she did so much to initiate, continue in its measure to sustain the Cause worthily! 
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN.
We entreat our friends to be so kind as to inform us of any mistakes or omissions in the following list, that we may make every exertion to rectify it:
SUBSCRIPTION LIST
Of the twenty-sixth National Anti-Slavery Anniversary, held at Boston, January 25th, 1860.
Mrs. Follen, $
Mrs. May, 20 00
Mrs. Chapman, 200 00
'A friend.' 10000
Mrs. G. R. Russell, 200 00
Mrs. Greene, 200 00
Mrs. James M. Robbins, 25 00
Mrs. Helen E. Garrison, 5 00
Mrs. Convers Francis, 5 00
Mrs. Samuel May, Jr., 5 00
Mrs. Von Arnim, 5 00
Mrs. Child, 5 00
Miss Chapman, 50 00
Miss Henrietta Sargent, 20 00
Miss Anne Warren Weston, 25 00
Mrs. Eddy, 15 00
Mrs. Smith, 3 00
Mrs. E. G. Loring, 40 00
Miss Griffith and friends, 125 00
Mrs. Stearns, 50 00
Mrs. Atkinson, 5 00
Andrew Robeson, Esq., New Bedford, 50 00
Samuel May, Esq., 20 00
Mrs. Elizabeth Bartol, 5 00
Rev. Samuel May, 20 00
Miss Abby W. May, 5 00
F. W. G. May, Esq., 10 00
Mrs. Martha R. May, 10 00
Mrs. Mary G. White, 3 00
A young friend in Ireland, (by Rev. S. May,) 1 56
John J. May, Esq., Dorchester, 20 00
Mrs. Elizabeth Porter, 5 00
Miss Helen Porter, 5 00
A lady, of Blackstone, 5 00
Misses Lucy and Sarah Chase, 3 00
Henry G. Denny, Esq., 10 00
Mrs. B. S. Denny, 25 00
Miss H. L. Brown, 2 00
E. S. Wells, 2 00
Misses McFarland, 40 00
Dr. and Mrs. Wm. Symington Brown, 5 00
T. W. Ripley. 2 50
William H. Humphrey, Esq. 1 00
Mrs. and Miss Humphrey, 2 00
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Albee, 5 00
J. C. Lindsley, Esq., Dorchester, 20 00
William Pope, Esq. 5 00
Miss Sylvester, 1 00
A. H. Sumner, 2 00
Rev. Nathaniel Hall, 3 00
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R. Sewall, 10 00
A. K. F. 50
'A friend,' 50
John Wright, 50
William Proctor, Esq 3 00
Mr. and Mrs. James Walker, 5 00
'A friend of immediate emancipation,' 1 00
Mr. Joseph Merrill, 1 00
Mr. and Mrs. A. Bicknell, 3 00
'A friend,' 50
John R. Manley, Esq. 20 00
Nathan Winslow, Esq., Portland, 30 00
Rev. Alfred P. Putnam, Roxbury, 3 00
Cash, 50
Charles Aplin, Providence, R. I. 5 00
Luther Melendy, Amherst, N. H. 2 50
Josiah Henshaw, for friends in W.Brookfield, 12 00
A. Parmenter, Newport, R. I. 5 00
Samuel L. Hill, Florence, 25 00
Alexander Foster, Boston, 25 00
Mrs. Alexander Foster, "5 00
<Illegible> Wright. Georgetown, 1 00
Dr. Jesse Merrill, Hopkinton, 5 00
Mr. and Mrs. David Joy, 25 00
Nathaniel Barney. Esq. 20 00
Mrs. Asa French, Braintree, 10 00
Mrs. M. L. Briggs, Braintree,2 00
Oliver Johnson, Esq. N. Y. 2 00
Abraham Brooke, Esq., Ohio, 1 00
A.G. Nye, Esq., Weymouth, 2 00
Mrs. Nathan Brooks, Concord, 10 00
Mrs. and Miss Thoreau, 5 00
Hon. John G. Palfrey, 5 00
John Jay, Esq., N. Y. 25 00
H. R. Helper, Esq., North Carolina, 10 00
Edmund Quincy, Esq. 25 00
Mrs. Daniel P. Parker, 5 00
Rev. R. C. Waterston, 5 00
Mrs. Waterston, 5 00
Mrs. Henry Bradish, Upton, 5 00
Mr. and Mrs. Lewis McLauthlin, 2 00
Mr. and Mrs. William Whiting, 10 00
Mr. and Mrs. Elias Richards, 5 00
Misses Charlotte and Elizabeth Bradford, 10 00
T. M. Newbold, Esq., N. Y. 1 00
Rev. J. V. Himes, 2 00
Mr. and Mrs. E. D. Draper, 100 00
Mr. and Mrs. William I. Bowditch, 50 00
Mr. and Mrs. Warren A. Dutcher, 100 00
Richard Clap, Esq., Dorchester, 10 00
Charles Hadwin, Esq. 1 00
Miss Elizabeth Hoar, Concord, 5 00
Rev. S. J. May, Syracuse, N. Y. 10 00
'A friend' of Mrs. Robbins, 3 00
Mrs. S. R. Putnam, 10 00
Miss Soley, 2 50
Catherine A. F. Stebbins and friends, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 2 00
Elisha Clap, Esq. 5 00
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Clap, 5 00
Frederic Weiss, Esq. 2 00
Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Bancroft, 20 00
Mrs. Anna Castell, 10 00
Isaac Osgood, Esq. 2 00
William Ashby, Esq. 5 00
Mrs. Elijah Pierce, 1 00
James Hall, Esq., Boston, 1 00
Thomas Sherwin, Esq. 5 00
J. Buffum, Esq., Lynn, 5 00
The Misses Andrews, Mewburyport, 5 00
Charles K. Whipple, Esq. 3 00
Miss Julia Ireson, 3 00
Miss H. I. Ireson, 3 00
Miss H. M. Ireson. 2 00
P. Shaw, Esq., Abington, 15 00
Mrs. Hathaway, Duxbury, 1 00
Mrs. Sylvanus Smith, 2 00
Samuel Barrett, Esq., Concord, 10 00
Mr. and Mrs. Joel W. Lewis, 1 00
S. Urbino, Esq. 3 00
Mrs. R. P. Clarke, 3 00
Messrs. Thayer & Eldridge, 25 00
Mrs. E. Wilson, Lynn, 1 00
M. L. Richmond, 1 00
S. Newell, 1 00
 B. Blackmer, 1 00
Mrs. C. T. Jackson, 1 00
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Waldo Emerson, 15 00
N. White, Concord, N. H. 5 00
J. B. Pierce, Esq. 2 00
Mr. and Mrs. S. Goss, 5 00
'A friend,' 2 00
A. Ward, 1 00
J. W. Le Barron, 5 00
'Three friends.' 1 50
Dr. Henry I. Bowditch, 20 00
J. Winslow, Esq., Lynn, 2 00
Samuel E. Sewall, Esq. 5 00
E. G. Dudley Esq 5 00
Jacob Leonard, Esq., East Bridgewater, 5 00
Mrs. R. A. Fisk 1 00
Miss E. Cushing, Hingham, 5 00
A friend 1 00
<c05>
Mrs. T.S. Drowne, 5 00
'A friend,' 1 00
William Johnson, Esq. 1 00
'A friend' 25 00
Henry G. 5 00 Prentiss, Esq, 5 00
'Two ladies 4 00
Manchester Anti-Slavery Soc., by Mrs. Elwell, 18 75
Mr. Dyer, Worcester, 5 00
M. I. C. Nichols, 5 00
Miss N. B.Wilson, 1 00
'A friend', 3 00
C. T. Canfield, Walpole, N. H. 1 00
'A friend,' 2 00
Otis Shepard, Esq., Dorchester, 3 00
Mary L. Willard, Boston, 2 00
Mrs. L. DolfortieDeMortie Oliver " 1 00
Miss Louisa Jacobs " 2 00
J. J. Smith, Esq. 1 00
'A friend,' 1 00
Rev. James Freeman Clarke and 10 00
Mrs. Anna Huidekoper Clarke, }
'A friend,' 1 00
Mr. and Mrs. John Jones, Roxbury, 5 00
'Cash,' 1 00
A. J. Morton, Plymouth, 2 00
Mrs. R.C. Waterston, 5 00
C. F. Fits, 1 00
Elishs L. Hammond, Northampton, 5 00
Edwin Thompson, Esq., East Walpole, 2 00
Mrs. Bliss, Boston, 10 00
R. R. Crosby, 1 00
Mrs. John Forbes, Milton, 45 00
Miss Julia Scott, 25
J. L. Prince 25
Eben. Turk, Boston 2 00
W. A. Crafts, Milan, N.H 50
Wm. Fiske, Esq., Taunton, 4 00
Mrs. L. B. Merriam, 10 00
WARREN, Mass., by Mrs. Blair:
N. Richardson 3 00
John. H. Powers 2 00
Dr. C. Cutter, 2 00
J. B. Lombard, 2 00
S. B. Richardson, 100
Elizabeth S. Combes 1 00
M. A. B. Blair 1 00
FRIENDS, by Miss Tufts: 
Mrs. J. P. Blanchard, 1 00
Miss A. W. Cotton 100
J. B. Smith, 2 00
J. P. Coburn, 2 00
Coffin Pitts, 50
S. D. Revallion,. 50
LEOMINSTER, Mass., by Rev. Stephen Barker;
Isaac Smith, 1 50
Mary B. Smith, 50
Charlotte H. Smith, 50
Henry R. Smith, 50
Mrs. Almira Locke,50
Mrs. Blanchard, 25
Joseph Collins, 50
Charles O. Nichols, 25
Jonas Colburn, 50
Joseph Colburn, 25
Charles May, 17
Bartemas Carter, 23
Charles L. Joslin, 50
Calvin B. Cook, 50
Mrs. E. H. Blodgett, 25
Mrs. Lydia L. Walker, 3 00
Rev. Stephen Barker, 2 00
Mrs. E. R. Knapp, 50
Dr.C. C. Field, 100
Solon Carter, 1 00
John Snow, 25
Sumner L. Carter, 50
Timothy Lincoln, 50
Edward Wilder, 1 00
Albert Crane, 100
Isaac Cowdrey, 50
William S. Hale, 50
Joel Smith, 2 00
David Howe,. Jr.1 00
Asa I. Newhall, 1 00
Mrs. J. W. Fletcher, 1 00
James H. Carter, 84
Friends, 76
Hon. James M. Robbins, 25 00
Portsmouth friends, by Mrs. Hatch, 10 00
James Savage, Esq., Boston, 8 00
Miss Quincy, 10 00
William Foster, Esq. 10 00
N. Bent, 5 00
Mrs. E. G. Tucker, 5 00
 Samuel Hall, Jr., Esq. 10 00
Three friends, 2 00
Miss Catherine Robbins, 2 00
Hon,. W. Hotchkiss, 2 00
Mr. Clifton, 1 00
George S. Winslow, Esq., 25 00
J. B. Smith, 1 00
P. Brigham, 1 00
Mrs. Jacobs, 1 00
Wendell P. Garrison, Boston, 5 00
John Ritchie. 2d, 5 00
Mrs. M. E.Whitcomb, Brooklyn Conn., 2 50
Mr. Bradford. 1 00
Edward Pierce, Esq., Milton, 1 00
 H. L. Pierce, 2 00
E. P McElroy, 1 00
Two friends, 2 00
William Lloyd Garrison, 5 00
Mrs. Ebenezer Smith, 1 00
Ellen W. Easte. 50
Mary M. Hunt and N. Sedgwick, 2 50
Sarah M. Hunt, 3 00
Mrs. Charlee F. Hovey, 10 00
 Miss S. Foord. 1 00
 Mrs. L. A. Reed, 5 00
Mrs. Lydia Spooner, 2 00
Miss Fanny Garrison, 1 00
Master Frank J. Garrison, 1 00
J. G. Dodge, Esq., 5 00
T. B. Drew, 3 00
PORTLAND, Me., Friends, by Rev. Frederick
Frothingham, 40 00
Russell Marston, Esq., 5 00
Mrs. William Ashby, Newburyport, 2 00
A. B. Peck, 1 00
Henry B. Learned, 2 00
Isaac H. Marshall, 1 00
Marie S. Page, 1 00
Eunice G. Page, 1 00
S. H. Young, 2 00
S. W. Magill, 5 00
Joseph Cotton, Esq., 10 00
T. F. Von Arnim, 5 00
Mrs. Sumner, 1 00
Deborah Kimball, 2 00
Mrs. Julia Meloon, 5 00
" H. B.Emerson, 2 00
A Little Friend, 25
Mrs. Hughes, 1 00
A Friend, 25
Mary Wiggin, 2 00
Mr. and Mrs. G. M. Rogers, 5 00
Mr. and Mrs. Ober, Boston, 20 00
Maria A. Sawin, 1 00
H. L. Young, 1 00
Mrs. M. R. Marcy, 1 00
George T. Garrison, 5 00
S. H. Simpson, 2 00
Miss Johnson, 0 25
LYNN, Mass.
P. A. Chase, Esq., 5 00
Wm. A. Brown, 5 00
S. N. Breed, Esq, 1 00
Harrison Newhall, Esq. 3 00
S. P. Richardson, Esq, 1 00
Warren New hall, Esq, 3 00
Rachel Smith, 5 00
S. O Breed, 1 00
William Bassett, Esq., 2 00
William Bassett, Jr., 2 00
'Three friends,' 6 00
J. E. Oliver, 2 00
Joshua Patch, 2 00
'A friend,' 1 00
L. N. Hallowell, 1 00
'A friend,' 1 00
Mrs. Lydia H. Chase, 5 00
George Ross, 1 00
Mr. and Mrs. Alvan Howes, Yarmouth, 15 00
Mrs. Thomas Starr King, Boston, 10 00
Lydia O Le Favor, 1 00
'Wm. Ives, 2 00 
'S. E. Lane, 2 00
Miss Mary J. Parkman, 10 00
Mrs. N. White, 5 00
'Morrill, 2 00
Mr. and Mrs. David Mack, 2 00
'Joshua Putnam, 5 00
J. L. Whiting, 3 00
Mrs. Foss, 1 00
Charles A. Faber, Esq., Lynn, 2 00
MissNowell, Cambridgeport, 3 00
Misses Frances and Eliza Haskell, Chelses, 2 00
Mr. Williams, 1 50
Mrs. Richard Hallowell, Medford, 3 00
'A Friend,' 3 00
Paul D. Wallis, 2 00
Perley King, Esq., Danvers, 20 00
Mrs. E. Stebbins, 5 00
S. B. Stebbins. 5 00
Mrs. Sibley, Chelses, 5 00
'A Friend,'2 3 00
C. Wellington, 5 00
Miss Julia A. Robbins, East Lexington, 100
H. S. Shepard, 100
Mrs. Louisa Willis, 5 00
Mr. and Mrs. B. F. Danforth, 10 00
Mrs. Fitz, Brookline, 100
<c06>
A friend 32
Miss Anna Legun, 1 00
J. H. Stephenson Esq., West Newton, 10 05
Mrs. Luefnds Smith Otis, 20 00
Mrs. James Newell, Cambridgeport, 10 00
A friend, 50
Mrs. Sparrell, Boston, 1 00
Wm. L. Garrison, Jr., 5 00
Mrs Henry Curtis, 4 00
James N. Buffum, Esq., Lynn, 20 00
Wm. Sparrell, 5 00
Mrs. Chamberlain, 1 00
J. B. Swarey, Boston, 3 00
Chas. L. Mitchell, 1 00
Issac Orr Guild, 1 00
M. S. Morse, 1 00
Richord Plummer, Newburyport, 2 00
Wm. Wally, 1 00
Elizabeth Docton, 3 00
Mrs. M.J. Silloway, 5 00
A. H. Silloway, 1 00
Mr. Russell, 5 00
Cash, 3 00
H. B. Draper, 2 00
Martin Rogers, 1 00
Athinson Stanwood, Esq., Newburyport, 3 00
Mrs. Robie, 15 00
A Friend, 25
W. S. Cobb, 1 00
George T. Goldthwait, 1 00
W. Bruce, 25
Mr. and Mrs. Thaxter, Hingham 5 00
A. Worcester Friend, 2 50
Mr. Jenkins, 5 00
Mrs. M. S. Jenkins, 5 00
Bourne Spooner, Esq., Plymouth, 5 00
A friend in Salem, 10 00
A friend In Worcestor, 10 00
Edgar Ketchum., Esq., N.Y., 10 00
Francis Jackson, Esq., 50 00
Mrs. A. Mann, N.Y., 5 00
Lauren Wetmore, Esq., (by F.J.) 20 00
Miss Lucy Oagood, 10 00
Mrs. Waterston, 5 00
Mrs. John Pierpont, 5 00
Mr. and Mrs. James S. Draper, Wayland, 6 00
Miss M.C. Shannan, 2 00
Josiah Hayward, Esq., 2 00
Josish Hayward, Jr., 2 00
Edward B. Perkins, Esq., 5 00
Elizabeth P. Perkins, 1 00
Two friends, 2 00
Mrs. Jewett, 2 00
E. S. Remond, 2 00
Thomas B. Rice, 1 00
Daniel S. Whitney, 2 00
H. & P.C. Whitney, 1 00
Mary Robinson 1 00
B. Schlesinger, Esq., 75
T. W. Hartshorn, 5 00
John C. Haynes, 1 00
Rev. A. T. Foss, 10 00
John Oliver, 1 00
Eugene Hutchinson, 1 00
Mr. and Mrs. Ezekiel Thatcher, 1 00
A. Huidekoper, Esq., 5 00
Richard Tyner, 25 00
Louisa I. Thompson, 1 00
Mrs. R. B. Andrews, Salem, 5 00
E. Mundrucu, Esq., 2 00
Miss Scudder, 3 00
Mrs. Littlehale, 6 00
Mrs. S. W. Cheney, 3 00
Mrs. Elizabeth Hall, 75
Charles E. Hodges, Esq., 5 00
J. B. Yerrinton, 2 00
Mrs. William G. Weld, 10 00
Mrs. Mary B. Merriam, 8 00
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Carter, 10 00
Miss Sarah M. Babcock 5 00
Mrs. R. W. Dresser, 1 00
EUROPEAN SUBSCRIPTIONS.
Thomas and Esther Sturge, Northfleet,
near Gravesend, Eng., $200 0 0
Robert Topp, Esq., Farworth, near Bol-
ton, by Mrs. H. Payne, 5 0 0
Mrs. Reid and Miss Sturch, London, 15 0 0
Mrs. Henry Turner, Nottingham, 2 2 0
Mrs. Harriet Martineao, The Knoll,
Ambleside, 5 0 0
Mrs. George Martineau, 2 2 0
Mrs. Michell, Bridgewater, 5 0 0
PERTH Ladies' Anti-Slavery Society, by
Mrs. D. Morton, 13 10 0
BOLTON, Lancashire.
By Mrs. H. Payne, 22 0 0
From Miss Howarth, 1 0 0
Martha Bradshaw, 0 9 0
Robert Topp, Falmouth, 5 0 0
Sarah Remond's lecture, 2 15 0
William Makant, 1 0 0
R. Knowles, 0 10 0
Mrs. C. Heaton, 0 10 0
Miss Rothwell, 0 5 0
Sophia Satterthwaite, 0 5 0
Mrs. Jabez Johnson, 0 10 0
Mrs. Mascross, 0 5 0
Mrs. Deane, 0 5 0
Mrs. Wood, 0 5 0
Mrs. Orton, 0 5 0
Mrs. H. Cool, 0 5 0
Mrs. John Hodgkinson, 0 10 0
Mrs. James Cook, Chamber-Hall, 0 10 0
Mrs. J. Knowles, 0 10 0
Mrs. George Knowles, 0 10 0
Constantine Brothers, 0 5 0
Mrs. Heywood, 0 10 0
David Crossley, 0 7 0
Miss Crossley, 0 5 0
Mrs. Lord, 0 10 0
Mr. Peterson, 0 10 0
Peter Martin, 0 10 0
Samuel Hodgkinsun, 0 10 0
'A friend,' 0 10 0
William Slave, 0 20 0
Henry & Shaw, 0 10 0
Mr. Richardson, 0 5 0
Smaller subscriptions, 1 17 0
Deducted in Bolton for expenses, 1 14 0
MANCHESTER, Eng.
By Miss Whitlegge, 15 0 0
EDINBURGH, Scotland.
By Mrs. Wigham, [including subscriptions from friends in ULVERSTONE, by Ann T. Jackson, $3 5 6-in PRESTON, by Elizabeth abbatt, 6 0 0-in LEIGH, by Elizabeth Fletcher, 6 10 0-and of Jasinglis, DUMFERMLINE, 1 10 0] 52 10 0
WARRINGTON, Lancashire.
By William Robson. Esq., (including First contribution,) 35 0 0
John Mawson, Newcastle-on-Tyne, 5 0 0
HALIFAX, Eng.
By Mrs. Joseph Thorpe, through Mr. Lupton, 22 12 0
LEEDS, Eng.
By J. Lupton, Esq., including $5 from Young Men's LEEDS A. S. Society, 27 7 0
DUBLIN, Ireland.
By Mrs. Edmundson, #30 0 0-as follows:
Isabella Shaw and Miss Naish, 0 05 0
William Malone, 0 10 0
Joseph Gray, 0 05 0
C. Panter, 0 02 0
Ellen and Charlotte Allen, 0 10 0
Work sold, 0 12 0
Louisa Phelps, 2 05 0
Mary Edmundson, 5 0 0
Henry Wigham, 2 10 0
J. R. Wigham, 2 10 0
Ladies' Anti-Slavery Society, 3 16 0
Form Margaret Barrington, 1 0 0
Collected by Miss Moses, 1 10 0
Collected by Miss Litton, 1 5 5
Collected by Charlotte Fisher, 1 2 0
From S. Pim, 0 5 0
DUBLIN.
By Miss Haughton, 3 15 0
From James Haughton, Esq., 3 00 0
Mrs. Alfred Haughton, 1 00 0
Samuel Haughton, Esq., 1 00 0
Mrs. W. Neilson Hansock, 0 05 0
The Misses Haughton, 0 15 0
Miss Kennedy, 0 05 0
James Haughton, Jr., Esq., 0 05 0
John B. Richardson, Esq., 1 00 0
Mrs. Hutton, 0 05 0
By R. D. Webb, Esq.
Mrs. Hutton, Edenfield, 1 00 0
Alfred Webb, 1 00 0
Mrs. Richard Allen, 6 00 0
Richard D. Webb, 10 0 0
WATERFORD, by R. D. Webb, Esq.
Mrs. Maria Palmer, 10 00 0
Elizabeth Harvey, 1 00 0
T. S. Harvey, 0 10 0
P. N. Harvey, 0 10 0
A friend, 1 00 0
Ann and Isabella Harvey, 0 07 0
Collected by Margaret White, 1 03 0
GLASGOW.
By Andrew Paton, Esq. 35 00 0
BRISTOL, ENG.
By Mrs. Stephens and Miss Estlin, 40 2 0
PARIS.
Madame Msynisu, by Madame Laugal, 40 france.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
CONTRIBUTIONS IN AID OF THE FAMILY OF CAPT. JOHN BROWN.
Among the various contributions to the fund in aid of the windows and orphans of John Brown and his sons, we think that none can be more grateful and touching to the hearts of the hearts of the afficted ones than those which have been gathered among the colored people. We have especially desired to publish the following letters, which we are sure will be read by all with interest;-
ERMIRA, (N.Y.) Dec. 1, 1859.

WENDELLL PHILLIPS. Boston, Mass.:
DEAR SIR-We send to your care with this letter, thirty dollars-the net proceeds of a festivals which we have conducted for the benefit of John Brown's family.
Very few men are willing to die for the oppressed people to whom we belong. John Brown is willing; and when he dies, he helps us more than he could by living. If for our sake his family must lose a husband and father, we cannot help doing our little share in caring for them.
Please to let us know that you have received our gift. Join it to other gifts of richer people than we; and let us enjoy the thought that we have helped the widow and the children of a noble martyr.
In behalf of our Society.
Mrs. CAROLINE FREEMAN, President.
"MARY HILL, Vice President.
"CHARLOTTE JAMES, Moderator.
Mrs. LOUISA GILBERT, Sec'y
"ESTHER WASHINGTON, Ass. Sec'y

WENDILL PHILLIPS, Esq.
DEAR FRIEND-I have been requested, by a few colored friends of Boston, to transmit to the family of the late Capt. John Brown, the sum of fifty-nine dollars, as a token of their love for the great hero of Harper's Ferry, who gave his life for the cause of the slave. I think you a proper medium through which the money should be transmitted.
Yours, in behalf of the slaves, J.B.SMITH.
Boston, Dec.29, 1859.
COLUMBUS, (Ohio) Dec.31, 1859.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq.: DEAR SIR-Here are sixteen dollars, contributed by the colored people of this city, for the benefit of John Brown's afficted family, on the day of the execution of that glorious old martyr, at a meeting held to offer up prayers and supplications to the Almighty in his behalf.
We would have sent this directly to Mrs. Brown, but have not been able to learn enough about her locality to do so. From allusions made by yourself to this matter, in some of your speeches, we have taken the liberty to ask that you would do us the favor to forward this to the widow Brown, and thus add another to the already numerous obligations we are under to you, for your labors in behalf of our oppressed and unhappy people.
Affectionately yours, on behalf of the colored people of Columbus,
JAMES POINDEXTER.

JOHN BROWN IN KANSAS.
MR.EDITOR-Allow me, through your columns, to do justice to the noble deed-since so much is said of John Brown and his deeds.
It will be remembered by many in this city, that, on the 14th of April, 1856, I left this place for the Territory of Kansas, in company with another person of this place. We arrived, about the 1st of May, in Osawatomie, where we intended to locate. Being extreme in my opinions on the subjects of Slavery and Temperance, I soon found the men of my opinions there; among them was that good old man, John Brown. I soon learned his feelings, sentiments, and something of his plans; the more readily, as I acquiesced in them.
I also learned to love him for his firmness and decision, for he steadily adhered to what he believed was right.
As to the killing of Wilkinson, Sherman, and the Doyles, at Pottawatomie, his hand did not do the deed. That hand, I have good reason to believe, came from Texas, and went to Texas.
These men had committed many and frequent acts of aggression against their neighbors who held opposite opinions, and they harbored those who nightly robbed them, and, at last, threatened to hand free State traders for supplies with powder; and it was this that brought vengeance upon them. They had a fair trial, and received a merited punishment.
WM.B.WARNER. 27 Pitt street, Boston, Mass.

EXPLANATORY LETTER.
WORCESTER, Jan. 28, 1860. MR.EDITOR-In your paper of Jan.20th, I notice my name is mentioned in connection with a meeting held in this city to discuss the following question, proposed, I believe, by Stephen S. Foster:-'Ought the Constitution of the United States to be so interpreted as to vest, in Congress the power of abolishing slavery in the Slave States?' I merely took the ground that it should not, and stated my reasons for so doing. I stated distinctly, that I believed slavery wrong-that I wished it could be abolished-but that the method proposed by Mr. Foster for abolishing it seemed to me not the right one. As to the’ castigation' I received at the hands of Mrs. Foster, I have nothing to say, only that there were a variety of opinions among those present in the hall as to who did really receive the’ castigation.' as your friend terms it.
You will oblige me by inserting this in your paper, as it is a correct account of what part I took on the occasion alluded to.
Yours, truly, GEO.A.SHERIDAN.
NO MORE SLAVE-HUNTING IN MASSACHUSETTS. On Wednesday forenoon, the petitioners to the Legislature for the abolition of slave-hunting in this State were ably represented before the Joint Committee, in the Hall of the House of Representative, by Rev. Charles Beecher, of Georgetown, Rev. J. Sella Martin and Rev. Dr. Murdock, of this city. A highly respectable audience was present, and a strong impression was made. Another hearing will be had before the Committee on Monday forenoon at 10 o'clock, in the same Hall, when Wendell Phillips, Francis W. Bird, and others, are expected to express their convictions of the duty of the Commonwealth. 
Among the bills introduced into the N. Y. House of Assembly, a few days ago, is the Personal Liberty Bill of Mr. Powell. IT is brief, and provides, first, that every person who shall come into, or be brought into, or be in that State, shall be free; second, that any person who captures, under any pretence whatever, or holds a person as a fugitive slave in that State, shall be guilty of felony, and be punished by imprisonment in the State's prison; and by a fine of $1000, to go to the parry aggrieved.
NOTICE, Owing to the pressure on our columns, the Treasurer's Annual Report, and the Finance Committee's acknowledgements of Collections at the later annual meeting, are necessarily deferred. They will appear next week.
ERRATOM. In the Report of the Annual Meeting, in last week's paper, the names of the Treasurer and Auditor become transferred by an error of the printer. It should have read EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer, and 
WILLIAM I.BOWDITCH, Auditor.
Dr. Susan R. Capon, whose card may be found in another column, is a physician of great experience in her speciality; and thoroughly qualified to treat the most difficult Obstetrical cases. She is a regular graduate of the Female Medical College-W.S.R.
<c02>
LETTER FROM JOHN MAWSON, ESQ. BENSHAN, Geteshead, Eng., Jan. 1st, 1860.
MY DEAR FRIEND,-For many months past, I have thought of writing to you, to show that you still holds a place in my memory and heart, as also in that of other members of my family. I have put off this duty from day to day, but resolve this first day of the new year to devote a few minutes to a friend I love as well, whose name with my family is a household word, and whose work has for many yean excited our warmest sympathies. 
Though we hare not written to each other, yet, through the Liberator, we have had constant inter course. There we read of and rejoice in your labors; there we learn of your triumphs-your persecutions, your oppositions—your sufferings for the good and true; there we hold fellowship with those dear friends, to whose voices we have so often listened with deepest, interest at our own fireside, while detailing the wrongs and remedies of those who are in bonds, and the recollection of whore visits afford us such lasting pleasure. I refer by name in that number to H. C. Wright, Parker Pillsbury, W. W. Brown, J. Miller McKim, and others.
Among the faithful ones, I cannot help referring to Chapman, whom I had the honor and extreme in pleasure of meeting at Versailles along with her lovely daughters,—an interview to which I always look back with the greatest delight. All there have a warm place in our hearts; and with earnest prayer, we this new year's day wish them and you God speed in your mission of love! 
Since your visit to England, what great events have happened, both in your world and ours—political and social Death has taken away some of your noble ones, and some of ours too; reminding us who are left,, that their absence in the body throws upon our shoulders a larger amount of responsibility; reminding us that our years are swiftly passing away, and that we ought to labor with all diligence to finish the work which out Father has given us to do.
Last Thursday, I attended the funeral of the late Rev. GEOBOE HARRIS; to-day I have listened to his funeral sermon. Two weeks since, he preached from the same pulpit. I mention him, because his voice was always lifted up on behalf of the oppressed, both at home and abroad; because he felt keenly for the American slave; because he always took s deep interest in your annual Bazaar; because you were his guest, and he stood nobly by us on your memorable resist to this town. The tongue of the old man eloquent is now silent. May his mantle fall upon young and earnest hearts!
I have this day read your eloquent and burning,' words on the execution of John Brown. Though I can hardly agree with all your words, yet I fully endorse your sentiments.
Like yourself, I still believe in the principles of nonresistance, in the inviolability of human life; and in the name of truth and justice, I would disarm every slaveholder and tyrant in the world. The sentiments you have uttered do not seem to me to involve any compromise of the teachings of Christianity.
Mistaken though Brown might be, one cannot help (admiring the brave old man; one cannot help shed!, ding tears of sympathy for his bereaved family. How many wonderfully touching incidents hare transpired in connection with his arrest, his trial, his imprisonment, his execution, and his burial! How grand of Phillips and McKim to go to his grave, and speak those eloquent words of consolation to his family! While we weep with those that weep, who suffer in a noble cause, yet like Christ weeping over! the fated city, one cannot help weeping for a nation so steeped in crime and darkened in understanding as not to see the woe they are bringing upon themselves, by persevering in their maddened course.
Though neither of us would commend Brown's proceedings, yet I have no doubt good will come out of the events which have happened. The excitement and sympathy produced by the sad affair, if wisely improved, may, and I have no doubt will, tend to hasten the downfall of slavery; but everything depends upon the spirit in which the abolitionists use the opportunity. The spirit of Christ will turn it into success and triumph—the spirit of revenge into disappointment and defeat. Would that every earnest abolitionist were baptized with wisdom from above, and were led to act upon the principle, that it is better to kill our enemies by kindness than with the sword! Within hearing of the clanking of the chains and groans of the oppressed, I know it hard to keep patience—hard to hold the tongue—hard to restrain our desire for vengeance; but, then, the inward voice tells us not to trust to an arm of flesh—that vengeance is mine, I will repay, with the Lord—that it is not by might nor by power that great achievements are gained over error and tin, but by my spirit, that the Lord—that one true-hearted righteous man shall chase a thousand evil-doers, and two such men put ten thousand to flight. As we judge, the time may seem long in coming, but it trill come. In such s cause, we have no right to be discouraged. It may take seven generations to move the world, and mend its rents a little; till progress is made. If we cannot see it and measure it, by hours, or even years, we can measure it by generations. The feeblest workers fur God and humanity need not, therefore, think that their labor it lost.
Smallest helps, if rightly given, 
Make the impulse stronger.
For,
No earnest work, of any honest creature, 
Howbeit weak, imperfect, ill adapted,
Fails so much, it is not gathered
As a grain of sand, to enlarge
The sphere of human action, used
For carrying out God's ends.
If, my dear friend, the progress of man's redemption from tin and slavery and oppression it slow-why is it? It the isn't not our own? Have been faithful to our convictions of duty? Have we improved and used the talents committed to our care Alas?! how few of up are guiltless! You can have no misgivings on this subject; but how few have come to your help! If every professing Christian the North had been as true to his convictions a' you have been, would have existed now could it exist another year? The principles of Chris rule them not, but the principles of the world—mone; 5. fashion, pleasure, selfishness—there rule; and that professions of religion are but as sounding brass an tinkling cymbals. Does it not, therefore, seem as if the first work for the Abolitionists to do, it to convert that heathen Christians? (as old Brown described the minister who visited him in prison.) A hard work this bat do it, and slavery is no more.
What patience, what long suffering, what love what faith and prayer, are required for this; and who is sufficient for these things You need the spirit of Christ, of PAUL of martyrs for the truth. 
While the work of conversion is needed in America it also needed in England. For I know that great, is the influence of sympathy from that country, either for or against yon; and I am sure you will agree with me that we have need of the voice of a Garson, a Phillips, or a Thompson, to enlighten us, when our great journal, the Times of December 28th, bold takes sides with the Southern slaveholders, and says:-
'It hat been fully proved, not only on the American continent, but in our own colonies, that the enforced equality of European and African tends not to the elevation of the black, but the degradation of the white man.
We cannot find any sympathy for those who would try in the United States the plan of a half-caste Republic; and we trust that the Federal government, and the right-thinking part of the community, will protect the South from the repetition of such outrages as that at Harper's Ferry.'
The Times also accuses the American abolitionists of’instituting a crusade for the slaughter of the white 
<c03>
people, and the institution of a half-caste Republic The limits of this letter will not permit me to express the fallacy and wickedness of these statements. You will answer for yourselves.
The mention of reminds me of the deep regret I have felt at not having had the pleasure of seeing and conversing with our very excellent and true friend, Samuel J. May. I had made up my mind to go to the United Kingdom Alliance meeting at Manchester in October, almost on purpose to meet him, and arrange with him to come down here for a few days. I was unable to attend the meeting, and I; also was unfortunately prevented by the accident at Liverpool. I then purposed writing to him—but the very day I had resolved to write, I was suprised find by the Liberator that he was on his way home, Guess at my mortification and self-reproach for my procrastination. Will you express my regret to him? Without visiting Newcastle, it seems to me as if his visit to England was incomplete.
I have just been reading, with great pleasure and profit, Theodore Parker's beautiful and eloquent letter to his Church. I do hope he will again be restored to his people with health and strength renewed, long to labor in his great mission. Should be visit this part, how glad I should be to see him!
My dear friend, should we meet again, at I hope may, I have much to say to you about priests said sects and creeds—about man's duties and responsibilities—about God and Truth. I hope again to discuss some of these matters with you, as I remember we once did with so much pleasure to myself on our way from Manchester to Darlington, thirteen years since.
I cannot conclude without mentioning our true, good friend, George Thompson. It is delightful to now that he is regaining some of' his former vigor. What trials and sufferings he has passed through May Heaven's best blessings rest upon him!
I may also add, that those true and unwearied’ friends of the slave and of all goodness. Henry and, Anna Richardson, are still as full of zeal at ever, aboring unceasingly. They are now making an effort help the persecuted and suffering Bailey.
May this new year be an era for good in each of our lives, and in the history of the world! May it
Ring in the valiant man and free.
The larger heart, the kindlier hand,
Ring out the darkness of the land,
Ring in the Christ that it to be!
May you and your fellow-laborers be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, inasmuch as ye know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord.
Sincerely your friend, JOHN MAWSON.
P. S. I enclose a capital leading article on our Times, which I have cut out of our Daily Chronicle. I am delighted to see it, and hope they will not let the matter rest.
ALBANY A.S.CONVENTION.ALBANY, (N.Y.,) Feb.3,1860. DEAR MR. MAY—I have only time now to say briefly, that we are all much gratified with the result of our annual meeting. Our audiences have been larger than usual, of a more thoughtful, intelligent character, with considerable delegations, at different sessions, from the Legislature—with good pecuniary results also. The discussions were of the most earnest and impressive character, manifestly adapted to the demands of the hour. Mr. Phillips was never more eloquent, and could not well have done a more effective week's work than here and at New York. Last evening, he gave his Touesiant before the Young Men's Association, to a very crowded house. The large Congregational Church, (Dr. Palmer's,) which had been regularly engaged by that young men for the lecture, was, at a late hour, refused on account of objections to Mr. Phillips. Multitudes were unable to gain admission into the Hall, and much righteous indignation and wholesome agitation it the result. The lecture most effectually conquered the prejudices of the bearers.
The Convention here is a most satisfactory culmination of our labors for the last month.
After duly taking breath, or rest, we shall expect to arrange a second series of meetings.
The Woman's Rights Convention, now in progress, has also been well attended—indeed, largely attended —and characterized by a lively interest to-day. With cordial regard,
AARON M-POWELL.

MR. GIDDINGS AND DR. HOWE BEFORE THE INQUISITORIAL COMMITTEE. Hon. Joshua R. Giddings and Dr. S. G. Howe appeared before the Harper's Ferry Inquisitorial Committee on Friday. Mr. Giddings gave his testimony in a straight-forward manner, averting the right of every human soul to enjoy life, liberty and happiness.
Dr. Howe declined to take the oath to testify unless; he was permitted to protest against the whole proceedings. He protested against it-1st. Because the tribunal was secret and inquisitorial;
2d. Because it was crested for purposes beyond the legitimate scope of Legislative inquiry;
3d. Because it usurps powers nowhere delegated by the Federal Constitution to Congress, or either branch thereof;
4th. Because it is dangerous as a precedent, and liable to abuse, in the opportunity it gives for perversion of the great power of the Union to the gratification of vindictive party passions in various ways, to the peril of private right and personal liberty, as by dragging citizens from their homes in any part of the country, and rendering no man secure in his own house; and 
5th. Because it is unnecessary, inasmuch as for all purposes of investigation, testimony by deposition, within the limits and under the jurisdiction of the respective States, is fully adequate.
Dr. Howe then testified that he had known Brown during the troubles in Kansas, and thus he had sent him money and arms; they were raised by contributions made for the aid of the inhabitants of Kansas; that he expected Brown would repel armed invasion by armed resistance; that Brown had gained hit entire confidence; that he was a man of tried honesty at well at courage; that after the troubles had ceased in Kansas, Brown continued to devote himself to advance the cause of practical anti-slavery; that in 1858, Forbes wrote to Dr. Howe claiming money or past services, informing him that Brown had arms, belonging to the committee, and intended a hostile demonstration in some-slave State, and that was incompetent to it; that unless the management of affairs was taken from Brown, and given to him Forbes, he would expose it; Dr. Howe had never d known Forbes; that Senator Wilson, about the and time, wrote to Dr. Howe, stating that he had been to Brown intended using arms and means belonging the committee for unlawful purposes, warning How against Brown, and advising that the arms be taker from him; that in consequence of such information, orders were tent to John Brown to take the arms an property of the committee, then stored in Iowa, in Kansas, and to be used only in defence of Freedom et there. He said he was not privy to the stuck on Harper’s Ferry, and knew nothing of any organization or society in aid of Brown's plans. He believed Brow to be a conscientious and honest man, determine upon practical anti-slavery, but opposed to exciting insurrection or shedding of blood, except in self fence. He had given him aid and comfort as such Witness being asked to state what he meant by spreading practical anti-slavery doctrines, for which purpose contributions were made, illustrated it by comparison with efforts to spread the gospel among heathen, etc
WASINGTON, Feb.1.—The Harper's Ferry Investigation Committee discharged Realf to-day. He will leave immediately for New York. Thaddeus Hyatt arrived here to-day, and will appear before the committee to-morrow morning. Senator Wilson was before the committee to-day. He stated that early of May 1858, Mr. Forbes came to his seat in the Sense chamber, introduced himself, and informed him (Forbes) had been employed by Brown to go an Kansas to drill tome forces in 1847, that Brown hi ad not paid him for his trouble. That his (Ferbes) family was starving in Europe, and that the men at the east who had contributed money for the defen ought to pay him. He was much excite and denounced Brown and others. He said that some of the arms which were seat its passed into Brown's hands, and were stored in lows
<c04>
that Brown was not a safe man. and that these arms ought to be taken out of his control.
Supposing that he referred to the border difficulties between Missouri and Kansas, and that Brown might retaliate any attacks upon Kansas by going into Missouri. he wrote to Dr. Howe, suggesting to him to some of the men who had contributed arms for reference in Kansas, to get those arms oat of Brown's Lands, and place them in the control of reliable men that Territory, who would tea that they were only for defence. He said that if those arms would used for illegal purposes, it would involve these who had contributed them in trouble. Dr. Howe wrote back that an order had been sent to thrown to deliver up those arms. The matter passed at of his (Wilson's) mind, and he supposed all was Rht. He never had heard a word about the organization of fortes for the invasion at Harper Ferry in 858, or afterwards, and did not know that Howe bad this letter to Brown. 
James Redpath received notice, last week, from the hands of Watson Freeman, U. S. Marshal, to appear before the Committee on or before Monday, the 6th inst.when if he failed to appear, measures would be taken to enforce the order of the Senate. Mr. Redpath has accordingly decided to take leave of his friends for s season, and disappoint the expectations of the Committee. 

LETTER OF MARSHAL JOHNSON TO JOHN BROWN, JR.
JEFFERSON, Jan 24th 1860. JOHN BROWN, JR., ESQ.—Sir: I left at your house to-day a summons from the Select Committee of the senate, to appear before said Committee on the 30th inst. I regret exceedingly that I was unable to see you for I think I could have satisfied you that it would be to your interest to appear before the Committee. The only objection, I suppose, you can have to do so, is the fear that the authorities of Virginia might take advantage of your presence in that region, and arrest you and take you to that State.
Of this, I take it upon myself to say you need have no fear. In the letter from Senator Mason, enclosing me the papers, he makes use of this language, viz, If you can get an interview, or other meant of communication with him, (John Brown,) he may be induced to some, under the assurance you can give, that by the late law of Congress, no person who hat been examined as a witness before a committee of either House of Congress, can afterwards be held to answer upon a criminal charge for any fact or act done or committed by him, to which his testimony may refer. Thus, should the witness have due anything in connection with the Harper's Ferry affair which might project him to prosecution, by testifying before the Committee, he will be thenceforth exempt from prosecution.'
These are the words of Senator Mason, and to that I add a pledge of my sacred honor, that if you will appear in Cleveland on Friday morning next, and accompany me to Washington, that neither on the way, nor in that city shall you be molested, but after giving your test my, I will see you safely returned to your home. I propose that on Thursday next, you come to Cleveland, and see Judge Spalding, Judge Tilden, and other friends, and consult with them as to the propriety of going as I propose; and if you make up your mind to go that we leave that city on the following day. I will also state that I have no warrant for your arrest, nor has there ever been any issued from any source. The assertion to the contrary, by the Cleveland Plain Dealer of last week, being an unmcigated falsehood.
I leave this letter with your friend Smith Edwards, Esq., with whom I have fully conversed on that matter. Yours, M. JOHNSON.

LETTER OF BROWN TO JOHNSON.
DORSET. Ashubula Co., Ohio, January 25,1860. M. JOHNSON, Esq., U. S. Marshal, Cleveland. Ohio:
SIR—I have received your favor of the 24th inst., informing me that you had left at my house a summons from the Select Committee of the U. S. Senate, commanding me to appear before that Committee on the 30th inst.
After a full and careful consideration of the reasons which you offer why I should obey that summons, I, we have, for two reason, resolved not to do so. The first is, that in going to and returning from Washington, I must of necessity past within the jurisdiction of the either Maryland or Virginia. The letter State that especially exhibited, of late a remarkable facility of perpetrating the gross injustice under the forms of law that no tune man would, in the circumstances in which I am plated, trust her a moment. Even if that State could not crush me by a judicial process, of the wildest enthusiast would not dream her power would be thrown between me and the violence of her mobs.
The protection under the law at Congress, to which Senator Mason refers, you will see, if his language is correctly quoted, applies only to a person who has been examined as a witness.' But supposing otherwise, what regard hat the Nullifying State of Virginia for a law of Congress which would inter-pole between a victim and the malice of her slaveholders? I have experienced too much of slaveholding perfidy to rely on the faith of a State whose. honor and magnanimity are represented by the author of the Fugitive Slave Bill, and whose chief revenue is derived from the salt of her own sons and daughters. 
The second reason why I refute to appear before that Committee is, that in swearing to’ tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.' so far as my knowledge extends in reference to the farts sought for in that investigation, I would obligate myself to make known that which would implicate others, (which, as the Lord <illegible> I will not do. You may, that by giving my testimony I can exempt myself from further trouble. In answer, I would say, that I cannot purchase immunity from further prosecution by an act of treachery. To that system of piracy which reduces to chattels every sixth man, woman and child of our land, I owe no obligations. It’ has no rights which I am bound to respect,' but, to the noble men, and women, who, in the same spirit which prompted effort in behalf of Greece, Italy and Hungary, labored by word and deed to aid’ Native Americans,' —descendants of the families of Virginia,' to throw off their yokes—to them owe unswerving fidelity. Some of them reside in slave States, and my testimony would place their lives in jeopardy. On their account, if for no other, I refute to appear and answer, and shall patiently wait for the infliction of’ the pains and penalties in touch cases made and provided.' And now, to save unnecessary delay in pouring out upon me the visit' of pro-slavery’ wrath,' I will say that business does not now call me to Canada. Should I revisit that temporary home of our American Exiles, it will be from other considerations than those of personal safety. Possibly, at tome time, I may leave my country for my country's good,' but never for the good of the Slave Power.
With due respect, I remain, &c. JOHN BROWN, Jr.
The New Brunswick (N. J.) Fredonian says, Francis Mitchell, late porter of the steamer Marion, recently sentenced to be executed in South Carolina, for awaiting s slave in his attempt to leave the State, is an Irish lad of about twenty years of age, formerly’ a resident of that city. He was employed on board the steamship Niagara during the Atlantic cable expedition, and since then on board the Charleston and New York line of steamers. He denies all participation in the offence of which he was convicted. He has been pardoned by the Governor.
CAITUBB or A SLVTBR. The Charleston Courier I gives the following account of the slave vessel which, was carried into that port last week:
A rakish, full rigged brig reached this port on Wednesday, 1st insist, from the coast of Lower Guinea, after a passage of forty days, in charge of Lieut: R. M. McArann, Midshipman N. H. Farquhar, and ten marines and ten ten men of U. S. Navy. She was taken a on the 21st December last, after a twelve house chase, by the U. S. ship Constellation, Commodore Inman, the bring then being on the Coast of Guinea, about sixty miles northwest from Kabenda. She displayed no colors, and no papers have been discovered on her. No money was found on board. A slave deck, boils for cooking, and all the necessary appliances were ready for immediate use. The captain or supercargo was on shore when the brig was taken, and he was consequently not captured. She had a crew of thirteen men, in addition to her officers, all of whom appeared to be Spaniards. The men were pat on boar the Constellation, but the first and second officers have been brought here in the brig.'
ELECTION OF SPEAKER. On Thurseday, the 3d inst being in the ninth week of the Session, and on the 44th ballot, WILLIAM PENNINGTON, of New Jersey Republican, was elected Speaker of the House of the Representatives at Washington, by one majority, lie at received 114 votes, to M for John A. McClernand, of to Illinois, Democrat, and 16 for John A. Gilmer, of td North Carolina, Know Nothing. Friday, the inst., John W. Forney, of the Philadelphia press, in was elected Clerk of the House by a vote of 112, being one more than was necessary to a choice. M at, Forney is an anti-Buchanan Democrat, and for manv years has been actively engaged in politics. He oiled to the office of Clerk a few years with distinguished ability. The Southern fire-eaters take it very <illegible>
<c05>
TRIAL OF STEVENS AT CHARLESTOWN.
CKARLWROWN, Feb. 4, 1860.
The trial of Stevens was. <illegible> to-day. No evidence was addused. The <illegible> of counsel were mostly at s political character, discussing the present position of the questions between the North and South. The Commonwealth made a proposition to submit, case without argument, but the counsel for the defence wished to be heard for his attest, 
Mr. Harding made an opening argument. He decided as s falsehood and libel that assertion of John Brown, that he was to receive aid front the laboring at Harper's Ferry. He claimed that they true to the Constitution and the Stale, and referred to their action in putting down the invasion. I included with an earnest appeal to the Jury to vindicate the law, and charged that the prisoner was blood-thirsty villain and wretch, and won than Brown.
Mr. Sennot, for the defence, it speech, going into the history of the rise and rest of the Republican party, closing with an earnest appeal to the Jury to apart the life of the prisoner. 
Mr. Hunter closed on the part of the Common wealth. He replied to the arguments of the defence telling effect. He had no confidence in the on meetings held at the North. The invasion had been a benefit to the South, as it had shown them position in which they were placed. He referred Mr. Hickman's boasting of the eighteen millions Northern men, and declared the South was passed for any emergency.
The case was submitted to the Jury at 4 o'clock then retired, and after fifteen minutes' absence, returned a verdict of guilty of all the counts,
The prisoner received the verdict with most perfect reference, and smiled at the announcement.
FUGITIVE SLAVE AID SOCIETY DECIDED TO MR.ILLEGAL. On the 27'. ult., at Syracuse, the ease of Wm. Brown, agent of the Fugitive Aid Society, against officers of that institution, was called up for trial, was an action to recover damages for a libel, the defendants having published a card, in which Brown denounced as an impostor, because he had made returns of hit collections. It was testified that object of the society was to aid he fleeing of fugitives from slavery. From his letters the plaintiff to have been a resident of Pittsfield, Mass., in 6. The Rev. Samuel J. May, of Syracuse, was president of the society one year, and assisted over hundred fugitives. Dr. Jas. Chandler, of Syracuse,, was a member of it Henry D. Didama was treasurer in 1856. Dr. James Fuller, of Syracuse, a member, and secretary. After argument, Judgt Morgan said that the Constitution itself requires tea to return fugitives from service in other States; any society which proposes to aid fugitives must illegal. Non-suit granted, with order that that be heard in the first instance at General Term.
SHEER HUMBUG. The reports of negro riots in nada, which the sham democratic papers have been, Reading before their readers for the last two or three, tarn nut to be pure fabrications, invented by B Detroit Free Press. That paper announced that murderous outbreaks had occurred in Anderson, Chatham, and Sandwich, and that the aggression organization of negroes had been formed, under direction of J. D. Shadd and J. C. Brown, both connected with the’ Provisional Government' of Brown. The Canadian journals deny the stories in all particulars; and one of them, the Chatham and, suggests the Free Press, should he venture within the reach of Canadian indignation. We hope the lying Detroit doughface venture far enough into Canada to receive that does. 
The following telegram explains the whole matter: 
CHATHAM, C. W., Jan. 24. The United States, received here during the last few days, contain exciting of disturbances said to have taken ace recently here, and in this vicinity, between the whites and colored population. The ground for these ports is a skirmish which took place among a few liter and colored school boys a few days ago, in lich no particular damage was done to either party. It caused no excitement here, and was scarcely nosed. There hat been no other.disturbance whatever here, or in this vicinity. 

NOTICE—WANTED. 
Any of our friends who can supply as with any j 1 the following papers of last year's issue, wilt great obligation upon at by tending them to us, directed-Liberator, 21 Corn hill.' 
No. 21—May 37. 1859. 
No. 23—June 10, 1859.
No. 25—June 24, 1859.
No. 45—Nov. 11, 1859.
No. 50—Dec. 16. 1859.
CARD—SUSAN R. CAPEN. M. D., Physician and Accoucheur, 57 Bartlett street, Charetuiwn, or several years a successful practitioner in Sharon, offers her services to treat the diseases sea of Women and Children; and is ready to attend Midwifery cases.
MR. and MRS. CHARLES SPEAR will deliver addresses in Fall River, next Sunday, on Criminal Reform.
They intend, also, to give an Exhibition of their Transparent Paintings for Sunday Schools, on Monday evening, consisting of Astronomy, Natural History, Arctic Regions, & c.
E.H.. HEYWOOD will speak at Hubbardston, Sunday evening, Feb. 12. 
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture as follows:-
Fall River, Sunday, February 12. 
West port, Tuesday, February 14. 
Dartmouth, Wednesday, February 15.
New Bedford, Thursday, February 16. 

FREDERICK BROWN, 
A brother of the late Cape. JOHN BROWN, will visit following placed, and address audiences therein n the subject of Slavery:-
East Dennis, Sunday, Feb. 12.
Dennis, Monday, Feb. 13.
Harwich, Tuesday, Feb. 14.
Hyannis Wednesday’' 15.
Bndgewotor, Thursday, Feb. 16.
North Bridgewater, x Friday,-17.
Plymouth, Sunday, Feb. 19.
MARRIED,—Feb. 1, by Rev. L. A. Grimes, Mr JOHN BUTLER to Miss MARY LOUISA GIBBSONS, both f this city.

A PRINTER WANTED
"ONE well acquainted with Book, Job, and Letter J Press Printing, will hear of a good situation on an Anti-Slavery paper is the country, at fair wages with chance of becoming a partner. Subscription of said paper exceeds 60C,—job work abundant Applicant for said situation must be a men of sobriety, and good business habits. For particulars, inquire at the office of the Liberator, of WM. LLOYD GARRISON or R. F. WALLCUT. Jan.27.

CARPETING 
'All the Year Round'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO 
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN 
CARPETING, 
285 WASHINGTON STREET. 
(NEAR WINTER STREET.) 
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and hast styles and qualities Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, beat qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminster fcc. Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Felting, Canteens and Cocoa Mattings. 
ALSS

AMERICAN CARPETING. 
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT 
THE LOWEST PRICES, 
For cash or approved credit. Sept 16.
<c06>
Is there any virtue in MRS. S.A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER?
READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
To THE ED'S OF EVANGELIST:-My age is sixty. One year ago, my hair was very gray, and had been gradually falling, until, on the crown, it had become quite thin. About the 1st of March, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S .A. Alllen's’ Restorer,' No.1, according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once in three or four weeks, on retiring to bed. My hair is now almost restored to its original color, and the hue appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATIONS IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE, BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRETIONS. My hair ceases to fall, which is certainly an advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.' Rev. M. THACHER. Bridgewater, Oncida Co., N. Y. Nov. 22, 1855.
President J.I.EATON, LL.D., Union University, Murfressbore, Tennesses.
'MADAM-I would state, that some time last spring I found MY HAIR FALLING OFF. I concluded to purchase a bottle of’ Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Restorer,' &c., and give it a trial. I commenced using it, but very irregularly; but not withstanding this irregularity, I found that its influence was distinctly visible, THE FALLING OFF OF HAIR CEASED, and my locks, which before were quite GRAY, WERE CHANGED TO BALCK. I do not consider that I have given it a fair trial, but, from what I have seen of its effects in my own case, I have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do, viz, PREVENT THE HAIR FROM FALLLING OFF, and to BROTORS GRAY LOOKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.'
Mrs. D.W.CLARK, wife of Rev. D.W.CLAR, Editor, ’Ladies' Repostory,' Cincinati, Ohio.
'I have been using Mrs. S. A. Allen's Zylobalsamum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it in any position desired.'
Rev. JOHN E.ROBIE, Editor’ Christian Advocate,.' Buffalo, N.Y.
'Your Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color,' &c.
Rev. E. R. FAIRCHILD, D.D., Cor, Sec. American and Foreign Christian Union, N.Y.City.

'Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamim have been used in my family with beneficial effects; and I take pleasure in recommending them such as have occasion to use such preparations'.
Rev. A. WEBSTER, Editor' Christian Era,' Boston Mass.
'Having used numerous specifies to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded your Worl's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither bold nor gray; my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.'
Rev. H. V. DEGEN, Ed. ’Guide to Holiness,' Boston
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer, found among our other advertisements, we insert from actual experiments. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced we have now the evidence of our own eyes. We can testify to its good efforts.'
Rev. S. B. MORLEY, Pastor Congregational Church, Attleboro', Mass.
'I have used Mrs, S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Hair restorer has been to change to’ crown of glory' which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The Zylobalsamum I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.'
Rev. DANIEL T.WOOD, Middletown, Orange Co, N.Y.
'My hair has greatly thickened upon my head, and put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY, UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HARI HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP, AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.'
GREAT BRITAIN.
Rev. W.B.THORNELOE, Present, Lanceshire, England.
'Your Hair Restorer is a perfect, marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color,-not the wig-like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dye. I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy in answering the queries of any you may refer to me.'
[The above cleargyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States.]
HAYTI.
Rev. J. WEST, 6 Washington Place, (Pacific street,) Brooklyn.
'I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's, in the most literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.'
Rev. R. H.POLLOCK, Ed. ‘Presbyterian Witness,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till we know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity and being satisfied of the meirts of Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I would be pleased to insert advertisement,' & c.
Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, Corres. Sec. Board of Education R. D. Church, 337 Broadway, N.Y. and New Baltimore, Greeze country, N.Y.

'Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair Restorer, &c. for the use of a relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being grey to its original glossy and beautiful black.'
Rev. JAS. McFARLANE, Paster Prot. Dutch Church Esopus, Ulster county, N.Y.
'I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorers and Zylobalsamam have produced all the effects described in her advertisement, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fial in color or decrease in luzuriance.'
Rev. B. C. SMITH, Prattabury, N.Y.
'I was really surprised to find my gray hair soon turned as black as when I was a young man.'
Rev. M. C. KLING, Lewistown, Penneylvania.
'It has stopped the falling off of my hair, and caused a new growth, although I did not attend to it as your directions require.'
Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD, Meriden, N.Y.
'We think very highly of your preparations, and have no doubt, if you had an agens in this vicinity, a large quantity might be dispossed of,'
'Rev. Mrs. E.S.ANDRUS, (many years Missionary to Hayti, ) Martinshurgh, N.Y.
In consequence of her long residence in afornamed island, her hair and sealp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. S. A. Allen's she writes to the’ American Reptist,'-'I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalasmam; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but never any thing that so materially and permanently benefitted me as those of Mrs. S. A. Allen.'
We think that if these fail to convince, nothing tear then a trial will. Some few declares try to sell or trail on which they make more profit than on these; alway INSIST on havily these.
These are the only preparations experted in any quentity to Europe.
We asprie to have the best not the lawest friend, One Battle of the Restorer will last a year; $1 so a bottle. Balsoam 871/2 can to per bottle.
Address all letters for information, in to Mrs S. A. Allen's World's Hair Nestorer Depet; No/355 Broame Street, New York. The General has Mrs. S. A. Allen; signed <illegible>
SOLD BT EVERY DRUG AND FANCT GOSS DA ALER OCTOBER 14.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
THE MARTYR.
BY JOHN A. DORGAN.
When, from a life of godlike strife,
Th' indignant gather soars to God,
Though vultures gather round his name,
And tear his clod;
Let us not weep for him, but keep
His memory: let this glorious death,
Crowing a valiant life, renew,
Not shake our faith.
But weep for those, his guilty foes,
On whom his blood a curse shall be,
Haunting their silken dreams-a dread
That will not flee.
The secret feat of vengeance near,
That passes vengeance; and the doubt,
Forbidding with its evil eye
The calm without.
Or those, the men, who know not when
A kingly soul, amidst our dearth
Of thought and deed, by life or death,
Has fed the earth.
His faith sublime, grown blind to time
By gazing on eternity,
They cannot understand; and yet,
They feel and see.
As if for trade the stars were made,
‘Madman!’ they cry, when one comes forth
Of truth and justice with his blood
To prove the worth.
Aye, weep for them, and not for him,
And live, that ye, beyond the years,
May meet him at the feet of God,
Nor move his tears!
Philadelphia, Dec. 2, 1859.

For the Liberator.
ELBA,
The home while living, and the place of sepulture when dead, of JOHN BROWN, the Hero of Harper’s Ferry.
Upon a bleak and dreary spot
Friends laid the hero down;
But he shall never be forgot,
That good old man, John Brown.
His life was spent for others’ good,
The outcast of his race;
For this the tyrant shed his blood-
Friends laid him in this place.
He periled every thing most dear
To liberate the slave;-
He loved all men, but none did fear,
John Brown, the truly brave.
Now, though his body sleepeth here,
His spirit roves abroad;
This truth to all shall yet appear-
He worketh still for God.
By his rebukes were despots stirred,
And him to death they doomed:
Those warnings shall ere long be heard,
His spirit’s not entombed.
In coming years shall Elba’s height
More famed than Bunker’s be,
When passed away is Slavery’s night,
And all alike are free.
Many who now the hero blame,
Who rests in quiet there,
Shall then he proud to speak his name,
And his great deeds declare.
This, sure, is Freedom’s trial hour;
Let each his part perform;
The Lord shall break the tyrant’s power-
He rules above the storm.
Boston, Jan. 23, 1860. JUSTITIA.

From the Nantucket Mirror.
THE MARTYR OF DEC. 2d, 1859.
BY ANNA GARDNER.
‘Whether upon the scaffold high,
Or in the battle’s van,
The fittest place for man to die
Is where he dies for man.’
‘Upon the scaffold high’ behold him stand!
No pomp of power betrays his self-control;
He smiles serene of Talliaferro’s band-
Ten thousand legal deaths can’t hang the soul.
No grander shaft was ever reared on high,
No statelier cross-beam ever cleaved the air
Than that erected ‘neath Virginia’s sky,
When we behold our Nation’s Martyr there.
From age to age, through all succeeding time,
Insurgent! Traitor! Terms for him sublime!
No deadly purpose nerved his steady blow;
No dark revenge was nurtured in his heart;
The light of future years shall plainly show
How all unselfishly he took the part
Of that down-trodden, crushed and hated race,
On Life’s great highway fallen among thieves,
From which God’s image ne’er can be effaced,
Nor quelled high hope which in its bosom heaves:
For this he died as only heroes can,
A sacrificial offering for man.
O martyred heart! O Death, devoid of sting!
What trust divine thy exodus has taught!
Serenely poised upon Faith’s plumed wing,
Ere he was offered up, his spirit caught,
As from beyond the vale, a halo bright,
Beaming afar from that celestial sphere,
Where kindred souls in friendship re-unite,
And love perfected subjugates all fear.
Commissioned angels bore him on his way,
Through Death’s dark portal to eternity.
Near the o’ershadowing rock his form is laid,
While glory radiates his spirit brow,
‘Planted,’ not buried, ‘neath the pine-tree’s shade,
Behold the germ shoots upward even now!
When it shall grow into a stately tree,
Its em’rald leaves profusely scattered wide,
Healing the nation of its leprosy,
Men will admit that near Potomac’s tide
A deed was wrought by the heroic Brown,
Worthy to win and wear the victor’s crown.
Nantucket, January, 1860.

DEATH.
It is not death to die,
To leave this weary road,
And, ‘said the brotherhood on high,
To be at home with God.
It is not death to close
The eyes long dimmed with tears,
And wake in glorious repose,
To spend eternal years.
It is not death to bear
The wrench that sets us free
From dungeon chains, to breathe the air
Of boundless liberty.
It is not death to fling
Aside this mortal dust,
And rise on strong, exulting wing,
To dwell among the just.
Jesus, then Praise of life,
Thy chosen cannot die;
With thee they conquer is the strife,
To reign with thee on high.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.,
AT THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHUSETTS
ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY,
In the Tremont Temple, Boston, Jan. 6, 1860.
MR. CHAIRMAN, AND LADIES AND GENTLEMAN:
For one, I accept, with very great satisfaction, the theory of race which our eloquent friend [the Rev. Sella Martin, a colored man,] has unfolded, so ingeniously and so clearly, in regard to the ultimate purpose and use of the presence of the Negro on this continent. I never did dread that terrible word amalgamation. I hold it to be the secret of almost all progress, a viewed from the point of race. We Saxons were nothing while we were pure Saxons. I hold the German race, now, at a sad discount, on many points, and the English race superior to it in those very respects, because the English race adopted the principle of amalgamation. The German gets blind over his books, and is contended to be a civil slave. Gottingen, and Dresden, and Munich, have not even the glimmer of that political liberty which is supposed to belong to the Saxon blood; and there is no explanation of jury trial, and Habeas Corpus, and representative government, and individual independence, and civil liberty, as they exist in the three Islands, but on the doctrine of that mixture of races which has made the prime, chief, consummate flower of civilization, the English blood. And I believe, with Mr. Martin, that, as far as our eyes can divine the future of Providence, it means that the next chapter of the progress of race shall be another mixture of that English blood, that our thirty States are probably to receive the finish and complement of civilization by the melting of the Negro into the various races that congregate on this continent, and that the historian of a hundred years hence will view with utter incredulity the popular nightmare of amalgamation, and will trace some of the brightest features of that American character which is to take its place in the catalogue of the world’s great races, to the root of this black race, mingling with the others that stand around them. Undoubtedly, to every thoughtful mind, that is the ultimate solution of the problem which is working out in these States.
I have not time, if I had any disposition, to break a lance or two with our friend (Mr. Martin) in regard to his ecclesiastical position. He says he was a man long before he was a minister. Well, I am glad to say that he seems to be a man now, also. (Laughter) There are a great many who were men so long before they were ministers, that the memory of man runneth not back to the time. (Great laughter and applause) But it is not of any great consequence that I should endeavor even to explain what I think are some of his mistakes in regard to Garrisonian ecclesiastical theories. We arrive at about the same result. He says the churches are ‘synagogues of Satan,’ and so do we; (laughter)-and as to what shall be done with them, and how they shall be considered as parts of Christ’s seamless garment, perhaps we will discuss to-morrow morning. But, at any rate, they are ‘synagogues of Satan’-that is enough for me; I think that is agreement enough for one speech.
I do wish to say a word in regard to some of those topics of the Anti-Slavery enterprise which have been touched upon in our meeting to-day. I do not myself augur such an immense increase of real anti-slavery feeling, much less action, from the large audiences and great attention that we get, of late years. I think there is a sort of aesthetic Anti-Slavery. Men come here-far more truly and emphatically go to the Plymouth Church in Brooklyn-as they would go to any other intellectual entertainment of a rare order. They have the good taste to know where they shall find the finest material, and there they resort. The attendance of Ward Beecher’s congregation does not prove that they have any interest in Anti-Slavery, or any design to lead an Anti-Slavery life, They want the most profound pathos, the most eloquent appeals, the most picturesque painting, the most language, the most natural manner, the deepest heart; and, of course, they take refuge from the iceberg of the New York Observer to melt in Plymouth Church. (Laughter) But they don’t go out from those walls with any design of doing an Anti-Slavery Act; and many go not out from these meetings with any such purpose. I am afraid that a large share of that attention is like that given to The Octoroon, or any other striking spectacle; for it is true, and it is not conceit in ourselves to recognize it, that the Anti-slavery movement has realized that level, secured the public attention, has hold of those great national and religious problems which are the best food for any minds that seek to be fed. It is only saying that we are a decent people, in saying that, at last, men know where they will find the most interesting discussions in Anniversary Week. I do not, therefore, augur so large an increase of Anti-Slavery feeling from these signs. Anti-Slavery meetings, interesting as they are from the quick retort, the keen encounter, the personal criticism, the living and vital interest of every-day question, are not the points by which you are to test the growth of the cause, Go with me to the boarding-houses of Boston-those of the young men from twenty to thirty, married and unmarried; listen to the oft-repeated offensive term for the Negro, which never ought to pass decent lips; listen to the perpetual insult, not indifference, but insult, to the Anti-Slavery movement; go up and down the walks of commerce; see how real is the hostility, in view of the contingent loss of business; go anywhere in society, and see how utterly the prejudice against the prejudice against the black man rules in the hearts of Anglo-Saxons-how ready every man is to find some excuse for his indifference or his antagonism, to lose himself in the cobweb of excuses that any man can make up for nothing-excuses which would be tenable only here, which vanish in the atmosphere of any other nation than ours. I remember, for instance, a friend telling me that in Germany, a year or two ago, a very distinguished Professor of our country, learned and widely known, was attacked, by a German Professor of the same standing, who was anxious to know why he was not an Abolitionist. The American thought it was a good opportunity to air his American excuses. Accordingly, he entered into an elaborate account of the inter-weaving of National and State governments-how far Massachusetts was from South Carolina-how we couldn’t abolish slavery there-how our fathers made a Constitution-how it was a very delicate question-the seven years’ war-the patriarchal institution-Mr. Webster-Mr. Choate, and so forth. And after he had made a very large chapter, he turned to his friend, and said: ‘I suppose you see, now, how I stand, and how real our isolation, and the impossibility of any action at the North on the subject of Anti-Slavery. I suppose what I have said is sufficient.’ The German took his pipe out of his mouth, and said-‘It ish very shlim!’ (Laughter) It was, indeed, very slim. The excuses vanished like thin air. They didn’t get a hold: they didn’t lodge a moment in the clear intellect and moral light of the European.
Now, in our country, we have got, with our Anti-Slavery enterprise, eighteen millions of hearts and heads to deal with. Men say we are fanatics. If by fanaticism is meant that we are a class of men, large or small, who lay down rigid rules of right and wrong, who hew to the line, no matter how many chips fly in our faces, who set up the standard of absolute justice, we do just that-we put feet down on the eternal granite of God’s Right and Wrong. Well, of course, it stirs a nation seeking to hide truth from their eyes, and make money, and earn bread, by compromising with justice, selling their neighbor at auction. To be sure, that stirs up all the bad and selfish passions. They say, when you fire a gun over 
<c03>
placid water, if there is a dead body below, it shows itself. John Brown’s rifles brought up all the dead bodies-making Caleb Cushing and Everett show themselves bobbing up to the surface. (Great merriment) When you approach this sort of truth, you must except a great uprising of what may be considered the dead and monstrous elements of society, arranging themselves in antagonism against us.
What has been our history? We have begun and carried on the Anti-Slavery agitation. We pledged ourselves to use none but peaceable and Constitutional methods. Now, when, across the distance of half-a-dozen States, we recognize the martyr saint of Harper’s Ferry, men charge us with having deserted our principles. Not in the least. What have we been endeavoring to do? We have been trying to bring every earnest soul into a pledge against slavery. We never supposed that we should convert every man to our method. We only said, and mean to say, ‘Here is the American people-there is the Gibraltar of slavery; we need everything we can get to take it-we mean to rouse everything we can get to the assault.’ The public opinion that we mean to create is this,-it shall convince every man so unalterably of the essential sin and the momentous evil of the slave system, that he shall say that before it neither human life, our religious institutions, nor old parchments, nor parties, are of any value whatever. We said, and we meant to be so understood, that we would create such a public opinion against slavery, that the Christian would come out and throw upon the altar his Presbyterianism, his Congregationalism, his Methodism-yes, his Church-at the risk of being called an infidel. We had no Church to throw. We meant, and expected, also that the man who had rifles would bring them to the altar; and all that I, for one, meant in my pledge to peaceful and Constitutional methods was that, while I believed in types and not in bullets, in brains and not in muskets, in civilization and not in a camp, I stood here to prepare a public opinion that would hold up the man whose heart led to what I think a lower level of assault, but in some respects, for the moment, a more efficient one. (Applause) I am contented, in part, and for the present, if I may prepare material for John Brown, of his rifles; and that is all that the Anti-Slavery movements has ever intended or professed to do.
But I charge it upon Republicanism itself that any man has found it necessary to have recourse to rifles. What says the candidate for the Speakership of the United States House of Representatives? He says, ‘I say this charge of interference with slavery in the States is unfounded. The people of Ohio, the State which I have the honor to represent in part, do not wish or design to interfere with the relations existing between the races in the Slave States. If I had my voice, I would not have one single political Abolitionist in the Northern States. I am opposed to any interference, by the Northern people, with slavery in the Slave States. I act with the Republican party simply because the Republican party resists the extension, but does not seek the abolition, of slavery.’ Now, Mr. Chairman, for twenty years certain parties have made the heart of the Northern people ache to abolish slavery. Certain parties have stirred up these States till the heart of every thoughtful man long to see the slave go free. The Saxon race, left to itself finds vent through the ballot-box; but close up the ballot-box, and it loads the rifle. (Cheers.) The Republican party should write on its banner, ‘Abolition of Slavery.’ What if John Sherman and Henry Wilson should avow that the political movement of the Northern States seeks the freedom of every slave, through the Constitution-or over it? For the Constitution was not written by Gabriel, nor nailed to the throne of the Almighty-it is a parchment which man made, and man can amend, and there is no reason in the world why there should not be a party with the purpose avowed from the outset, to abolish slavery in the States-aye, and to change the Constitution of the United States, if necessary. There is a party in England which seeks to put down Bishops; there is a party in England that seeks to overthrow the Aristocracy of the British Government. Why should not a party here avow the purpose to tear out the red stripe of blood in the Constitution of the United States? No reason in the world, except the timidity of men that want to have office in five years, instead of fifteen. Now, if you will give the country a party, religious and political, that writes on its banner, ‘Every slave ought to be free, and we pledge ourselves, life-long, to the effort to make him so,’ you will unload every musket, you will disarm every physical rebellionist.
I do not believe slavery will go down in blood. There is not blood enough in the thirty-one States to steep it in. We are not a fighting people. Our brains have got beyond it, North and South. We are beyond it, and I should be ashamed if we were not. If, two hundred years ago, this country was planted on a system of education and individual interest in government, and in two hundred years we have not reached that length where war is impossible as a method of reform, I should despond of the school-house and the church. I believe that neither in the North nor South is there any such element as will abolish slavery in blood. The Yankees will not fight: It won’t pay. You have to convince the North that slavery is unprofitable before she will get upon her feet, and put it down. Let me show New England that it touches their pockets, and they will rise. Show that it is profitable to put slavery down, and there is not power in the Slave States to maintain it. Every thinking man sees that in Kansas and Harper’s Ferry. The moment the North resisted in Kansas, the South backed out. The moment Pottawattomie wrote in the blood of the oldest ruffian the purpose of the Northerner to clean out his musket and use it, as he had done eighty years before, the Border Ruffians went back from the line. They came there to find out if Yankee pedler’s would fight; they found they would, and they said, ‘Good morning, gentlemen, we are done with you.’ The same thing would be true on the broad surface of the Union. The same was true at Harper’s Ferry. Virginia was not ready to fight for the slave system. She never will fight for it; but it is not lack of courage that makes her unwilling to fight. She knows that the system is not defensible. She knows that when the North announces its purposes that slavery shall cease, it must cease. She knows as well as do that when she cries Union, she only means robbery. I remember that, when I was a little boy, we went out on a Fourth of July, another boy and I, to Boston Common, where they sold us things that were good to eat-you remember, Mr. Chairman, My companion said, ‘How much have you got?’ I said ‘Twenty-five cents. How much have you?’ ‘I’ve got nine-pence. Well,’ said he, ‘suppose we divide.’ (Laughter) That is exactly the case with the South. The North has twenty-five cents, the South nine-pence; and she proposes and equal division. (Renewed laughter and applause) She knows it to-day-she has always known it-that when she cries Disunion, she is frightened at her own words. She is not drunk enough, either with pride or the prosperity of the slave system, to believe in disunion. There is a story told of a couple of the sons of Green Erin, who were at the bottom of a building that was about being finished; the scaffolding, three stories high, was about to be removed; and the tall man bet with the little one that be couldn’t carry him, in his hod, to the top of the house. They bet a dollar; and the little man took his comrade in his hod, labored up the first scaffold, the second, then the third, and, with heavy tread, making his way from round to round of the ladder, reached the topmost ridge and pitched him on. ‘Now, give me your dollar.’ ‘Och, and by the powers, I was hoping you would drop me, the last two or three rungs!’ (Great merriment) It is exactly so with the South. If she supposed she could be dropped 
<c04>
from the Union, she would be like the fellow in the hod. She would be dropped into endless, invisible and abysmal depths, beyond the recognition of the nineteenth century. She doesn’t want it. She never means to have it. It will never come in that way. I doubt if it will ever come by the offer of dissolution.
No; the state of our Northern mind is just this. The Anti-Slavery movement has stirred it to its very depths. Made up of religious, literacy and political appeal-made up of the fugitive slave traveling through all our borders-made up of the treason of great men, like Webster, going down to his grave cursed by one half and lamented by the other half of the Union. When such a man as Ward Beecher goes back to his pulpit, and falls into the ranks of the apologists of corrupt ecclesiastical machinery, there is a natural rebound of the thousands that trusted him. He will make many a man a come-outer who trusted that, hanging to his strikes, he might still cry, ‘I am a church-member; for, is not Beecher an Abolitionist?’ Such a man is robbed of that excuse; he cannot hide behind Plymouth Church from the rebukes of the Garrisonians; and he will be a come-outer. So, when a great politician falls, it makes Abolitionists. We dig men out of the mire into which Daniel Webster plunged them, and set them up on the feet their mothers gave them. This process has been going on for years. John Brown is a part of it, Kansas is a part of it. If the great Republican party had said to Kansas, ‘No use for your rifles; we will protect you on the floor of the United States Senate; there shall not a man dare to touch a hair of the head of a dweller in the loneliest shanty in Kansas, that the arm of the Union shall not be stretched out efficiently to protect him,’ there never would have been war in Kansas; there never would have been any border forays. Do you suppose that the South can rise up and send out, by hundreds, our merchants, our travelers, our residents, guilty of nothing but a Northern dialect, and, although that craven United States Senate dare not call for the execution of this United States Constitution, which we are called upon to laud every hour of our lives, do you suppose it is forgotten in the records of the Northern People? No. Every one of these men has a circle, and that circle are Garrisonians. One of the young and gallant men of our city, rich, patriotic, brave, ardent, said to me: ‘I carried a musket down State street when Anthony Burns was carried shamefully back to slavery. Two months after, my own brother, hopelessly ill of consumption, was obliged to shulk through Georgia and the Carolinas in a baggage car, for fear his name, from Boston, should be known, and even the last relics of the strength which disease had left him be taken by tarring and feathering; and that is the last musket that I shall ever raise for the Union of our thirty slave States.’ (Applause) That conviction to which this young Boston member of our holiday troops came, every circle of these banished men comes to throughout the Union. If you do not give them the ballot-box, they will take the rifle; if you do not give them the Anti-Slavery movement, they will tear the Church to pieces. Men talk of abolishing that movement. Abolish it! You should have heard Ralph Waldo Emerson, at Salem, the other night. ‘Men talk,’ said he, ‘of destroying John Brown; I think the Almighty created mercy as the foe of despots; and I somewhat doubt whether Virginia can annihilate mercy. (Applause) ‘Oh no,’ he continued, rising into still finer voice, ‘that oldest Abolitionist of you all, who piled the Shenandoah mountains, whose first name was Love, and his other name Justice-I think He existed before John Brown, and will probably survive him.’ (Renewed applause) I think he will. And unless you give this principle channels, it will tear the Union, Church and State, asunder. While you have a slaveholder in the Presidential chair, while you have cowards in the United States Senate, you will have John Browns at Harper’s Ferry. And he is not the last of them. You cannot control it. You must give it channels. Let me borrow again from Emerson. He told us, on this very platform, two years since, that, two hundred years ago, men said there is a devil in every tea-kettle; if you do not let him out, he will tear the house to pieces, and make an earthquake throughout the city. So men made a hole in the lid, and the devil’s stream came pouring out from every kettle. By-and-bye came a thirty genius, and he said, ‘Why waste this devil? Make him a groove-let him move in safe channels’; and the Cunarder came across the ocean, the locomotives wedded States together in a day! So men said, years ago, there is a devil down in the hearts of these ignorant millions; keep him quiet; put a bank on him, then a throne, then a Pope. By-and-bye came a thrifty man, and said, ‘Give him channels, give him the press and the ballot-box;’ and he takes up the world, and carries it along as it has never gone before.
So this Anti-Slavery movement is seeking to find channels for this anti-slavery purpose to move in. Give us the ballot-box; give us a political movement in which the self-respect of men can allow them to operate; give us a Church that represents not rascals, but Christians; give us a press that will afford expression to the ultimate wish and the entire heart of the American people; and we shall not be clumsy enough to go back to the rude, vulgar, awkward system of two hundred years ago; we have got a better. We shall abolish slavery in the swift purpose of eighteen million of thoughtful, ingenious Yankee hearts. And until you do it, the land will shake with constant convulsion. Virginia will in vain banish Helper. She will in vain fight against the multiplication table-for Helper’s books is nothing but the multiplication table printed two hundred times over. Mr. Garrison said that when the Southerners fought against Helper, they were only fighting against the multiplication table. Two and two make four-two and two make twenty-two. John Brown and his associates went down to Harper’s Ferry, and made a good deal of the multiplication table. Oh, no, the South understands this question fully as well as we do. She does not need enlightenment, as the North does. The reason why we criticize, as Mr. Martin excepts to our doing, the religious and political machinery of our country, is because we mean to have both. We mean to have a party outside and above the Constitution, that writes Liberty on its banner, and the use of all means that God and nature put into our hands to achieve it. We mean to have a Church that reads the Sermon on the Mount, and endeavors to practise it, knowing no races, no castes, no conditions, but believing, with the Declaration of Independence, that all men are created equal. And until we gain those two channels of natural, legitimate, usual Saxon work, the land will shake with that outside agitation-the bees rushing to and fro, until the queen bee is found - the nations striking and clashing against each other like frigates in a storm, until the battle is fixed, and the thunder begins to rattle from one side to the other of the marshaled hosts. (Applause) We are coming to that period. The South sees her danger in Harper’s Ferry. She knows that the ground-tier is reached; she knows that the whole mass of Northern mind is, at last, roused to the trial. I rejoice in insurrection for that very reason-not that it will ever achieve emancipation, not that the Negro will ever be competent to an organization of arms that shall defeat this Federal Government; but the moment the Carolinians know that the spirit of insurrection-in other words, the manhood of the slave-is so awake that they must remain in perpetual conflict in order to keep the slave quiet, that moment they part from the system. The thunder-clouds are on either side of the heavens. The manhood of the slave is the black, overhanging heavens of the Carolinas. The roused religious conscience of the North is the other cloud, such as, in Milton’s picture, overhangs the Caspian. Jon Brown came near being the electric spark that was to melt them together, Another such may come;
<c05>
and, in the conflict, the Bastile which we have attacked for half a century will come down in an hour. (Applause) But it will come down not by resistance on the part of the slave; no, it will go down by Virginia, at the door of the United States treasury, saying, ‘Harper’s Ferry is too real a danger; how much will you pay me to be honest? (Laughter) I have faced John Brown three times; save me from the fourth, and give me compensation.’
That might have been saved to the honor of our nation, if a heart had been seated in the United States Senate. If those black brows, buried at Marshfield, had had within one tithe of that Puritanism which went with the saint of Harper’s Ferry, he might have hurled a thunderbolt from his high place in the State, which would have saved the inroad upon Virginia. That hour has passed away. Our government has not held together; the ship, which we fondly thought was so well built that it would ride out the tempest, has parted. Mere discussion has not been sufficient to put down an enormous wickedness, as it was in Great Britain. A corrupt and burdened monarchy did more than a Republic, fresh from its cradle; for the aristocracy of Great Britain, with its debt and its Church, its nobles and its ignorant masses, bore up the discussion of a quarter of a century, and on the hearts of Christian men, as the result of moral agitation, wrought out the decree of immediate and unconditional emancipation. Our government, that we thought so much better in the strength of its youth in the flush of its theoretic progress, with universal suffrage, with a Protestant Church, with an equal people, has proved unequal to the discussion, and we have sunk down to the level of insurrection and rifles, blood on the plains of Kansas, and the ballot-box superseded by the camp. But there is a conservative power sufficient, still, I believe, in the eighteen millions, to drag back the maddened people to the place that becomes them in the history of nations; and we shall yet see slavery come down by the submission of thirteen States, tot the avowed and firm purpose of the Christian, aroused North. I do not believe, therefore, that our enterprise is changing in the least. It is merely passing through a new phase of its existence. We thought the evil less rooted; we supposed that it lay upon the surface, whereas it has struck its roots through the strata of a million customs; to loosen it puts at hazard Church and State alike. But we have almost brought the American people to that decision which says, ‘Government or no government, law or no law, let slavery come down! (Cheers.) Whether he broke law or violated government, God bless John Brown!’ (Renewed cheers) So says the American heart in the Northern States. The American head will soon follow; the American hand will soon begin its work, in obedience to that heart and head, and we shall see slavery the victim of its agitation, the victim of pure politics and a Christian Church. The system may be strangled, and this government, for aught I know, survive; if not in its present form, at least the fragments will come together and crystallize round a purer and better center than our fathers ever could have commanded, had they tried.

LETTER FROM MARIUS R. ROBINSON.
HUDSON, (N. Y.,) Jan. 26, 1860.
DEAR GARRISON:
Never was the conflict in New York more irrepressible than now. We have held seven Conventions in seven of the great inland cities, between Lake Erie and the Atlantic-Buffalo, Lockport, Auburn, Syracuse, Utica, Hudson, and Poughkeepsie. All, with one exception, continuing two days, and each one a triumph-filling the enemies of freedom,-priests, political demagogues, and their blind adherents,-with fear, and surprising lukewarm and timid friends with their success, and filling the few earnest, working friends we have met, in every place, with hope, courage, and a new spirit of labor. Notwithstanding the reports of the telegraph to the contrary, our meetings have been well attended. The people have heard us gladly. They have been stirred with the earnest words and radical truths of the resolutions and speeches: and many are waiting for the law, that in righteousness shall bring deliverance to the slave. This, in despite of the debauching influence of church-membership and political party relations.
Triflers have interposed with impertinent questions and heartless declamation, and earnest men with the inquiry, ‘What shall we do?’ These have produced close and earnest examination of every measure produced, especially of the claims and pretensions of Republicanism as viewed in the light of principle and the stirring events of each recurring day.
The claims of the Union were canvassed with freedom, and its instrumentality in sustaining slavery exposed, with a clearness and power that, for the time at least, seemed to enlighten the ignorant, and silence the venal and unprincipled. The wickedness of its origin, and the folly and guilt of its continuance, were pressed, and its dissolution urged by political, social and moral considerations.
Devoutly is it to be hoped that disunion sentiments may spread, despite the reckless daring and infernal consistency of O’Conor’s argument for its continuance, and equally infernal one of his more Jesuitical coadjutor, Henry Ward Beecher, in his defence of his continued support of the American Board.
Accompanying, I send the Resolutions of the Hudson meeting, which I hope you will publish.
Yours, M. R. ROBINSON.
Resolved, That in that mighty and ‘irrepressible conflict’ now waging with the powers of darkness and despotism in this nation, bravely led on by Garrison and Greeley, Phillips, Parker, Seward and Sumner, and sustained by a countless host of determined men, and women too, East, North, West and North-West, we behold a full and glorious assurance that the Millennial triumph of Freedom, and especially of deliverance to the enslaved millions on our Southern plantations, is drawing nigh, and may be even at the doors.
Resolved, That we have heard with profound satisfaction of the inflexible resolution among the chief-tains of the Republican party to adhere to all it has ever demanded on former platforms in opposition to slavery and its extension: That it must be with them, Sherman as Speaker in Congress, or no one, and Seward, or the like of him, for President at the next election, regardless of the threats or bullyings of Southern slaveholders, and their most mean and wicked allies at the North, and irrespective of all consequences to Constitution or Union.
Resolved, however, That while we rejoice in every Indication of advance in public sentiment as opposed to slavery, we cannot forget that, no matter who is President under the present Government and Union, he must be the Slave-holder and Slave-hunter General of the Nation; he must shoot down every black Washington who should strike for his freedom with the sword, and return every sable Kossuth who might take refuge from Southern tyrants on Plymouth Rock or Bunker Hill; must recognize the right of slave-holding robbers and pirates to sit as equal members and makers of the Government, and conduct his administration so as to make it the grand engine every way to crush the liberties of our now enslaved millions and their posterity.
Resolved, That the so-called governments of the slave States are but organized bands of thieves and robbers, living by plunder and piracy on the avails of unpaid and unpitying toil.
Resolved, therefore, That it is the solemn and imperative duty of the Senators and Representatives of the non-slaveholding States and Territories to return at once to their respective constituencies, and take immediate measures for the formation of a new Northern Confederacy, that shall be indeed FREE, the asylum of the oppressed of all nations, uncursed by the
<c06>
presence of slaveholders, unstained by the blood of slaves.
Resolved, That when Mr. Jefferson declared, ‘Nothing is more certainly written in the book of fate than that the slaves are to be free; not is it less certain that the two forms of society cannot be perpetuated under the same government.-
And Henry Clay, that
‘Until universal darkness shall prevail, it will be impossible to repress the sympathies and the efforts of freemen in behalf of the unhappy portion of our<illegible> who are doomed to bondage’-
And Mr. Benton, that
‘Slavery is a question of races, involving consequences which go to the extermination of one or the other’-
And the Louisville, Ky., Courier, that 
‘It will not be denied that free and slave labor are incompatible-that the white man is unwilling to labor by the side of the slave, and the slave equally averse to laboring by the side of the white man; there exists a mutual repugnancy, and it follows, of course, that the labor of Kentucky must be wholly the labor of the whites, or wholly the labor of the blacks’-
And the Richmond Enquirer, that
‘The two opposite and conflicting forms of society cannot, among civilized men, co-exist and<illegible>. The one must give way, and cease to exist-the other become universal’-
And Wm. Seward, that
‘The collision between the two systems of labor in the United States is an irrepressible conflict between opposing and enduring forces’-
they did but echo in these declarations the voice and decree of the Eternal God, that between Slavery and Liberty, there can be and shall be no concord; but everlasting separation, wide as the difference between heaven and hell.
Resolved, That we have read without surprise the Message of Gov. Letcher of Virginia, to the Legislature of that State, in which he insolently and insultingly recommends that ‘two most experienced statesmen be appointed to visit the Legislatures of those States which have passed laws to obstruct the execution of the Fugitive Slave Law, and insist, in the name of Virginia, upon their unconditional repeal.’
Resolved, However, that we trust our Legislature will deem such a threat, from such a source, a strong reason for hastening the enactment of a law that will preserve the State of New York, effectually and forever, from the prowling ravages of the kidnapper and slave-hunter.
Resolved, That of all insulting Mockeries and blasting Burlesques ever known, that which is called the American Union is the most monstrous and overwhelming. When the Federal and State authorities are in constant collision; when the mails from the Northern are ruthlessly robbed by the Southern States; when, week after week, month upon month, not enough of union and harmony can be found to organize a branch of Congress, by choice of a presiding officer; when members of that body absolutely carry concealed weapons to defend themselves against each other; when brawlings, bullyings, or blackguardings are the burden of their debates; when, in the Southern States, threats of civil war are heard among Governors, and preparations are making for it in their Legislatures should a Northern President be elected; and when the people in those States are outraging in every way-by scourgings, by tarring and featherings, imprisonings, banishments, and sometimes death, the most inoffensive persons, both men and women, white as well as black, on the slightest suspicion that they are friends of the oppressed; to call this condition of things a Union is to outrage beyond possible endurance all the common sense of creation. And the only relief in enduring a confederacy at once so devilish and disgraceful, is the hope that God, or some other power, will ere long dash it in pieces like a potter’s vessel.

30,000 COPIES
SOLD IN ADVANCE OF PUBLICATION.
The only Genuine and Reliable Biography, authorized by, and for the Benefit of the Family.

THE LIFE OF
CAPT. JOHN BROWN,
BY JAMES REDPATH.
With an uto-Biography of his Childhood and Youth.
In one elegant volume of 408 pages, printed on superb paper, and handsomely bound in gilt cloth, fully illustrated, and embellished with a
MAGNIFICENT STEEL ENGRAVED PORTRAIT
OF THE GLORIOUS OLD MAN.
A large percentage on every copy sold is secured by contract to the family of John brown, and this work is published under their sanction and approval, as may be seen by the following letters:-
Extract from a letter of Mary A. Brown, widow of Capt. John Brown.
NOTRH ELBA, December, 1859.
MESSRS. THAYER & ELDRIDGE:
DEAR FRIENDS-I am satisfied that Mr. Redpath is THE man to write the life of my beloved husband, as he was personally acquainted with him, and I think will do him justice. * * I think that the Portrait is a very good one.
Yours, respectfully,

MARY A BROWN.
Letter from Salmon Brown, son of Capt. John Brown.
NORTH ELBA, December, 1859.
MESSRS. THAYER & ELDRIDGE:
DEAR SIRS-I was somewhat acquainted with James Redpath in Kansas. I am also familiar with his writings, and I consider him an able biographer, and THE MAN ABOVE ALL OTHERS to write the life of my beloved father. I believe him to be a man of undoubted veracity, and fully believe he will do justice to the work he has undertaken.
Yours, respectfully,
SALMON BROWN.
Copies of this book will be furnished to any address, postage paid, on the remittance of $1, and 21 cents in stamps.
THAYER & ELDRIDGE, PUBLISHERS,
114 and 116, Washington street, Boston.
Jan. 20.

CHARLES HAZELTINE,
PIANO-FORTE TUNER
AND
REPAIRER.
Orders may be left at Russell & Tollman’s 221 Washington street, and at the Neponset Post-Office.
Mr. H. has permission to refer to Thomas Ryan, Wulf Fries, and their fellow-members of the Mendelssohn Quintette Club: also, to Woodward & Brown, and Wm. Bourne, Piano-Forte makers; B. F. Baker, and W. R. Babcock.
Nov. 4.  6m

RESISTANCE TO SLAVEHOLDERS!
THIS day published, a pamphlet of 36 pages, entitled-
THE NATICK RESOLUTION;OR,
Resistance to Slaveholders the Right and Duty of the Southern Salve and Northern Freemen.
BY HENRY C. WRIGHT.
“RESISTANCE TO TYRANTS IS OBEDIENCE TO GOD.”
Price, 10 cents. To be had at Bela Marsh’s 14 Bromfield street, Boston, and at the Liberator office 21 Cornhill.
Boston, Jan. 11.
