THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID.) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents is three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL XXXV. NO.12. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1781.
<c01>
Selections. 
MR. GARRISON.
The statement has been made that Mr. Garrison intends to stop the publication of the Liberator at the close the present year, because he believes that, slavery being substantially broken down, the end for which it was established and has been published is accomplished, and there is no fort her occasion for its appearance. We know not how much truth there is in the statement, or whether, if it be true, the motives of Mr. Garrison are correctly given; but it is the truth that Mr. Garrison has done his work, and so well, too, that no other American can be named as his equal in success. Failure is associated with the names of almost all eminent Americans whose public career began in this century. Clay, Calhoun, Webster, Van Buren, down on the political course, and failed to win the prize for which they panted, and labored, and sinned. They had their share of worldly success, each of them, but they failed to win the great object of their hopes, either wholly or in part. Not so Mr. Garrison. The end at which he aimed, though a far more difficult one to obtain than their’s, and apparently unapproachable, has been gained, and the victory he has won has changed the destiny of the American nation. Even those who most regret his success, and who believe the ultimate effect thereof is to be bad, will not venture to deny that he has been successful, and that that has been done, which, but five years since, it would have been deemed proof of a man’s insanity had he placed it in the list of possible things.
Mr. Garrison’s labors in the anti-slavery cause date from a very early period of his life; and already he was known as a strong writer in behalf of Liberator, at the beginning of 1831. at that time, there was but little sympathy with the slave in any part of the United States. At the North, slavery was not liked, but the people has no wish to “meddle with it,” and quite as little wish to be reminded of their sin in upholding it, and in maintaining the domestic slave-trade, which was even more odious than the African slave-trade, inasmuch as those who carried on the latter did not celebrate the Fourth of July, or annually and solemnly declare their belief in the natural equality of mankind. We had declared the African slave-trade to be piracy; and as we upheld the domestic trade in slaves, and would have hanged as pirates any body of men who should have seized one of our slave craft on the high seas, as she was sailing (say) from Norfolk to New Orleans, it followed that we did in fact add hypocrisy to piracy in our own practice. These things the country did not wish to hear mentioned, because no people likes to be reminded of its disregard of principle. Then the interests of the country were supposed to be indissolubly connected with the existing order of things, and to disturb slavery was to enter upon one of those social and political contests fear of the occurrence of which has led some of the most enlightened nations of Europe to submit to despotic rule. Here the Black Spectre. Socialism did not more alarm the “respectable classes” of Europe than the discussion of slavery alarmed the “respectable classes” of America. When Mr. Garrison began his labors in Boston, he showed almost as much of hardihood as Martin Luther displayed when he denounced the Papacy.
The first effect of Mr. Garrison’s action was to place him in great danger. Not only was he denounced here, as an agitator and an incendiary, but a price was placed on his head by Southern “fanatics,” and the Georgia Legislature offered a large reward for his arrest and conviction. He was threatened with assassination, and the suppression of his journal was eagerly sought. Socially he was a Pariah. But nothing that could be done availed to cool his zeal or lessen his labors. At last, the mob spirit was evoked, under the patronage of “gentlemen of property and standing,”—and it is only when mobs are thus called into being, and thus led, that they are systematically dangerous. Mobs were hurled against the abolitionists in many places, and they were peculiarly strong and savage in the city of New York, one of the chief leaders of the respectable rabble being a famous whig editor,—he had ratted from the democrats, who said the United States Bank had bought him with a price,—and now he holds one of the most respectatble of diplomatic posts under the Lincoln government, so much has the world changed. In Boston, the respectabilities mobbed anti-slavery women, and Mr. Garrison was saved from that lynching process which settles so many controversies, only by being committed to prison as an incendiary. The contempt that was felt for him, mingled though it was with red hot wrath, had earlier been expressed by Mr. H. G. Otis, then our Mayor, in words that read strangely enough by the lurid light that comes from the flames of the secession war. It was toward the close of 1835, that the mob got the upper hand here, and Mr. Garrison had to leave the city for a short time. He did not, however, intermit his labors, but pursued them as determinedly as ever. Gradually the anti-slavery sentiment gained ground, and began to influence the action of political parties, though Mr. Garrison and the abolitionists proper, as a rule, were always opposed to political action. The Liberty party was the legitimate effect of the abolition movement, which owed its origin to Mr. Garrison. That “Party,” though it cast but a small vote in 1840, was able, in 1844, to determine the event of the Presidential election. It then threw about 60,000 votes, and enough of these were cast in New York, taken from the whig party, to insure the State’s electoral vote for Mr. Polk, whereby Mr. Clay was defeated. This was the first clear political effect of Mr. Garrison’s labors. In 1848, the Free Soil Party came into existence, and its action was sufficient to decide the result of the Presidential conflict of that year. It took Ohio from the whigs, which so far favored the democrats; but then it took New York and Pennsylvania from the democrats, and so secured the election of the whig candidate, Gen. Taylor. The Mexican war by increasing our territory, had revived the question of slavery-extension in full force, which could not have happened had not the labors of the abolitionists educated the public mind to some sense of its duties in relation to slavery; and the abolitionists owed their power to act on the public mind to the exertions of Mr. Garrison. In 1852, the Free Soil Party fell away one-half the effect of that reaction which ever dogs a period of high excitement; and had the democrats behaved prudently, it is probable that Mr. Garrison’s principles would not have made much further progress in our time. But the repeal of the Missouri Compromise, and the odious Kansas policy of the Pierce administration, showed that Mr. Garrison and his immediate, supporters had taken the right view of things; and the Republican party, which was founded on an anti-slavery basis, proved powerful enough at the election of 1856 to carry 
<c02>
eleven States, casting 113 electoral votes, chosen by upward of 1,300,000 voters. In 1860, the Republican party triumphed at the Presidential election, which, however, it could not have done if the democratic party had not, under the dominance of Southern secessionists, put two candidates in the field. The anti-slavery principle was not at first fully recognized by the victors, out in September, 1862, the issuing of the emancipation proclamation virtually ranged the nation and the government under that banner which Mr. Garrison had unfurled at the close of the preceding generation, and for unfurling which he had been denounced, mobbed, all but starved, placed tinder the ban of opinion, threatened with assassination, and regarded as the common enemy of social order. His triumph was as complete as it was unique. It was such as no other American had ever won, such as no other American, it is probable, will ever win again. In thirty years, the man who had been outlawed, as it were, and whom all great parties had shunned as if he were a moral plague-bearer, was virtually law-giver at Washington, the inspirer of Presidential policy, the framer of the mode according to which the greatest civil war of modern times was to be carried on! History presents few spectacles of this kind, and the number thereof is not likely to be much increased hereafter. Circumstances, it must be allowed, favored the application of the Garrisonian principle to practical politics, for if the Southrons had not been mad they never would have so acted as to make abolitionists of two-thirds of the loyal people of the country; and had they not so acted, it would not have been possible for any President of the United States to be band-and-glove with William Lloyd Garrison. The abolition reformer needed a place whereon to stand whence to move the American world as he desired it should be moved,—and what he could not get for himself, nor any of his friends procure for him, was, to the astonishment of mankind, furnished by the slaveholders themselves. But this detracts nothing from Mr. Garrison’s merit. All men who have broadly influenced affairs and controlled events have been favored by circumstances, or they never would have been heard of. Had not circumstances, often apparently of a disastrous nature, favored Cromwell, the’ great Protector would have remained as unknown as any “village Hampden” whose fame never got beyond his village. Had not circumstances favored their exhibition, the world never would heard of the virtues and talents of Washington. The very name of Napoleon would have remained unknown had the French Revolution been postponed for twenty years. Andrew Jackson would have been remembered only as a good fighter of Indians, had the English directed their last invasion of America to some point distant from the Southwest Great men are those who have so acted, or possess such talents, as make those circumstances their slaves which are common men’s masters. To the small list of such men Mr. Garrison belongs, and his place on it is a high one.
Mr. Garrison bears well the honors which he has won well. Men who have called him a fanatic, honestly believing him to be one, are surprised to find that, though firm as ever, he is moderate, and that he makes the fullest allowance for the difficulties of practical statesmanship. He does not sacrifice principle to expediency, but he sees that slavery is doomed to rapid extinction, because the slaveocracy are beaten in war, and therefore he is satisfied. The end he so long labored to bring about is in course of perfect accomplishment, and he is too well pleased with what is passing to waste his time and his words in making waspish remarks on the manner of preceding, or in censuring the actions of men who are striving as rapidly as possible to execute that sentence of death which has been pronounced against slavery. He vigorously supports the federal government, because he sees that it is fighting against slavery, as formerly he vigorously opposed it, because it fought for slavery. His position is as honorable as his conduct is honest and consistent, and such as should be pursued by a man who has done great things, and who has gained a great place in history.—Boston Traveller.

LETTER FEOM MRS. L M. CHILD.
WAYLAND, March 7, 1865.
To the Editor of the Independent:
Your letter, my highly appreciated young friend, did not reach me until I saw it in the Liberator. I did not see any of the Committee till the evening of the anniversary, and, amid the crowd and hurry, various letters addressed to me passed into other hands, and were sent to the printing office.
I have followed you with lively interest in your journey to the far West, and have been rejoiced to see yon scattering the seed of the truth far and wide; especially on the suffrage question. In every point of view, it is an all-important question. In the first place, it is right and just that no man should be excluded from voting on account of his complexion. In the second place, the establishment of reading and writing as the only criterion will be a powerful impulse to the acquisition of knowledge. In the third place, it will be the most effectual, if not the only, way to deprive pro-slavery voters of dangerous power. In the fourth place, we need the votes of all our native-born citizens to balance the masses of foreign population. For twenty-five years past, have maintained that no man ought to be allowed to vote unless he knew how to read and write. There is nothing arbitrary or tyrannical in this restriction, for the qualification is one which every man can acquire; and obviously it is a safeguard to our institutions., that men who are entrusted with power to vote them down should first have the means of obtaining information concerning them. We have had severe and salutary experience on this point; for it was a mass of ignorance, wielded by artful and unprincipled politicians, themselves wielded by the slave-holding oligarchy, which came so near overthrowing our free institutions; so near, that only by this bloody strife could they be rescued from destruction.
It seems as if the end of this physical warfare was rapidly approaching; but we must all remember that the cessation of military hostilities is but the beginning of the great moral work that is to be accomplished. The disappointed and malignant slaveholders will doubtless enact the part of Cain, as they did in Jamaica. They will do all they possibly can to discourage and harass the emancipated laborers. They will exert all their power and all their cunning to make the system of free labor work badly, and then they will cry exultingly, “Behold the effects of emancipation!” Mattie Griffith, who is now in Georgetown, D. C, writes to me that the colored people are shamefully treated by their former owners. It is well that the anti-slavery societies should disband as soon as their work is completed; but they ought to reorganize as protection societies. The newly-emancipated will need vigilant watchmen on the towers for one generation more, at least.
Yet what a wonderful change has been wrought! Though everybody says it, I cannot help repeating, What a wonderful change! If you would measure the progress, read Abraham Lincoln’s first inaugural
<c03>
and his last. How concise and significant, how fall of wisdom and moral power, is that last brief address to the people! I have found a great deal of fault with President Lincoln, but, I must say, he has continually grown upon my respect and confidence. He is evidently a sensible, an honest, and a kind-hearted man. I regard it as one of the best auguries for the American people that they had the good sense to stand by him at this important crisis. It was the triumph of free schools.
Yet it is well that there are sharp critics watching him; for his good-nature and love of peace may lead him into snares. And this pro-slavery devil, after he has come out, with such terrible rending and tearing, will assume all manner of Protean shapes for mischief. He will squat like a toad, twist like a snake, and coo like a dove.
Fortunately, Charles Sumner carries Ithuriel’s spear, and will detect him in all disguises. Beyond all statesmen in this country, or any other, I honor Charles Sumner. His intellectual ability, great as it is, constitutes his smallest claim to our respect and admiration. The wonderful clearness of his moral perceptions is what I mainly reverence in his character. He sees truth in the sunlight of conscience, and steers toward it in as straight a line as the bee goes to her hive. He had no need of learning that “a straight line is the shortest in morals, as in mathematics,” for he was born with an intuitive perception of it. Men call this fearless reliance upon principles a want of statesmanship: but it is, in fact, the highest statesmanship; a kind that would render diplomacy as useless as a dark lantern in the day-time. I think Charles Sumner is fully appreciated only by his enemies. They show their estimate of his power by the intensity of their hatred. How ably, how perseveringly, he has worked for freedom during the fourteen years he has been in the Senate! Coaxed, threatened, abused, ridiculed, half-assassinated, he has never deviated from his straightforward, manly course; though he has many times been but feebly sustained by political friends, and unjustly censured by radical abolitionists. Some say he hates slaveholders on account of the cruel outrage they perpetrated upon him. That he hates slavery with unmitigated hatred is doubtless true; but that it is the institution, not the men, is evident from his pica for humane treatment toward those who become our prisoners. I expected such utterance from Charles Sumner, and no good that I ever expected of him has failed to come. Even Butler, of South Carolina, could not help saying, a short time before he died, “I respect Charles Sumner”; adding, in characteristic Southern style, “and be is a devil of a scholar.”
You see that the steps of the auction-block in Charleston have been brought to Boston for exhibition. It is not inappropriate; for many of our politicians have been sold in the auctions of the South. I wish they had brought the block itself. It would be a most appropriate pedestal for Daniel Webster’s statue; which looks, by the way, very much like an ill-dressed negro.
How impressive is that portion of the President’s inaugural, where he says that every drop of blood drawn by the lash has been repaid by drops drawn by the sword! During the progress of the war, I have often been struck with the tact, that the same measure we have meted out has been measured unto us. The poor slaves had their children shot down, whipped to death, and torn from them to die afar off, and we heard of it with languid indifference, or had no execrations to bestow, except upon those who told of such deeds. They died by slow starvation, and we heeded it not. They were torn by bloodhounds, and we would not believe that Southern I gentlemen could train ferocious brutes for such a purpose. And lo! we learn it all now, in the terrible school of experience. Slavery tears our children from us, to die far away from us; she starves them to skeletons; she tracks their flight with fierce bloodhounds. And, to complete the lesson, the poor, abused negro, whom we have helped to abuse, hides them, and feeds them, and guides them to their friends. It seems to me that never, in human history, was the Divine Hand so plainly visible.
Yours most cordially,
L. MARIA CHILD.

CELEBRATION OF THE ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN THE UNITED STATES.
Yesterday evening, a large party assembled at the Trevelyan Temperance Hotel, at the invitation of the executive of the Union and Emancipation Society, to “celebrate the passing of the anti-slavery amendment of the United States Constitution.” An elegant tea was provided in” the restaurant of the hotel, which was beautifully decorated with flowers and plants. Mr. F. Tayler (vice president) presided, and there were also present Mr. S. Pope, Mr. J. H. Estcourt, Mr. J. Galloway, the Rev. T. G. Lee, Councillors Butterworth, Booth, T. Warburton, and Barber, (Stockport,) Mr. T. Emmot, Mr. D. Thomas, Mr. D. Duncan, Mr. T. R. Willkinson, Mr. W. Johnson, Mr. W. Morris, Mr. A. E. Eccles, Mr. J. H. Barker, Mr. H. Morgan, Mr. E. Hooson, &c, and a large number of ladies.
The CHAIRMAN, who was received with applause, congratulated the meeting upon the occasion which had called them together, which was the second anniversary of the formation of the Union and Emancipation Society. Two years ago, he said, the press in this country which sympathized with the Southern States had so far succeeded in misrepresenting the cause of the rebellion, and in throwing dust in the eyes of the people of this country, that a strong pro-slavery feeling pervaded the ruling classes, and a large proportion of the middle classes. At that juncture, the Union and Emancipation Society stepped in for the purpose of spreading sound information as to the real cause of the rebellion, and the points really at issue between the North and South. Since then, three hundred meetings had been held, and nearly 600,000 pamphlets of various kinds had been scattered broadcast over the country. All must admit that a very great change had taken place in public feeling during the past two years, and the association whose anniversary they were celebrating bad had a large share in producing the alteration. (Applause.) The attitude of the population of this district, through the period of distress, showed now true they had been to their principles, by refusing to be coaxed or cajoled into the expression of a sympathy with the South. One of the local papers {The Examiner and Times)—which, upon almost all subjects, was in the very vanguard of Liberalism, but which, unfortunately, upon this particular question, had some peculiar idiosyncracies difficult to explain—in a discussion, a few weeks ago, with a learned professor, (Professor Goldwin Smith,) took the ground that the right of secession was involved in the doctrine of State rights. He (Mr. Taylor) was not going to discuss the doctrine of State rights; suffice it to say, there was no considerable party in the United States that had ever questioned the doctrine, when it was properly understood; and it was equally true there was no great party in the United Slates that had ever drawn the inference from it of the right of secession. On the
<c04>
contrary, every party in the United States had, in terms, protested against the right of secession, (Hear, hear.) So far back as 1814, when some of the more earnest Northern politicians were giving the alarm respecting the extension of Southern territory, the question of secession was broached, and the South at once taking up the question, the celebrated Hartford Convention met. In that Convention, every Southern State, including South Carolina, the mother of the present rebellion, was represented, and the Richmond Enquirer wrote as follows:—
“No man, no association of men, no State or set of States, has a right to withdraw itself from the Union, of its own account. The same power that knit us together can unknit. The same formality which formed the links of the Union is necessary to dissolve it. The majority of the States which formed the Union must consent to the withdrawal of any branch of it. Until that consent has been obtained, any attempt to dissolve the Union, or distract the efficacy of the taws, is treason—treason to all intents and purposes.”
That was the doctrine preached to-day by the Northern statesmen, and by the Union and Emancipation Society; and he commended that extract to their friend who presided over the paper to which reference had been made, when that gentleman next wrote upon State rights and secession. (Hear, hear, and laughter.) As the end was evidently drawing nigh, and they would soon be called upon to celebrate the final triumph, (loud applause,) let them, in the hour of victory, remember the generosity which became all those who were engaged on the winning side, and be lenient towards those who had gone astray upon this question. Let the way be. smoothed for the return of such, and let not a course be taken which should finally estrange them from the liberal party in this country. (Loud applause.)
Mr. BARKER, one of the honorary secretaries, read a report, of which we make extracts:—
“Since 1863, upwards of three hundred public meetings have been held, besides one Hundred and forty other meetings for general and special business; and about 566,000 documents, tracts, pamphlets, and books have been published and circulated throughout the kingdom. The strength of the parent society has been consolidated by the formation of about fifty auxiliary societies, which the executive have found sources of much satisfaction, enabling them to come into close contact with the surrounding districts, of which the auxiliaries formed the centres, and being also the best means whereby the works of the association could be distributed, correspondence maintained, and the general utility of its agencies promoted. The executive have the satisfaction of stating that the efforts of certain members in both Houses of Parliament to obtain from this country a recognition or intervention! on behalf of the slaveholders’ proposed empire have signally failed, and they believe that the many memorials presented by them against such propositions have had some share in effecting such results. The Executive cannot but appreciate the friendly manner in which Anglo-American questions in the critical times of the rebellion have been discussed by the Secretary of State for Foreign Attain, Earl Russell, and the United States minister, the Honorable Charles Francis Adams; and they feel it a duty to express the opinion, that the firm but conciliatory mode by which the United States legation has fulfilled its difficult and important mission, together with the high character of the minister, and the personal esteem entertained towards himself and his efficient secretary have mainly contributed to that amity between the two nations which happily is now so well and firmly established. The executive have presented congratulatory addresses to the American people through their President, Abraham Lincoln, on the great triumph they achieved on the 8th of November, when they declared the nation should live and the people should be free; also, on several other occasions, when the event justified the executive in sneaking to them on your behalf. An address was also presented to General Garibaldi, as a true friend to liberty, who in response thereto, expressed his emphatic approval of and sympathy with the objects this association sought to accomplish. In conclusion, the executive desire to make a special recognition of the munificent donations of pamphlets, &c., by their president, Thomas Bailey Potter, Esq., for which, in addition to his large subscription, they record their thanks, and trust that he will continue to fill his honorable position until the labors of the executive cease to be required.
Mr. J. H. ESTCOURT moved the following resolution:—
That this meeting, in receiving the summary of the report of the Union and Emancipation Society, joyfully recognizes the fact of the adoption by the Congress of the United States of an amendment to the Federal Constitution, for the abolition and prohibition of slavery throughout the Union, believing that, ere long, every loyal State will approve and ratify that wise and just resolution, thereby striking the death-blow to the slave power, by removing from the Republic the virus of social corruption and political antagonism which has been the source of sectional strife, and national disaster.
In the course of a very eloquent address, the speaker said the amendment of the American Constitution, which the meeting was called to celebrate, was an event the like of which had not occurred during the last century, as regarded its bearing upon the present or upon the future of the world’s history. This amendment would give liberty not only to four millions of black men, but to thirty millions of white men, upon the American continent. Royalty had left us legacies, few of which had been at all beneficial to the community to whom they had been led. One of these legacies was the American slave system. Queen Elizabeth was part proprietor of the first slave-ship ever manned by an English crew to carry slaves from Africa to America. That kind of thing was continued by the notorious Charles II, and James II., and the latter, while Duke of York, was the head of a company trading to America with African slaves. Now we were going to throw back into the great past, to mingle with the dust of the royalty that bestowed it upon England and America and the world, the accursed crime of slavery, for the perpetuation of which we had been for so many years heaping upon the Americans scorn and contumely. (Applause.) When the republic was formed, it was thought by some that in process of time, slavery would die out; but it was found that as soon as an evil began to be a paying evil, it became a seeming good, (laughter;) and in our own enlightened times, a farther step was reached—it had become a divine and benign institution, bad sought the protection of the law, had obtained increased territorial area by compromise, by war, and by purchase; and in 1860, it demanded of the American people that this “divine institution ” should be nationalized. (Applause.) The people of the free States had endured that slave power long enough; they had been groaning under its yoke; and so refused the demand. (Applause.)
After a warm tribute to the efforts of William Lloyd Garrison, which was loudly applauded, the speaker described the history of the abolition movement in America, until 1864, when he said the people took their stand for union and emancipation. The rainbow which stretched from the Pacific to the Atlantic before the rebellion, and that had been clouded out from the visions of thousands during the
<c05>
war, would, when not one stone of the crumbling edifice of slavery was left upon another, once again be clear; and high in the heavens all people should see the signs or the times that would come when the republic would prove to be not a babble to burst, but when the slave power should be a babble that had burst, leaving at the end of the rainbow self-made rights, free men and free soil, with all the blessings of happiness and peace. (Loud applause.)
Mr. S. Pope, in seconding the resolution, said the history of the last two years in America must have presented many points of interest to the historical student. It was curious to remark how the inexorable logic of events had falsified all the predictions of political quidnunces in this country, and had gradually changed the convictions of lukewarm politicians on the other side of the Atlantic. While the operations of such associations as the Union and Emancipation Society had crushed out to a large extent the slavery sympathy which was lingering in “the Conservative reaction “of this country, the success which had attended the Federal arms had in like manner annihilated the hopes of the Democratic party in the United States. (Applause.) Nothing which bad happened in our memory could compare in political or legislative importance with the constitutional amendment referred to in the report. This amendment was a vastly greater political change than anything in our own constitutional struggles, since the Bill of Rights in the Revolution of 1688. Our Reform Bill, anti-slavery movements, and Catholic emancipation were as nothing compared to it. Wiped out, entirely, for ever wiped out from the American escutcheon, was the stain which had hitherto disfigured it. Whether the South were sympathized with or execrated, the right term to apply to the proceedings of the South must necessarily be rebellion. (Applause.) But this was a question entirely distinct from the question whether the cause of the quarrel was just. Out of the war undertaken for the restoration of the Union had grown gradually another question, which had ripened into the glorious development the meeting was celebrating. Now, there was a complete answer to all the insinuations that had been made from time to time. Now, it could be no longer I charged against the American government, that they would do that in hostility to the States in rebellion which they would not do for themselves; that they would confiscate property in the Sooth they would respect at home; and that they would give to the world an appearance and semblance of philanthropy, instead of its reality and substance. Now, proceeding under constitutional forms (the Houses of Congress having adopted a constitutional amendment prohibiting slavery throughout the United States,) the question stood no longer as a war measure, but as an act of the Constitution rendering slavery impossible in the territory over which government had sway. (Applause.) The result must be that union would be restored, but it never could be the Union as it was. It never could be the Union with slavery. The danger which all along had secretly tormented many Northern sympathizers in England, had been a fear lest the South succumbing, some compromise should be effected by which the Union might be established, with the curse of slavery attaching to it. But, thank God, under this constitutional amendment, no such compromise was now possible. (Loud applause.) The Union must be restored. Anybody who could judge passing events, and who could estimate military successes without looking through the spectacles of his own prejudices, and imagining things were as he wished them to be, must see perfectly well that before long final success must of necessity crown the efforts of the Federal arms. (Loud applause.) It therefore was of the most vital importance, not merely to the American people, but to the people of Europe at large, that the upholders of the Northern cause here should rejoice, and sustain, and thankfully acknowledge the efforts of the American politicians who had brought about this great and lasting triumph. (Applause.) It was a complete and absolute answer to all the taunts hitherto addressed to them. It was a complete and absolute answer to that flimsy pretext made by those who secretly sympathized with the Southern policy, that after all, the North was not much better than the South in respect of slavery, for that although the Southerners had slaves, they treated the negro better than the Northerners, and that although the North hated slavery politically, it hated the negro personally more. All that kind of stuff was now answered. (Applause.) It was some-thing to find a black lawyer admitted to plead before the Supreme Court; to read of a black minister of religion preaching a sermon before the American House of Representatives; to hear of a State legislature talking of an enactment which should prohibit any distinctions and assemblages between persons of one color and another. (Applause.) All this plainly indicated that the growth of public sentiment in America was now in the right direction, and that out of American troubles might grow, not merely a healthier state of feeling in Europe upon the slave question, but among the Northern people themselves. Undoubtedly, it was a fearful price which the world had to pay for these advantages; but, looking at the glorious results, one could almost believe that no price could be too great to pay. And just as upon our own battle-fields in this country the wayfarer saw the smiling crops of golden grain, and knew nothing of the terrible history of the past excepting as it might be revealed by the records which the ploughshare turned up in the pursuit of industry, just so let us hope, that from the blood-stained fields of America might spring up a rich harvest of freedom and liberty to the whole human race, without distinction of country, creed, or color. (Loud applause.)
The resolution having been supported by Mr. Mackie, of Washington, was carried unanimously.
The following resolution was then moved by Mr. E. Hooson, seconded by Mr. Emmot, supported by Mr. J. C. Edwards and Mr. Barber, and carried unanimously:—
That this meeting affectionately and fraternally congratulates the colored people of America on the progress of emancipation. Since the election of Abraham Lincoln, more especially since the proclamation of January 1st, 1863, fully believing that the amendment of the American Constitution will not only lift their long oppressed and despised race from a condition of chattlehood, but will ultimately confer upon them all the rights, privileges and blessings of social freedom and political equality.
The chair having been taken by Mr. T. B. Wilkinson, a cordial vote of thanks was given to Mr. Taylor for presiding, and for his continued services in connection with the Society; and the compliment having been duly acknowledged, the proceedings were brought to a close.—Manchester Examiner and Times, March 1.
Queer, isn’t it, how sometimes things work in the world. John Brown’s daughtor is now keeping a school for negro children in the old mansion of Henry A. Wise, in Virginia.
<c06>
A GOOD WORD FROM ENGLAND.
To the Edition of tit Bottom Daily Advertiser.
I hope you will find space for the following extract from a speech made on the 24th of January by the Right Hon. T. Milner Gibson, M. P., at Ashton-under-Lyne. Mr. Gibson is a member of the English government and President of the Board of Trade, so that your readers will see we have at least one friend at court. Our community has too little opportunity to know that we have some sincere and influential English, friends; few, it is true, but all the more deserving of our gratitude. Mr. Baxter, M. P., and Mr. Forster, M. P., have lately made able defence of our Northern cause before their constituents, and as all true patriots most desire to allay the growing irritation between the countries, and promote the chances of final better understanding, I have hoped that you would be able, as you are always ready, to spread that knowledge of the truth which will be the best guaranty of a lasting peace, by printing Mr. Gibson’s expression of sympathy, and his recognition of the injustice we have suffered at his countryman’s bands.
I am, &c, A. SCBSCRIBER.
I was always astonished at the confidence with which many asserted that the Union was irrevocably gone—that America was rent in twain; and I was surprised at those who prejudged the question as to the power of the government of the United States to resist the great rebellion. I cannot see myself that the Southern Confederacy, who undertook by force of arms to cut asunder the American Republic—who undertook by force of arms to coerce the government of the United States—should be established, and have slavery as its fundamental basis. (Cheers.) They wish to establish a new edifice, of which slavery is to be the chief corner-stone. (Hear, hear.) I could not, as I have staled before, feel much sympathy for such a cause. (Hear, hear.) I feel naturally strong sympathy for nations struggling for independence—trying by, sometimes, even violent means to overthrow despotism and tyranny; but the case here is entirely different. It was the case of a number of partners in a common firm, who separated from the rest in a violent manner and without cause, and for the purpose of establishing principles which ought never to have been promulgated. The struggle between the South and the North is really a struggle between slavery and freedom. (Cheers.) And I cannot see myself that this confederacy has at present shown signs of being able to establish upon permanent foundations the empire which it has shadowed forth to the world. What is the present situation? The Border States, which formed at first a part of the territory claimed by the confederacy, are all gone. All the debatable territory in which it was a question whether there was an inclination to the South or to the North is under the control of the United States government. In point of fact, now, this great conflict seems to be sustained mainly by three States on the Eastern shore, via., North and South Carolina, and a part of Virginia. ( A voice: “They will be gone soon.”)
I was told by a person who long resided in the United States, at the very commencement of this) war, “Don’t venture upon prediction—(hear, hear) —don’t be a prophet in this matter. Neither yea nor I can tell the result of this great conflict.” And, therefore, though I am merely reciting what 1 believe to be the facts, and what I have gleaned from the information that has reached us, still I am not venturing, even now, to make a prediction; and I am here to say that her Majesty’s government are disposed now, as they have ever been, to preserve a strict and impartial neutrality. (Cheers.) There are those in this country who would stir up ill feelings between England and the United States. (Hear, hear.) There are those in the United States, also, who would stir up, no doubt, ill feelings to aids England. There are always these disturbing elements in all countries, but I am quite sere that the government of England have no other desire but to act towards the government of the United States in, to use the words of Washington, “a spirit of exalted justice.” Their desire is to cultivate with the United States friendly feelings and relations of amity, and I hope and trust and believe that the government of the United States is actuated by the same just and righteous feelings. (Hear, hear.) That there may be questions to discuss between two countries situated as we have been is very possible: but I believe these questions will be approached in a calm and dignified spirit, and will be settled not by passion but by reason. (Hear, hear.)
It is not to be wondered at that much irritation has existed in the United States at the depredations that nave been committed by armed ships which have sailed out from the ports of England. (Hear, hear.) Seeing the vast damage that these cruisers which have sailed from neutral ports have done, one must not wonder that numbers of American persons have expressed themselves in strong and passionate language on this subject, especially during the course of the civil war. But on our side it must be remembered that the government has used all the means in its power to prevent these evasions of the law, and to discover the men who are so unpatriotic as under these circumstances to endeavor to escape from and evade the law. It is the purpose of the foreign enlistment act to prevent this; because it is not to be expected that patriotic Englishmen are to endeavor or be willing to break the spirit of the law, and feel satisfied if they have contrived to keep within its letter and technicalities. (Applause.) If you build a ship in Liverpool, and send on arms from another port, and crew from another port, and all the three may meet in some place out of the United Kingdom—seeing that the whole transaction took place by prearrangement within the United Kingdom, and that there was an unlawful object pervading the whole of these transactions, I say that offence was as great as if tie ship had sailed in ail its parts from the port of Liverpool. (Cheers.)
I am only sorry that these unfortunate questions should have arisen. I am quite certain of this, that if England were at war with some foreign nation which had succeeded in carrying on an effective blockade of our ports, if there should sally forth from some neutral country cruisers to burn and destroy vessels on the high seas, I know what the feeling of this country would be. I know what the urgent remonstrances of this country would be, and therefore I call upon every just and right-minded man to consider the fair and just irritation which the conduct of these cruisers has caused in America. I trust that when this war concludes, there will be relations of permanent friendship established between the United States and England. (Hear hear.) We are natural allies. Our principles are nearer to each other than the principles of any other two countries. (Applause,) We are both in the van of liberty. If you look to the material interests of England and the material interests of the United States, it is impossible to conceive of any greater disaster in the world’s history than this, that the relations between these two countries should be.
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. … From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extent to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power…. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”—J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
uspended by any hostile or unfriendly feeling. [Cheers.] Let us hope that we are near a just and righteous settlement of this great war, and that the emancipation of the slaves will be one of its consequences. [Loud Cheers.] And that in our relations and our commerce with that country, the one may be as friendly to the other as they ought to be. Those are my cordial wishes, and I am quite certain that I am also expressing the hearty wishes of every gentleman in this great assembly (The right hon. gentleman resumed his seat amid loud and prolonged cheers.)
Mr. W. E. Whitcheem asked Mr. Gibson whether if the South undertook to abolish slavery he would acknowledge the confederacy?
Mr. Gibson declined to answer a mere supposition, and said it would be time enough to deal with the question when the South had determined to abolish slavery. [Loud cheers.]

SPEECH OE SENATOR SPRAGUE,
ON THE BILL TO ESTABLISH A FREEDMAN'S BUREAU.
I am opposed to this measure if I can procure for the colored man the elective franchise. When a man can vote, be needs no special legislation in his behalf. The Freedmen's Department, as proposed by the bill under discussion, uncoupled with the rights and privileges of freemen for the colored men, in my opinion will illustrate history in the style that the Indian Bureau illustrates the beginning and end of the Indian. Sir, I am for perpetuating all races of men.
"What a piece of work is man! How noble in reason! How infinite in faculties! In form and moving. how express and admirable! In action, how like an angel! In apprehension, how like a god!"
Sir, I am for all races of men. I do not believe that it is necessary, to secure the prosperity of one race, that another should be destroyed. I fear that the bill under discussion will destroy the negro race in this country. I know that its advocates have no such desire. Gentlemen desire to do the best that can be done for this unfortunate race. But, Mr. President, compromises of principle here, as everywhere, are dangerous. There is no necessity to compromise this question at this time. Those who advocate this bill upon humane principles should insist upon giving to this race the rights of freemen, and should never-no, never-accept anything less. Those who advocate the bill upon political theories should never consent that the only representatives of true loyalty in the South, the colored men, should be placed inside of a bureau to be cheated by the mercenary, or driven from the soil by their old masters, their most deadly enemies in all conditions except that of slavery.
If, sir, I cannot obtain for freemen the privileges of such, I will give my vote for the proposition, but I must give it under protest. I give it, believing that the death I inflict is one that is prolonged instead of instantaneous-slow torture-by voting for the proposition, ending in death, instead of instantaneous death without this bill-results that will always occur by refusing to be just. I desire that those who advocate this bill will stop here, and spend their time and talent in demanding for the negro race all the rights and privileges of freedom. Do this, and no Freedmen's Bureau is at all necessary.
To be technical, I object to the bill because it creates a Department. I desire that that feature shall be changed; and I hope that my suggestions will influence those who have charge of this bill. The Constitution of the United States permits the President of the United States to obtain, upon all questions that he may desire, opinions from the heads of Departments. You here constitute a Department of this Government, and make the head of that Department a Cabinet officer. You have one Department of Agriculture; and Senators have undoubtedly been impressed with the idea from the head of that Department of the importance of his becoming a part of the Government, of his becoming one of the Cabinet. It will not be long before the head of the Freedmen's Bureau will demand admittance under the Constitution as being one of the chief advisers of the President. I object, therefore, to the increase of Departments, upon the ground that we have Cabinet ministers sufficient to carry on the work and business of this Government.
Having made my point here in the beginning of this bill, I desire to go a step further than I am warranted. I desire to make two points: first, that the results of the present war, to be made valuable, require that those who have aided in our success should reap all the rewards of that success. No State must again be admitted into the Union that does not agree to protect those who have defended the flag, and have been loyal to the Union; because, under the amnesty proclamation, as soon as peace is declared, the rebels will resume their original power, and crush out the Union loyal men, white and black, who have been opposed to them. The only safety to the Government is, that all men who have been loyal shall have all the protection of the Union Government, and all the rights of freemen. The governments of the States in rebellion have been destroyed. There is only the record left-a record beginning in constitutional fealty, and ending in treason to the Government and solemn obligations. The amnesty proclamation requires conditions for the individual to become a citizen. All I desire is that, in admitting these States into the Electoral College, the conditions are that the State governments shall have existence only through the admitted right of the negro to a part in those governments, as being the most loyal element therein. The soldier must be protected, whether he be white or black; and because be is not able to protect himself, because all the money and privileges and influence of the world are against him, I desire his advancement and his protection.
I object to this bill because I feel that the interest both of the colored and white men will be prejudiced by influence. Let us refuse admittance to every rebel State, unless the privilege of the elective franchise is granted to the colored man. I believe the future permanency of this Government depends upon this, and I believe those who have fought this war have no safety and security without it. I am therefore opposed to this bill, because I fear the object desired by the honorable Senator from Massachusetts will not be obtained by the bill; and I hope it will be postponed.
THE INAUGURATION-PUBLIC MORALS.
The readers of the leading journals, during the last week, have not failed to notice the singular uniformity of their criticisms upon the events of the late inauguration. Many of them assumed the truth of the fictions of the New York Herald, and of other illuminated reports written under the influence of exultant political hostility. Sharing in the griefs which the alleged public dishonor of that day excited, no upright journal ventured to withstand the tide of exaggerated and unjust criticism. It seems right, before the event is wholly removed from the public consideration, to enter a protest against the prevailing spirit with which it has been discussed.
In the first place, there are no words adequate to express a proper detestation of that partisanship which could seize upon the transient infirmity of a public officer for purposes of political capital. It is less pardonable than any personal vice, because it is vindictive, and aims to destroy all confidence in the integrity of public men. It is worse than any manifestation of private malice, because it affects public interests, and touches the foundations of public trust.
The journals most zealous in this kind of warfare, have not attempted to conceal the baseness of their motives, nor the conspicuous hypocrisy with which it is accompanied. Aggravated offences by eminent men of their own political faith, continued through a long series of years, have never broken their silence or disturbed their rest. During the administration of Mr. Buchanan, they saw at least one foreign minister disabled by habitual intemperance during the greater part of his official term; but they made no alarm. During the last session of Congress, they were familiar with conspicuous and repeated instances of intoxication of democratic senators, in regard to which they preserved a kind and discreet silence. High officers in the army and in the navy have been betrayed by the same infirmity; but the instance is not on record where these swift censors of the vice president have ever arraigned a democratic officer for the shame be has inflicted upon public virtue, or for the danger and dishonor be has brought to the public service. Yet these gophers of our politics seize upon the offence of Mr. Johnson with exultation, repeat the story day after day with new exaggerations to which they give the coloring and effect of truth, and thus at once gratify political animosity and wound a good cause, whose armor has hitherto been proof against all their devices.
While we protest against this hot pursuit of a man
<c02>
who has done some service for the country, at a time when his own humiliation and self-reproach are most poignant, we will not be understood as excusing any shadow or suggestion of public dishonor. The man who consciously yields to dangerous temptation, at a moment when the confidence of the country is sacredly reposed in him, commits an irreparable error. He does a wrong not only to himself, but to every man who has believed in and trusted him. Yet it is both charitable and just, when there is no other evidence, to believe that the error was transient and exceptional, carrying with it its own corrective and retribution. There is nothing enviable in virtue so superior to sin that it can take pleasure in the needless humiliation of its victim. Where it has rescued one, its effectual animosity has banished a thousand from the way of rectitude forever,-Worcester Spy.
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 1865.
I REPEAT THE DECLARATION MADE A YEAR AGO, THAT WHILE I REMAIN IS MY POSITION, I SHALL NOT ATTEMPT TO RETRACT OF MODIFY THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION, NOR SHALL I RETURN TO SLAVERY ANY PERSON WHO IS FREE BY THE TERMS OF THAT PROCLAMATION, OR BY ANY OF THE ACTS OF CONGRESS. IF THE PEOPLE SHOULD, BY WHATEVER MODE OR MEANS, MAKE IT AN EXECUTIVE DUTY TO REENSLAVE SUCH PERSONS, ANOTHER AND NOT I, MUST BE THE INSTRUMENT TO PERFORM IT.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
OUR ANTI-SLAVERY CAREER-THE LIBERATOR.
DEAR MR. GARRISON-Will you oblige me, and waive whatever hesitancy you may feel on account of the personal allusions contained in it, by copying into the Liberator the following article from the Boston Traveller, concerning the noble cause in which you have been so long engaged, and your relations to it?-especially because I am desirous of knowing, as I think many others are, from your own pen, whether the rumor is correct, that you are contemplating a discontinuance of the Liberator at the close of the present volume. A CONSTANT READER
REMARKS. The article from the Traveller, referred to above, may be found on our first page. It is marked not only for its candor, fairness and good-will, but by a personal appreciation of our labors as generous as it is beyond our deserts. Certainly, we have had a long and severe struggle with the powers of darkness, and been sorely tried and tempted in every possible manner until Heaven has vouchsafed a glorious victory; but we have been only one of many, without whose co-operation we could have effected little or nothing, and who, if in some instances less conspicuous in the field of conflict, have labored at least as unremittedly, as courageously, as successfully as ourselves. Neither they nor we deserve any praise or consideration beyond what is fairly merited by those who are "among the faithless faithful found," who refuse to go with the multitude to do evil, whose adherence to principle and devotion to the cause of universal humanity are beyond impeachment, and who have disinterestedly sought to "deliver him that is oppressed out of the hand of the spoiler." It gives us an unspeakable joy that we are no longer an isolated body, but united with the great mass of our countrymen in declaring that the execrable system of slavery ought to be at once and forever abolished.
It is true that we have concluded to discontinue the Liberator at the close of the present year, which will complete its THIRTY-FIFTH volume. As we commenced its publication for the express purpose of effecting the extinction of slavery, and as that sublime event has been consummated by a constitutional decree of the nation, so that henceforth no slave is to be held within the domains of the American Union, it seems to us historically fitting that the Liberator should simply cover the whole period of the struggle, and terminate with it. Unless, therefore, something should occur beyond our present belief or anticipation to make it necessary to change our decision, we shall not prolong the existence of the paper beyond this YEAR OF JUBILEE; and have instructed our General Agent to take no subscription for a longer period.
This is not the occasion for us to say all that such a conclusion naturally suggests. Let it be deferred till the time is at hand. On many accounts, we shall regret to discontinue a paper which has cost us so much of trial and fiery persecution, experienced so many vicissitudes, wrought out such results, afforded us such opportunities to test the spirit of the age, attracted to its support such pure-minded and noble spirits, and absorbed the larger portion of our earthly life. But this will not necessarily sunder our connection with the press, nor prevent our publishing another journal, under a new title, and for other reformatory purposes. Whether we shall retire altogether, or commence anew in the manner suggested, we leave it for Divine Providence to determine. If nearly forty years of editorial service (begun when we were only twenty years of age) have made it "a second nature," and if we should feel out of our element divorced from that service, still, with advancing years, we confess that, "though the spirit is willing, the flesh is weak;" and that something of repose and seclusion is coveted by us, in order to recuperate both mind and body. Yet let not those whose cause we espoused when all was dark and desperate, and the whole weight of the nation was brought to crush us -in whose behalf we have perilled all that is dear to man, through a whole generation of conflict-whose chains are now happily broken, whose reproach is fast passing away, and whose future is now one of glorious promise-imagine, for one moment, that we shall ever grow weary in maintaining their rights, or consent to any abatement of their claims to "liberty, equality, fraternity." We have always made, and shall continue to make, their case our own. It was not on account of their complexion that we gave them our sympathy and advocacy, but because they were members of one great human family, endowed by their Creator with the same attributes and prerogatives, and destined to the same immortality as all other races; and, therefore, their enslavement was a blow struck at the liberties of mankind. We claimed for them, at the outset, all of justice and fair-dealing; and we have never since claimed anything less. Whoever-black or white-assumes to exceed us in this particular is guilty of effrontery and deception. We have never sought their approbation in special, though always happy to receive it. If, for the last twenty-five years, they have given the Liberator no encouragement as a class, and scarcely made even an incidental public reference to our labors to promote their freedom and elevation, this has elicited from us no complaint, and in no degree lessened our zeal to assail and denounce whatever has stood in the way of their complete enfranchisement; and if any of their number choose, at this late day, to reflect upon us as being disposed to yield up even a tittle of their just claims as men and as citizens, such baseness and ingratitude will only excite our pity. Now that the tide has turned so strongly in their favor, selfish adventurers and unprincipled demagogues will inevitably seek to turn it to account, and impudently assume to be their special friends and champions. Let them be admonished; and remember that they who were their truest, nay, their only advocates in the hour of adversity, are not likely to be less true in the hour of prosperity. Let them take care not to be hurried into any extravagance of speech or action, because they have not yet received every immunity to which they are fairly entitled. And especially let them beware bow they deal in indiscriminate denunciation of those who, whether as civil or military rulers at the South, for the time being, have an almost inconceivably difficult task to perform to bring order out of chaos, "create a soul under the ribs of death," harmonize the most discordant elements, and raise at once from the mire of slavery to the table-land of absolute justice those whose fetters have but recently been brok-
<c03>
en by the iron hand of war. If more has not been done in the right direction, let them intelligently ascertain whether more could have been done, all things considered; and let them rejoice that so much has already been accomplished, that such wonderful strides have been taken, beyond what any had good reason to expect; and keep their temper sweet, their hope bright, and in patience possess their souls. Let them not be led or represented by those who are conceited, arrogant, churlish, self-seeking, noisy, or always in a complaining mood; who grow bitter and denunciatory in proportion as rights are accorded and prejudice disappears, because the evil spirit of caste, the product of two centuries of horrible oppression, is not wholly and immediately exterminated; and who show, by their morbid sensitiveness or querulous disposition, that the whole matter is with them exclusively personal, and not one of universal justice. They can be manly, and at the same time reasonable. They can firmly demand whatever is yet wrongfully withheld from them, and still be neither factious nor insolent. They can protest against being victimized in any direction on account of their complexion, and yet be filled with thanksgiving that such mighty changes have taken place in their favor in so short a time. There is now, very generally, a deep sympathy and a warm-hearted interest in their condition as a people; and a growing purpose to make, as far as practicable, atonement for the past, and to give security for the future. What contributions are made, what labors put forth, what means of enlightenment provided, what sacrifices offered, in behalf of the millions who are coming out of the Southern house of bondage! Is not all this as wonderful as it is cause for joy and gratitude? Let there be no revulsion in this tide of benevolent feeling caused by any unseemly behavior or unreasonable fault-finding; but let it be rejoicingly taken at its flood, and accepted as the harbinger of complete enfranchisement at no distant day.
LETTER FROM MRS. L. M. CHILD.
WAYLAND, March 15,1865.
FRIEND GARRISON-Enclosed is $25 from Mr. Child and myself, for the support of the Liberator. It is but little toward paying what we owe you for being the medium of Divine Providence to bring into action the anti-slavery that was born in us.
The work for which we originally organized seems to be well nigh accomplished. But when you are no longer needed AS a Liberator, you will be needed as a Protector. The slaveholders here will doubtless behave as they did in Jamaica. They will do their utmost to make the system of free labor a failure. They will omit no opportunity to irritate, discourage, and cheat their emancipated laborers; nor will the pro-slavery portion of the North manifest a spirit more just and humane. Even those who profess to have been converted by the events of the war are many of them but half converted. They despise the colored people, and would still have them slaves, if they could. Aristocracy inevitably sympathizes with Slavery, because they are "birds of the same feather," and the same claws; and the most ferocious of all birds of prey is that aristocracy which calls itself democracy. Whatever professions are made, the fact is that the colored people will need friends and protectors to help them through this transition state more than they have needed them at any previous period. Therefore, I would have the disbanded Anti-Slavery Societies organize as Protection Societies; and I am glad to see the suggestion that protection should be extended to the Red man, as well as the Black. The wrongs we have done, and are doing, to the Indians are equalled only by the wrongs we have inflicted on the defenceless negroes.
There ought to be a moral sentiment excited throughout the land that will compel politicians to inquire into the ruthless massacres of these much-abused people. When they do inquire, facts will come to light that will shock all honest and good people, as they have been shocked to discover what has been permitted and done under the infernal system of slavery.
I agree with most of your views, friend Garrison; but I cannot accept your apology for Gen. Banks's system in Louisiana. Doubtless, there is such a thing as a wise expediency; but I deem no expediency wise which violates principles; and I cannot make the system of things introduced in Louisiana appear to my mind in any other light than a violation of principles. Toussaint resorted to similar expedients in Hayti, and therein I think he made a mistake; but at that time the capacity of the negro and his readiness to work for wages had not been tested and proved as they now are. We have no excuse for half unfettering his soul. Very likely, Gen. Banks sincerely thought he was pursuing the wisest policy, under the circumstances; but, apparently, he has never learned that "a straight line is the shortest, in morals as well as in mathematics." People with whom it is not an inborn intuition rarely do learn it. That system in Louisiana is odious to my mind. I regard it as inherently wrong, and, consequently, as a dangerous precedent. The framers of the Constitution of the United States have taught us a lesson to be remembered concerning permitting wrong to be done for a time, with the hope that it will come right in the end.
I have never seen a public document that pleased me so entirely as the President's last Inaugural. I have never seen so much truth, humane sentiment, and religious trust expressed in so few words.
Compare the last Inaugural with the first, and reverently thank God for the wonderful progress that has been made in four years!
Ever respectfully and truly your friend,
L. M. C.
With heartfelt thanks for this renewed token of personal friendship and anti-slavery co-operation from one so widely known and honored in the world of philanthropy and literature as Mrs. Child, and also from her esteemed husband,-a token that we are very reluctant to retain,-we can truly say, that if they owe anything to us as a "medium of Divine Providence to bring into action the anti-slavery that was born in them," our cause is most deeply indebted to them.
Our beloved friend Mrs. Child says she regards Gen. Banks's system in Louisiana as inherently wrong, and it is odious to her mind. We are greatly surprised at this, in view of the nature and character of the testimony we have published on this subject; yet we are glad she is disposed to admit, that, "very likely Gen. Banks sincerely thought he was pursuing the wisest policy, under the circumstances." We have no doubt of his good intentions; nor, on the whole, that he has done well and humanely by the emancipated class in that State. Below we give the additional testimony of a much-esteemed gentleman, who was connected with the experiment from the first, and yet is no partisan of the General, but actively engaged in the freedmen's cause:-
"For Gen. Banks, personally, I have the highest regard. I believe him to be an upright and true man. He conceived the Labor System with the intention of doing justice to the negro, and a brilliant thing for himself and his country. But he was hampered in every possible way. In the first place, the President himself handled those districts very gingerly, and did not see fit [at the time of issuing his Emancipation Proclamation] to disturb the status of the slave. Gen. Banks felt, therefore, that his power was very limited, and that it would not be politic to resort at once to any harsh or novel measures. In the second place, he was surrounded by men upon whose counsel, in other matters, he depended more or less, and who were most bitterly opposed to any essential change being made in the condition of the negro population. Gen. Banks is not radical by nature, but I think he is a lover of fair play. As it was, he did that for which he deserves credit He intended to do the right thing; and in all cases of ill-treatment of the negroes by their former owners, he invariably took their part, and meted out due punishment. But the pressure on the other side was so great, that the Labor System, though well con-
<c04>
ceived and well planned, was a little slipshod in its execution. My only feeling is, that the General, owing to the adverse influences surrounding him, did not do himself justice in that movement. Nevertheless, the cry against him is uncalled for and unfair; and is made by men who have no idea whatever of the amount of pressure which was brought to bear upon Headquarters. I can find it in my heart to say a great many kind things of Gen. Banks; and I can show you a letter, dated February, 1863, in which he shows a deep sympathy with the movement."
ENGLISH SYMPATHY WITH AMERICA.
The friends of the United States in Great Britain are doing what they can to arouse the sympathies of their countrymen in our favor, and counteract the influence of the emissaries of slavery and secession. The Manchester Examiner and Times of the 1st inst. reports the proceedings of a large and interesting meeting, assembled by invitation of the executive of the Union and Emancipation Society "to celebrate the passing of the Anti Slavery Amendment to the United States Constitution." Mr. F. Taylor, Vice President, presided, and on the platform were many distinguished gentlemen of Manchester and its vicinity. The Chairman congratulated the meeting upon the good omens which attended this, the second anniversary of the formation of their Society. Two years ago, he said, the press in this country which sympathized with the Southern States had so far succeeded in misrepresenting the cause of the rebellion that a strong pro-slavery feeling pervaded the ruling classes, and a large proportion of the middle classes. At that juncture the Union and Emancipation Society stepped in for the purpose of spreading sound information as to the real cause of the rebellion, and the points really at issue between the North and the South. Since then, 300 meetings had been held and nearly 600,000 pamphlets of various kinds had been scattered broadcast over the country. A very great change had taken place in public feeling, and this Association had had a large share in producing the alteration. The attitude of the population of Manchester through the period of distress which had befallen them showed how true they had been to their principles, by refusing to he coaxed into an expression of sympathy for the South. The end was evidently drawing nigh, and they would soon be called to celebrate the hour of triumph.
After a report, read by one of the Secretaries, of the year's proceedings, Mr. J. H Estcourt moved the following resolution:-
That this meeting, in receiving the summary of the report of the Union and Emancipation Society, joyfully recognizes the fact of the adoption by the Congress of the United States of an amendment to the Federal Constitution, for the abolition and prohibition of slavery throughout the Union, believing that, ere long, every loyal State will approve and ratify that wise and just resolution, thereby striking the death blow to the slave power, by removing from the Republic the virus of social corruption and political, antagonism which has been the source of sectional strife and national disaster.
In the course of a very eloquent address, the speaker said that the amendment of the American Constitution, which they were then called to celebrate, was an event the like of which had not occurred during the last century, as regarded its bearing on the present and future of the world's history. This amendment would give liberty not only to four millions of black men, but to twenty-six millions of white men, upon the American continent. After describing the successive encroachments of slavery, and giving a warm tribute to the efforts of William Lloyd Garrison, (which was loudly applauded,) the speaker described the history of the abolition movement in America until 1864, when he said the people took their stand for union and emancipation.
The resolution, having been supported by other gentlemen, was carried by an unanimous vote, after which the following resolution was adopted:
Resolved, That this meeting affectionately and fraternally congratulates the colored people of America on the progress of emancipation, since the election of Abraham Lincoln, more especially since the proclamation of January 1st, 1863, fully believing that the amendment of the American Constitution will not only lift their long oppressed and despised race from a condition of chattelhood, but will ultimately confer upon them all the rights, privileges, and blessings of social freedom and political equality.
This resolution also was unanimously carried, after being supported by able speeches.
In the same paper of an earlier date (Feb. 11) is an extended report of the proceedings of a great meeting of the supporters of the Freedmen's Aid Society, before whom an address was delivered by the Hon. E. Lyulph Stanley, son of Lord Stanley. His address, which was principally founded upon his own experience in the United States, was received with warm approbation. He expressed a hearty admiration of the Anti-Slavery movement, and pointed out the results which might be expected to flow from the American war in hastening the period of emancipation. He described the elevating effect upon the negroes of their employment to assist in fighting for the Union, and paid a high tribute of admiration to the character of Northern officers who had taken by preference the posts of command in the black brigades. Among these he mentioned Col. Shaw, who was killed near Charleston, and whose body was found covered with the dead bodies of his negroes, who had fought around him to the last. Was it a specimen of Southern chivalry when General Beauregard, in answer to the request that the body of Col. Shaw might be sent within the Federal lines for interment, contemptuously answered that "He had buried him with his negroes"? I say (said Mr. Stanley) I should have been very proud to have had such a grave as that. This expression drew forth enthusiastic and repeated cheers, the audience rising. Mr. Stanley closed with a tribute of praise to the steady integrity of the working men of Lancashire, who, in the midst of much distress, had given the strongest evidence of their devotion to the cause of freedom.
The Glasgow Herald of Feb. 22d contains a communication entitled "Glad Tidings from America," written by Arthur F. Stoddard, Esq., a native of this city, though long resident as a merchant in Glasgow. He has long been an opposer of the sympathy with slaveholders which has taken such deep root in Great Britain, and he now warmly expresses his joy and gratitude at the step of decisive progress last made by the United States, the anti-slavery amendment of the Constitution. Finding, however, little expression of these feelings among the people and the press of Scotland, he writes to urge some action in this direction. The Editor of the Herald, in a leading article, warmly seconds this suggestion, and says, after rehearsing the events of two years past which have culminated in this amendment of the Constitution-"Let us not grudge the American people the applause which is due to them. They have obtained a great moral victory, and its value both to themselves and the world is not lessened by the fact that they have attained it through a terrible agony."
Hearing and seeing so much as we do of the labors of English sympathizers with secession, we must remember that we also have active friends and co-laborers among the British people.-C. K. W.
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER for March contains eight articles, entitled as follows:-
I. The True Work and Method of the Preacher.
II. The Name and the Idea of God.
III. Giordano Bruno.
IV. King Coal and King Cotton.
V. Our Convicts.
VI. First Cycle of the History of New England.
VII. The Fourth of March.
VIII. Review of Current Literature.
Boston: Walker, Wise & Co.
The General Agent acknowledges the receipt of ten dollars as a donation to the Liberator, in February, from Assistant Surgeon Wm. H. Gray, at the Port Hospital, Newport News, Va.
<c05>
LETTER FROM F. W.CHESSON, ESQ.
LONDON, Feb. 18, 1865.
MY DEAR MR. GARRISON:
I send you a copy of The Morning Star, containing a report of a public meeting which the Freedmen's Aid Society has held in Exeter Hall. The presence in the chair of young Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton was, in itself, an interesting circumstance, and very feelingly alluded to by his relative, Hon. W. E. Forster, M. P. In the felicitious and admirable speech which the hon. gentleman delivered on the occasion. The American delegation, consisting of the Rev. D. Haynes and Levi Coffin, was enthusiastically received. As every allusion to President Lincoln or General Sherman was applauded to the echo, the meeting had its political as well as philanthropic aspect. Parties in this country may be easily defined. All the anti-slavery people, with here and there an exception, support the North; while the representatives of the old West India interests and the conservative party generally remain true to their dishonorable traditions. The whigs take a middle course, and are only waiting for the defeat of General Lee to take their place among the Federal sympathizers. My wish is to impress you with a sense of the fidelity with which the active abolitionists, as well as the liberal party generally, have upheld the cause of truth during the American war. It has been the fashion of the Times to taunt the Emancipation Society with being deserted by all the old, well remembered names. This is true of Lord Brougham, but not of Dr. Lushington. Several of the Buxtons, the Gurneys, the Croppers, and the Hughes have avowed their sympathy with the Northern cause; and I am happy to learn from Professor Newman, that Mr. Henry Wilberforce, the younger son of the great philanthropist, is most earnest in his advocacy of sound views on the American question, and feels deeply the dishonor which some of his countrymen have put upon themselves by their pro-southern sentiments.
There is one other subject to which I wish to call your attention. It is the remarkable progress which Hayti is making under the enlightened rule of President Geffrard. The present excellent charge d' affaires in London-M. Granville by name-has recently put into my hands some statistics which speak for themselves. In thirty years the tonnage of the ships in Haytian ports has trebled, and the imports and exports have doubled; cotton is now cultivated in every part of the country; a complete postal system has been established, and a line of steamers keep up a regular communication between every port of importance on the coast. The revenue in 1863 amounted to £680,000, being £40,000 more than in the previous year, and the highest yet attained. The education of the people is as much cared for as the collection of the revenue; and I am glad to learn that, in addition to common schools established in every parish, the State supports colleges, and schools of painting, music, and medicine. While the pseudo philosophers of our anthropologist society are puzzling their contracted brains over the conformation of the African's skull, President Geffrard and his colleagues (chief among whom is that admirable statesman, General Dupuy) are successfully solving the problem of "the negro's place in nature," after a very different fashion. I hope the time will come when the whole of the West India islands will be ruled by a strong negro government; and when Great Britain will have the wisdom to extend the jurisdiction of Liberia over all her now wretched settlements on the West coast of Africa.
Very truly yours,
F. W. CHESSON.
W. L. Garrison, Esq.
SLAVEMONGEBS TAKEN IN THEIR CRAFTINESS. -THE NEGRO'S REVENGE.
WEST GLOUCESTER, March 19, 1865.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
MY FRIEND-Those who, without just cause, began the civil war that now desolates the land, began it to extend and perpetuate slavery. They now propose to arm the slaves in defence of slavery and the rebellion, and give them their freedom as a reward for their services. To induce slaves to fight against freedom, free labor and free institutions, they are to be emancipated and made forever free. "This (says the Richmond Examiner) "is incompatible with our principles. It would be considered by all the world as a compromise to abolitionism. To offer the negro emancipation as a reward for services in our army is fatal to our past teachings. It is an absurdity; for the negro as a slave is in a better condition than in a state of freedom. EMANCIPATION IS A PUNISHMENT, NOT A REWARD"! The Richmond Whig says- "Emancipation would be an act of cruelty to the negro. IF THE SLAVE MUST FIGHT, HE SHOULD BE MADE TO FIGHT FOR THE BLESSINGS HE ENJOYS AS A SLAVE, AND NOT FOR THE MISERIES THAT WOULD ATTEND HIM IF FREED."
The Richmond Whig is consistent with its own teachings, and the teachings of the pro-slavery Church and State and political parties for the last thirty years previous to 1863. The one great argument against Abolitionism for the last thirty-five years has been- that slavery was instituted and approved of God as the great means of Christianizing Africa, and that man-stealers and slave-mongers are the God-appointed and God-commissioned evangelists to carry the news of redemption through Christ to Africa, by stealing her children, bringing them to America, and reducing them to the condition of brutes and chattels in order to give them the spirit of Christ, and then send them back to instruct their countrymen in the religion of those who kidnapped and enslaved them. It is this argument that led the American Church to receive into her embrace and affiliate with man-stealers, and encourage and sustain kidnappers in their calling. She held, with the Richmond Whig, that slavery is the Divinely appointed condition for the highest good of the negro; and that to make him free would be an act of cruelty; and that if he fights at all, "he should be made to fight for the blessings of slavery, and not for the miseries of freedom." The American Church has been for thirty-five years (ministers and churches themselves being witnesses) "the Bulwark of American Slavery"-in order, by annihilating conjugal and personal relations, by whips, chains and bloodhounds, to Christianize the slaves, and then return them, as missionaries, to Africa, to civilize and evangelize that benighted land!
The plan of Jeff. Davis, Gen. Lee, and other leaders of this rebellion, to arm the slaves, and to offer them freedom as a reward to induce them to fight against the North, upsets this argument entirely, and demonstrates that those who have used it against Abolition and in favor of slavery are liars, and that truth is not in them. This the Examiner and Whig, and many others among the traitors, North as well as South, have the sagacity to see. Hence they oppose the plan, because it proves to all that they were but liars and hypocrites when they pretended to support slavery for the good of the slave and his kindred in Africa.
The Administration and the great North, as shown in the recent election, have been driven to look to the enslaved negro as the only name given under heaven by which the Republic can be saved. Now the Confederacy of American corsairs is driven to the conclusion that the enslaved negro is the only name by which their man-stealing Confederacy can be saved. And to stimulate the slaves to fight with a will, they are offered FREEDOM as the richest boon and bounty- that very freedom which the entire South and their rebel sympathizers in the North insist would be their greatest curse. What can those ministers and churches and politicians, brokers and merchants, say to this action of the rebel slavemongers? To oppose Abolition and defend slave-breeders in the past, they betrayed their country, their religion, their Savior and their God into the hands of men who lived by theft and robbery, and whose hands and garments were dripping with innocent blood.
<c06>
What an argument! Enslave a man to civilize him! Turn a man into a beast to Christianize him! I would rather be a heathen man than a Christian chattel. Better bow at the shrine of Juggernaut as a human being, than at the shrine of Christ as an article of merchandize. I HAD RATHER BE A MAN IN HELL THAN A SLAVE IN HEAVEN. For this has been the alternative presented to the negro by the pro-slavery religion and government of America the past thirty years.
What a change! Now that very Church and Republic cry out for the freedom of every slave, and glory in the constitutional prohibition of slavery for all coming time! All insist on the right of the negro equally with the Saxon to fight for his freedom; and that freedom which, for forty years, they have declared would be his greatest curse and calamity, they now offer him as the highest inducement to fight for his and their salvation. This act of the slavemosgers forever shuts the mouths of those who plead that slavery is a great missionary institution to civilize and Christianize Africa. It seems but yesterday that Abolition was denounced by the Church as In fidelity, and by the State as Treason. To-day Church and State call, not only for the Abolition, but for the everlasting Prohibition of Slavery. Slavery no longer finds refuge in the Bible, the Constitution, or in God, as they are now expounded by Church and State. The God of the negro reigns-let the earth rejoice!
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
P. S. What a world of compensation! Ever since its existence, this Republic, in every department of its life, has trampled on the negro, and sought to crush out the last spark of his manhood, and make him, in fact, the thing it reputed him to be by its political and ecclesiastical enactments. There is no indignity, no outrage that man can receive at the hand of man, which the negro has not received at the hand of Church and State. He has his revenge! A revenge so sweet, so august, so divine! In her death-struggle, when sinking in an ocean of blood, she cries out to the despised and outraged negro, "Sare, or I perish!" His day of vengeance is come. How nobly he improves! The negro springs to the side of his hitherto deadly foe, and by his own blood redeems the republic! To the blood of the negro, under God, the nation owes its salvation. Never in the history of this world was self-abnegation, on a large scale, made to appear so conspicuous and so grand! The nation will one day confess its indebtedness to the negro, and restore to him fourfold for the wrongs it has done him. The negro's GOOD FOR EVIL will triumph; for in it is the secret of the irresistible power of man over man, and of individuals over States and nations.- H..C. W.
LETTER FROM REV. WILLIAM HENRY CHANNING.
To the Editor of the Transcript-The Rev. William H. Channing, in a letter to me, writes as follows, Thinking it will interest your readers, I copy it for your paper, with the true and manly spirit of which it is in harmony.
Respectfully,	L. MARIA CHILD.
WASHINGTON, March 8th, 1865.
The transformation is steadily proceeding. Schools, habitable homes, crowded churches, thrift, enterprise, laudable ambition, neat attire, and courteous manners, mark the complex methods by which this long-depressed race are becoming free citizens of a Republic. Old Senator Bradlee of Vermont, one of the most sagacious, strong-headed, experienced states-men of New England, said to me, two weeks ago, holding out both hands, and his face all aglow: "Let me congratulate you on the ten strike you made by inviting a colored minister to preach in the Capitol. That was hitting the white in the target. When Senator Summer introduced Mr. Rock, a colored lawyer, as his peer in the Supreme Court, and you, as Chaplain, introduced Mr. Garnet as your peer in the preacher's desk, in the Church of the People, the doors of Church and State were opened for the negro in this nation, never to be closed again. If any of the young politicians in Congress find fault with your radicalism, tell them that an old Democrat, a friend for years of Gen. Jackson, who has been behind the scenes for two generations, thinks you did exactly right."
Verily! Verily! old John Brown's soul is marching on.
You ought to have been on the steps of the Capitol on Inauguration day, and heard that simple-hearted confession of the President, and seen the faces of the listening crowd. If I were to live to the age of Methuselah, I could not expect ever to witness such a spectacle again. Call to mind the Inauguration of 1861, with the infamous author of the Dred Scott decision administering the oath; the half treacherous crowd of slaveholders and the half-timid band of patriots; the impending gloom of the coming tornado of civil war, and an inexperienced Western politician called to assume a more awful trust, amidst more appalling difficulties, than any statesman of the oldest nations had ever been forced to confront, before a scornful, sneering, on-looking world, represented by supercilious diplomatists! How could the Address of an untried President, under such circumstances, be otherwise than deprecatory, almost to the verge of weak concession?
And now mark the contrast, the actually incredible contrast! Calmly triumphant, the approved Chief of a Free People, all but unanimously re-elected by the nation, in confident hope that he would best carry through, to peaceful consummation, the terrible war so unwillingly accepted but so unflinchingly waged, stood face to face with a Chief-Justice appointed by himself to that high office, because pre-eminently distinguished as the advocate of the rights of the Negro Slave; amidst a vast multitude whose cheers rent the air; where black-faced soldiers, in blue uniforms, with glistening bayonets, were ranked with white-faced comrades; where colored Masons and Odd Fellows, in splendid regalia, symbolized the fraternal charities of peace; where refugees for freedom, in their coarse, brown, ragged plantation clothes, were intermingled as equals with well dressed citizens; while the world gazed on the sight with awe at the mighty judgments of Providence!
Imagine all this, and then conceive that, just as the President bared his head to take his oath before the People, the clouds parted, and the sunbeams fell upon him, while far above, on the summit of the dome, the Goddess of Liberty was crowned with light. The heart must have been cold, the imagination dull in-deed, that did not, at such a moment, feel as if a Chrism of the Light of Life was consecrating the Head of a Free Nation.
And the Address itself! I read it with beating heart and brimming eyes. To my judgment, that Speech stands isolated amidst the public addresses of this nation or any other nation, for its intense sincerity. In simple truthfulness it is sublime. Think of it! Here is the victorious Ruler of a Republic, that has already proved itself to be the mightiest power upon earth; in the very hour when triumph is as sure as any contingent event in human affairs can be, when some slight outburst of exultant hope would have been not only pardonable, but acceptable; and what do we hear? A humble acknowledgment for unmerited mercies, a touchingly pathetic submission to the extremest sacrifices demanded in righteous penalty for monstrous wrongs; a steady trust that good will finally prevail; and a modest, firm and magnanimous resolve to fulfil all duties of humanity, at home and abroad! To my mind, this plain, straight-forward telling the truth, before that living God, whose word is truth; before the People, whose representative he knew himself to be: and before the World, whose verdict will finally be just, according to the facts, proves Abraham Lincoln to be Great, as well as Good."
Cordially, your friend,
WILLIAM H. CHANNING.
Mrs. L. Maria Child.
MARCH 24 THE LIBERATOR.47
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
CRISPUS ATTUCKS CELEBRATION. 
The ninety-fifth anniversary of the martyrdom of <illegible> Attucks (March 5th, 1770) was observed at the Meionaon, in this city, on Tuesday evening, March 7th. The exercise commenced with the patriotic <illegible>song., “Flag of the Free,” by Mr. William E. Simpson. Remarks were then made by WILLIAM C. NELL, in substance as follows:–
The fifth of March was celebrated in Boston from 1771 to 1783 inclusive, when, by general consent, it was merged into the anniversary of the 4th of July, <illegible> would not in all probability have been revived in the shape, at least, of a distinct Attucks commemoration, as it was in 1858, but for the Dred Scott Decistion, which, declaring that “colored men had no rights that white men were bound to respect,” impressed upon them the necessity of protesting, in the most emphatic manner; and among the ways and means to that end, none seemed more potent and tangible than the setting forth, before the nation and the world, of the patriotism and loyalty of colored Americans; and <illegible> from that stand-point their claim to citizenship and equality before the law.
The patriotic leadership and martyrdom of Crispus <illegible>, in that scene on State street–the day which history has selected as “the dawn of the American <illegible>| was made the nucleus around which <illegible> clustered the heroic deeds of Peter Salem on Bunker Hill, who, in shooting Major Pitcairn, turned the tide of battle–of the other colored <illegible> throughout the entire war of 1776, and the war of 1812, by land and sea–augmented by the brilliant record of gallant and daring service which, in glorious emulation of their prototype Attucks, colored American soldiers to-day exhibit in the Union armies, upholding the flag, to the signal defeat of slaveholders and traitors in arms.
The universal tribute now being awarded to colored soldiers, and the hopeful state of public opinion as bearing upon a near realization of those rights which all mankind will feel bound to respect, amply confirm the wisdom which projected this annual commemoration, as having been instrumental in producing that change which gladdens the heart of every loyal and patriotic American.
JOHN MERCER LANGSTON, Esq., counsellor from Oberlin, was then introduced as one whose efforts and <illegible> had been active in behalf of the suffrage for colored citizens of Ohio–in the enlistment of colored soldiers–and as President of the National Equal Eights League.
After a few preliminary remarks, Mr. Langston proceeded to say:–
He was not forgetful of the fact, that the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States declared, that no person should be deprived of his liberty, &c.; but he recollected that South Carolina declared that she would interpret the Constitution as she pleased, and as far as American liberty was concerned we had only a pro-slavery rule, which ordered things as they found fit, to keep up the accursed institution.
In 1844, citizens of Massachusetts had been seized and sold in Charleston, S. C. He instanced Samuel Hoar, a man by no means black–and read several resolutions of the South Carolina Legislature, touching white and colored men. Their logic was, that colored people were a nondescript class, and they had a right to sell them. That was the spirit of South Carolina, caught from the devil, and underlying the rebellion. But South Carolina did not stop there; she arrested white men interfering, and expelled white men on suspicion from the State. Where should South Carolina have got these laws? It is extraordinary that she educated her people to treat white men as if they were not free; that a white man going to Louisiana and South Carolina were treated to this shape!
It is well known that no white man nor woman had free speech. Now, take William Lloyd Garrison, the greatest man–because the true friend of the negro and liberty. (Cheers.) Why, twelve years ago, he dared not have gone to Washington. That was the condition of white men before the war. There was a counterpart law in Illinois which had come to his notice a few days ago. This jewel of legislation said –“Any person being a mulatto or negro,” who shall come into the State, and remain twelve days, shall be guilty of misdemeanor, and be sold at auction; and any justice of the peace who refused to commit, was to be punished, etc. To cap the climax, the proceeds of sale of such mulatto or negro– “after paying to the prosecution his expenses”–were to be kept as a public fund. Could any one guess what this fund was to be called? It was to be called “a charity fund,” to benefit the poor whites of Illinois. The colored man is accused because he won’t settle–because he won’t go there and work. Why does not the negro go there? Because he would be sold. A colored man accumulates money; he has his children, and wishes to farm; he is advised to go to Illinois; but this legislation prevents him–and yet he has voted for Illinois, but he dare not go. They would say, “We like you mighty well–but at a distance. You’re a negro.” But when the first gun thundered from Sumter, God thundered, and we were prepared to say with Wendell Phillips: “Is liberty to die in this country? Has God Almighty scooped out the Mississippi Valley for its grave? Has he piled up the Rocky Mountains for itsmonument? Has he set Niagara to hymn its requiem?” No, liberty is not to die in this country! The Mississippi Valley is to be the cradle of American liberty! The Rocky Mountains are to be the stony tablets on which are to be written its grand achievements! Niagara is not set to hymn its death-dirge, but its triumphant song.
The speaker then cited instances of the patriotism of colored men in the four war periods of the nation:–
The first man who gave his blood to America in the Revolution, on the 5th of March, 1770, was Crispus Attucks, a black man. Bunker Hill monument lifts up her historic head to the memories of the great, the lofty, and the good. In the Valley of the Mississippi are the monuments of the heroism of colored men; and may the last man who sheds his blood in this war –may the last man who falls before the walls of Richmond–be, to the honor and glory of America, a black man!
The lecturer related his personal experience with the Governor of his State, in the matter of enlisting colored men, who volunteered under circumstances highly creditable to them, and went to the ranks, where 90 percent of men would have returned to peaceful homes under the circumstances. These men were part of the justly celebrated and second to none <illegible> U. S. Colored Troops; and he referred with enthusiasm to their deeds at Petersburg and elsewhere. He related the incident of the wounded white troops refusing to be moved from the field of battle before or without the colored wounded soldiers, and held up this nobility of soul as an example to all white men.
A narration of the brave deeds of the Massachusetts 54th and 55th was received with much applause. 
He really devoutly hoped to see Jeff. Davis and Gen. Lee arm 200,000 negroes. Then would the Northern men find that God had written on the heart of every black man, “Stick to Abraham Lincoln and the United States!” The negro will come right over! There are no traitors there! God never cased a traitor in ebony! Go to Port Hudson–to Wagner–toCharleston. Yes, said the lecturer, and now go to Richmond, and see the colored man. In the name of these things, in the name of our manhood, in the name of our loyalty, we ask you for freedom. We ask you not to let emancipation be a mockery; we ask you to receive and treat us well, as we have proved ourselves to you to be faithful, true and brave.
When the war is over, your necessity for the negro will not have ceased. You will have traitors all over the South. You will need the black man with the ballot as you have with the bayonet; and when you want him, you know he is ready to cry, “Here I am.”

<co2>
    Mr. Langston said he believed that, before long, the courts of our country would decide that you cannot estimate a man’s rights according to the color of his skin. He believed Salmon P. Chase would so decide it, and he hoped that some man of color would have nerve enough to take that question up, and get it decided.
One step more is wanting, and our nation will be a democracy. Are you prepared to take that step? Are you prepared to say to the free negro of the North, and the emancipated negro of the South, “Take the ballot! You have handled the musket!” The white man demanded this right to cast his vote by right of his manhood. Will any one deny that the black man is a man? No; not in the Democratic or Republican parties can any be found to say that the black man is not a man. When the black man asked his right to vote, he simply asked for his right to have a representative in Congress and in the Presidential chair. He asked for justice. In New York and Ohio, where they voted, they were all loyal Republicans. There wasn’t a black man who voted for George B. McClellan. They were charged with being ignorant, and, therefore, they ought not to be allowed to vote. But he thought the decision of the colored men on all political questions showed that they were not ignorant or degraded. They voted for the adoption of the United States Constitution; they voted in North Carolina up to 1825, and in Virginia. Where is the man who will say the negro did not vote intelligently? White men, in self-defence, should give negroes their rights, and they in turn should demand their rights; and the day is not far distant when the negro wilt not only be emancipated, but enfranchised, under American law.
The following letter was read from Professor WILLIAM H. DAY:–
NEW YORK CITY, March 8,1865.
My DEAR NELL--Mr. Wendell Phillips, in his Brooklyn speech on Washington’s Birthday Anniversary, related the fact that the colored servant Primus and George Washington took a bed, and slept together. That fact was not new to you; for you have often iterated it in your History of the Heroes. But its announcement now is timely, (as Mr. Phillips’s suggestions generally are,) and full of significance to the nation.
A more significant fact is that which you celebrate on the ever-recurring fifth of March, when, in the same struggle, CRISPUS ATTUCKS shed his life-blood in behalf of American liberty.
These facts, rehearsed year by year; the weight of years of oppression imposed upon a people who ever have been friends; the retributive war, four years long, permitted by a God who declares, “Vengeance is mine, I will repay”—have not brought the nation to repentance.
John S. Rock is admitted to the Supreme Court Bar; but in spite and defiance of public opinion as to the negro.
Dr. Delany is appointed Major in the Army—and thank God for it—but appointed as an eccentricity of the President, and Secretary of War. If not, why comparatively no promotion of gallant, death-braving men already under arms?
There is need, therefore, of your assembling and re-assembling to tell the truths of our people to the nation, until it shall learn to do justice.
And there is hope. The new converts are often more logical in their acts toward the colored man than the old ones have been, however liberal. Places of business are slowly opening up to colored boys and men:- slowly colored men are recognized as of- ficers to be:-at last, the Lieutenant General says that at Petersburg the day could have been won by colored troops.
The nation is being bled by bayonets. The waves of war are sweeping through millions of homes. The night of the pass over, the last night, has come. The first-born-the best-is demanded and taken by draft and platoon, and company, and battalion, and army; and the morning dawns, when, from the midst of carnage and desolation, we as a people, shall march out into liberty, civil, social, religious, and the nation be free.
Lay the truth upon the heart of the nation; shame it back to first bloodshed and first principles; and your victory will be greater than the surrender of Charleston, or the fall of Columbia.
Yours, in best bonds, as ever, with three cheers for the gallant Massachusetts soldiers who now tread these rebel cities,
WM. HOWARD DAY.
WM. C. NELL, Boston, Mass.
Mrs. FRANCES WATKINS HARPER, who, by speech and poetry, has enlisted many hearts in the cause of oppressed colored Americans, delivered an eloquent and interesting address on the ‘Mission of the War;” and while inculcating upon colored citizens to avail themselves of its advantages, earnestly besought them to encourage the talent and genius of young colored men and women, that when the war is ended, and reconstruction accomplished, they will be prepared to assume those responsibilities which the new era will open for them.
At the conclusion of Mrs. Harper’s speech, the meeting adjourned. N. 
Boston, March, 1865.
EQUAL SCHOOL RIGHTS.
PROVIDENCE, March 10, 1865.
I have just returned from our State House. The Senate have had the bill for Equal School Rights, as it passed the House of Representatives, before it, yesterday and to-day, and the final result is, the postponement to the next session. Very able arguments were made by a number of friends in favor of the objects of the bill. Mr. Hart, an able lawyer, and Senator for this city, did himself great honor by his cogent and sound argument on the subject as a question of law; showing most conclusively that the distinction made by the School Committees of Providence, Newport and Bristol, in having separate schools for the children of colored parents, and excluding them altogether from the High School, was in violation of the Constitution and statute law of the State. Mr. Lapham, Chairman of the Committee on Education, and one of his colleagues, spoke earnestly in favor of right and justice, but the opponents sat dumb. An amendment was offered by the Senator from Newport, and carried by four majority, which would render it useless.
Senator Hart then moved its postponement to the next session, which motion prevailed.
Thus ends the struggle for this year; but the end is not yet. We have nine Democrats in the Senate, and all went solid for keeping the brand of disgrace against the colored children.
Mr. Gammell of Warren, for many years Principal of the Young Ladies’ Seminary in that town, has for two years held the honorable place of Chairman of the Committee on Education in the House of Representatives, and labored with a zeal highly honorable to himself, and with credit to the town he very worthily represents. A number of clergymen of the different denominations have taken an earnest interest in this cause of right and justice. Rev. Mr. Day, Rev. Messrs. Lincoln and Swain; Rev. Mr. Fay also, of the First Universalist, and Rev. Dr. Hall, appeared before the Committees of the House and Senate, with their strong arguments in behalf of the petitioners.
Since writing the above, I hear a report from different sources, that the Senate would have concurred with the House in passing the bill, had not Governor Smith used his influence against it. If this is so, it is cruel in him, for it was the colored voters of this city who carried him into the gubernatorial chair, who could not be bribed with money offered by his opponents. But so much has been gained that it will continue to be pressed on the Legislature every year until the wrong is righted.
Prof. H. E. Peck of Oberlin College, Ohio, has been appointed Consul General to the Republic of Hayti.

<C03>
A FALSE CHARGE REFUTED.
The case of Mr. Nathaniel T. Aller, of West Newton, charged with unreasonable severity in the punishment of a pupil named Albion D. Emerson, has engaged unusual attention. It was tried at East Cambridge, searching and sharply on the part of the attorney for the Common wealth, who seemed to be determined to detect every particle of evidence to be found against the defendant, and to urge it vigorously upon the jury; and most satisfactorily by the defendant’s counsel, in a spirit of confidence befitting so clear a case. Judge Brigham made a most temperate, but weighty and. impressive charge to the jury, showing how profoundly he felt the importance and delicacy of the relations of teacher and pupil, how watchfully the rights of both should be guarded, and how sacredly they should be preserved.
The jury were not long in coming to a unanimous verdict of acquittal; and it was very pleasant and touching to see how eager they were, as soon as they had given it, to take Mr. Allen by the hand and assure him how heartily they rejoiced to acquit him of the very shadow of offence.
To those who know Mr. Allen as a teacher or a man, nothing need be said; but for the sake of putting before the public his character for humanity and kindness of heart, as well as high-minded integrity, a number of the most distinguished men in the Commonwealth have appended their names to a brief statement of all the material facts in the case, and sent it to the Massachusetts Teacher for insertion. They say:
“We who have long loved, valued, and respected Mr. Allen; who know what a precious thing to every good man is a spotless reputation; how swiftly a slander flies, and how readily a slight suspicion or misapprehension is sometimes exaggerated into a fearful charge; and who have had the opportunity and satisfaction of seeing the good name of our friend come untarnished from the fire kindled by malice, —are not willing to let this number of the Teacher depart without assuring Mr. Allen’s distant friends that there never was a day when his name was brighter or dearer to us than it is to-day.”
From a careful reading of the trial and a long personal knowledge of Mr. Allen, we have the firm conviction of his entire innocence of the charge of unreasonable severity. The case is so clear that not a shadow of suspicion can rest on him, and we have no doubt he will fully keep, as he really deserves, the confidence of the public as a man of high moral principles, humanity and kindness of heart—Boston Christian Register.
<illegible> We have long known and esteemed Mr. Allen, both as a warm friend and a most successful teacher; and we congratulate him on his honorable acquittal, by a jury, of what—at least prima facie—appeared to be a malicious charge, and of an aggravated nature. In addition to the merited testimony furnished by the Register, it gives us great pleasure to publish the following, as borne by the pupils of Mr. ALLEN, and placed on his desk, without either himself or any other of the teachers being previously cognizant of it. It has been furnished us at our request: —
We, the undersigned, members and pupils of the school in which Mr. N. T. ALLEN is a principal, having heard some reports injurious to his character as our teacher and friend; and feeling that, in these, our own character and feelings are injuriously treated as well as his; because it would imply a sufferance, on our part, of what would be unmanly and improper to endure; do take this method of informing our friends and relations, and the public generally, that we have the utmost confidence in him as our teacher and friend; that we have every reason to believe that, in correction and discipline, as well as in favors and genial words of kindness, he has always been actuated by the principles of a Christian gentleman; and in the present unpleasant position in which he is placed by the mistake or malice of some one, if viewed as it ought to be, by the light of his true character, his noble devotion to the education and happiness of youth, would make him an object of respectful sympathy, and give him an honorable acquittal from such injurious reports. In giving this expression, we wish not only to assert our entire disbelief in any foundation for such reports, but our continued regard and gratitude for the signal services he has rendered us as pupils of this school.
[Signed by one hundred and fifteen pupils, all of whom are present members of the school.]
It is due to Mr. ALLEN to state, that he has had some hard cases to deal with, having sometimes been imposed upon by parents placing boys with him of a decided immoral or intractable character, without acquainting him with the tact; but he has generally exerted a salutary influence over such.
By mistake, in our last issue, a notice was given to Soldiers’ Aid Societies, instead of one addressed to Lecture Committees, which we intended to have inserted. We this week correct the error.
TO LECTURE COMMITTEES.
The undersigned, feeling that she has God’s sanction for letting her voice be heard in behalf of Humanity, whenever or wherever suitable opportunity may offer, would ask Lecture Committees to first notice the accompanying testimonials relating to herself, and to her efforts in behalf of the soldier, and of woman, —and then be so kind as to consider whether they may or may not give her an opportunity to be heard before their Lyceum.
She makes this request, thinking that some Lecture Committees may be pleased to add another lecture to their course, probably already regarded as finished.
Should an invitation be extended, it need not be accompanied by any offer of pecuniary recompense. The Address she at this time offers is upon “THE LOST PLEIAD,” or the various Causes of helpless Dependence, and of Suffering among Women.
S. BURGER STEARNS,
100 Harrison Avenue, Boston, Mass.
Among various other highly satisfactory notices, Mrs. Stearns has the following: —
LECTURE BY MRS. S. BURGER STEARNS. —On Friday evening last, this lady gave a very entertaining lecture at Fraternity Hall, upon “The Lost Pleiad;” or the necessity of affording larger facilities for the services of woman. The lecture was finely written, breathing throughout just and humane sentiments, and was eloquently delivered. Mrs. S. made many friends by hereffort.—Boston Commonwealth-
A Lecture was given in the Christian Church on Tyler Street, last evening, by Mrs. BURGER STEARNS, on “The Lost Pleiad”; or in behalf of woman. It was listened to with deep interest, and she was invited to lecture again in the same place, a week from that evening, the 13th inst. Mrs. STEARNES is a noble woman, a fine scholar, and earnestly, yea, religiously devoted to doing good, and especially in the cause of woman.
She has spoken quite extensively at the West, and also in Connecticut, in behalf of Soldiers’ Aid Societies, (having a husband and brother in the army,) and has spent some time in the hospitals at Washington. She now seems moved by good impressions to go forth, and speak as opportunities may offer. —Boston Traveller.
We trust Mrs. Stearns will receive numerous applications to lecture.
One of the most interesting and inspiring meetings we ever attended was held in the spacious Huntington Hall at Lowell, on Wednesday evening last week, in behalf of the Freedmen’s Aid Society of that city. The audience was very numerous—the Charleston auction-block was exhibited—and addresses made by “Carleton,” Mr. Kinsley of Boston, George Thompson, Esq., and ourself.
Judge Kelley, of Philadelphia, gets the following deserved compliment from the New Orleans Independent of Feb. 21:
“A careful perusal of Judge Kelley’s speech (on Black Suffrage) will satisfy any impartial man that in point of research, ability and tone, it stands preeminent. It is such a speech as carries conviction with it, and at the same time manifests a lofty patriotism, combined with a cosmopolitan breadth of view rarely to be found in the debates of the House. It is to be hoped that the real friends of the Administration will not fail to send a large supply of it in pamphlet form to Louisiana. The loyal people of the South are under obligations to Judge Kelley. His manly effort in their behalf is justly appreciated by them.”
The Philadelphia North American, speaking of the lecture lately delivered in that city by Mrs. F. E. Watkins Harper, says:
“She received the closest attention, and the hearty and frequent applause proved her thoroughly appreciated. She is certainly gifted with the power of oratory. Several critics pronounce her equal to Miss Dickinson, while some give her credit for even greater merit when it comes to speaking upon the highest moral and spiritual plane. She has less force, perhaps, in depicting a battle-scene, but in describing those trials which only her race have endured, she is unequalled.”
It is computed that fifteen millions of dollars of English capital, invested in blockade running, it at present lying useless in the harbor of Nassau.

<C04>
    PRESIDENT LINCOLN’S VIEWS ON ARMING SLAVES.
WASHINGTON, March 17,1865.
A rebel flag, captured at Anderson by the 140th Indiana Volunteers, was presented to-day to Gov. Morton, in front of the National Hotel. A large crowd was in attendance. Gov. Morton made a brief speech, in which he congratulated his auditors on the speedy end of the rebellion, and concluded by introducing President Lincoln, whose purity and patriotism were confessed, he said by all, even among the most violent agitators. (Applause.)
    His administration would be recognized as the most important epoch of history. It had struck the blow to slavery, [applause,] and built up the Republic with a power it never before possessed. If he had done nothing more than put his name to the Emancipation Proclamation, that alone would have made his name immortal. [Applause.]
THE PRESIDENT’S SPEECH. 
The President addressed the assembly substantially as follows:
FELLOW-CITIZENS—It will be but a very few words that I shall undertake to say. I was born in Kentucky, raised in Indiana, and lived in Illinois. [Laughter.] And now I am here, where it is my business to care equally for the good people of all the States. I am glad to see an Indiana regiment on this day able to present the captured flag to the Governor of Indiana. [Applause.] I am not disposed in saying this to make a distinction between the States, for all have done equally well. [Applause.]
There are but few views or aspects of this great war upon which I have not said or written something whereby my own opinion might be known. But there is one—the recent attempt of our erring brethren, as they are sometimes called, [laughter,] to employ the negro to fight for them. I have neither written nor made a speech on that subject, because that was their business not mine, and if I had a wish upon the subject, I had not the power to introduce or make it effective.
The great question with them was whether the negro being put into the army will fight for them. I do not know, and therefore cannot decide. ][Laughter.] They ought to know better than we. I have in my lifetime heard many arguments why the negroes ought to be slaves; but if they fight for those who would keep them in slavery, it will be a better argument than any I have yet heard. [Laughter and applause.] He who will fight for that ought to be a slave. [Applause.]
They have concluded at last to take one out of four of the slaves, and put them in the army; and that one out of the four who will fight to keep the others in slavery ought to be a slave himself, unless he is killed in a fight. [Applause.] While I have often said that all men ought to be free, yet I would allow those colored persons to be slaves who want to be; and next to them those white persons who argue in favor of making other people slaves. [Applause.]
I am in favor of giving an opportunity to such white men to try it on for themselves. (Applause.) I will say one thing in regard to the negro being employed to fight for them. I do know he cannot fight, and stay at home, and make bread too. (Laughter and applause.) And as one is about as important as the other, I do not care which they do. (Renewed applause.)
I am rather in favor of allowing them to try them as soldiers. (Applause.) They lack one vote of doing that, and I wish I could send my vote over the river so that I might cast it in favor of allowing the negro to fight and work both. We must now see the bottom of the enemy’s resources. They will stand out as long as they can; and if the negro will fight for them, they must allow him to fight.
They have drawn upon their lust branch of resources, (applause.) and we can now see the bottom. (Applause.) Am glad to see the end so near at hand, (Applause.) I have said now more than I intended’ and will therefore bid you good bye.
The President then retired, while the crowd below saluted him with loud and hearty cheers, and the band played a lively tune.
Gen. Morton then stepped forward, and remarked that they had now seen the Rebel Rag; and he proposed that each one in favor of the perpetuity of this great Union take off his hat, and give three cheers for the Union flag. The request was responded to with hearty good will. Three cheers were then given for President Lincoln, and three more for Gov. Morton, after which the band struck up Yankee Doodle.
THE DIFFERENCE.
The Washington Republican thus draws the distinction between the policies of the two Presidents: —
THE ULTIMATUM OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
I have constantly been, am now, and shall continue ready to receive any agent whom he (Jefferson Davis) or any other influential person now resisting the national authority may informally send to me, with the view of securing peace to the people of OUR COMMON COUNTRY.
A. LINCOLN.
Three things are indispensable, to wit: —
1. The restoration of the national authority throughout all the States.
2. No receding by the executive of the United States, on the slavery question, from the position assumed thereon in the late annual message to Congress, and in preceding documents.
No cessation of hostilities short of an end of the war, and disbanding of all forces hostile to the government.
All propositions not inconsistent with the above will be considered and passed upon in a spirit of sincere liberality. A. LINCOLN.
[Extract of letters from the President to F. P. Blair, Sr., and Secretary Seward.]
THE ULTIMATUM OF JEFF. DAVIS.
In a note which passed between Mr. Lincoln and myself in the matter of the unofficial peace conference, there was one marked difference. I spoke always of TWO COUNTRIES: Mr. Lincoln spoke of “OUR COMMON COUNTRY.” I can have no “common country” with the Yankees. My life is bound up in the Confederacy; and if any man supposes that, under any circumstances, I can be an agent of the reconstruction of the Union, he has mistaken every element of my nature.
JEFFERSON DAVIS.
[Extract of a speech delivered by him, February 6, 1865.]
The Danville Register of Wednesday remarks that recent movements of Sherman and Sheridan have greatly decreased the number of newspapers published in the country. In Virginia we have daily papers issued from four points, Richmond, Lynch-burg, Danville and Petersburg, and one weekly at Clarksville. The number has been largely curtailed in North Carolina. Wilmington, Fayetteville and Goldsboro’ are in the hands of the enemy. The Yankees now have a paper in Wilmington. Some think that Raleigh, too, may go; then Greensboro’ and Charlotte and some smaller places will be alone left. In South Carolina it is even worse, The Mercury was removed from Charleston some time before the occupation of Charleston by the enemy, and the Courier, which remained, was taken in charge by the Yankees, notwithstanding it opposed nullification in 1832, and is now issued as a Yankee sheet. All the papers in Columbia have been discontinued. The South Carolinian is now published at Charlotte, N. C.
CITY POINT, March 16, 1865.
Hon. C. A. Dana, Assistant Secretary of War:
I am just in receipt of a letter from General Sherman of the 12th, from Fayetteville. He describes his army as in fine health and spirits, having met with no serious opposition. Hardee keeps in his front at a respectful distance. At Columbia he destroyed immense arsenals, and railroad establishments, and 43 cannon. At Cheraw he found much machinery and war material, including 25 cannon and 3600 barrels of gunpowder. In Fayetteville he found 20 pieces of artillery and much other material. He says nothing about Gilpatrick’s defeat by Hampton, but the officer who brought this letter says that before daylight on the 10th, Hampton got two brigades in the rear of Kilpatrick’s headquarters, and surprised and captured all the staff but two officers. Kilpatrick escaped, formed his men, and drove the enemy with great loss, recapturing about all that he had lost. Hampton lost 86 left dead on the field.
U. S. GRANT, Lieut. Gen.
NEW YORK, March 18. The great vandalage by our army at Columbia so bitterly denounced by the rebels, and which has been used so extensively to fire the Southern heart, is related by the Tribune correspondent in this wise:
When the advance of our army entered Columbia, they found that Hampton had piled up immense quantities of cotton in the main street. The bales were ripped open, and the cotton scattered all over the streets by a high wind. The roofs of the houses were covered, and where the windows were open the rooms also. Wheeler’s men were the last of the rebels who left the city, and before going, in addition to plundering the citizens, they set fire to the cotton. The fire soon spread to the buildings, and though our soldiers struggled desperately with the flames in their efforts to subdue them, not less than 3000 houses were destroyed. The citizens did not raise a hand to assist in this humane work.
A number of our released prisoners, who had been befriended by some of the citizens, did not forget their kindness, but rushed at once to their houses, and with the assistance of others saved their property.
When the main body of our army entered the city, the women came rushing out of their houses with whisky, which came into the possession of the soldiers, and the consequence was that many became intoxicated. The city then appeared a perfect pandemonium.
<C05>
On the appearance of our army, our prisoners confined there were removed. A number made an effort to escape by hiding, and dug a tunnel under the shanty. The rebel guards’ suspicions being excited, they set fire to the shanty, and then stood ready to shoot any prisoners who should attempt to come out of the tunnel. A number were killed in this way, others were burned to death!
THE REBEL NEGRO SOLDIER BILL. An army of the Potomac correspondent says:
“The climax of madness is to be found in section 5, which says that ‘nothing in this act shall be construed to authorize a change in the relation of the said slaves.’ Only think of it—300,000 slaves, and to have implements of death and self-protection into their hands, and driven to meet all the hardships and dangers of war, for what? Freedom? No: for the boon of remaining slaves, they and their wires and their children! And these poor wretches are expected to fight under such circumstances, when by merely joining their free brethren within gunshot of them, they can not only escape mutilation and death altogether, but obtain a freedom, forever, as inalienable as that of their former masters! Can the recklessess of despair go any further? But let us patiently watch the result. Unless human nature has ceased to be human nature, I foretell such a stampede of the whole black population into our lines, even before arms can be put into their hands, as all the united armies of the rebels will be unable to prevent.”
PHILADELPHIA, March 16. The Secretary of the Treasury arranged yesterday with Jay Cooke a most important financial measure, viz: the issue of a $600,-000,000 loan. The first issue of $800,000,000 on the 15th of June next. The notes in form, denomination and interest will be in all respects like the present issue of seven thirties. They will be unlike them only in the period of time fixed for convertibility. They will have ten months longer to run than the seven-thirties before they can be changed into gold bearing five-twenties. By a very large class of investors, this difference will be considered to impart a greater value to the new issue. The balance of the $600,000,000 will probably be a year longer in maturing than the June issue. This time will be definitely fixed as the sales of the June issue approach their end. It may be that the balance will not be required at all—that the first issue of $300,-000,000 will meet the necessities of the Government. It is expected that this first issue will be disposed of in about three months. The agency of the present seven-thirties, with all its machinery, will be employed for the whole of the new loan.
THE ANNEXATION OF ROXBURY. That there is a powerful sentiment in favor of union on the part of thousands of our best citizens is clear, and we cannot but feel that their views are worthy of profound respect. No less than seven thousand and three hundred signatures are appended to the petitions now before our Legislature, twenty-three hundred of them being those of the leading merchants of Boston, headed by such men as Francis Skinner & Co., J. M. Beebe, the partners of A. & A. Lawrence & Co., and others of equal weight. Nearly three thousand of the tradesmen, professional men, artisans and laborers of Boston have added their names to the list. The remaining two thousand petitioners represent all classes and conditions of people in Roxbury.
We trust that the Legislature will grant the required bill, that the question may be definitely settled. —Boston Traveller.
Quite a panic prevails among the negroes in North Carolina, since the announcement that they are to be conscripted to fight in the rebel army. The rebels are now gathering them up for this purpose. A strong combination exists among the conservative slaveholders to resist this measure, some of whom are arming their slaves in order that they may be able to defy the rebel authorities and thus retain them as servants, who exhibit a readiness to fight for their masters, and their homes, rather than fight for the rebel Confederacy.
Great numbers of negroes are flocking to Sherman’s army, says the Progress, with the assistance of their masters, with the promise that they will return and work for wages as soon as it will be safe for them to do so. This gives the negro question an interesting aspect. It will not delay Sherman’s movement, however.
EXTENSION OF FREEDOM IN KENTUCKY. Louisville,Ky., March 14. An order from Major Gen. Palmer announces that, by the act of Congress passed on the 2d of March, the wives and children of colored men who have enlisted or may enlist in the army are free. The order promises an enforcement of their rights by the military authorities if necessary, and urges the loyal men and women of Kentucky to encourage the enlistment of colored men in the army, and afterward to recognize them as upholders of the Government and defenders of their homes, and exhorts them to exercise Kentucky’s accustomed benevolence and charity toward the helpless women and children thus made free.
Gen. James S. Brisbane has been appointed to superintend the organization of white and colored troops in Kentucky.
WARD ELEVEN FREEDMAN’S AID SOCIETY. A public meeting in aid of the objects of this society was held Sunday night in the Berkely street church, which was completely crowded. The steps of the Charleston slave auction block were in the church, with a white slave who had been sold upon them. The meeting was called to order by E. P. Kinsley, President of the Society, and speeches were made by C. C. Coffin and Rev. H. M. Dexter. At the close of the proceedings, a collection was taken up, and the sum of $600 realized for the purposes of the society.
The news per the Australasian of the fall of Charleston caused much sensation in England. The immediate effect was an advance of two per cent, in United States bonds, and a decline of four per cent, in the Confederate loan.
The London Times says: “The influence of the success at Charleston can hardly be exaggerated, and its moral effects cannot but be most powerful on the conduct of the war. It is seen that the population of the Southeastern States are not able to oppose the march of the Federal armies. The advance from Savannah to Charleston seems to have been as easy as the march from Atlanta to Savannah.”
The London Star regards the fall of Charleston as premonitory of the utter overthrow of the rebellion.
The Army and Navy Gazette says: “The evacuation of Charleston and Columbia, and the concentration of their garrisons, will strengthen the hands of Beauregard, Hardee and Hill, but the Confederates are placed in a position of exceeding danger, from which it will require greater genius than even Lee and Davis have as yet exhibited to extricate them. The purpose of Grant becomes more obvious as the campaign proceeds. He holds Lee fast, and thus paralyzes the strongest arm and neutralizes the greatest force of the Confederacy.”
FAYETTEVILLE, N. C., March 12, 1865. The army of Gen. Sherman has reached this point, after a march across South Carolina and part of North Carolina, almost wholy without opposition. It enters the town where it opens communication with Wilmington by the Cape Fear River in as good conditions in almost every respect as when it left Savannah, and seems neither fatigued by its long journey, nor to demand either rest or equipment before it resumes its resistless advance.
DANVILLE. Pa., March 18. The most destructive flood ever known in these parts is now raging on the northwest branch of the Susquehanna river. The railroad is submerged and all travel suspended.
All the bridges on the west branch as far as Williamsport are gone. The Lackawana and Bloomsburg road is under water in some places ten feet.
The canal in many places is completely destroyed. Half of Danville is under water, and the river is still rising.
NEW YORK, March 18. Dispatches from the western part of the State say the greatest flood for years is prevailing. All the lower part of Albany is submerged.
The Central Railroad west is broken in many places, and the telegraph lines are down. At Utica and Rochester the water was never so high. The Hudson River Railroad is submerged near Albany, and the track carried away.
ROCHESTER, N. Y., March 19. The great flood is abating. The damage done is estimated at a million dollars. The railroad bridges above the Falls and south of the city were carried away. About 2000 feet of the railroad track were also carried away, and the banks of the canal burst in several places; newspaper press rooms were submerged and their issue suspended.
SYRACUSE, N. Y., March 19. Many bridges, dams and some houses were carried away in this vicinity by the flood. The salt works were damaged to the amount of $150,000. Loss by the flood in this county is not less than $500,000.
FRESHET IN NEW HAMPSHIRE. Concord. N. H., March 18. There is a great freshet in the Merrimac river, and the water is rising fast. Railroad trains to the north are all delayed, and the track in many places submerged. Much damage to railroad and public property is feared.
Two rebel negroes were recently captured in front of the army of the James, who had concealed themselves and picked off several of our men. They said they had been promised $20 for every Yankee they would kill.

<C06>
    WM. LLOYD GARRISON will lecture on the state of the country, in the <illegible> Church, at Weymouth, on Sunday evening next, 26th inst., at half-past 7 o’clock.
WM. WELLS BROWN will speak (by invitation) at Davis’s Hall, Plymouth, Mass., on Wednesday evening, March 29. Subject—The Rebellion and the Black Man.
OBITUARY.
Died, at Mount Vernon, Iews, on Thursday, the 2d inst., EDWARD CHANNING JULIAN, eldest son of GEORGE W. and ANNE E. JULIAN, aged 19 years.
Yes, EDDY is no more! His gentle and genial spirit will be missed by many. Remembered as the darling of the fair young mother of a few short bygone years–now a spirit bright of the better land—we saw him grow up strikingly into her personal and mental likeness—the very same dove-like expression of countenance—the same pure and innocent face—the same sincere, upright, warmly social nature—and, alas! with the same tendency towards an early decline which had deprived him untimely of that mother’s tender care.
“The canker galls the infant buds of spring 
Too oft before their blossoms are disclosed;
And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
Contagious blastments are most imminent.”
Thus he perished. His life was an unceasing conflict with disease; and although he would have enjoyed it keenly under other circumstances, he did not desire to retain it without health. In his last sickness he said, that but for his father he would be willing to go as his mother and brother—”Little Louie”—had already gone. We trust he is with them within “the gates of light.” His young face was so beautiful in death, and his rest from life’s short and fitful fever seemed so peaceful and so perfect, that those who looked upon him could scarcely feel the full anguish of sorrow which else must have been excited by the untimely blight of a life of so much promise.
His remains were brought to Centreville, and were followed to the grave on last Sabbath by a large concourse of people, among whom were many of his young associates, by whom he was much loved.
Thus thrice, within but little more than four years, has death entered the family circle of the surviving parent, till now only the youngest lamb of his little flock remains. Verily, the living rather than the dead is entitled to commisseration:—
“Weep not for him that dieth,
For he hath ceased from tears,
And a voice to him replieth,
That he hath not heard for years;
But weep for him that weepeth
On this cold world’s cruel shore—
Blest, blest is him that sleepeth—
Weep for the dead no more!”
-Com.
THE TRIBUNE FOR 1865.
PROSPECTUS.
THE military and naval successes of 1864, with the auspicious result of our Presidential contest, have lifted a heavy weight from the breast of the Loyal Millions of our countrymen. It is now felt, even by those who have been distrustful and faint-hearted, that the Union is to emerge triumphant from the deadly strife wherein to she was so wickedly precipitated by her assailants, and that Slavery, her relentless foe, is to encounter the fate of Haman. The perils of foreign intervention and of Western insurrection are safely passed: ABRAHAM LINCOLN, no longer assailable as the choice of a minority, holds the helm of State for four yean longer; the Rebellion, palpably weakened by its defeats and losses by the year now closing—with its credit so reduced that its purse-bearer officially declares that its Treasury Notes can be exchanged for corn at the rate of twenty-five only for one, while its bonds command only six cents for one dollar—but awaits the blow which shall soon strike the sword from its parricidal hand, and remit its master spirits to the justice, or it may be to the clemency, of a sorely wronged and justly incensed, but forbearing and magnanimous people. Such are the auspices which justify our faith that the year soon to open will see the Stars and Stripes float unchallenged from every battlement in the Republic; and the perfect law of Liberty for ALL immovably imbedded in the Constitution of our Union.
THE NEW YORK TRIBUNE, founded in 1841, will enter upon its twenty-fourth year with quickened hopes and enlarged means of usefulness. Its principles need no restatement; its aims are the diffusion of Intelligence, and the inculcation of a spirit of Freedom and Humanity. When this truth shall have been generally recognized and established as the basis of our institutions and polity, that injustice to the poorest, the weakest, the most despised, is a fearful mistake—that no community or State can afford to wrong even its humblest member—then will our land bask once more in the clear sunshine of peace and prosperity.
THE TRIBUNE has for the last year been published with but small profit to its proprietors, when compared with the enormous labor and outlay devoted to its publication, solely because of the depreciation of our currency below the specie standard, compelling us to buy paper and other materials at a cost considerably above the full amount received from our subscribers. On our weekly edition the net loss has amounted to many thousands of dollars; while our large receipts for advertising have been absorbed by the extraordinary expenses for Correspondence Telegraphing, &c., devolved on us by the War. As we do not suppose our patrons desire that we should work for them at our own cost, and prefer not to be patronized by any who may desire it, we have somewhat advanced for the ensuing year the prices of our Semi-Weekly and Weekly, as we have already done with those of our daily edition. This increase is purely nominal; there never before was a time when the farmers of our country could buy THE TRIBUNE for so little of their own products or labor as they can by the following 
TERMS:
DAILY TRIBUNE.
Daily, single copy, 4 cents. 
Mail subscribers, 1 copy, 1 year—311 numbers, $10 00
SEMI-WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
Mail subscribers, 1 copy, 1 year— 104 numbers, 4 00
do. 2copies, do. do. 7 00
do. 5 copies, or over, for each copy, 3 00
Persons remitting for 10 copies, $30, will receive an extra copy for 6 months.
Persons remitting for 15 copies, $45, will receive an extra copy.
WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
Mail subscribers, single copy, 1 year—52 numbers, 2 50
do. Clubs of five, 10 00
Persons remitting $20 for 10 copies, will receive 1 copy extra, gratis.
Persons remitting $40 for 20 copies, will receive 1 copy Semi-Weekly extra, gratis.
Persons remitting $80 for 40 copies, will receive one copy daily, gratis.
Drafts on New York, or Post Office orders, payable to the order of “THE TRIBUNE,” being safer, are preferable to any other mode of remittance. But where drafts cannot be conveniently procured, United States or National Bank bills are the next best, and may be sent by mail; but in case of loss, THE TRIBUNE will not be responsible, unless furnished with a full description of the bills,including the same of the bank, denomination and number and the time and place of mailing the letter with the enclosure. Address THE TRIBUNE. New York.
LOST,
ON Wednesday afternoon, 8th inst. Worcester depot, Boston, a calfskin Wallet, containing about $70 in green backs, and seven or eight wheat receipts, dated Battle Creek, Michigan; also, a bill of sale of wheat, and several other papers; a draft in favor of Anthony Burton All said papers are of value to me, and cannot be of any value to the finder, who will confer a favor by enclosing said papers to me by mail to Battle Creek, Michigan, and as much of the money as they may wish, after retaining ample pay for their trouble. H WILLIS.
Battle Creek, Michigan, Feb. <illegible> 
COLORED MEN WANTED 
FOR the United States Navy; <illegible>, stewards, cooks, ward-room boys, and two barbers for special service. Large pay, bounty and prize-money. Apply in person, or by letter directed “Newton’s Naval Shipping Office,” 
6 Wall Street, New York. March 17.
BOARDING.
MRS. GIAGER wishes to inform her friends and <illegible> public, that she has taken house 41 Washington st. <illegible>, where she can accommodate a few boarders or lodgers. <illegible>References exchanged.
“Dec. 2.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
An esteemed friend encloses, for the Liberator,. the following expressive poem, written by a young lady in Florence, Italy:–

COL ROBERT. G. SHAW.
They “ buried him with his niggers”—
Together they fought and died;
There was room for them all where they laid him—
The grave was deep and wide
For his beauty, and youth, and valor—
Their patience, and love, and pain; 
And at the Last Day together
They shall be found again.
They “ buried him with his niggers”:
Earth holds no prouder grave!
There is not a mausoleum,
In the world beyond the wave,
That a nobler tale has hallowed,
Or a purer glory crowned,
Than the nameless trench where they buried 
The BRAVE SO FAITHFUL FOUND.
They “ buried him with his niggers”:
A wide grave should it be—
They buried more in that shallow trench
Than human eye could see;
Ay, all the shame and sorrow
Of more than a hundred years
Lie under the weight of that Southern soil,
Despite those cruel sneers.
They “ buried him with his niggers”:
But the glorious souls set free 
Are leading the van of the army
That fights for Liberty!
Brothers in death, in glory,
The same palm branches bear;
And the crown is bright o’er the sable brow
As over the golden hair.

For the Liberator.
MARAH.
BY KATY CARLISLE.

Thou hast a charmed cup, O Fame,
A draught that mantles high,
Away! to me bring
Sweet waters from Affection’s spring!”
—MRS. HEMANS.
She sits alone, with her forehead bowed,
And her hands clasped on her knee;
With the great round tear-drops glittering,
And falling steadily.
O ye who deem that the minstrel seeks
But the plaudits of the throng,
Come stand in the shadow here, and look,
And list to this Marah’s song:
“Would ye love me if world’s praise had rayed
An aureole round my name?
Would that name grow musical to you 
In the trumpet -sound of fame?
Had I won a wreath of fadeless bays
By poncil—chisel—pen—
And a place ’mid the lofty ones of earth
Beloved, would ye love me then?
“Or if beauty’s blessed dower were mine—
The fair and winsome face,
The wave-like flowing of tresses bright,
And the step of airy grace;—
Would ye then, by the brightness of brow and eye
To more than pity moved,
Give the priceless boon that the heart so craves—
Would ye love me then, beloved?
“The dearest offerings I have to give,
My all of fair and sweet—
These poor, pale wild-flowers of the heart—
Lie withering at your feet.
And could death itself, for your dear sake,
My earnest truth have proved—
And I’ve even wished that this might be—
Would ye love me then, beloved?
“I know ’tis the fair SOUL’S loveliness 
That shines through loveliest eyes;
As the sun’s broad glory, brightening through,
The dark cloud glorifies;
But even a dark soul may grow bright,
If touched by love’s warm ray:
Then love me a little, O beloved,
That I may grow fair some day!”

INVOCATION TO PEACE.
BY WOODBURY M. FERNALD.
Come, gentle Peace! haste with thine olive wreath,
To crown a nation bleeding, anguished, sore;
Where War’s grim hand hath bid the sword unsheathe,
And drenched the land in fratricidal gore.
Methinks thy form in heaven now I see,
Waiting to bless this mourning land of ours,
And hovering o’er, in sweet expectancy,
To hush the rage of fierce, contending powers.
Long hast thou waited, while our souls have learned!
Slow and unwilling in the ways of heaven, 
We sought for blessing, while our hearts have burned
With avarice, lust, and plunder unforgiven.
No peace to foul injustice wouldst thou grant,
And none to Slavery’s accursed reign;
None to the tyrants who have sought to plant,
On Freedom’s soil, the seeds of woe and pain.
But when, at last, by God’s stern judgments taught,
The nation rises to its nobler height,—
When even “ rebels” catch the flying thought 
Of Freedom peering from the heavens of light,—
When, humbled in the dust, we wake, we rise
To the broad vision of the just and true,—
Man bound to man by kindred human ties,
By interest, knowledge, virtue; rising, too,
To the great height of perfect destiny
For all that live and breathe; on, then shall Peace
Descend, and bless this dear humanity
With all her riches, all her vast increase!
She shall descend upon our crimsoned fields,
Sacred and hallowed by heroic strife,
Where martyr dust so rich an offering yields
From deeds of valor crowned with deathless life—
She shall descend, and lo! that vast domain
Of a once erring, fair and sunny land,
Redeemed from ruin, shall break forth again
In teeming glories ’neath her fostering hand.
Her cities, crowned with peace, with knowledge blest,
Shall grow to civilized and statelier marts;
Her fruitful fields new motive powers attest 
The strength of livelier hands and manlier hearts
Peace to our commerce, peace to every art
Now disenthralled from Slavery’s cruel wrong;
Peace, Peace with Freedom! Let the nation’s heart
Roll the glad anthem o’er the earth along!
Come, blessed Peace! Methinks I see thy form
Descending now, mid shining hosts above,
Soon to announce, above the cloud and storm,
Eternal Justice, Liberty and Love!
Boston, Jan., 1865.-N. Y. Christian Inquirer.

THE FOURTH OF MARCH.
(A. D. 1865.)
O happy day, that crown’st our rounded year!
Bright keystone of our perfect arch of hope!
If those who cast the nation’s horoscope,
Four years ago, saw thee, the tremulous tear,
As with a cloud veiling the atmosphere,
Made the sight dim. Now down the future’s slope
The sunshine dazzles, and nor song nor trope
Can tell what lieth in the vision. clear—
Ours, if we but prove faithful. Ne’er before,
Since Israel failed, was nation tried as we
With love and chastisement; and thought we wore
Like robe of pride, it leaves us utterly,
As at the last, through duty’s narrow door,.
We pass to find this day which now we see.
Cincinnati, Ohio. MINNIE FRY
-N. Y. Independent.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
MR. EVERESTT IN FANEUIL HALL.
It must be a source of regret to all, and to those especially whose privilege it was to listen in Faneuil Hall to that latest outburst of eloquence of Mr. Everett, that all hit uttered language on that occasion has not been preserved in the printed reports.
The gesture, the tone, the special emphasis, even the trivialities and by-play of that resplendent oratory, as then and there it shone forth in the undimmed brightness of its setting, we hare fixed enduringly in our minds.
Since the stenographer has, in a slight degree, failed us, (though receiving and being justly entitled to Mr. Everett’s personal compliment for general correctness,) let us recall in memory, ere yet it be too late, some of these, in a double sense, richly laden words.
We have already been reminded, by an eminent eulogist, of that sentence in which he styles himself” an old man, who has nothing left but his lips with which to serve his country.” In the printed report, there is a passage which reads thus:-
“All history teaches how small an organized military power suffices to hold an unarmed population in subjection. With all their able-bodied men, of whatever opinion, forced into the army, and the pains and penalties of treason visited upon every one who manifests in word or deed a wish for the restoration of the Union, it is not to be wondered at that an open expression of the sentiment has not taken place. Considering the vicissitudes of war, and the possibility, as it may seem to them, that the Confederate yoke may again be placed upon their city, though we well know that that event will take place when Savannah river rum up hill, I rather wonder that her citizens have ventured even now to take the step they have.”
This will appear clearer and more characteristic when rendered thus:—
“All history teaches how small an organized military power suffices to hold an unarmed population in subjection. With all their able-bodied men of whatever opinion, forced into the army, and the pains and penalties of treason visited upon every one who manifests, in word or deed, a wish for the restoration of the Union, it is not to be wondered at that an open expression of that sentiment has not occurred. I have heard that some exception has been taken to the measured language of the Savannah resolutions. Considering the vicissitudes of war, and the possibility, as it must seem to them, that the Confederate yoke may again be placed upon their city, I do not wonder at their cautious language. For they do not know, as we know, that that event will take place when the Savannah river forgets its onward course to the sea, and flows back again upon the mountains. I rather wonder that her citizens have ventured, even now, to take the step they have.”
For the full appreciation of another sentence, we must conceive the orator as adding the italicised words thus:—”And probably there is not in the United States, at this moment, a better governed, or more quiet and orderly city, than Savannah,” (turning to the Mayor with characteristic suavity and grace,) “ except Boston.”
Again, in the printed report, the metaphor is lost from the following passage, which was pronounced very nearly thus:-
“The great West—big as she is—isn’t big enough to hold that wealth which annually grows in her fertile fields, and falls in superabundant measure into her lap.”
The sentence printed—
 “An officer, recently escaped from Columbia, informed a friend of mine, who repeated it to me last Saturday, that the allowance even to officers was a very small quantity” (a gesture signifying a handful)”of uncooked cob-meal—I hardly dare trust my memory to say how small, but I think it was a pint—a pint of cob-meal; that is, the corn and the cobs ground up, together, the daily allowance, with a spoonful of sorghum syrup.”
The following allusion may also with propriety be restored:—
“But what if they were our enemies? It is the precept of an ancient writer,—once, I fear, held in higher esteem than at present,—’If thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give him drink.’”
The last public appearance of Mr. Everett (since it was appointed to be the last) must be considered to have been felicitous. Speaking in Faneuil Hall consecrate to freedom and to patriotism; inviting his hearers to measures, prompted by either of two commanding traits of his personal character, and on this occasion happily by both, namely, the love of country and the love of charitable deeds; he was surrounded on the platform by those, most of whom must have been not merely the associates of the hour, but the familiar friends of many years; and he met, in step, ping upon the rostrum, the greetings of an auditory, if, as a whole, less intimate in personal relations, not less friendly in spirit, and who felt that they had a right to claim him as their own.
A well known essayist says—”The men who carry their points do not need to inquire of their constituents what they shall say, but are themselves the country which they represent: nowhere are its emotions or opinions so instant and true as in them; nowhere so pure from a selfish infusion. The constituency hearkens to their words, watches the color of their cheek, and therein, as in a glass, dresses its own.” This remark found apt exemplification on this occasion; and all felt that, in the speech of this orator, the sentiment of the meeting was about to find adequate expression.
A meeting called in the business part of the city at the hour of noonday, except in times of high political excitement, is not liable to be over-crowded; and on this occasion, although the galleries appeared to be well-filled by the ladies, the floor audience was not so compact as to prevent an easy passage in any direction across the hall. It is well-known that, in a sparse auditory, a vigorous demonstration of applause is a matter of uncertainty; yet there was no failure here, and Mr. Everett was received with plaudits of unmistakable emphasis and warmth, thrice subsiding only to be renewed, and raised again to the initial height.
This circumstance is mentioned only to show that Mr. Everett was in fact (and his manner indicated that he was conscious of it) among friends, in full sympathy; and the occasion, regarded as his exclusively, seemed to be one of social and friendly greeting, rather than one of distant and formal oratory. This was evinced in a special manner in the humorous turn of some of his remarks, of which the printed report gives no hint.
For example—the sentence which the types render, “Gen. Sherman having escaped into the city, and Gen. Hardee having escaped out of it”—in the delivery ran somewhat thus:-“Gen. Sherman having, as the veracious rebel newspapers declare,’ escaped into Savannah,’ and that, too, (has it not struck you as a most remarkable coincidence?) at the very moment that Gen. Hardee was escaping out of Savannah,” etc.
Any person <illegible> with Mr. Everett’s style of humor, which was not that of drollery, but rather of beaming good nature, can easily imagine (adding the appropriate emphasis and gesture) the charm of manner which attended, as well as the spontaneous merriment which followed this unexpected sally.
Again, having affirmed that the rebel prisoners were exceedingly well treated on our part, he said” that such is the case with the Southern prisoners of war at our depots, I have had some opportunities to know personally. I recently had occasion, and quite unexpectedly, to visit Fort Warren and Boston Harbor.”
The speaker perceived the contretemps simultaneously with his auditory. The suggestion, that the very impersonation and ideal of patriotism, then exhorting in Faneuil Hall, had been gaoled at Fort Warren, was, of course, irresistibly ludicrous. Mr. Everett joined heartily in the general laughter, and added gracefully, “ I only meant to say, my friends, that my visit was unexpected on their part; that no preparation had
<c03>
been made; and that I was cognizant of the actual condition of things there.”
In the same connection, speaking of the fare of the prisoners at Fort Johnson, he is reported as saying:—”I saw Western hams by the cartload unloading into their store-rooms, and I passed through their quarters just at dinner hour. The tables, certainly, were not spread with damask table-cloths, nor set out with porcelain and cut-glass; and I must confess, I did not taste the food. But, judging from the looks and the smell, it was as wholesome and savory as I ever wish to see on my own table.”
After the words, “looks and smell,” was added in parenthesis,” and you know, my friends, you can judge pretty well how the dinner is going to taste, by the looks and the smell.”
If the reader will conceive the speaker’s face, particularly the eyes, as assuming that blandness and beaming good nature, which, as intimated above, was in humorous delineations his natural expression, and, conceive his voice as firmly retentive with the rising inflection upon the syllable pret, and descending with that native and peculiar emphasis upon the word and, and consider that the clock denoted the hour betwixt one and two, he will catch in some measure the spirit of the delivery, and will not need to be assured that this palpable argumentum ad hominem met a ready and a merry response.
Once more let me paraphrase the printer’s text, as I now recall the concluding passage:—
“For heaven’s sake, my friends, let us hasten to win these bloodless victories, saddened by no parent’s bereavement, no widow’s tears. Let me not be misunderstood as disparaging victory in the field. I do not yield to any man in the earnestness of my desire for a vigorous prosecution of the war. Let us put forth our strength to subdue the armies which a merciless conscription of old and young drives to the field, and maintain a cordon of iron and fire around the shores of persistent rebellion; but, from the moment a desire is manifested on the part of the masses to acknowledge the authority of the Government, let us hasten to extend to them the right hand of Christian love, to supply their wants, and to relieve their sufferings, and mark their return to the Union by the return of a prosperity to which, by the selfish and cruel ambition of their leaders, they have so long been strangers.”
In the pronunciation of the words,” no parent’s bereavement, no widow’s tears,” and” cordon of iron and fire,” as well as at other points in his address, were manifest that spirit and power which gave celebrity to the orator’s pristine efforts; and we may say, without affectation, that it cannot be considered otherwise than felicitous that he should have received the first shock of death at this time, (as himself has written,) while attended by the pleasant incidents here recorded, surrounded by” troops of friends,” engaged in a work of love and patriotism, yet in the harness, and amid the benignant associations of Faneuil Hall. B.

INSTRUCTION OF THE FREEDMEN-No. II.
In a former article we alluded to the great work that looms up before the friends of the freedmen—the elevation of four millions of half civilized men and women, who must inevitably form an element in our nation’s life, in one form or another. With the vices born of slavery—with that low sense of right which an utter disregard of their rights has caused—without any of those finer faculties which come only through the development of the races, faculties which are passed down from father to son—in spite of a thousand disadvantages, and with but feeble instrumentalities, they must be educated, elevated, refined and moulded, until they shall form a worthy part of our great national fabric.
Certainly, no means that can in any important degree aid in this work should be overlooked. If any given agency was certain to save ten per cent. of the labor of teaching, or to add one-tenth to the efficiency of the means employed, it would deserve consideration.
But an agency presents itself that promises a hundred fold more than this; and even if its actual value should prove far less than the, promise, still it could not fail to be vastly important.
We allude to the Phonic System of teaching reading. To develop the matter fairly, it will be necessary to allude to the Phonetic System, which has been used to a greater or less extent for many years. We refer to the Phonetic plan, because it is similar to the Phonic in principle, and serves to illustrate it, since the latter is an outgrowth, in some sense, of the former.
The Phonetic plan of teaching reading has been too long before the people to be matter of theory simply. Thousands of successful experiments in all parts of the country attest its value.
The principle is this: Letters were originally designed to represent sounds. This invention stands at the head of all other inventions. It originated in the darkness of an antiquity too remote for history, and is only dimly recorded among the most ancient traditions. Men had previously made signs to express ideas. But this plan was adapted only to express a very limited number of ideas, and those of the most material description.
Untutored Indians could make signs to indicate a forest, a rock, a mountain, a river, a beast; but who should agree on a sign for love or hate, fear or boldness; or if some posture of the human body would answer for these, what kind of character should represent the thousand relations existing between things material and immaterial-the finer shading of human passions, hopes and fears? With all the copiousness of modern languages, the soul finds itself cramped for utterance: how much more so with that ancient picture writing!
But men had early learned to talk; when or how we know not; and, at some time in the development of the human race, it occurred to the greatest genius the world ever saw, that some marks could be made that should indicate those sounds of the human voice heard in speaking: and thus, instead of having two languages, a spoken and a written, totally dissimilar, to form a written language which should daguerreotype the spoken. Oh, brilliant thought! Oh, gifted discerner! Could any doubting mortal have whispered in the ear,” An hundred ages yet shall pass—the world grow old and young again—refinement shall tone down the rough barbarians of the present, until they seem like angels in their purity—science shall fill the earth with light, and knowledge know no bounds; all human knowledge shall be based on law, and reason be perfected; yet this thy great discovery shall be acknowledged only in name, and written language shall again degenerate until the spoken word and written sign no longer correspond”—I think thy grey and shaggy locks would have shaken with incredulity. But such is the case. While we profess to have an alphabet designed to represent sounds, and designed to make our writing a transcript of our speech, in point of fact, we spell our words so that Egyptian hieroglyphics are not a whit more irregular, or more difficult to be mastered and properly employed. PHILIP.

THE LATE DANIEL FOSTER.
To the Liberator:
An effort is now being made by some of the friends of the late Daniel Foster to raise the means for securing a home for his family—a wife and three children. For eighteen years Mr. Foster labored with unfaltering zeal in behalf of the oppressed. He endured obloquy and poverty in his heroic adherence to his convictions. His devotion to the cause of liberty and human rights took him to Kansas in 1857, where he rendered important service to the Free State cause. In 1859-60 he came to Massachusetts, and raised thousands of dollars for the starving inhabitants of the territory, whose crops had been out off by drought. Soon after the war broke out, he again returned to Massachusetts, and entered the army as chaplain of the 33d Massachusetts. When the organization of the negro troops began, be applied for a commission as captain of a company, saying,” If the negroes are well officered, they will make good soldiers, and I
<c04>
feel called to do my part to secure that end.” He received his commission, and faithfully discharged his duty till the 30th of last September, when he fell at the head of his command in the terrible fight at Chapin’s Farm.
His services and sacrifices for liberty have been, surpassed by no man. He gave everything to the, cause, leaving his family destitute. A brother has been lecturing for several weeks, slowly and laboriously accumulating a little money for their benefit. He now offers to give one thousand dollars, nearly double the amount he has raised, if the friends of Mr. Foster will raise another one thousand. Are there not five hundred readers of the Liberator who will give from fifty cents to five dollars to this cause? Thousands have listened to his burning words when the cost of speaking for the slave could not be estimated in dollars and cents. Thousands have read his letters in the Liberator, breathing the spirit of unselfish devotion to the cause for which he lived and died. Will it not be a pleasure to many of these to acknowledge their estimate of his services by giving something to his needy family? One of his last utterances, as reported by a comrade, was, ”There is no other thought so trying to me in looking at the probabilities of death as the thought that I shall leave my wife and little ones unprovided for.”
Any disposed to give to this object can send to Rev. Roswell Foster, Chicopee Falls, or to Mrs. Dora S. Foster, 377 Silver street. South Boston, or to R. F. Wallcut, A. S. Office, 221 Washington St., Boston.
R. FOSTER.
All that is here said of the labors and services of the late Daniel Foster, in the cause of freedom and humanity, is deserved, and more; and we hope this appeal will be most liberally responded to.—Ed. Lib.
SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN CHARLESTON.
The Charleston correspondent for the New York Tribune writes a very readable and graphic letter from the ”accursed city,” from which we extract the following:—
The wharves looked as if they had been deserted for half a century—broken down, dilapidated, grass and moss peeping up through the pavements, where once the busy feet of commerce trod incessantly. The warehouses near the river; the streets as we enter them; the houses and the stores and the public buildings,—we look at them, and hold our breath in utter amazement. Every step we take increases our astonishment. No pen, no pencil, no tongue can do justice to the scene. No imagination can conceive of the utter wreck, the universal ruin, the stupendous desolation. Ruin—ruin—ruin—above and below; on the right hand and on the left; ruin, ruin, ruin, everywhere and always—staring at us from every paneless window; looking out at us from every shell-torn wall; glaring at us from every battered door and pillar and verandah; crouching beneath our feet on every sidewalk. Not Pompeii, nor Herculaneum, nor Thebes, nor the Nile have ruins so complete, so sad doing, so plaintively eloquent, for they speak to us of an age, not ours, and long ago dead, with whose people and life and ideas we have no sympathy whatever. But here on these shattered wrecks of houses—built in our own style, many of them doing credit to the architecture of our epoch—we read names familiar to us all; telling us of trades and professions and commercial institutions, which every modern city reckons up by the hundred; yet, dead, dead, dead; as silent as the graves of the Pharaohs, as deserted as the bazaars of the merchant Princes of old Tyre. Whoever among us wished to know how his spirit would feel if he were to re-visit by the pale glimpses of the moon the ruins of his native city after the present civilization shall have passed away, learned it to his complete satisfaction on the morning of last Monday here. It was early—few stragglers were abroad; just enough to make the desolation more desolate by contrast; and the stillness, not of the Sabbath, but of the desert hung heavily over all. Hardly a building in all this part of the city—and this the business part—has escaped the terrible crashing and smashing of the Federal shells. And right in the centre of it are at least (I should judge) ten acres of ruins, the monuments of the great fire which occurred three years ago. This is in an open space—only blackened walls and solitary chimneys remain in it—and all around this area of desolation are the ruined houses, that still stand-“Gilmore’s Town,” as the negroes call it, a triumph of military skill—or the art destructive of all arts; a proof to the Christian that God’s judgments are sure, and that the cries of the poor are heard at the Great Throne, and avenged by the All-righteous Judge. They acted, the men who lived in these mansions and trafficked in these stores and marts, as if God were dead; as if their own will was the only standard of right—they mocked at the “higher law;” they sold the poor men in their avarice and killed the good men in their hate; when, lo! the people whom they despised rose up against them and subdued them, and the race whom they enslaved trod their streets under the banners and as the comrades of their conquerors!

THE FREEDMEN AGAIN.
Having made some remarks on the disposal of the freedmen who have been cast, and will probably continue to be cast, on our care by the progress of the war, and still more by the return of peace, we beg leave to resume that subject, and detain it a little longer before our readers.
As we desire to be practical in our remarks, we shall begin by considering what is most desirable to be done as the first step in this work of elevation. It seems to us the first thing is to confute those hasty assumptions that the black man belongs to an inferior race, and must ever be what he has been, of the lowest caste in the human family: and this must be confuted in an irresistible way, by invincible facts; by flashes of light which produce irresistible conviction; that is, we must train the negro for those improvements he is most fitted for. In those golden stairs, which, as Milton represents, were let down from heaven to earth, we must help him to take his first step upwards. Music is a gift very much diffused among the African race. They are all singers, and have fine voices; they can be taught to play well on an instrument. Who knows now what delightful strains may yet break from such public singers? Perhaps a sable Ole Bull or Paganini may go through the land, delighting crowds, and giving us such strains as we have never heard before. Then eloquence is a gift that very much shuns the aristocratic line; it is oftener found in cottages than in castles of nobility. We recollect being delighted fifteen years ago, perhaps, by an old slave, a woman, whom Garrison brought forward to address his mingled audience. There had been hisses and applauses when most of the other speakers addressed the assembly; at length came forth this plain, old woman, a turban on her head, dressed as if she had just walked out of the kitchen, with a clear voice, a good share of common sense, and not a particle of exaggeration about her; she had been a slave, and she told her story with the utmost simplicity and self-possession; and Wendell Phillips himself had not so complete a command of the audience. The hisses all died away in the most unbounded applause, ”That’s it, old lady,” “Go it, old woman,” “Hurrah for the negro,” and then the clamor sinking into the most listening silence.
The power of controlling an audience is a gift from heaven. It is to be hoped that there will be a great supply of negro preachers; enough to fill all the congregations of their countrymen; some of them, we have no doubt, will be eloquent men. Think of a black Spurgeon, or a black Henry Ward Beecher, followed by enraptured crowds, going through the land! We shall bear no more of a degraded race, doomed to slavery. The thing is possible.
One art more we should like to see appropriated and attained by this unfortunate race; and that is a vessel, navigated and manned by sable mariners, crossing the Atlantic, going to Calcutta, sailing among the Philippine islands, going round the globe, not a white man on board. Why the negroes have so seldom gone to sea, except as cooks, we do not know. Certainly, navigation is not an art beyond their reach. If a ship of eight hundred tons were to come into Boston harbor, manned by negroes, owned by a negro, and with a negro master, it would, we fancy, produce some impression. In a word, let the negro be taught to manage a farm, to navigate a ship, and to preach the Gospel; and let him exhibit his best in each capacity, and he is forever a man; he has a right to all the protection and privileges of the city of mankind.—Boston Traveller.
<c05>
COLORED PASSENGERS IN STREET CARS.
To the Editor of The Press: SIR—We, the under signed, have a sad story to publish by your permission. We have not been drafted, however, but the we have had to pass through a more horrible ordeal, as horrid as that might be, and the indelible impressions made upon our minds constrain us to lay our grievances before the enlightened and christianized. citizens of Philadelphia. To come to the facts of the case, they are as follows. On last Saturday after-noon, about 5 o’clock, during a pelting cold rain, we three having an order to attend to in the eastern part of the city, were naturally impressed with the idea that just now, when the impartial draft is making no distinction of color, and when, too, the tax-collectors come to oar places of business as readily as to those of white persons, we might be permitted, and did enter a ear of the Walnut and Chestnut streets line (to avoid the severity of the weather.) But scarcely had we reached the threshold are we were told by the conductor, ”You cannot ride in this car.” “Why can we not?” one of us asked.” Because you are not allowed,” answered the conductor.” You can draft us in the service, and why can we not ride?” “I do not care for that: you have got to go out of this car.” “We do not mean to go out; you can put us out if you choose. We came from Boston; we could ride in the cars there; we cannot see why we should not ride here,” one of us remarked. In the meantime, a passenger, in an excited manner and with harsh language, said: ”You know you are not allowed to ride in here.” “If we are offensive to the passengers we will get up and go out,” we said.” You are offensive to these ladies,” he responded, in a rage. The ladies rose, (but two were in the car,) and said emphatically, ”They are not offensive, but we want no disturbance.” At this juncture, the conductor called a policeman, who said, ”You must leave the car, or be locked up.” “Is it against the law for us to ride in here?” we asked. ”It is,” said the policeman. ”Then we will go out,” one of us remarked. Another, not agreeing to this mandate, said,” It is not against the law, and you may lock me up.” “Then I will take you first,” said the officer, grabbing him by the collar roughly. “ Do you want assistance?” asked the man who first interfered. “Yes,” said the officer. At this moment, a regular assault was made upon us by the opposing party, whose numbers had been swelled from without by those who evidently would rather sustain slavery and prejudice than freedom and justice 
Feeling ourselves, however, to be men and not dogs, one of us determined to suffer risk of personal injury and the lock-up rather than run. He came in for more than a due proportion of blows, as fists and the billy were applied freely to his person, the head not being spared. We confess that in the excitement of the moment, we felt unwilling to endure the outrage without resentment, and at least one of us dealt a few blows in return. But we were overpowered and taken before an alderman. There insult was, as it were, added to injury, for grave charges were made against us; and we soon found that we should be sent to the lock-up unless bail could be procured. For the time being, our minds were so much absorbed by reflection upon the outrages heaped on us that we were not in a condition to think of this; hence we were incarcerated, as threatened, and remained so until a friend kindly came and procured our release. These, Mr. Editor, are the simple facts of the case, as they occurred Without comment, we present them for the consideration of the public.
We try to forget, sir, but we remember that the Democratic cities of New York, Baltimore, Washington, and even New Orleans, do not object to respectable colored persons riding in the cars, while the Republican city of Philadelphia excludes all of her own citizens for color alone. 
Respectfully,
MILES R. ROBINSON,
JAMES WALLACE,
R. C. MARSHALL.
—Philadelphia Press.
A VALUABLE CREED.
Gail Hamilton has some original and practical ideas of religion. We wonder if there are many faithful ”professors” of the creed in America!
“We want a religion that softens the step, and tunes the voice to melody, and fills the eye with sunshine, and checks the impatient exclamation and harsh rebuke; a religion that is polite, deferential to superiors, courteous to inferiors, and considerate to friends; a religion that goes into the family”, and keeps the husband from being spiteful when the dinner is late—keeps the wife from fretting when the husband tracks the newly-washed floor with his muddy boots, and makes the husband mindful of the scraper and the door-mat—keeps the mother patient when the baby is cross; amuses the children as well as instructs them; promptly looks after the apprentice in the shop, and the clerk behind the counter, and the student in the office, with a fatherly care and motherly love, setting the solitary in families, and introducing them to pleasant and wholesome society, that their lonely feet” may not be led into temptation. We want a religion that shall interpose continually between the ruts and gullies and rocks of the highway of life, and the sensitive souls that are travelling ever then.
We want a religion that bears heavily, not only on the exceeding rascality of lying and stealing—a religion that banishes short measures from the counter, small baskets from the stalls, pebbles from the cotton bags, clay from the sugar, chickory from the coffee, otter from butter, beetjuice from vinegar, alum from bread, strychnine from wine, water from milk-cans, and buttons from the contribution box. The religion that is to save the world will not put all the bad ones at the bottom. It will not make He one half a pair of shoes of good leather and the other in of poor leather, so that the first shall redound to the of maker’s credit, and the second to his cash; nor if the shoes be promised on Thursday morning will it let Thursday morning spin out till Saturday night. It does not send the little boy who has come for the daily quart of milk to the barnyard to see the calf, and seize the opportunity to skim off the cream; nor does it surround stale butter with fresh, and sell the whole for good; nor sell off the slack-baked bread upon the stable-boy; nor dust the paper; nor ’deacon’ the apples.
The religion that is to sanctify the world pays its debts. It does not borrow money with little or no purpose of re-payment, by concealing or glossing over the fact.
It looks upon a man who has failed in trade and continues to live in luxury as a thief. It looks upon him who promises to pay fifty dollars on demand, with interest, and who neglects to pay fifty dollars on demand, with or without interest, as a liar.

BEHIND THE AGE.
We did not expect to find the drinking practices of the past defended in this age, by Christian men, nor to hear the custom of moderate tippling defended from the pulpit in the city of Boston. But there is no knowing what the pulpit will teach in these days of looseness and degeneracy. The Old South pulpit was wont to plead for the institution of slavery, and for many years the advocates of human bondage could go to that venerable place without being shocked by hearing anti-slavery gospel. When Park Street thundered and lightened, the Old South was dumb, or gently pleaded for the slaveholder; “South-side views” were not written by the pastor, but a South-side religion was taught in the pulpit. And now it seems that the same pulpit has hoisted the flag of moderate drinking, and the pastor has preached a sermon on the propriety of ”taking a little to keep the spirits up.”
The occasion of this sermon on behalf of intemperance, which has been mentioned in several papers, seems to have been this. Rev. Dr. Chickering, of Portland, preached on the necessity of total abstinence on a late Sabbath morning. He urged it as a Christian duty, in these days when men are so easily drawn into the maelstrom of drunkenness. Dr. Blagden was afraid that his young men would be too highly strung in this direction, and to neutralize the sermon of Dr. Chickering, preached one him self, in which he advocated moderate drinking. Does Dr. Blagden or any other doctor think men need sermons in defence of drinking practices? Is there any danger that men will be too temperate? No wonder our young men come to despise such a gospel as this, which is contrary to the spirit of the age, and the best interests of man. When the pulpit stands up for moderate drinking, we may expect to see intemperance increase most fearfully. A proslavery gospel and a rum-drinking gospel will not save the world.—Boston Christian Era.
<c06>
DIFFUICULT TO BELIEVE.
We can hardly believe the evidence of our eyes when we read the Richmond papers now-a-days, their articles are so changed. We are carried back to the palmy days of the New York Tribune and Garrison’s Liberator, and we recall the ancient as tacks of those sheets upon the institution. When expected ever to see so strange a sight as the Richmond editors, with whom slavery four years ago-three years ago-two years ago-was everything-the alpha and omega-the pearl of great price-the one thing altogether lovely-actual inveighing against the effect and tendency of the institution upon the minds of those who are pecuniary interested in it? Little did we suppose that it was ever in reserve for us to read in the Richmond Enquiry homily upon homily showing that the South could be and would be great and powerful under a system of emancipation, and that, after all, the duels and struck fights at Washington and throughout the South groveling out of unsoundness upon the “goose question,” we should read fervent essays from the scions of chivalry and slavery urging the fallacy of any and all peculiarity in the “peculiar institution.” It seems now that there is no sacredness in slavery-that its dimity is no shield to it-that it simply stands on a lead with vulgar tobacco, which every one spews out of his mouth, and ignoble cotton, which even the poorest “white trash” may tread under their feet. The “corner-stone” of the great Confederacy is at this time discovered to be no corner-stone at all. It is but a mere brick, and hardly that, in the Southern structure. Its place can easily be supplied. Negroes will not only make good soldiers, but excellent field hands with their emancipation papers in their pockets. It is no longer necessary to believe that the negro is an intermediate between a monkey and gorilla, in order to be considered orthodox. It is not incendiary to talk of them as human beings, with whom liberty and the right to own their wives and children is a demoralizing concession. “Help me, Cassius, or I sink!” is now the cry that rings out from Richmond editors. Poor fellows! We wounder if they ever read what Shylock said to Antonio on a certain occasion, when the latter would ”have monies.” But yesterday, said the former, you called me “a dog,” “a Jew,” and did ”void your rheum upon my beard,” but to-day you are all complaisance, amiability and concession, because you would “have monies.” The immortal Shakespeare was writing for all the world and all time when he sketched that picture of the baser sort of human nature so frequently met with in the world. He hit the Richmond fire—eaters square on the head. Only a few short months ago they were the rampageous champions, the very Knights-errant, of everlasting, divine slavery. Not all Europe, much less the horrible hyenas of the North, should ever budge them an inch from their position. For the fanatics of Exeter Hall and Faneuil Hall, and all the halls, a profound contempt was affected. But how changed all this to-day! They would” have monies,” they would have escape from the halter, from rain, from subjugation, and they are mean enough and low enough to come down on their knees and call on the slaves, for whose hopeless degradation and more effectual brutalization they undertook their rebellion, to join them in a last desperate effort to word off the annihilation now so imminent. The world will laugh at such a bobtail chivalry when it comes out, as come out it will, of this rebellion with all its feathers plucked, and its comb forever cut, not because it did not fight long and desperately, but because in its extremity it turned on its principles, and was base enough to seek aid from those upon whose necks its heel was proudly and definitely set in scorn of the Christian world only four years ago—Weekly Intelligencer.
PLAYED OUT. 
A few years since, an aged clergyman, “whose sands of life had nearly run out,” was suddenly smitten with a deep feeling of regard for the unfortunate “victims of a certain habit,” and proposed to send them a free recipe, on application accompanied by a postage stamp, that would prove a sure care for their unmentioned malady. In this was he made three-fourths of the newspapers in the country his agents in perpetrating a wholesale imposition upon the weak and credulous. He would send a printed recipe and circular, the former containing unheard of ingredients, but he was sure to inform the applicant in the circular how much better it would be to send him one, two or five dollars, more or less, and allow him to forward the medicine duly compounded. The bait would take, and a New York imposter pocketed his cool thousands by this ”sands of life”: dodge.
Within a few days we have received from New York an advertisement that, no doubt, is at least a second cousin to the one referred to. It purports to be “ a card to invalids,” and then goes on to state that ”a clergyman while residing in South America as a missionary, discovered a safe and simple remedy for the cure of”—no matter what, and the advertiser-whether the aforesaid ”clergyman” is not stated-smitten with” a desire to benefit the afflicted and unfortunate,” proposes to ”send the recipe for preparing and using this medicine, in a sealed envelope,” to any one who needs it, free of charge, on receipt of a return directed post paid envelope.
This clerical gentleman, who is to be addressed at the ”Bible House,” must be excessively benevolent to advertise by the year, at a cost of thousands of dollars, for the mere opportunity it will afford him to send out free recipes! We don’t care to be come accessory to such a swindle, and so we decline to give the terms of advertising desired. On the other hand, we advise every reader to give all such benevolent (!) gentlemen a wide berth, and not betray their lack of good sense by swallowing such nacked hooks–Maine State Press.
THE SLAVE’S RETURN. 
We wonder why some one don’t write a novel, giving it the above title, and making Captain Robert Small the hero! Such a colored hero would throw Uncle Tom quite into the back-ground. It will be remembered by our readers that this negro slave performed a great feat in the spring of 1862, when he escaped from slavery on board the rebel steamer-the Planter. Since the fall of Charleston, he has returned to it under most favorable circumstances. He returns a free and wealthy man, whose name is destined to live longer in memory then many Southern aristocrats who once belonged to the chivalry.
He is captain of the Planter, and recently navigated her up the harbor of Charleston and by Sumter with three flags flying on the pure breezes of heaven. He had as passengers General Saxton, Maj. Saxton, the brother of Gen. Howard, some officers of Sherman’s army, Judges Cooley and Worden, and many others. The Captain’s face beamed with smiles, and he managed his steamer with great tact and politeness. The Planter has been refitted since Small ran away with her, at an expense of $40,000. She is now a beautiful vessel, and well may her colored commander feel proud of her. What pleasing sensations must have thrilled his heart when he rounded up to Charleston wharf with his craft decorated with the ”Stars and Stripes!” We will not attempt a description of his emotions under such circumstances, but leave that to some future novelist when he writes his book, entitled. ”The Slave’s Return.”–Maine State Press.

IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
NO. 31 WINTER STREET.
Where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair. 
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in ever city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
