THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM I. GARRISON, JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 4. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1668.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION.
The Abolition proclamation is now issued, and what will be the result? An increase of session, and an indefinite continuation of war. It is a radial measure in all its features. It is approved of by illegible save the friends of the party in power. The Democracy of the North-now increasing in force and might every day-is indignantly against it. This fact proves its issue to be without sagacity, and itself to be violently in opposition to the Constitution. The majority of the people being against the "Proclamation," what will be the consequence? Great inefficiency, which in its turn will produce more radicalism. The opposition of the majority to this measure will put immeasurable failure in its way. But the South it will alienate more that ever. The cotton States rebelled in order to save their slave property-a property guaranteed to them by the fundamental law of the land. But the Proclamation is directly subversive of that property. It is an open, uncompromising, radical Abolition interference with slavery. In other words, it is a new, direct, sweeping provocation of Southern treason. It is plain, therefore, that it will be hailed in the South with new sentiments of hatred to the North. The natural, the just, the expedient, the proper, the wise, the certain, the usual, the infallible means of ending war is to withdraw its cause: but in the direunfortunate case it issue, the cause is deliberately increased in every feature belonging to it. The Proclamation is, therefore, a direct continuation of the war. What do the authors of this measure care? The Proclamation is the realization of their fanaticism; the longer the war continues, the more their pockets will be filled-for they are office-holders and contractors and it is not they that are to do the fighting. Certainly the Republicans exult in the Proclamation. This, however, is not the entire case. There is a government de facto in the South-a government which the people love, which the military are prepared to obey at all hazards, which extends over a vast measure of territory. What is the good of a Proclamation in regard to this government-to this territory? No doubt, some thousands of slaves will run blindly into freedom, as soon as they hear of the Proclamation. But, in the main-in the grand main of four millions of slaves, it will have no effect: it cannot be made to reach them. So that in three essential consideration, this Proclamation is a violent disorder-it is a violent disorder on the judgment of the majority of the people of the North-it is such against common sense, inasmuch as it can have but little effect-and it is such extremely in being a new, excessive provocation of the war. May the Lord save the nation from the able rebels and from the incompetent, fanatic, radial administration of Abraham Lincoln!-Boston Pilot.

THE DAY IS DAWNING.
The Union Democratic Association of New York city has given expression to the conservative sentiment of the people of the North, in the following resolution, adopted at a meeting held on the 30th! ultimo:-
Resolved, That the State of New Jersey, through her State Government, be respectfully requested to interpose in order to arrest the existing civil war.
1. By inviting the non-slaveholding States, and the loyal slaveholding States-Delaware, Maryland, Kentucky and Missouri-to meet in convention in Louisville, Ky., on the - day of February next.
2.By requesting the permission of the President of the United States to send commissioners to Virginia, North and South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Florida, Mississippi, Louisiana, Arkansas, Texas and Tennessee, to invite them also to meet in like National Convention. And
3. Be it further Resolved. That the President be requested by the state Government of New Jersey to declare an armistice with or for such State or States as may accept this call for a National Convention.
Resolved, That a committee be created on the part of this Association to present these resolutions to the Governor and Legislature of New Jersey, and to urge upon that state, that, in consideration of her revolutionary history and patriotic associations, she is entitled thus to lead in a National Convention for the restoration of the Union of these States.
These resolution, the World says, were greeted with a torrent of cheers: they were carried unanimously, and there is no doubt that the State of New Jersey will comply with the request in spirit and to the letter.- Evansville (Ind.) Democrat.
BARKING OF LINCOLN'S DOG. The Philadelphia Press, (Forney,) Which is presumed to speak for the Administration, says, in reference to New York and New York politicians:-
"The course of the Administration in arresting traitors will be governed by the circumstances that controlled it in other times. If the danger should again demand the summary arrest of traitors in New York, they will be arrested."
If by "traitors" the Press means Democrats, or old line Whigs or Conservatives, in New York, they will not thus be arrested, or if arrested, they will be liberated by the whole posse comitatus of the Democracy of the State, if necessary, 300,000 men in arms-and New Jersey to stand by us-with more than half of Connecticut now. It is well to understand each other, if these things be designed.-New York Express.
ANOTHER PROCLAMATION CALLED FOR. In an article upon the rebel steamer Alabama and her exploits, the New York World prescribes and abolition specific as the only cure:-
The Alabama must be abolished by a proclamation. This formidable military invention of the radicals. Which is to end the war and crush the rebellion on land, cannot fail to be as fully effective at sea. It is time to employ it. We have trifled with this Kraken, this dragon of the deep, long enough. Mr. Lincoln had it in his power to do. by a few strokes of his pen, what our ships, our sailors and Secretary Welles can never accomplish. Let him come at once to the rescue of our commerce, and proclaim decisively that if the Alabama shall not surrender before the 1st of April next, she sha11- from and after that date, be and remain forever and utterly abolished."
The radicals think the war is a war for the negro, and man ought to be in it who is not a negrophilist. That is as much as to say that we are no longer fighting for the Union, but are fighting for negro freedom, a proposition which is very far from being acceptable to the army or country. Clearly, most of the people regard the proclamation as a very foolish piece of business, and look earnestly for the time when they can constitutionally place in authority at Washington men of ability who will be guided by Constitution and law.-Washington corr. of Journal of Commerce.
<c02>
Selections.
GRAND EMANCIPATION DEMONSTRATION.
From the London Morning Star of Jan. 1.
Yesterday evening, a grand demonstration in support of the emancipation policy of the American Government was held in the British Institution, Cowper-street, City-road. The large hall was densely crowded, and several hundreds of persons were compelled to stand in the passages. Mr. R. MOORE presided, and on the platform were Mr. W. Evans, (Chairman of the Emancipation Society.) Mr. F. W. Chesson, (the hon. Secretarv,) the Rev. Newman Hall. Rev. J. H. Rylance, Mr. C. H. Elt, Mr. John Robert Taylor, Mr. B. Lucraft. Mr. Washington Wilks, Mr. Wallarage, Mr. Outram, &c. The audience was in great part composed of working men.
The CHAIRMAN, in opening the proceedings, said that a variety of opinions had been put forth touching the cause of the American struggle. Now, his opinion was, that the war had alone been caused by slavery.(Cheers.) The horrid evil had grown to the most gigantic dimensions. Jefferson, in his day, had no idea of the extent to which it would spread. In his time, the slaves had not numbered more than 500,000; whereas now they were 4,000,000. And it was to be remembered that the slaves did all the work, and that the 8,000,000 of whites lived on their labor. The meeting knew what was the moral aspect of slavery. In Jefferson's time, the Americans had been ashamed of it.(Cheers.) They had said that they trusted it would die out, but instead of that, it had grown to its present dimensions. That was a most appalling part of the question. Of the cotton that was manufactured in this country, 87 per cent, had come from the Southern States, and, consequently, the more of that cotton that had been manufactured here, the more had slavery been extended. Slavery had always been ready to engage in filibustering expeditions to extend its area. That was shown by the policy of the South, touching the question of the annexation of Texas. The South had threatened to secede, unless the North agreed that Texas should be under the domination of slavery. And then the South bad called on the North to let it introduce slavery into Texas, while the South in return would assist the North to take Canada. He was not there to defend every thing the North had done; indeed, he lamented that the North had so much given way to the designs of the South. But the North had said there was a point beyond which it would not go, and hence the origin of the war. He held his opinions strongly and conscientiously; but, such was his love of fair play, that, if any one came forward to advocate the cause of, the South, he would ask the meeting to give him a fair and patient hearing.(Applause.)
Mr. EVANS then proposed the first resolution as follows:-"That this great meeting of English working men, assembled on the last night of the year 1862, declares its hearty admiration of the noble efforts made by the Government and people of the United States, not only to free themselves from the guilt of complicity with slavery, but also to promote the liberation of the enslaved:-and hails the dawn of the new year as the beginning of an epoch of universal freedom upon the Western continent, and of closer friendship between the people of England and of America." In speaking to the resolution, Mr. Evans said he had travelled through the North, and some parts of the South, and he had formed his opinions from a disinterested point of view. In America, the working man was a true gentleman; there his position was rightly estimated. No country could long remain prosperous where a stigma was cast on those who earned their; bread by the sweat of their brow.(Cheers.) In America, there were 35,000 miles of telegraph, and 30,000 miles of railways. Altogether, the American might feel proud of his country, which was the home for those who had left the worn-out despotisms of Europe. Yet, when he had been in America, a painful thought had come over his mind from the circumstance that it was a penal offence in the slave States to teach a slave to read. He, for one, was not disposed to apologize for the faults of the North, but he would maintain that the South was now fighting for slavery. (Hear, hear.) He had often asked the Southerners what were their grievances, and they always told him that their complaint was, that the Abolition feeling was extending itself, and that if they remained in the Union, slavery would be compelled to vanish. (Cheers.) He had never heard a word about tariffs. He cordially sympathized with those who desired to put an end to slavery, and he hoped England would now show that the labors of Buxton and those who many years ago worked with him had not been in vain.(Cheers.)
Mr. WALLARAGE, as a working man, seconded the resolution with great pleasure. In a brief but an effective speech, he touched on several points connected with the struggle, showing that the interests of the working men were bound up with the I success of the emancipation policy of the American Government.
The Rev. NEWMAN HALL, who was received with long-continued applause, supported the resolution in a lengthened speech. The resolution, he said, was in two parts-it expressed hearty admiration for the Anti-Slavery efforts of the American Government, and it also expressed a desire that the best understanding should prevail between England and America.Cheers.) How, he asked, was it possible that any body of working men could be otherwise than opposed to the system of slavery? The question they had met to consider was the working man's question all the world over. (Loud cheers.) The despots did not like England, and they did not like America. Both were the champions of liberty. But what would become of liberty a its champions! quarreled and fought? He was a traitor who fomented ill-will between the two countries. (Loud cheers.) Why should England be jealous of America? We ought to rejoice in America's strength. Didn't they rejoice in the strength and beauty of their children? Were they not glad when they saw their children growing? and if that were so, why should they not be glad that America possessed so many things which made nations glorious" (Loud cheers.) No doubt there were some miserable spirits in America, who spoke angry and vaunting words of England, but they did not represent the American people.In England, there were some who did the same regarding America, but they did not represent England.(Applause.) He had lately read a sermon by Henry Ward Beecher, in which he said it was a cause of thanksgiving that America remained true to abolition principles, whereas England had become pro-slavery. When he (Mr. Hall) saw that statement, he wrote to Mr. Beecher, informing him he had made a mistake. He told Mr. Beecher that the great mass of the people were on the side of the North, and that, though a large proportion was in favor of the South, it did not follow that that proportion was in favor of slavery.
<c03>
After some further remarks on this point, Mr. Hall proceeded to quote from the Saturday Review the admission that "the true ground for the Confederates to take is not the untenable one of the constitutional right of secession." The constitutional right was thus given up by the Saturday Review. (Loud applause.) The Review had gone on to say, that the principle which should have been taken up was that of the right to change a bad government. Well, then, was it true that the South had been under a bad government? (No.) The South did not think the government, was bad and tyrannical so long as the South had the upper hand. And, moreover, the South had always, until lately, the upper hand. But when it lost the election, it said the government was bad and tyrannical, and that it would therefore walk out.(Cheers.) As to the assertion that the South was fighting for freedom, he would maintain that it was fighting in order that it might tyrannize over four millions of human creatures.
Mr. Hall then examined other arguments put forth in favor of the South, and in a very felicitous style showed their hollowness and inconsistency. He then referred to the letter Mr. Buxton had recently published in the Times, arguing that it would have little effect with thinking men, by reason of one part of it being in utter contradiction to another. The Reverend gentleman concluded an extremely eloquent and forcible speech by depicting the horrors of slavery, and by expressing a fervent wish that the emancipation policy of the American Government might be successful to the utmost extent.(Loud cheers.)
The resolution was then, and amid great cheering, unanimously adopted.
The Rev. Mr. RYLAND proposed that the following address should be presented to Mr. Lincoln:-
"To his Excellency Abraham Lincoln,
President of the United States:
SIR-We who offer to you this address are Englishmen and working men. We prize as our dearest inheritance, bought for us by the blood of our fathers, the liberty we enjoy-the liberty of free labor upon a free soil. We have, therefore, been accustomed to regard with veneration and gratitude the founders of the great Republic, in which the liberties of the Anglo-Saxon race have been widened beyond all the precedents of the Old World, and in which there was nothing to condemn or to lament but the slavery and degradation of men guilty only of a colored skin or an African parentage. We have looked with admiration and sympathy upon the brave, generous, and untiring efforts of a large party in the Northern States to deliver the Union from this curse and shame. We rejoice, Sir, in your election to the Presidency as a splendid proof that the principles of universal freedom and equality were rising to the ascendant. We regarded with abhorrence the conspiracy and rebellion by which it was sought at once to overthrow the supremacy of a Government based upon the most popular suffrage in the world, and to perpetuate the hateful inequalities of race. We have ever heard with indignation the slander that ascribes to England sympathy with a rebellion of slaveholders, and all proposals to recognize in friendship a Confederacy that boasts of slavery as its corner-stone. We have watched with the warmest interest the steady advance of your policy along the path of emancipation, and on this eve of the day on which your proclamation of freedom takes effect, we pray God to strengthen your hands, to confirm your noble purpose, and to hasten the restoration of that lawful authority which engages, in peace or war, by compensation or by force of arms, to realize the glorious principle on which your Constitution is founded-the brotherhood, freedom, and equality of all men."
He would indicate a few of the salient points of the controversy to guide the audience in coming to right conclusions. After reviewing the circumstances under which slavery had been established in the South, he said moral conscientiousness as regarded the system had declined just as it had become profitable. The irrepressible conflict had now been submitted to the arbitration of the sword. When he was in New York, he had asked the people whether they could hand down the difficulties of slavery to their children, and he had found that many stood appalled at the question. During the time of Mr. Buchanan's Presidency, the South had been preparing for the conflict. He had no doubt that, when the great issue was considered, but one answer would be returned, when the moral sense of the man who considered it was in a healthy condition.(Cheers.) The Reverend gentleman then went on to remark that, if he had not been in the States, he would have got a very poor idea of the society there existing from books or newspapers. He then drew a vivid picture, of the activity and industry he had seen in the Northern States, and sketched the state of society in the South. It had been said that the North had insulted England; but the South bad been guilty of that offence to a far greater extent.(Applause.) Had not the South said, that if England sent a person on board a suspected ship, the act would be considered a casus belli? Was it not the slaveholders who had insulted the Prince of Wales? And yet, notwithstanding all this, it would seem from the Times and the Saturday Review, that a strong feeling of friendship had sprung up between this country and the South. Had not Mr. Yancey at a dinner argued, that if the North was to have free trade in jackasses, the South ought to have free trade in slaves? (Cries of "Shame!") The speaker then referred to articles which had appeared in American newspapers against England, and said he regretted the tone of these papers; but then it was to be remembered that several powerful newspapers in England were continually misrepresenting and insulting America. (Hear, hear.) They had seen in this city illustrated newspapers perpetually caricaturing and traducing Mr. Lincoln-a man whom he regarded as one of the noblest works of God. (Loud cheers.) The speaker then pronounced a glowing eulogium on the character of Mr. Lincoln, and concluded by calling on the meeting to support the emancipation policy of the American Government-a policy which proclaimed that a people that would not be slaves would not hold slaves.(Loud cheers.)
Mr. WASHINGTON WILKS, in seconding the transmission of the address, glanced at the career of Mr. Lincoln, and maintained he was worthy of the admiration of all the lovers of freedom. He (Mr. Wilks) was of opinion that the North was not in any way disposed to come to any compromise on the question of slavery. He had that day been looking over a satirical poem in Punch, addressed to Mr. Bright, concerning his late speech, in which poem it was stated that the President would give up the slave for the sake of peace. Now, if that statement was true, why, he asked, did not Mr. Lincoln do as was supposed?(Cheers.) A great deal of misapprehension existed with regard to the President's proclamation. It was asserted that the proclamation was superseded; but such an assertion was quite unfounded.(Cheers.)
Mr. Ross said, having spent twenty-five yean in America, he knew the war had arisen from slavery. Some said the North was continuing the war for purposes of empire, bat that statement was not the truth. Neither was it true to say that the North was not in earnest in its efforts to emancipate the
<c04>
slave. There were only three newspapers in the North that had been pro-slavery. One of them was owned and edited by a Scotchman, and another by an Irishman. He had often heard it said that Mr. Lincoln ought, as soon as he came into office, to have proclaimed the freedom of the slave; but had he done that, he would have violated his oath.
The resolution to transmit the address to Mr. Lincoln was then carried unanimously amid loud cheering.
On motion of Mr. CHESSON, seconded by Mr. ELT, a cordial vote of thanks was given to Mr. Moore for presiding.
Three vigorous cheers were then given for Mr. Lincoln, and also three for the glorious cause of emancipation.
The meeting, which had throughout been most enthusiastic, separated about 11 o'clock.

SLAVERY AND THE AMERICAN WAR.
From the Sheffield Independent of Jan. 1.
An address upon this subject was delivered in the Temperance Hall, Sheffield, yesterday evening, by George Thompson, Esq. (late M. P. for the Tower Hamlets.) The attendance was not so large as might have been anticipated from the present interest in the question. Mr. Alderman Saunders occupied the chair. Among the gentlemen upon the platform were Councillors Skelton, Harvey, Ironside, and Woodcock; Mr. Clegg, Mr. Broadbent, Mr. H. Turner, Mr. James Dodworth, Mr. Richard Otley, Mr. Hoyland, &c. The Chairman briefly introduced
Mr. THOMPSON, who was received with cheers, and introduced his subject by saying: The war in America is a gigantic conflict between the principles of freedom and the spirit of despotism. The South is waging a war to establish a confederacy based on slavery, the North is fighting to crush this slaveholders' rebellion, to restore the integrity of the Union, that has been traitorously disrupted; and now, in the last phase of the contest, the North has uplifted the banner of emancipation. Must not every friend of freedom wish God speed to the North? Neutral! When on one side we see men who claim a right of property in human souls, seeking to establish a system which, if it could take root, would remain as a monument of the practical Atheism of the 19th century-and on the other, a non-slaveholding people seeking to purge their country from the shame of human bondage, and to re-cement their Union upon principles that shall ever preclude slavery from becoming again the cause of bitterness, alienation, rebellion, and war. There is reason to believe that a good deal of sympathy has been bestowed upon the South, in consequence of an impression that the Southerners are a gallant people. I have heard the rebels of the South compared to the revolutionists of 1776. No such comparison, however, will hold good. The liberty for which the South is contending is simply that of extending the institutions of slavery- the liberty to trample alike upon the laws of God and man. The rebellion was originated by the slaveholders for the purpose of accomplishing the nefarious designs which would have been impossible while in the Union. The Constitution of the Confederate States is expressly framed for a union and government, of slaveholders. It has been truly said by an eloquent exponent of the causes of the great conflict now waging in America, that the form of society which has been raised on slavery in the Southern States is a new fact in history, being at once in its nature retrograde and aggressive-retrograde as regards the constituents that compose it, and aggressive as regards all other forms of social life with which it may come in contact. The struggle now witnessed is but the effort of this new and formidable monster to disengage itself from the struggles which free society was drawing round it. Amidst the horrible convulsion and carnage which are now desolating America there is, nevertheless, a sublime struggle being carried on between the principles of freedom and those of slavery. "Slavery," says Mr. Spratt, "was in the grasp of the North." He here refers to the triumph of the Republican party in the election of Mr. Lincoln- "and the slaveholders forced to the option of seeing it extinguished within the Union, or of preserving it by independence out of the Union, resolved upon disruption," or, to use his precise words, "the Union was disrupted in the effort of slave society to emancipate itself." But it is said by some, why oppose the wishes and the will of eleven great States, the inhabitants of which as one man have shown a determination to achieve their independence? I entirely demur to the statement that the people of the rebel States are united. The nominally free population of those States is rather more than 5,000,000, and seven-tenths of those are poor whites who are compelled to follow where those who are above them in wealth and intelligence choose to lead them. The large class of the population of the South has never had any direct influence in the control of the affairs of their own States. At the present moment, the President, Vice President, Cabinet, Congress, Generals, and officers of the Confederate States are all slaveholders. The pulpits of the South are filled by men who hold slaves, and whose stipends are paid out of the hire of the laborer, which is kept back by fraud. Granted, that these clerical men-stcalers, together with their slaveholding employers, and the servile mass of poor whites, are unanimous in their desire for independence, I still maintain that the people of the South are not united. If English sympathy is to be invoked for any class of the inhabitants of the South, let it be for the 4,000,000 of fettered slaves. I say that, until the rebels of the South can point to their 4,000,000 of black population and say, "These also desire to be free from a hated union with the North," we ought neither to declare them a united people, nor give them our sympathy in their effort to secede. Working men of England, let me describe by the testimony of a thousand witnesses, how the laboring class in the South are used by those who claim them as things and property. The picture I am about to present to you is drawn by Americans-by men of all classes in the South. What, then, are the facts established upon the evidence of these witnesses? They are that the laboring class in the South-that is to say, the slaves-are treated with barbarous inhumanity -are overworked and underfed-are wretchedly clad and lodged, and have insufficient sleep-are made to wear gags in their mouths for hours and days-are often hunted with bloodhounds, and shot down like wild beasts, or torn to pieces by dogs. Does this terrific indictment cause those whom I address to shudder? Let me remind you that true humanity consists, sot in a squeamish ear, but in listening to the story of human suffering, and in endeavoring to retrieve it. If there be an American here to-night familiar with the state of things in the Southern portion of his country, he knows that it is not only possible for me to make good the charges I have now brought against the slave system, but that there is that behind which is far worse, but cannot be told. Such is the slavery of the South. The seed of that system was sown two hundred and forty
<c05>
years ago, when the slave-ship that visited the Northern continent of America deposited its cargo of victims upon the soil of Virginia. The seed then sown contained the seminal principle of the present revolution, rebellion, and war. The next great error committed by the people of America was at the time they adopted their Federal Constitution. It was a guilty compromise with slavery. Half of the States held slaves, and half either abolished the system or had made legal provision for its extinction. The delegates from the Slave States demanded certain guarantees for slavery. In an evil hour, the delegates from the Free States of the North, reduced to the alternative of departing from the fundamental principles on which they had asserted their own liberty, or of forfeiting the Union they so much desired, stifled their convictions, and with adverted faces subscribed the bond presented to them by South Carolina and Georgia, and thenceforth the preservation, propagation, and perpetuity of slavery became the vital principle of that national Government, and continued to be so for seventy-two years. During those seventy-two years down to 1861, the Presidential chair was for forty-eight years filled by slaveholders, and for twelve more by the willing slaves and degraded drudges of that Slave Power. During those seventy-two years, the slaveholders increased the number of Slave States from six to fifteen. They increased the number of their slaves from 600,000 to 4,000,000. They proportionately increased the number of their Senators and Representatives in Congress, and at last avowed their intention to make slavery universal throughout the States and territories of the Union. The party platform or political manifestoes put forward in 1860 all clearly demonstrate that, with some differences of opinion on minor points the common objects of the South were the ascendancy and perpetuity of slavery. When thirty years ago the Liberator-a journal designed for the advocacy of the doctrine of emancipation-was started, a reward of $5,000 was offered by the Senate of Georgia for the head of the editor, and when a little later a few influential persons formed themselves into a society to disseminate information respecting the wrongs of the slave, the South had but to give the word, and great public meetings were forthwith held at the North to denounce them as traitors and conspirators. I may speak with some claim to a knowledge of the state of affairs at that time, as I was on the spot. The North, however, only slowly awakened to the danger of permitting the growth of slavery. For fifty years they unresistingly tolerated the monopoly of the Federal Government by the Slave Power. They allowed themselves to be plunged in costly and bloody wars for the aggrandisement of slavery. They were forced to submit to the violation of an organic law, limiting the area of slavery. They were then called upon to turn man-hunters, and enforce the pains and penalties of the Fugitive Slave Law. Then followed the invasion of Kansas, and finally came the decision of a bench of slaveholding judges that slavery was a constitutional right in all the States and territories of the Union. These and many other things which I have not time to enumerate led to the organization of what is called the Republican party, which gave, in 1856, 1,300,000 votes for General Fremont, and in 1861 placed Abraham Lincoln in the presidential chair. The history of the war during the last twenty months is known to you all, and I shall content myself with referring to its results. There can be no question that the feeling of hostility to slavery has been immeasurably extended throughout the Northern States, and a deep conviction created that the future peace and welfare of the country require its utter extirpation. Already 250,000 or 800,000 slaves have received their freedom. The Message of the President, recommending compensated emancipation, though wanting in a recognition of the rights of the slaves, is nevertheless an admission of the necessity of making provision for the ultimate entire abolition of the system of negro servitude. Wherever the plan proposed is defective, it is also, in my judgment, impracticable, and the people and Government will at last, I believe, have to resort to a measure of unconditional emancipation founded upon the principle of justice to the negro without reference to the inclination, convenience, or profit of the master. There were many points upon which he could not touch; there would, however, be several resolutions to propose, and, in so doing, any one taking a different view would have an opportunity of explaining that view. He thanked the meeting for their patience, and the indulgence they had extended to him. (Cheers.) He wished it to be distinctly understood that there was not a rope in that ship which he did not know, and that there was no question that could be raised bearing upon what he had that night stated, which he was not able satisfactorily to answer.(Applause.)
MR. IRONSIDE then rose to propose-
"That civil war in any country is an unmitigated evil, more especially in America, whose career of prosperity and liberty has been unprecedented; and as the institution of slavery has been the most prominent and influential cause of the war, this meeting is of opinion that the present is a favorable crisis for slavery to be terminated, and thus not only end the war, but give a promising and hopeful prospect in the future of peace and prosperity both to America and England."
At length an opportunity had arrived-an opportunity he had long wished for-of testing whether their liberal newspapers had represented the truth upon this matter. He said they had not. (Cheers.) The public of Sheffield ought to have moved in the question long since, but they had been apathetic.(Hear, hear.) He designated the neutrality of the British Government in the present American war as simply a profession of neutrality. Referring to the statement made by Earl Russell that "the North was fighting for empire, and the South for independence," he said that was only a lie-a lie that had died out. The next thing Lord Russell did was to protest against the blockading of Southern ports as "unjustifiable." He (Mr. Ironside) was the organ of the Foreign Affairs Committee of Sheffield.(Laughter) Yes, they might sneer at that: but when the Sepoys of India rebelled, the British blew them from the mouths of their guns; how could they, therefore, now complain of the United States for starving the rebels? After alluding to the affair of the Trent, and the more recent one of the Alabama, he said he did not believe that there was a man in Sheffield who would get up and claim sympathy with the Southern rascals. He regretted to have seen a letter from a clergyman, published in a Sheffield journal, the main argument of which letter was, that slavery should be abolished, but that it could only be done by separation. (Hear, bear.) He (Mr. Ironside) would never leave the slaves to the South, never!(Cheers.)
Mr. WOODCOCK seconded the resolution.
Mr. HARVEY- (cheers)-heartily supported the resolution, but declared his opposition to any attempt to aid the North against the South. He defended Mr. Hoppe, [the clergyman alluded to above,] at firming that he had done more than his assailant,
<c06>
(Mr. Ironside,) for the abolition of slavery. He referred to the atrocities of Generals Neill and Butler as crimes that would bear comparison with the blackest that could be brought against the South. Every child knew that the North were not fighting for abolition; the recent elections showed that they were not favor of slavery, and were fighting only to impose prohibitive tariffs on English goods. He exhorted the meeting not to be led away by the cry of slavery-everybody detested slavery.("No, no, you don't.") He was not of that small class who thought England could do nothing right, and America, who had gagged the press and set all law at defiance, could do nothing wrong. The doings of the South, bad as they might be, were, as far as the war was concerned, creditable in comparison with those of the North. All the humanity had been on the side of the South. ("No, no.") If they were the dreadful people described by the lecturer, it was very strange that their actions had not come to light before now. (Hear and opposition.) He maintained that a reunion of the American States was an impossibility, and that separation was best for the slaves and for everybody else. With all the boasted goodness of the North, they would compromise with the South to-day, on condition of re-establishing slavery, provided the goods of old England were prohibited.(Cheers and opposition.)
Mr. WHEATMAN asked Mr. Thompson whether blacks were allowed to sit with the whites at the public hotel tables in the North, to travel in the same railway carriages, and enjoy the social and electoral privileges of the whites. (Hear, hear.)
Mr. THOMPSON said a great change had taken place in the New England and some other Northern States, especially Massachusetts, and the blacks were allowed to sit with the whites at table, travel in the same carriages, vote, attend the same schools, &c. The only exception was, that the Federal laws prevented them from entering the army. He regretted that prejudice against the blacks still existed to a large extent in the North, but maintained that it was the result of slavery, and did not disprove the general disposition of the North in favor of abolition. (Hoar, hear.)
Mr. S. JACKSON (nail-maker) took Mr. Harvey to task for defending the South, and maintained that as great distinctions were preserved between the rich and poor here as between the whites and blacks in Northern America. (Laughter.) He maintained that to support separation, as the Rev. Page Hopps had done, was to support slavery, and that the English aristocracy and newspapers supported the South as a money question, and because they disliked the free institutions of America, (Cheers.)
Mr. WHEATMAN said he had travelled much in America, and knew that in Massachusetts and other States the blacks were not allowed to associate with the whites, or enjoy the same privileges; and instanced an intelligent negro druggist in Boston, who described his position as worse than that of a slave, on account of these social distinctions.
Mr. IRONSIDE, in reply, said the men shot by Gen. Neill had merely suffered the penalties of war, and urged that nothing had been done in America worse than we did with our prisoners in India.
Mr. THOMPSON lamented the shooting of the ten men by Gen. Neill, but said he was a militia and not a Federal officer; and the Government at Washington had not acknowledged the act. ("They have.") He affirmed that the proclamation of Gen. Butler, with respect to treating women at New Orleans as prostitutes, applied only to women found brawling in the streets, and defied Mr. Harvey to show that a single New Orleans woman had suffered indignities in consequence. (Cheers.)
The resolution was moved and carried with only one dissentient.
Mr. R. SKELTON moved:
"That, in the opinion of this meeting, it is the duty of England, as the recognized enemy of slavery, to give her sympathy and moral influence to the Northern States, to disapprove of the origin and continuance of the slave-owners rebellion, and by all peaceable means to try to cement a closer and stronger union between this union and the people and government of America."
He urged that we should support the North, not by arms and material help, but by our sympathy, and by voting money for the support of the afflicted and distressed.(Cheers.)
Mr. J. W. CLEGG, in seconding the resolution, maintained that the war in America was one of freedom against slavery, as shown by its arising on the election of an anti-slavery President, and called upon the meeting to pronounce unmistakably against slavery.(Cheers.)
Mr. HENRY TURNER moved:
"That while this meeting expresses its unlimited abhorrence of slavery, and hopes the time is not distant when, by means politic and just, this relic of barbarism shall be abolished-and yet seeing the united bravery, skillful generalship, vast resources-('Bosh', and uproar)-and consequent victory or death of the determined men of the South, the wasteful expenditure of life and treasure by the North-this meeting is of opinion that the Southern States should be at once recognized by England, France, and other nations, (hisses,) and that mediation would thus end this terrible war of passion and blood."
He maintained that the proper way to put an end to slavery was not to sympathize with the North, but to cease to buy slave-grown cotton and sugar. He denied that the" North were in favor of abolition. They were no better than the South, and it would be far better for England to have commercial relations with the South than with the North, which had not only shut out our goods, but heaped all possible insult upon England. (Cheers and opposition.)
Mr. DODWORTH, in seconding the amendment, defended the press against the charges of corruption made by some of the speakers, and urged that the North were as much below the South in politics in their condition as men, as the South were below them in supporting slavery. The speaker evoked disapprobation by, in conclusion, deprecating an appeal to God in such matters.
Mr. THOMPSON urged that the fact of Mr. Lincoln and his Government having yielded after months of delay to the general voice of the North m favor of abolition, was proof of the sincerity of the North in its opposition to slavery. The Dress, with a few exceptions, such as the New York Herald, was in favor of abolition, and out of New York they would find a hearty abolition sentiment. The North wanted not intervention, but sympathy, and the sympathy of England was with the North. ("No, no," and "Yes, yes.") He had seen it evinced at a hundred public meetings. In conclusion, Mr. Thompson maintained there was nothing so easy as the restoration of the American Union, for slavery had only to be abolished to beggar the Southern slaveholders, who had not a penny, except in slavery, and who were now fighting with the exasperation of despair, knowing that they could not stand against abolition. England misunderstood the North,

"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERPEARED WITH, from a claim if indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually is war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WARS; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to mancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
if she supposed the North world would give up the war while there was a man and a and dollar left. He warned the meeting against being too much encouraged by recent elections, asserting asserting that but for Irish votes, General Wordsworth would have been elected for New York; that only the trimmers had been rejected, and that the surest way to success in the North was to go the whole hog of abolition. (Cheers.)
A number of speakers rose, but the meeting declined to hear them. A vote was then taken, and the amendment negatived.
Mr. HARVEY moved, and Mr. R. ELLIOTT seconded, a further amendment against intervention in favor of either the North or the South; but it was also negatived, and the original resolution was carried almost unanimously.
Mr. RICHARD OTLEY moved the adoption of a lengthened and rather florid address to President Lincoln, in which a hope was expressed that the name of Mr. Lincoln would be handed down to posterity as one of the greatest benefactors of man kind; in which his treaty with England for the abolition of the slave trade, his emancipation proclamation, and other acts, were proofs of his earnestness in favor of abolition. The address assured Mr. Lincoln of the sympathy of England, and expressed an earnest desire that the war might be brought to a successful issue, and result in the extinction of slavery.
The address was seconded by Mr. HENRY HORNER, and carried.
Votes of thanks to Mr. Thompson and the Chairman concluded the proceedings, which lasted more than four hours.

FREEDOM FOR THE SLAVE.
From the London Morning Star of December 30.
Yesterday evening, a public meeting was held in Myddelton Hall, Islington, for the purpose of expressing sympathy with the friends of universal liberty in America, in the prospect of the emancipation of the slaves in that country. EDMOND BEALES, Esq., barrister, presided; and was supported by the Rev. Dr. Massie, Dr. Epps, Mr. Macdonnell, Mr. Cufflin, Mr. Outram, Mr. Evans (chairman of the Emancipation Society), Mr. C. H. Elt, Mr. Noble, Mr. Washington Wilks, Mr. R. Moore, &c. The hall was crowded.
Mr. H. J. Slack and the Rev. Mark Wilks attendeded as a deputation from the Emancipation Society.
The CHAIRMAN, in opening the proceedings, said, being an elector of Finsbury, he had been asked to preside, and as the meeting had been convened to consider a most important question, he had thought it his duty to comply with the request. They were met to express sympathy with the friends of negro emancipation in America. (Cheers.) All that he had read on the subject enabled him to come to the same conclusion as that at which he had in the first instance arrived. He believed that, if' the subject had been put before the country free from prejudices and from the influence of party faction, there never would have been two opinions regarding it. However much they all regretted the struggle, the question involved in it was the continuance or abolition of slavery. (Cheers.) He could not understand the reasoning by which many men of great intelligence had arrived at the extraordinary conclusion, that slavery had nothing to do with the war. (Hear.) What, he asked, had been going on in America for many years prior to the outbreak of the war? Had there not been a struggle going on for the extension of slavery on one side, and for its limitation on the other? What had caused the scenes they had heard of when Mr. Lincoln was elected to the Presidency? Nothing but the question of slavery. It was perfectly notorious that the dissension had arisen on account of slavery. The sole ground of opposition to Mr. Lincoln had proceeded on that question. And for what had the South commenced the war? Solely because of slavery. The South had said that itself, and surely the meeting might take the statement. (Applause.) The South had declared deliberately that the slave system was the form of society which they considered as most excellent to be established. They all recollected the time when the agitation for the abolition of colonial slavery was going on in this country. Now, he wished them to suppose what would have happened if the supporters of slavery at that time had come forward, and said that not only would they not give way, but that it was their belief that slavery was a divine institution, and the best form of society on the face of the earth? Would not a shout of indignant abhorrence have been heard throughout the land ? (Loud cheers.) It was their duty to assist their brethren in America who were contending for the abolition of slavery. The friends of the slave in America had at length made an impression like that which our own Buxton and Brougham had produced on the Parliament of this country, and the result has been the election of Mr. Lincoln. He cordially hoped Finsbury would do its duty, and that it would sympathize with the emancipation policy of the North. Most fervently did he hail the coming of the first of January, which he trusted would be the commencement of the abolition of slavery throughout the continent of America. (Applause.) It would be a day ever to be remembered in the history of the human race-a day to be regarded with heartfelt thanks, given by man, and a day which he firmly believed would be marked by the blessing of God. (Loud cheers.)
Dr. EPPS then proposed-
"That the anti-slavery action of the Federal Government, during the year now closing, merits the hearty approval of the British public; and that this meeting declares its cordial sympathy with the President and people of the United States, who, with courage unabated by difficulty and disaster, continue to struggle for the abolition of slavery, either by military authority, or by the adoption of a scheme like that proposed in successive messages to Congress."
He thought leading writers in the press had tried to mystify the public mind on the American question. The Times was always on the side of the aristocracy, and it never turned to the popular side until it could mystify the people no longer. But despite the course which certain portions of the press had taken, he believed the people were beginning to be aroused to a true conception of the question of slavery. (Applause.) America had done great things already in mechanics and literature; and if this was so, what would she do when the great curse of slavery was removed! (Cheers.) Some people were always talking of the bragging and boasting of America; but then it was to be remembered that the South had been specially guilty of that offence. No sooner had Mr. Lincoln got into power than the right of search had been conceded. He utterly denied the moral right of the South to secede. (Cheers.) If the South fancied that it had any wrongs, it ought to have proposed to discuss them according to the Constitution. He believed the contest would end in a way the South had to dread. Dr. Epps then argued in a fervent speech that the success of the South would be detrimental to the most sacred interests of humanity, and he called on the audience to assist in removing from the earth one of the worst systems of despotism that had ever polluted it. (Loud cheers.)
Mr. BOLTON seconded the resolution.
Mr. SLACK said, if any advocates of the man-stealer desired to gibbet themselves on the platform, they would have the fullest opportunity to do so. (Laughter.) They had beard, in connection with the question, a great many fallacies put forth, and he accounted for that by the fact that great ignorance was generally accompanied by great audacity. One of the fallacies was to the effect that the American Constitution was so loose a thing that any member of the partnership could retire when it thought fit. Mr. Slack then reviewed the circumstances under which the American Constitution had been formed, and argued that the claim of any separate State to retire when it desired was preposterous. Another fallacy was that the war had nothing to do with slavery, and that the emancipation policy of the President was simply an afterthought to help him when he got into difficulties. Now, the truth was, that slavery had everything to do with the war, and nothing else had anything to do with it. Some said the tariff was the cause of the quarrel, but he defied any one to prove the assertions from any official document. (Cheers.)
Dr. RILEY said, the preceding speakers had failed in convincing him that the North was earnest in its desire to emancipate the slaves. Altogether, he be lived that the best means for emancipating the negro would be the separation of the South from the North. (Confusion, disapprobation, and some <illegible> He concluded by proposing an addition to the resolution in conformity with his speech.
Mr. WILSON seconded the resolution.
On the vote being taken, some fifteen or sixteen persons, as far at as could be counted, held up <illegible>
<c02>
hands for separating the North from the South. The original resolution was passed with great <illegible> there being, however, the same fifteen or sixteen dissentients.
The Rev. MARK WILKS then proposed-
That this meeting strongly recommends to public support the Emancipation Society, having for its object to develop English anti-slavery sentiment, and thereby promote that hearty reconciliation of England and America in the cause of philanthropy and freedom, to which this country has been invited by the noble and munificent efforts of the Northern States to assist in relieving the distress inflicted upon English operatives by the slaveholders' rebellion."
In speaking to the resolution, Mr. Wilks said he was extremely surprised that the old anti-slavery feeling of the country required to be awakened. He thought it very strange that clergymen 'who preached the Gospel should support the South. He did not approve of mixing up the question with attacks on any political party in England. The reverend gentleman concluded a brief speech by eloquently urging the meeting to unite in supporting the anti-slavery policy of the American Government.
Mr. ELT cordially seconded the resolution.
Mr. WASHINGTON WILKS, in a speech which was very favorably received, said one of the speakers had doubted the sincerity of the North on the question of slavery, but in the South the North was believed to be thoroughly in earnest.
The resolution was then put, and carried almost unanimously.

GREAT ANTI-SLAVERY MEETING AT MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
A crowded meeting was held in the Free Trade Hall. Manchester, Dec. 31. to express sympathy with the Federal emancipation policy, and detestation of slavery. Mr. Alderman HEY WOOD, the Mayor, presided.
Mr. J. C. EDWARDS moved the following resolution:-
That this meeting, recognising the common brotherhood of mankind, and the sacred and inalienable right of every human being to personal freedom and equal protection, records its detestation of negro slavery in America, and of the attempt of the rebellious Southern slaveholders to organize on the great American continent a nation having slavery as its basis."
Mr. EVANS, an operative, seconded the resolution, which was carried by acclamation.
Mr. E. HOOSEN moved the second resolution, which was as follows:-
That this meeting, composed of the industrial classes of Manchester, desires to record its profound sympathy with the efforts of President Lincoln and his colleagues to maintain the American Union ; and, also, its high sense of the justice of his Proclamation of Emancipation, and other measures tending to give freedom to the slave, and restore peace to the American nation."
In the course of his observations, Mr. Hoosen praised Mr. Lincoln as a constitutional ruler. He (Mr. Hoosen) had no fear of a war between England and America, if civility and friendliness were observed in the interchange of diplomatic relations. Far better would it be that this country should spend twenty millions in feeding the operatives of Lancashire, than that a peace should be concluded in America which should make slavery permanent. (Cheers.)
The resolution was seconded, and carried unanimously.
The third resolution, which was read and carried amidst great enthusiasm, embodied the following address to President Lincoln:-
TO HIS EXCELLENCY ABRAHAM LINCOLN,
President of the United States of America:
As citizens of Manchester, assembled at the Free Trade Hall, we beg to express our fraternal sentiments towards you and your country.
We rejoice in your greatness, as an outgrowth of England, whose blood and language you share, whose orderly and legal freedom you have applied to new circumstances, over a region immeasurably greater I than our own. We honor your Free States, as a singularly happy abode for the working millions, where industry is honored. One thing alone has, in the past, lessened our sympathy with your country and our confidence in it,-we mean, the ascendency of politicians who not merely maintained negro slavery, but desired to extend and root it more firmly. Since we have discerned, however, that the victory of the free North, in the war which has so sorely distressed us, as well as afflicted you, will strike off the fetters of the slave, you have attracted our warm and earnest sympathy.
We joyfully honor you, as the President, and the Congress with you, for many decisive steps towards practically exemplifying your belief in the words of your great founders, "ALL MEN are created free and equal."
You have procured the liberation of the slaves in the district around Washington, and thereby made the centre of your Federation visibly free. You have enforced the laws, against the slave trade, and kept up your fleet against it, even while every ship was wanted for service in your terrible war. You have nobly decided to receive ambassadors from the negro republics of Hayti and Liberia, thus forever renouncing that unworthy prejudice which refuses the rights of humanity to men and women, on account of their color. In order more effectually to stop the slave trade, you have made with our Queen a treaty, which your Senate has ratified, for the right of mutual search. Your Congress has decreed freedom, as the law forever, in the vast unoccupied or half settled Territories which are directly subject to its legislative power. It has offered pecuniary aid to all States which will enact emancipation locally, and has forbidden your generals to restore fugitive slaves who seek their protection. You have entreated the slave masters to accept these moderate offers; and after long and patient waiting, you, as Commander-in-Chief of the Army, have appointed to-morrow, the 1st of January, 1863, as the day of unconditional freedom for the slaves of the rebel States. Heartily do we congratulate you and your country on this humane and righteous course.
We assume that you cannot now stop short of a complete uprooting of slavery. It would not become us to dictate any details, but there are broad principles of humanity which must guide you. If complete emancipation in some States be deterred, though only to a predetermined day, still, in the interval, human beings should not be counted chattels. Women must have rights of chastity and of maternity, men the rights of husbands, masters the liberty of manumission Justice demands for the black, no less than for the white, the protection of law-that his voice be heard in your courts. Nor must any such abomination be tolerated as slave breeding States and a slave market, if you are to earn the high reward of all your sacrifices, in the approval of the universal Brotherhood and of the Divine Father. It is for your free country to decide, whether anything but immediate and total emancipation can secure the most indispensable rights of humanity, against the inveterate wickedness of local laws and local executives.
We implore you, for your own honor and welfare, not to faint in your Providential mission. While your enthusiasm is aflame, and the tide of events runs high, let the work be finished effectually. Leave no root of bitterness to spring up and work fresh misery to your children. It is a mighty task, indeed, to re-organize the industry not only of four millions of the colored race, but of five millions of whites. Nevertheless, the vast progress you have made in the short space of twenty months fills us with hope that every stain on your freedom will shortly be removed, and that the erasure of that foul blot upon civilization and Christianity-chattel slavery-during your presidency, will cause the name of Abraham Lincoln to be honored and revered by posterity. We are certain that such a glorious consummation will cement Great Britain to the United States in close and enduring regards. Our interests, moreover, are identified with yours. We are truly one people, though locally separate. And if you have any ill wishers here, be assured they are chiefly those who oppose liberty at home, and that they will be powerless to stir up quarrels between us, from the very day in which your country becomes, undeniably and without exception, the HOME OF THE FREE.
Accept our high admiration of your firmness in upholding the proclamation of freedom.
Mr. BAZLEY, M. P., and Mr. SAMUEL POPE supported it, and expressed strong opinions against this country being longer dependent for <illegible> supply of the raw material for her greatest branch of industry on slave-grown cotton.
On New Year's eve, an address was voted to President Lincoln, at a large meeting in London, held under the auspices of the Emancipation Society. Minister Adams, in acknowledging the address for transmission, says be has no doubt the President will receive it as an encouraging testimonial of independent witnesses to the manner in which he is endeavoring to do his duty to his country and man kind.
An address of sympathy to Mr. Lincoln was receiving signatures at Birmingham. It expresses strong belief in the Federal cause, as that of humanity religion and freedom, and ardently hopes<illegble> its success.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 1863.
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIATY.
The THIRTIETH ANNUAL MEETING of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society will be held in Boston, at MUSIC HALL, on THURSDAY, Jan. 29th, (day and evening,) commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M.
This Society was organized for the utter abolition of slavery throughout the United States. However great has been the change wrought in public sentiment in favor of that godlike object,-and it has been truly marvellous, in view of the mountainous obstacles in the way of success; however effectual may be the President's Emancipation Proclamation in breaking the chains of the bondmen in such rebellious sections of the country as he has just designated,-and Heaven grant it may be as potent in operation as it is comprehensive in its scope; nevertheless, nothing at this hour is settled so surely as the continued enslavement of four millions of the inhabitants of the land; and while any of these remain to wear the yoke, the primary object and specific work of this Society will not have been accomplished. Slavery in the so called loyal Border States is as inexcusable, as criminal, as revolting, as unendurable, as pregnant with evil and ruin, as in the rebellious Confederate States, and must be as vigorously and uncompromisingly assailed, until liberty is proclaimed " throughout ALL the land, to ALL the inhabitants thereof."
The approaching anniversary promises to be one of surpassing interest; and it is not doubted that the friends of universal emancipation, in the various sections of the Commonwealth, (and, it is hoped, beyond the limits of the State,) will be encouragingly represented on the occasion. As hitherto, an additional attraction will be presented in the holding of the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY on the evening (Wednesday, Jan. 28th) preceding the opening session of the Society, in Music Hall.
Among the speakers exacted to be present are WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, THEODORE D. WELD, WENDELL PHILLIPS, PARKER PILLSBURY HENRY C. WRIGHT, ANNA E. DICEKINSON, ANDREW T. FOSS, MONCURE D. CONWAY, WILLIAM WELLS BROWN, &c.
By order of the Board of Managers,
EDMUND QUINCY, President. ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Secy.
DEMOCRACY UNMASKED.
The President, the Cabinet, Congress, the Army, each and all, are passing through a fiery ordeal of censure.
The censors constitute two diametrically opposite classes.
One class is composed of those who are chiefly identified with the so-called Democratic party, and whose political profligacy finds in the despotism and debasement of Southern slavery the strongest magnetic affinity and boundless scope for riotous indulgence. Pretending to be super-eminently patriotic and loyal, they reveal themselves, by look and gesture, by word and act, by inuendo and menace, by falsehood and defamation, by malignant criticism and foul abuse, as thoroughly traitorous in spirit and purpose as any to be found in the Confederate ranks. So long as Gen. McClellan was kept at the head of the army, and the President refused to pursue an emancipation policy in order to break the back of the rebellion, they were impudently officious in assuming to be the only reliable friends on whom Mr. Lincoln could lean for support, and hotly resented any impeachment of his sagacity and efficiency. They burnt incense to him morning, noon and night; they eulogized his firmness and independence; they conceded to him the best qualities of head and heart; they secretly exulted in his self-delusion, in the impotency of his measures, in the prospect of his defeat, in the success of the Southern rebels. Their laudation was demonstrative proof, " clear as the sun at noon-day," that the President was (blindly and unconsciously, of course,) playing into the hands of his enemies, making them his advisors, shaping his course so as to secure their approval, and omitting to do the one thing needful to send the rebellion reeling to the earth.
McClellan was the General after their own heart: they admired his " masterly strategy," which consisted in acting solely on the defensive ; in ingloriously retreating with the finest army in the world from one position to another, with immense loss of life and the munitions of war; in turning the Chickahominy swamp into a teeming grave-yard ; in a succession of disastrous defeats, and never a positive victory ; in permitting rebel raids to be made around his whole army, as disgraceful as they were successful; in stubbornly refusing to obey orders, to the verge of treasonable insubordination; and in never being ready to take the first step, of his own accord, in the onward march to Richmond. "Instinct is a great matter "; they knew their man, and that, while he had the army of the Potomac under his control, Jefferson Davis had nothing to fear in that quarter. All who praised McClellan were not of this stamp : there were some strange and almost inexplicable exceptions, where honest, well-meaning, and truly patriotic men gave him their confidence and support, long after he had shown his utter military as well as moral in-competency to meet the responsibilities of his position. Nevertheless, from first to last, the aggregate depravity, brutality, ruffianism, and sedition of the North as naturally gravitated to McClellan as the needle to the pole.
After a long and perilous delay, in obedience to the demands of the overmastering loyalty of the North, and in consequence of the fearful exigencies of the government, the President substituted Burnside for McClellan,-thus far, with no better success,-and on the 22d of September, 1862, issued his proclamation, giving to the Southern traitors one hundred days in which to return to their allegiance, or, in case of refusal, emancipating all the slaves at the expiration of that period. This was Ithuriels spear applied to the dissembling toad, the touch instantly compelling the indwelling fiend to stand forth in his own hideous shape and character! From that hour, the seditious spirit of the Democratic journals and leaders has been rampant, and they have done their worst to excite popular distrust and fury against the government- ridiculing and anathematizing the President in every conceivable way-sowing broadcast the seeds of alienation and division in the army-blustering, bullying, conspiring-and leaving nothing undone to give encouragement to the Southern traitors of ultimate triumph, if they will hold out a little longer. The importance of this base complicity to the success of the rebellion is thus exultingly confessed by the notorious traitor Yancey, in a recent speech on Confederate soil. Mark his language:-
We have something to hope, however, from this division of the councils of our enemies-from their fierce party strifes and jealousies. Upon this hope let us build our own unity-upon their jealousies let us build our own harmony-upon these flashings of party interests let us bind together our own patriotic energies-upon their selfishness and folly let us base a prayer to God that He would enable us to exhibit, in behalf of our beloved country, a self-sacrificing wisdom, both in opinion and action, in all matters appertaining to our defence."
It is certain, therefore, that the Democratic party is striving to do for the blood-dripping rebels what they can never do for themselves, and what, without such auxiliary support, it would be impossible to achieve. The government is carrying its forbearance to a dangerous extreme, and, unless it strike quickly and boldly at the prominent ringleaders at the North, may find that its arm is palsied, its authority defied, and wild misrule every where prevailing.
There is another class who arraign the President and his Cabinet, not to divide or dispirit, bat to stimulate to more vigorous and consistent action.
<c04>
ANNIVERSARY MEETINGS.
Friends of freedom! remember the important anniversary meetings to be held in Boston next week, and, as far as it may lie in your power, endeavor to give your personal attendance, even at some inconvenience. "As iron sharpeneth iron, so doth the countenance of a man his friend." The work we have to do, though advancing toward completion, remains to be finished: it is the extermination of slavery, root and branch, from the land. Until that be effected, we must continue to "agitate, agitate, agitate"-to press onward with increasing zeal and enthusiasm-desiring no rest, or respite from the conflict, until every yoke is broken, and the whole land redeemed.
It will be seen that the NATIONAL SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY will be held on Wednesday evening next, at Music Hall. Admission will be by tickets, but without charge. These can be obtained of Mr. May, or Mr. Wallcut, at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street. Last year, there were present, during the evening, at least three thousand persons, drawn from different parts of the country; and we trust even a still larger number will be drawn together this season. There will be vocal and instrumental music; speeches are expected from Wendell Phillips, Moncure D. Conway, Anna E. Dickinson, &c.; and select readings will be given by Mrs. DeMortie. Remember the object-to contribute liberally to the Anti-Slavery cause, in order that there may be increased energy of operations the ensuing year. Donations can be forwarded from any part of the country to either of the Managers, or to Samuel May, Jr., General Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, Boston.
The anniversary of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society will be held only on THURSDAY next,-morning, afternoon and evening,-in the MUSIC HALL, commencing at 10, A. M. At the opening session, speeches will be made by Wendell Phillips, Esq., and other eloquent speakers. A prompt and full attendance is desired. (There will be no public meetings of the Society on Friday.)

RE-ELECTION OF HON. CHARLES SUMNER.
Hon. Charles Sumner was re-elected to the U. S. Senate, on Thursday last, 15th inst., for six years from the 4th of March next. The vote stood in the Senate as Follows:-
CHARLES SUMNER, 33
Josiah G. Abbott, 5
Charles Francis Adams, 1
In the House:-
CHARLES SUMNER, 194
Josiah G. Abbott, 38
Caleb Cushing, 2
Charles Francis Adams, 1
Thus has Massachusetts nobly vindicated her name and fame as the foremost State of all the world in the cause of free institutions, and trampled beneath her feet the malignant aspersions cast upon the political reputation of her gifted Senator by the minions of a traitorous slave oligarchy. The vote is an overwhelming one, notwithstanding the desperate efforts of Mr. Sumner's enemies to make his defeat a sure event. Such enemies only serve to prove his personal worth and public usefulness, and their factious and profligate character.
Mr. Sumner's friends in Washington proposed, last week, to give him a serenade, in honor of his re-election to the Senate, but, hearing of their intention, he declared that the compliment was not in accordance with the present condition of public affairs, and intimated that he preferred that the funds subscribed for the music should be donated to the Massachusetts Soldiers' Relief Association, which was done.
Referring to Mr. Sumner's re-election, the New York Evening Post bestows the following eulogy:-
"The State of Massachusetts has done only what was due to itself, and what every one who valued its credit hoped and expected would be done in re-electing Mr. Sumner to the United States Senate. He has always taken a prominent part in the deliberations of the Senate; he is a fine scholar, a man of integrity, and an eloquent speaker, laborious and conscientious in the discharge of his duties. He has been, moreover, the object of such rabid and indiscriminate abuse, on the part of those slaveholding aristocrats who are the authors and leaders of the rebellion, that not to have re-elected him would have been considered by the rebels a concession of the justice of their abuse, just as Jeff. Davis holds the supersedure of General Butler to be a justification of the rebel charges against that officer, and 'as an admission of his guilt.' No man of spirit but will rejoice that no such opportunity for complacent boasting was given by the old Bay State.
"Apart from this peculiar occasional necessity for the selection, Mr. Sumner in himself combines so many noble and lofty qualities, that we know not where the State could have found a more worthy or a more accomplished representative."
RECONSTRUCTION OF BIBLICAL THEORIES; or, Biblical Science improved in its History, Chronology, and Interpretation, and relieved from Traditionary Errors and Unwarrantable Hypotheses. By LEICESTER AMBROSE SAWYER, Translator of the Scriptures, &c. Boston: Walker, Wise & Co. 1862.
In his Preface to this compact, able and learned work, Mr. Sawyer says:-
"The Bible, understood any way, furnishes many props and supports to piety and virtue, but performs its greatest services only when it is understood correctly. Incorrect systems of biblical interpretation, however sanctioned by time and ecclesiastical authorities, must give way to truth and reality; and though something will be lost by the change, far more will be gained. We must not be afraid to improve our theologies, and abandon any notion that is wrong for the truth whose place it usurps. Only truth is of God.
The present work does not embrace particularly the whole field of biblical science. It commences with general principles and facts, and reconstructs the theories of the earlier parts of the Bible, till the times of Samuel and David, embracing the Pentateuch, Joshua, and Judges. It contains retranslations of the earlier documents, and occasional extracts from later ones. The author has reconstructed the theories of the New Testament, which he proposes to publish as soon as may be, and by which he hopes to give new impulses and utilities to the study of that portion of the sacred Scriptures; but the deems the points embraced in the discussions of the present volume quite sufficient for a first lesson, and commends them to the earnest consideration of all Christians. The Science of Christianity is the common property of Christendom, and its highest possible improvement the common interest of all human races."
The false theories which have so long and so generally prevailed in Christendom, in regard to the divine sanctity and plenary inspiration of the Bible, have produced a harvest of besotted superstition on the one hand, and of sweeping skepticism on the other. It requires great moral courage, especially in a professed religious teacher like the Rev. Mr. Sawyer, to publicly combat these theories, and to bring the Bible to the test of reason and historical verity like any other work. He has done it in the right spirit, in a scholarly manner, and for the honor of true religion; and for this he is deserving of the thanks of all who prize mental and spiritual enfranchisement, and believe in the continuous enlightenment of the human mind, whether pertaining to the dead past or the living present. We therefore heartily commend this treatise to every honest seeker for the truth.
A TIMELY SPEECH. We have received, for gratuitous distribution, a generous supply of the impressive and excellent speech delivered by GERRIT SMITH on "The Country," delivered at the Cooper Institute in New York, Dec. 21, 1862. It makes a tract of eight large and closely printed pages. At the close of the speech, Mr. Smith offered the following resolution, which was, with the exception of a solitary negative, adopted unanimously by the thousands who filled to its utmost capacity the spacious Hall:-
"Whereas, It is no <illegible> true of a nation than of an individual, that to be just is to be saved, and to be unjust is to be lost; and
Whereas, Among all the greatest violations of justice, slavery is pre-eminent;
Resolved, therefore, That whatever the things which need to be done by this nation in order to be saved, the penitent putting away of slavery must not be left undone."
<c05>
PLUOK.
When Richard Cobden visited this country the last time, he is reported to have said, in speaking of our politics, "What the Republican party lacks is pluck." That sagacious observer never made a truer remark. When the history of this war is written, that will be a most profitable chapter which contrasts the striking characteristics of the two great parties which illustrate the conflict. Perhaps no key will be found so sure as this to unlock the mystery of the North's ill-success in crushing the rebellion, spite of the immense physical and pecuniary advantages preponderating in its favor.
Aside from the points at issue between the Democratic and Republican parties, (we speak of them in the past,) there was an inherent difference in their natures. The Democratic party, whose guidance was always intrusted to the South, and whose object was to gain by political means what the traitors-in-arms hope to gain by bullets-the perpetuations and spread of slavery-the Democratic party walked with a firm tread that shook the continent. Never forgetting its hellish mission, unswerving in its course, never consenting to a compromise unless the profits of the bargain were all its own, audacious, defiant, it stands typified as the incarnation of relentless purpose. The sword of <illegible> was not quicker or surer than its punishment to the Democrat who murmured at its flat. Wealth, talents, position, availed him nothing. If he dared to breathe an anti-slavery word, political influence forsook him, and the doors of office closed in his face. The Pope's bull could not blast a heretic more effectively.
Though Democracy was peremptory with its enemies, it ever remembered and rewarded its friends. To be sure, it never refused to use men of any party whose servility rendered them pliant tools; but when was it known to let them grasp the expected wages? When their usefulness to slavery ceased, like Webster, they were cast contemptuously aside, to die broken-hearted, with the remorse of Wolsey troubling their last hours-" Had I served my God with half the zeal that I have served Oppression, he would not have given me over in my gray hairs."
Mankind like firmness and pluck. In spite of the wicked foundation upon which Democracy stood, there was something attractive in its mein. Unthinking men looked with such admiration upon its confident front, which always wore the prestige of success, that they did not notice its fatal footing.
The picture of the Republican party is different. Founded upon a partial justice, its purpose was a partial one. Compromise presided at its birth. Its originators were men convinced of the inherent sin of slavery, yet lacking the faith to nail their convictions to the mast-head. Expediency, not principle, was its motto. Mazy and circumlocutory has been its progress. Year after year, its platform was lowered and its resolutions weakened to catch more voters. Its infirmity of purpose, and its search for candidates whom availability and not fidelity recommended, lost it the respect of earnest men.
When it achieved a success, it squandered the fruits. Banks's election as Speaker of the House is an illustration. The Republicans boasted that the gave the Democrats an equal, if not a better share of the Committee appointments than he did his friends. Such blundering folly was not magnanimity, but weakness, and the Democrats, while gladly accepting the gifts, despised the giver.
The main part of the Democratic party nominated Breckinridge, because of his tested fidelity to slavery. The Republicans set aside their tried leaders, ignored Sumner, Giddings, Hale, and Wade, and selected Abraham Lincoln, because of his negative qualifications. He was neither anti-slavery nor pro slavery, hot nor cold.
No question that he fitly represented the entire party; that he embodied in his single person its virtues and failings. But to conquer a gigantic rebellion whose leaders and armies fight with intensest earnestness, there is wanting something more than Republican irresolution and paltering.
Lincoln, by his nature and education, is no equal for a man like Davis. When war was inevitable, the later bent himself to his work with Democratic directness and celerity. He appointed no Republican generals to lead his armies, neither did he call the Border Free State men to his councils. On the contrary, he made clean work-hung, imprisoned and exiled whoever dared say a word for the Union.
What has Mr. Lincoln done to crush treason? Appointed men to control his armies whose loyalty was not above suspicion-men whose hatred of Abolitionists exceeded their hatred of traitors; sought advisers from States kept in the Union only by the compulsion of Northern bayonets claiming loyalty, yet with hearts yearning for Richmond; allowed the Tribune and the Evening Post to be virtually excluded from the army, and Bennett's treasonable Herald to go every where; tolerated traitors in every department of government; counteracted every General who fought with anti-slavery energy and thoroughness-the only energy and purpose that can grapple successfully with the South; and, lastly, the Proclamation. With fidelity to the old Republican tactics, he compromises. He frees the slaves where our armies are unable to penetrate, and keeps them in chains in the States where their immediate freedom would be of incalculable benefit to our cause.
It seems as though our day of probation is nearly past. The sceptre which Mr. Lincoln would use when he could, will soon be powerless. From New Jersey and New York, from Indiana, Ohio and Illinois, treason, reassured by a mistaken leniency, gathers head boldly. The whole horizon is threatening. Extreme measures and extreme men alone can save us. The apathy of the North is amazing, and people fear more the men whose faithful and uncompromising advocacy of freedom and justice have gained them the name of extremists, than they do the extremest traitors.
Radical is the word, Mr. Lincoln! There is no escape from it. We gravitate to it daily. Butler must go back to New Orleans, Fremont and Phelps must lead your armies. It is time to drop Republican temporizing. "Canst thou draw out leviathan with a hook?" Give us Democratic vigor and pluck.-W. L. G., JR.
AN AGREEABLE ENTERTAINMENT.
DEAR MR. GARRISON,-To the record of the ever-memorable First of January just passed, it seems to me that, for completeness' sake, at least brief mention should be made in the Liberator of that social occasion, New Year's evening, in which you were one of the participants. So, without further preface, let me inform your readers, that, from the rapture of the concert at Music Hall, in the afternoon of the Great Day, the cars conveyed a goodly company to the elegant home of Mr. and Mrs. George L. Stearns, at Medford, Mass., there to witness the installation of Bracketts marble bust of JOHN BROWN. Boston, Concord and Medford met together in the ample rooms in friendly intercourse and congratulation. Though the contents of the Proclamation were as yet unknown to those thus assembled, the fact that the expected word was being spoken gave lightness to every heart.
After a proper interval for communion of spirit, and for a taste of the enjoyment afforded by the works of art and adornment with which the parlors abounded, it was announced that the bust of him of Harper's Ferry would be uncovered by the hand of Wendell Phillips. What could have been fitter? Not even the fit words of the orator, as he recalled the sacrifice which had made Virginia free that day-the gallows at Charlestown and the honored grave at North Elba, beside which he alone of those present could say he had stood. The product of the past three years was John Brown's: his hand was swaying the President's, and was signing the decree of emancipation. "I unveil," said Mr. Phillips, the face of him who in this house never needed concealment, but was ever the most welcome of guests." The action followed, and the massive head of pure marble stood re-
<c06>
<illegible> to all. I need not attempt to criticise what the public is already familiar with, at least in plaster, which, (if we may believe Thorwaldsen,) is but death, while marble in the resurrection.
Following this ceremony was the repetition by Ralph Waldo Emerson of the beautiful poem which all ears could not catch in Music Hall. Mr. Phillips renewed the applause given to the foregoing by reading for their modest author some apt verses by Mr. Frank B. Sanborn, of Concord. And, finally, Mrs. Julia Ward Howe recited in an impressive <illegible> her poem to the Flag. Not till near midnight did the company disperse, among whom it cannot be <illegible> to add to those already mentioned the names of A. Bronson Alcott, Samuel Longfellow, Hon. M. F. Conway, &c, The gathering and the occasion were <illegible> of the generous host and hostess, who needed not, indeed, this ceremony to link their names with the cause of the slave, but who lent to that day which we are proud to style an epoch a further luster, and, as additional cause of remembrance. FELIX.
Boston, Jan. 20, 1863.
We are much obliged to our correspondent for furnishing us with this sketch of a most agreeable entertainment, a record of which we intended at <illegible> earlier date.-(Ed. Lib.

ABOUT MR. CONWAYS SLAVES.
It has been said by Wendell Phillips that the Music Hall in Boston is the compensation, here, for the want of a daily press corresponding in moral and intellectual eminence to the Tribune, the Evening Post, and the Independent, in New York. The Music Hall holds this position through its occupancy, on Sundays, by the 28th Congregational Society of Boston. "The Fraternity (an Association within this Society) has also done great service to Boston by its admirable courses of lectures, the fifth series of which has lately closed; and it has just done another good deed by giving an opportunity to the people of this city to hear Mr. Conway's account of the escape of his father's slaves from the house of bondage to the land of freedom.
This statement was made to an immense audience in the Tremont Temple, on Sunday evening last Mr. Phillips introduced the speaker as a specimen of that rare genus, the very existence of which has been doubted, the loyal Virginian. He was perfectly competent to speak of all matters connected with slavery, having been born and educated under its influence, and having lived until his twentieth year in the <illegible> conviction of its propriety and expediency. Moreover, the scene of the events to be described would have especial interest at this time, since they occurred in the immediate vicinity of Fredericksburg. Virginia, with whose streets Mr. Conway was as familiar as his present audience were with those of Boston.
Mr. Conway, on coming forward, was warmly <illegible> He said that, up to his twentieth birthday, he was a strong pro-slavery man, and intensely hostile to the Yankees, although he had <illegible> extensive knowledge of them. His father, when the Methodist Church was divided, was the only man in his neighborhood who adhered to the Northern wing, and assisted in sustaining it. He alluded to a <illegible> essay he had written when nineteen years old, and said that his father rebuked him, and was grieved to find that he took such an active part in behalf of the peculiar institution. His slavery enthusiasm, he added, burned itself out in a few years after; and when he was in Cambridge, at the time of the <illegible> in Boston, he refused to take any part with the Southern students there in entertaining his captors, and for this he was waited upon by a number of citizens when he returned to Fredericksburg, and ordered to leave the town.
He spoke at considerable length upon the strong desire of the slaves to become free, and, by incidents which he related, showed that they are capable of taking care of themselves. Those who were comfortable in bondage, he said, eagerly long for liberty, and appeared to glory in the idea of dying free. In alluding to Gen. McDowell, he said he believed him to be an honest and loyal man, even if he was not a wise general. In speaking of the number of negroes that had come within our lines and been returned to slavery, he was of opinion that every one of them was a curse sent out by the United States that would come home to roost. The love of General Fremont among the negroes of the South he represented as intense; and in speaking of his alleged extravagance at the West, he said he was satisfied he had paid a cent and three quarters for things that he might possibly have bought for a cent and a half by waiting longer for them.
A great portion of the lecture was given up to an interesting account of the speakers meeting the contraband slaves of his father in Georgetown, and the difficulty he experienced in Baltimore and other places in bringing them farther North. He alluded to the President's proclamation, and said the new year had opened auspiciously on the prospects of the three millions of slaves. The exemptions in the proclamation he thought would be removed, for the document itself reads that they are only applied "for the present." His concluding remarks, favoring the total abolition of slavery, were very eloquent, and were loudly applauded by the audience.
Those "Spiritualists who may hear this lecture will probably regard one very remarkable incident in it as corroborating their peculiar views. If they find reason to believe that departed spirits work for the liberation and welfare of the slaves, they should certainly add their own efforts and influence to the same end while they remain in this world.
I hope that in every place to which the Liberator goes, its readers may be stimulated to request, and make immediate arrangement for, the delivery of this most admirable lecture among their own townsmen. Every village, and, above all every city in New England, should hear it; especially since the eloquent speaker gives, at its close, his view of our own duties, at the present hour, towards the slaves, the slaveholders, and the government. Mr. Conway may be addressed at the Commonwealth Office, 22 Bromfield street, Boston.
At the conclusion of the address, Mr. Phillips, in response to a very general call, made a brief speech, deepening the impression already created by the interesting narrative and earnest appeals of Mr. Conway.-C. K. W.
THE CONTRABANDS. A letter just received from an officer of the 4th Mass. Vol., now on board one of the transports near Fortress Monroe, speaks as follows of the colored refugees in that region:-
"There are about 700 contrabands at the Fort, and 2200 more at Hampton. I was surprised to see them so much cleaner and better dressed, as a whole, than I had anticipated. Quite a number offered them selves as servants to me. When we were marching past the Fort, on our way back to the ship, we were hot and dry; and one of the contrabands, seeing this, brought us water, and steadily refused pay, although five and ten cents postage currency were offered on all sides. I thought to myself how many of those he was then showing such kindness to would have done the same for him in a like situation. I rather liked their appearance, on the whole."
THE FREE SOUTH. The first number of this paper, published at Beaufort, S. C., by Messrs. L. D. Stickney, J. M. Latta and H. Reed. has made its appearance. It is a sheet of very respectable appearance, and has the true ring of freedom. It contains an interesting account of the celebration of emancipation at Beaufort, on New Year's day. The President's proclamation was read by Rev. W. H. Brisbane; flags were presented to Col. Higginson, commanding the negro regiment, by Rev. M. French, in behalf of Dr. Cheever's church; original odes were sung , and appropriate speeches made by Col. Higginson, Gen. Saxton, Judge Stickney, and Mrs. Frances D. Gage.
The Free South is published at $3 per annum, or five cents a number. It deserves to find patronage in every free State. Let there be light in all the dark regions of the South!
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE PRESIDENTS PROCLAMATION.
Was it intended to promote emancipation, or was it intended to prevent emancipation? My friends with who I have conversed from time to time will bear me witness that when, in September, we were told of what would be done, if it could not be avoided, a hundred days from that time, I said the intention was, not to promote emancipation, but to prevent it. This I to promote emancipation, but to prevent it. This I was forced to think and to say, up to the appearance of the first of January issue. My friend will also bear me witness, that all this while I as often told them it would give me exceeding joy to find myself mistaken. If was no pleasure to me to entertain unfavorable views of the case. The convictions were painful. When the first of January came, and with in the promised proclamation, I tried to make myself think I had been mistaken. But the more I have tried, the more I have failed thus to think. Now for my reasons.
Justification for all or any considerable part of what might with propriety be said here, may involve the question to know whether or not there has at any time been any good reason for thinking the Administration has sought emancipation or desired itwhether in fact the evidence is not all to the contrarywhether in truth the policy, the strategy, from first to last, has not been to preserve and perpetuate slavery for the purposes of politicians.
To the evidence then. And I commence, negatively, by asking what sentence, word, or syllable, from the Administration, during its whole coursewhat single intimation throughout its entire careerhas sacred of sympathy for humanity or regard for right-emusnessexcept one word of doubtful import in its connections with its antecedents, in this January proclamation? When has there been any plea for equity? Where any advocacy of justice? What solitary demand for the right? Search through all the speeches. Read all the addresses, messages, proclamations, orders and pronunciations. Right or wrong, equators or iniquitous, just or unjust, the design and aim have been to have things as they were; at every expense to all other beings and all other interests, to perpetuate power in the hands of usurpers; to strengthen the constitutional guarantees of a barbarous and barbarizing institution, the breeder of cut-throats, the educator of assassins, the parent and propagator of anarchy and misrule.
And now affirmatively. While the President elect was yet at his home in Illinois, before starting on his way to be qualified and put in place for his public duties, he suffered it to be sounded in advance, that slavery had nothing to fear, but everything to hope, from his administration; that there was nothing in reality intended by this Republican movement, so styling itself, more than to assert its right to make so much sham show and pretension as would deceive the masses, and secure to the party the benefit of serving slavery a part of the time. The assertion was, of the right to make Republicanism, mean, if possible, more than Democracy had meant in the same direction. It was to perpetuate a Union whose paramount virtue confessedly was to guarantee slavery, and thus benefit sovereigns for came a shadowing forth more portentous. Wm. H. Seward, who was to be, and had been, the leader in the Administration, while yet in the Senate, proposed to that body and carried through a measure for altering the Constitution in favor of slavery, and making that retrograde movement into barbarism, "unalterable"; and then, with the help of Thomas Corwin, it was carried through the Housethe requisite majority in both bodies being made our only by the balance of power held and exercised by slavery in its property votes organically provided, thus doing its own work for its own perpetuation in power, by the exercise of its own illegitimate constitutional guarantees;and Abraham Lincoln "turned aside from his purpose," on his won confession for it, in his Inaugural Address, to give his sanction to this measure propounded to him by his Premier and leader apparent; and to his dictators term, "unalterable," he added "irrevocable," in his zeal to do and not be out done in giving additional guarantees to slavery. Furthermore, this same Republican Congress, to give slavery a greater and further guarantee, tore up the Republican platform laid down at Chicago, and utterly destroyed its distinguishing plank, praying slavery to be pacified, and walk over all the public domain at its pleasure. [If it be said that this has since been revoked, the response it, wait and see whether it does not year appear to be the determination of the ruling Administration to do its utmost for bringing back a state of things that shall secure re-revocation.]
But I must study brevity in the remainder of my evidence, lest the great amount of it require too much room.
Take into consideration, then, President Lincolns pledge to the delegation from that infamous "Peace Convention"the he "would execute the fugitive slave clause of the Constitution with more fidelity than any Southern man they could possibly find"; and his assurance to them that he had "said nothing against in interests of the South"; likewise the promise and assurance of incoming Premier Seward to the same delegation from the same infamous "Peace Convention," saying to them"Let me once have the reins of power firmly in my hands, and if I dont settle the matter to the entire satisfaction of the South in sixty days, I will give you my head for a foot-ball." If he has failed to fulfill his promise in the time specified, it is still plain that he has had the holding of the reins of power as firmly in his hands as possible, and has done what he could, as chief betrayer and arch traitor.
The "initiation" of President Lincolns performance of his pledge to use his Executive power for returning fugitive slaves to his sovereigns, made noticeable and prominent show of commencement, so far as I now remember, in the acts of his subordinate, B. F. Butler. And afterward, at New Orleans, though this General did some things to make himself obnoxious to the conspirators, still his army helped the bribed New Orleans police to butcher back into the bondage the fleeing victims; thus helping the slaveholders to teach their victims; thus helping the slaveholders to teach their victims that it is better for them to stay where they are, than to hazard attempts to put themselves in the control of oppressors of other pretensions. How these monstrous and atrocious acts and their kindredacts by which Northern traitors have held Southern loyalists in subjection to the conspiratorshave gone on during this long, long year and a half of governmental treason and murder, it is not necessary now to turn attention to in any considerable number of particulars.
To commence here with an act of another phasethe modifying of Fremont and Hunter. There are those who tell us the people were not ready for such measures as Fremont was inaugurating. These were nor the reasons rendered by the Administration; nor were they the reasons in fact. It was the Administration that was not ready, and is not yet ready. The Administration, by its own acts of disloyalty to human enfranchisement, has been since doing its utmost to up prepare [if it be allowable to add a word to English] the people for these righteous proceedings. In a great public crisis affecting the masses, there is a multitude susceptible of being swayed hither or thither by leaders. At the time Freemont moved, the people were ripe and ready for following him. This was made manifest by the expressions of the press generally throughout the Northincluding the West as well as the East. Even the New York Herald, that slaved manipulator at the popular pulse, for that time outwitted itself in its estimate of official corruption at Washingtonso much more deeply than it had calculated on were Seward & Co. sunk in their servility to Southern sovereigntyand the Herald itself started off in favor of Fremonts measures. Tell us not that the people were then unready. The people of the North and the slaves in the South have been made less and less ready, from that hour to this, by a treacherous Administration, prostituting itself to the service of slavery.
To this end, this mal-administration has augmented
<c02>
the army and the navy to twice the dimensions that would have been necessary, if its paramount purpose had not been the preservation of slavery. Less than one half the blood and treasure that hare been squandered for the preservation of the destroyer would have secured the destroyer's destruction, if Fremont had been sustained. It was for the preservation of slavery he was not sustained.
Then again, it was for the preservation of slavery we had the last March Extra Messagewords and wind about "initiating gradual emancipation and colonization." The manifest object and indisputable effect of that treasonable movement was to circumvent and subvert the just and righteous measures brought before Congress by Sumner and Ashley. And those just and righteous measures were thus circumvented and subverted.
Come we now to the confiscation-emancipation act-an act modified for the salvation of slavery, by the unparalleled process of a veto in advance held over the heads of the national legislators. This high handed usurpation and foul iniquity was not enough. When this modification of legislation in behalf of tyranny was effected, by the Executive acting illegitimately, the next step in bad faith was to call in the author of that notorious and most iniquitous Order No. 3, to defeat this act of Congress bearing the signature of this treacherous Executive; and Halleck came, and for the time defeated it.
This brought out Horace Greeley's Letter. In that, the Executive so recognized not only the hand of his maker, [for Horace Greeley made Abraham Lincoln President,] but also "the voice of twenty millions," requiring him to show himself loyal, in executing their expressed will, he did not dare to let it go unheeded. Hence we finally obtained a published promise of something indefinite to be done, if it could not be avoided, a hundred and fifty days after the people bad decreed, through their representatives, something to be done definitely and immediately. It was the known and sworn duty of the Executive, as the loyal servant of the sovereign people, to put their act in force in July, immediately after setting to it his own signature. The confession that this was his duty has been made by himself, by signing the decree and making mock pretension toward enforcing it The right to put it off fifty days, and then to put it off a hundred days longer, is the right to put it off indefinitely. The right to set bounds to its application, relieving a part of the conspirators, is a right to set other bounds, relieving more of themrelieving the whole of them. The assumption is that of a usurper and dictator. The usurpation and dictation are in behalf of slavery, placing the heel of tyranny on the necks of the people.
Nothing can be more evident than that the putting off of the proclamation at the pleasure, of the President was for the preservation of slaverywas to give the conspirators time and opportunity for accepting the bribes and making use of the advantages proffered them for the preservation of their institutionor for putting themselves in position to obtain from the North most humiliating and shameful concessions, amounting to the prostration of our base services at the feet of their Southern sovereigns. And all thin was not enough. It was not enough to wait fifty days, and then grant a hundred days, and finally act the Dictators' own pleasure in proffering terms not provided for nor contemplated in the law which it was the duty of the Executive to make immediately operativehe now departs further and still further from his duty, omitting materially, in the January performance, what was included in the too limited, the criminally delinquent September promise. In September he promised: "That on the first day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, all persons held as slaves within any State or designated part of a State, the people whereof shall THEN be in rebellion against the United States, shall be then, henceforth and forever, free." So far is he from fulfilling this promise, he exempts all those numerous conspirators, holding hundreds of thousands of slaves in the immediate reach of the United States armies, and applies his pretension of proclaiming freedom only to those farthest from reach.
Really, it looks too much like sympathy and cooperation with the treasonable Northern sympathizers who pronounce the proclamation to be only a "paper proclamation," a "paper war measure," &c. These Northern sympathizers with Southern conspirators arc at the same time sanctimonies of Seward, knowing that Seward is at the bottom of these delay measuresthese murderous delay measuresfor wasting and worrying out the North, and dragging it down into deeper degradation, and more shameful subservience to the South. Among these sly sustainers of Seward and slavery, a prominent one begins by pointing it out to be
"A particular feature of the proclamation deserving of remark, that the resident rests the measure on purely military grounds, with a distinctness that did
not appear in the September proclamation." 
He goes on by saying that 
"The most important question that can arise relative to this proclamation respects its legal effect. Immediate practical effect it has none; the slaves remaining in precisely the same condition as before. They still live on the plantations; tenant their accustomed hovels; obey the command of their master or overseer, eating the food he furnishes and doing the work he requires, precisely as though Mr. Lincoln had not declared them free. Their freedom, then, it is clear, is only a dormant freedom; if free at all, they are not actually, but only legally, free. If the proclamation is of any legal force, it is like a deed purporting to convey the fee simple of a piece of property to which there is an adverse claimant being in actual possession."
He comes out thus:
"If the rebellion is subdued, the proclamation merely gives a colorable ground for suits for freedom before the tribunals of the country. Its whole efficiency must finally depend on whether it is sustained by the courts. That the courts of the slave States, in which the suits must originally be brought, will not sustain it, admits of no doubt whatever. That the Supreme Court of the United States, to which such suits may be finally carried for final adjudication, will declare the proclamation void, is also morally certain. It is clearly unconstitutional, and wholly void, unless sustained as a war measure. A war measure it clearly is not, inasmuch as the previous success of the tear war is the only thing that can give it validity."
And is this all that has been intended? Has this sympathy with Seward and slavery here disclosed the secret of a shrewd strategy for defeating what has been put forth to be looked upon by the seekers of right and righteousness as the thing intended and sought? Have alt the friends of freedom and enfranchisement been thus mocked by measures instituted by the "betrayer
and murderer," who compasses his ends by making himself "misunderstood"? 
Indeed, it has too much the appearance of a simple "I told you so," for the purpose of justifying replies to the delegations from Chester County and from Chicagoin which replies it was protested that a proclamation would be a lifeless letter, like the Constitution. As if it had not always been the business of the Constitution to keep the slaves in bondage! And as if, in pursuance, of the law of Congress and the will of the people, in the hands of an Executive acting in good faith and earnestness, it should not be the business
of the proclamationpertaining to conspirators who have trod the Constitution under their feetto set the slaves free, and help them to maintain their
freedom! ORSON S. MURRAY.
P. S. After putting in the post-office, for the Liberator, yesterday, my expression on the President's Proclamation, including an allusion to Gen. Butler, the Cincinnati Daily Gazette brought me a report of Gen. Butler's statement to the New York Committee, of his experience and convictions in his contact with slavery at New Orleans. All the friends of humanity must rejoice at the General's conversion, and wish that, if it be necessary to their conversion, all other "hunker Democrats" could at once have the benefit of like observation and experienceand all hunker Republicans, of the Weed and Seward sort, too. And if these remain more "incorrigible" than those, let the " roofs of the houses be taken off, and the full extent of the corruption exposed."
The General said" No right-minded man could
<c03>
be tent to New Orleans without returning an unconditional anti-slavery man, though the roofs of the houses were not taken off, and the full extent of the: corruption exposed." Furthermore: When he saw the utter demoralization of the people, resulting from slavery, it struck him that it was an institution that should be thrust out of the Union." Some of us arrived at like conclusions more than thirty years agoand for the same substantial reasons. Thank Gen. Butler for coming to our relief, and volunteering to share with as the odium of "fanaticism." Thank him more in behalf of the enslaved millions.
I have never myself been at New Orleans, nor five miles into a Slave State. It was quite sufficient for me to read Stroud's Digest of the Slave Laws to be
convinced of the necessary existence of "demoralization," "corruptions," crimes and abominations, such as "eye hath not seen nor ear heard," outside of what
passes between the monsters of that institution and their victims. Often I have been asked by the blinded dupes of politicians and priests, if I had been at the
South and seen slavery. My answer being no, I was universally told that it must be impossible, then, that I could be a proper judge in the matter. As if those
who visit the South, and see what it is for the interest of slaveholders to show them, and depend on this for making up their judgment, have any proper reasons
to render for the faith that is in them, comparable to the reasons of those who stay at home, and read and reason! O. S. M.
Foster's Crossings, Warren Co., Ohio, Jan. 12.

LETTER FROM REV. DANIEL FOSTER.
CAMP OF THE 33D MASS. VOL., NEAR FREDERICKSBURG, Va., Jan. 16, 1863.
DEAR GARRISONUnder a profound feeling of discouragement, I have refrained from writing to the I Liberator since the battle of Fredericksburg. I cannot I bear the thought of the dismemberment and ruin of the precious Fatherland. I see such a glorious vision, in the future for my country, if this hour can only be filled up with the fruits of that national repentance which is unto life, that my sorrow amounts to agony when I see the precious moments of our probation wasted. I thank God for the President's Proclamation of Emancipation. I trust and hope that the New Year is the commencement of a truly democratic rule fur our country; that, henceforth, the manhood of the
colored man is to be recognized, and the rule and prejudice of slavery to pass away. I hope the First of January, 1863, will be to our Republic, henceforth, a day even more sacred than the Fourth of July, 1776. Yet this hope is tempered with much fear. Surely, in this emergency, the President should surround himself with advisers in his cabinet, who arc imbued with the spirit of this grand Revolution. It is treason to Humanity to keep in the cabinet, now, the trimming, heartless, unbelieving politician who has all along opposed the exercise of the War Power for the overthrow of slavery, and sought to patch up a new compromise by which the Union might be restored, without destroying the cause of this monstrous rebellion. As the result of still keeping such men at the head of affairs in Washington, our movements continue fragmentary, and our immense resources are still to applied as to be virtually wasted.
The battle of Fredericksburg was lost, and we suffered a terrible defeat, because In competency or Treason at Washington failed to furnish the bridges at the right time. Again, it is evident to all who have read the testimony before the Investigating Committee, that, had the veteran Hooker been the Commander-in-Chief, the heights of Fredericksburg would have been in our hands with a small loss of life, without waiting for the pontoons. Since that battle, more than a month of inaction on our side has passed. The rebel army has been shipped to Tennesseea good portion of it, at leastto fight against Rosecrans at Murfreesboro', and Sherman at Vicksburg. Nothing but the wonderful generalship of Buells successor, and the indomitable courage of the men composing his army, saved it from a worse disaster at Murfreesboros than that at Fredericksburg. And I believe that the same generalship would have driven the rebels from their entrenchments at Fredericksburg.
It is useless to attempt to disguise the fact, that there is, through the country and the army, a feeling of profound distrust in the ability of our leaders to meet the demands of this crisis. Here is this army left, without any pay for months of weary waiting. The men feel this neglect most sensibly. There is wrong somewhere in leaving these brave and faithful men to suffer so for the want of their just dues.
In the mean time, our home enemies are hard at work to create disaffection in the army. An Association in New York city floods the army with the New York Herald. The end and aim of that paper is to destroy the Administration, and save slavery. The men must and will read the Herald, it they can get no
other paper. I wish the friends of freedom would see to it that papers and pamphlets of the right sort are sent to the soldiers. I will gladly distribute all that may be sent to me. Let Abolitionists redouble their diligence and sacrifice, and they may save the country. DANIEL FOSTER.

THE CAUSE OP THE OPPRESSED.
Extract from a private letter received from a greatly humane and noble woman in the State of New York:
"The days have been so full of terrible events and terrible suspense that I could not write. I wait. The pause before an event like the coming Emancipation it awfully sublime. Some may mock, some may be indifferent, but the birth of a people, an egress from slavery and ignominy into freedom and the rights of humanity, makes the proudest heart, if susceptible to any sense of justice, humble and awe-stricken before God.
I have the old wish to teach the colored people. It intensifies, rather than weakens; and if you know or hear of any means by which I can be useful in that direction, will you give me every information? If I had means to go independently, I should go to Port Royal without delay, but I have not, and therefore must go under the auspices of some organization, or wait for future opportunity nearer home. I believe it is my work. It is sometimes a duty to wait, and waiting performs more than work. I try to wait patiently. If the Emancipation proclamation has an immediate effect on the war, if the bonds of the slave are loosened at once, there must be a violent revolution in the South; the master must escape; he cannot live there unless he acquiesces in the new conditions. But if the process is slow, and the master is still a rebel and a soldier, we shall have to endure this material warfare with such patience as we can, and when it is found that killing men with bullets does not solve the problem, excepting through despair and national humiliation, then Northern brains will take up the work. They will carry the school, the axe, the mill, and all humanizing industries, down into that land of darkness; and may the blessed Christ go with them, in his meek love and wisdom! A fervor of hope glows in me when I think what may be done in that beautiful, long-desecrated land. O, if the North were pure enough for this work of redemption and renovation, what an opportunity for all the forces of religion, morality, intellect, invention, art and poetry; the destruction of despotism and of caste, and the introduction of the principles of free government!"
The TRIBUNE ALMANAC, a most useful work for the Counting Room or Library, has been received, containing besides the Astronomical calculations, which are entirely reliable, the U. S. Government, Envoys, Ministers and Commissioners to Foreign Courts, U. S. Senate and House politically classified, 38th Congress at far as chosen, classified, Rebel Government, Senate and House, Statistics from census of 1860, the U. S. Army Regular and Volunteer, and ' much other information of the most useful character. Price single copies 13 cents, 11 copies for $1. Address " Publishers of Tribune," New York. For sale by A. Williams & Co., 100 Washington Street, Boston.
<c04>
WASHINGTON, (D. C) Jan. 13,1863.
A scene occurred in the House on Thursday last not unlike the one in which Patrick Henry distinguished himself in the Virginia House of Burgesses. just previous to the Revolutionary war. Thaddeus Stevens, acknowledged to be the ablest man in the House, was discussing the loyalty of the Border States
and the Democratic party of the present time, when, as near as it can be described in words, something like the following colloquy transpired:
MR. STEVENS. I ask the House and the public at large, what professions made by the gentlemen from Kentucky are worth when their votes arc all given to embarrass and clog the measures of the Administration and which are now necessary to carry on the government? Why, sir, such loyalty is worth little more than rank secession and treason.
Mr. KERRIGAN, (Dem. of N. Y.) rising excitedly and interrupting. I call the gentleman to order, and I think those belonging to the gentleman's party are the rankest secessionists in the country! (Laughter and calls to order.) Yes, sir; I say that the only people of this country who adhere to the Constitution and the Union are the Democratic party! (Cries of Order! Order!) Treason. Secession are there,, (pointing to the Republican side of the House.) [Cries of Order! Order!) Treason, Secession are there, (Pointing to the Republican side of the House.) (Cries of Order! Order! Sergeant-at-Arms and many members rise!
Mr. KERRIGAN{continuing amid much-confusion)-I call the gentleman from Pennsylvania to order. Mr. BLAKE, (Republican.) I call you to order. Mr. KERRIGAN. I call you to order. Treason and Secession are on that side of the House! (pointing to the Republican side.) [Loud cries of Order! Order! Sergeant at-arms! and the Speaker's mallet is applied vigorously.]
Mr. NOELL, (Union, of Mo.) I call upon the Chair to send for the Sergeant-at arms to preserve order.
Kerrigan having subsided, order was finally restored, and Mr. Stevens resumed Ids speech, bearing down harder than before on the Democratic Tories, and those who would compromise with traitors,feeling, evidently, like Patrick Henry, if that were treason, they could make the most of it. Kerrigan went to the back part of the hall, and laid down on a sofa, his efforts to vindicate the Democratic party having naturally produced considerable mental excitement. Like a robber trying to divert attention from himself, he had cried "Thief! thief!" when he was the real criminal. This fellow Kerrigan was formerly Colonel of a regiment, but being court-martialed for treasonable correspondence with the enemy, he left the army and took his seat in Congress. He is an intimate acquaintance with Ben Wood and Vallandigham, and a fine specimen of the New York Democracy.

THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION IN VIRGINIA.
General Milroy, under date of Winchester, January 5th, has issued the following notice in announcing his intention to enforce the President's emancipation proclamation in Frederick County, Va.:
 Whereas, the President of the United States did, on the first day of the present month, issue his proclamation declaring "that all persons held as slaves in certain designated States and parts of States are, and henceforth shall be free," and that the Executive government of the United States, including the military and naval authorities thereof, would recognize and maintain the freedom of said persons. And whereas the County of Frederick is included in the territory designated by the proclamation of the President in which the slaves shall become free, I therefore hereby notify the citizens of the city of Winchester, and of said county, of said proclamation, and of my intention to maintain and enforce the same.
I expect all citizens to yield a ready compliance with the proclamation of the Chief Executive, and I admonish all persons disposed to resist its peaceful enforcement, that upon manifesting such disposition by acts, they will be regarded as rebels in arms against the lawful authority of the Federal government, and dealt with accordingly.
All persons liberated by said proclamation are admonished to abstain from all violence, and immediately betake themselves to useful occupations.
The officers of this command are admonished and ordered to act in accordance with said proclamation, and to yield their ready co-operation in its enforcement. R. H. MILROY,
Brigadier General Commanding.
ELECTION OF U. S. SENATOR. Charles A. Buckalew was, on Tuesday last, elected a Senator of the United States by our State Legislature, for the term of six years from the 4th of March next, by a majority of two votes over Gen. Simon Cameron. While the election was pending, Harrisburg was crowded with armed ruffians from the purlieus of Philadelphia, six hundred having left the city on Sunday evening for the State Capitol, to overawe the members of the Legislature. Mr. Buckalew is well known as one of the most prominent politicians in the Democratic party. He occupied, at one time, a seat in the Senate of our State, was appointed by Mr. Buchanan Minister to Ecuador, and although but forty years of age, has managed to keep himself in office nearly ever since he reached his majority. Bold, unscrupulous, crafty, cunning, and without heart, he is just the man fitted to enjoy the honors of the party which recognizes him for a leader.Chester (Pa.) Republican, Jan. 16th.
THE ALABAMA. Intelligence has been received of the destruction of another Boston vessel by the rebel privateer Alabama. The schooner Union, from Baltimore, arrived at Port Maria, Jamaica, Dec. 8, having on board Capt. Fulton and crew (seven in all) of bark Parker Cook, of and from Boston for Aux Cayes, captured and burnt on the 80th of November, in Mona Passage, by the Alabama. The Alabama also captured the Union, but her cargo being owned by British subjects, she was allowed to proceed, after taking on board the crew of the bark, and giving a bond for $1500 for the vessel, Capt. F. and crew were on board the Alabama five days in irons, and during that time, she was on the look-out for the California steamers.
Numerous contrabands (says a letter from Baton Rouge of Dec. 25) come within our lines daily, and are set at work on the fortifications or removing stores. They seem to work cheerfully, though awkwardly, and delight in the prospect of freedom. They have "all heard of the President's proclamation, and have confidence that he will carry it out to the fullest extent. A majority come from the direction of Port Hudson, and some express a desire to act as guides in case we make an expedition against that place. Numerous rebels have been arrested, some on information furnished by the contrabands, and are now in close confinement. The post is under the command of Brig-Gen. C Grover, who appears well-fitted for this position.
The Young Men's Christian Association at Chicago has followed the example of the Board of Trade, and expelled that scurrilous secesh sheet, the Chicago Times, from their reading rooms They have also voted to burn the last year's file of the paper in one of the most public places in the city. One of the staff of the paper was ordered out of a Ladies' Association called the Home of the Friendless. He is one of the "Friendless," without a "Home."
There will soon be left only a few moral monsters, like George Lunt, to chant the blessings of slavery. The Boston Courierif it lives to stand at allwill thus stand alone in its support. If events progress as they have, even the Post will soon leave its defence; for Slavery will no longer dispense offices, and it is not the wont of its editor to praise any thing which keeps himself from fattening on the public crib.Roxbury Journal.
Hon. Elisha Whittlesey, long known in Northern Ohio as the immediate predecessor of Mr. Giddings in Congress, and since as the First Auditor in the U. S. Treasury, died recently in Washington, where he has been ill for sometime past He was over 80 years of age.
All the bodies of the Sioux Indians who were recently executed at Mankato, Minn., have been resurrected by the doctors for scientific purposes.
The losses of the Massachusetts regiments in the battle of Fredericksburg were ninety-nine killed, seven hundred and forty-eight wounded, and seventy-one missing.
Resolutions approving the President's Emancipation Proclamation have passed both Houses of the California Legislature, eight Senators and eleven members of the Assembly voting against them.
The papers announce the death of Ex-Governor Branch, of North Carolina, aged 86 years. He was many years a Senator in Congress, and under the Jackson administration was Secretary of the Navy.
Gen. Rosecrans' order for the imprisonment of rebel officers notifies all such officers, taken prisoners by our forces under his command, that they will be treated in precisely the same manner as the "barbarous measures" of Jeff. Davis direct in the case of Federal officers.
 A snow-storm of unheard of severity occurred at the Southwest last week. At Louisville, 18 inches of snow fell; at Cincinnati, 29 inches. The freshet caused by the sudden melting of this mass of snow threatens an extensive destructive of bridges.
The Boston Journal is printed on paper made from wood, under a new arrangement made by its publishers, and looks very handsomely.
WISCONSIN VERSUS THE PRESIDENT.  Madison, Wisconsin, Jan. 13th. The Supreme Court of Wisconsin has decided to sustain the writ of habeas corpus in behalf of the Orankee rioters, arrested for resisting the draftthus denying the right of the President to suspend the writ in such cases.
<c05>
THE TWENTY-NINTH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.
In view of the colossal magnitude of the Southern rebellion, on the one hand, and of the corresponding efforts for its suppression by the American Government, on the other, the Managers of the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY have deemed it expedient to defer their ANNUAL APPEAL to this late periodnot knowing what events might occur, in the mean time, to render a mortification or suspension of their established plan of action desirable, and wishing to be guided by the highest wisdom in such a momentous crisis.
Reverently recognizing in this awful visitation the hand of God in righteous judgment for oar great national transgression, and trusting it may mercifully end in the total extinction of chattel slavery throughout the land; bettering that the Proclamation of President Lincoln, emancipating forever all stares held in States fount! in rebellion on the first day of January, 1868, will, if energetically and uncompromisingly enforced, inflict a staggering blow upon that fearfully oppressive system; they, nevertheless, feel that the uncertainties of civil war are too great, and the expedients of governmental and political organizations too unreliable, to justify, for one moment, any abatement of vigilance, activity, zeal, liberality, and determination, on the part of those who have so long and so disinterestedly consecrated themselves to the godlike work of immediate and universal emancipation, joyfully" bearing the cross and despising the shame." With no personal or sectional feelings to indulge, no selfish ends to promote, no party or sectarian objects to attain.animated by the deepest religious sentiment and the purest patriotism,it is not for such to commit their! sacred cause to other hands, to be lulled into inaction I even by the most cheering signs of the times, to regard their special mission as accomplished, or to abandon their organized efforts and efficient instrumentalities which have hitherto been crowned with such animating results. Their work is, by Divine help, the extermination of slavery, root and branch; and so long as one slave remains in his fetters, and they are able to plead his cause, that work will not have been accomplished. They must continue to be" the forlorn hope "to the end, leading the way, and taking upon themselves the brunt of the conflict, until the victory be won, the captives set free, and liberty the birthright and possession of every inhabitant of our land, from sea to sea.
Granted, that the Anti-Slavery cause has grown from infantile weakness to manly strengthfrom universal proscription to respectful public consideration from an apostolic number of adherents to a multitudinous host. Granted, that it is Slavery which is the sole cause of the Rebellion, and that the suppression of the one may necessitate the forcible overthrow of the other. Granted, that the Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln, if it can be enforced, will include nearly three fourths of the entire slave population. Granted, that the rebels themselves, despairing of achieving their independence in any other way, may proclaim freedom to their bondmen, and thus secure their loyal cooperation. Still, we have to deal with stern realities, and must not allow ourselves to be deluded by mere possibilities which may never be fulfilled. Still, it must be remembered that no blow will be struck at THE SLAVE SYSTEM, as such, by the Proclamation; for slavery will continue to be recognized and protected, under the old constitutional guaranties, in nil the so-called loyal slave States, and possibly reinstated in every rebel State, under the shield of State sovereignty, after its subjugation and the withdrawal of the Federal armies. Still, it is manifest that a powerful pro-slavery sentiment exists throughout the North, deadly hostile to every scheme of emancipation, defiantly claiming a strong reaction of public: sentiment on its side, intent on persecuting and ostracizing all who are obtaining their freedom by flight and the chances of war, and leaving nothing undone to get the control of the government, so as to make the most humiliating concessions to the South, and reconstruct the Union on a permanent slaveholding basis.
Under these perilous circumstances, therefore, there ' must he no indulgence given to the pleasing illusions of fancy, or to an undue exaltation of mind. The struggle for the abolition of slavery may yet be protracted for years; and, unquestionably, it will be fiercely contested to the end by all that is hostile to impartial liberty, North as well as South. We must gird up our loins anew, make a fresh consecration of our means and powers, labor with increasing devotedness, and! ask for a discharge from this warfare only with the termination of our mortal life, or the liberation of all in bondage.
The Managers of the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY give notice, therefore, that it will be held in Boston, at the

MUSIC HALL, ON WEDNESDAY EVENING, JAN. 28, 1863;
and to this annual gathering in behalf of the oppressed they cordially and urgently invite all who abhor treason, love liberty, desire peace and reconciliation on an enduring basis, and seek the unity, happiness and: prosperity of our now distracted, fearfully guilty, but we trust to he regenerated countrybringing with them (or sending, if they are not able to give their personal attendance) as generous contributions and donations us their means will allow, causing "the riches of their liberality to abound " even in "the abundance of their poverty,"assured that the pro-: feeds thus obtained will be sacredly used, under the auspices of the AMERICA? ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, as hitherto, to disseminate light and knowledge on the subject of shivery by voice and pen, through the press and by the lecturing agentto quicken the religious sentiment, inform the understanding, stimulate the conscience, soften the heart, and so effect that mighty moral change in public opinion which is essential to I the banishment of all complexional hatred and oppressions, and, consequently, to the reign of universal justice and good will. It should be remembered that the pecuniary resource of the Society is largely dependant upon this instrumentality; and as its treasury is now empty, it is vitally important for its continued operations that prompt and liberal aid should be rendered in the manner already indicated.
To those every where who have so long and so generously aided us, we present our annual appeal, trusting it may be so ordered by the God of the oppressed that no renewal of it will be needed, another year, by reason of the speedy and complete, consummation of our labors and aspirations.
L. Maria Child, Sarah H. Southwick,
Mary May., Caroline E. Putnam,
Lydia D. Parker, Mary Willey,
Louisa Luring, Abby H. Stephenson,
Henrietta Sergeant, Sarah J. Nowell,
Sarah Russell May, Elizabeth von Arm,
Helen E. Garrison, Eliza Anthrop,
Anna Shaw Greene, Sarah Voicing,
Sarah Blake Shaw, Abby Kelley Foster,
Caroline C. Thayer, Mary E. Stearns,
Mattie Griffith, Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Mary Jackson, Sarah C. Atkinson,
Evelina A. Smith, Abby Francis,
Caroline M. Severance, Mary Jane Parkman,
Elizabeth Gay, Georgina Otin,
Ann Rebecca Bramhall, Katherine Earle Farnum.
As the Refreshment tables will be dispensed with, no contributions of this kind are solicited.
As the Committee are liable to overlook some whom they would desire to remember, in the distribution of the invitation-notes, (which also serve as tickets of entrance,) they would say that friends and contributors to the American Anti-Slavery Society, not otherwise provided with such entrance-notes, may obtain them on the day of the meeting of R. F. WALL-CUT, 221 Washington street.
James W. Wall, (Peace Dem.) was elected,
last week, by the New Jersey Legislature, as United States Senator from that State. He was incarcerated in Fort Warren for disloyalty a few months since.
PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 19- Senator Wall, of New Jersey, was serenaded at the Girard House to-night. He made a speech, comparing the Union to a ship at sea in distress, with an incompetent pilot at the helm-It would never be able to ride the storm till a Democrat took his place.
The crowd groaned at the mention of the names of Messrs. Lincoln and Butler, and cheered for Mc-Clellan.
The proceedings were attended with considerable excitement.
The prologue written by Ralph Waldo Emerson for the Jubilee Concert given at Boston on New Year's Day, in honor of the Emancipation Proclamation, will appear in the February number of the Atlantic Monthly. 
Parson Brownlow addressed an immense Union meeting at Louisville, Ky., on the 9th inst.
The article on "Hurt's Law of Bondage," in j the last number of the North American Review, was written by George S. Hillard, of Boston, and to attracting considerable attention.
A Murfreesboro' letter states that eleven brigades have been ordered from Virginia to reinforce Gen. Bragg. A Nashville despatch states that Gen.
Bragg has been superseded by Gen. Longstreet.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 19. Mr. Brigham introduced a bill into the House giving aid to Maryland to secure the abolition of slavery. It appropriates ten millions. Referred to the Committee on Emancipation.
<c06>
The acknowledgments of receipts into the treasury of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, given last week, are republished below, in order to make some additions, and supply some particulars:-

MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
Receipts into the Treasury from Sept. 10th to Dec. 31st, 1862. From E.D. and Anna T. Draper, to redeem pledge
Of May, $100.00
Samuel May, Jr., to redeem pledge of January, 50.00
Collections by A.T. Foss 100.00
Wendell Phillips, to redeem pledge, 2.00
Abby H. Stephenson, redeem pledge, 2.50
Sarah H. Southwick, redeem pledge, 2.50
Mrs. Frederick Tudor, Boston, 10.00
Edward R. Place, 1.00
Mary M. Brooks, Concord, to redeem Pledge, 20.00
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.
Boston, Jan., 1, 1863.

SPECIAL CONTRIBUTIONS
To the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, for the year now closing.
Samuel May, Jr., Leicester $25.00
W.W. & M. Dutcher Hopedale, 25.00
William Ashby, Newburyport, 5.00
Samuel May, Boston, 50.00
Benjamin Snow, Jr., Fitch burg, 10.00
Samuel L. Hill, Florence, 10.00
Jonathan Buffum, Lynn, 5.00
Alfred Wyman, Worcester, 20.00
Samuel Barrett, Concord 5.00
Daniel C. Haskell, Salem, 3.00
William Ives, Salem, 2.00
Daniel Lord, Salem, 1.00
Andrew Lord, Salem, 1.00 Dr. Johnson, Andrew Lord, 5.00
S. Johnson, Andrew Lord, 1.00
Dr. W. Mack, Andrew Lord, 2.00
Josiah Hayward, Andrew Lord, 1.00
Prince S. Crowell Dennis, 15.00
Richard Plumer, Newburyport, 2.00
EDMUND JACKSO, Treasurer
Jan.21,1863.

COLLECTIONS
By Parker Pillsbury:-
Warren Mass., $6.06; Northampton, 7.26; Florence, 9.30; Leeds, 2.00; Middlefield, 3.10; West Brookfield, 1.30; F. Henshaw, do., 1.00; Dea. J. Henshaw, do., 2.00; Manchester, Mass, 0.63; by Parker Pillsbury and Theodore D. Weld, Essex, Mass., 2085; Danvers, 2012; Weymouth, 6.25; East Abington, 2.80; Mc Indoes Falls, Vt., 1.42; Monroe, 1.45; Topsham, 5.00; S. Ryegate, 1.06; Peacham, (over expenses,) 0.70; Hardwick, 2.41; Craftsbury, 1.00; East Craftsbury, 1.23; Barton, 2.80.
By E.H. Heywood:-
S.L. Hill, Florence, Mass, $1.00; by individuals, do, 2.16; Worthington, 1.95; Seth Hunt, Northampton, 3.00; Others, do., 0.50; Ware, George S. Hill and others, 5.00; Mrs. F.C.M. Henshaw, West Brookfield, 1.00; Mrs. Sarah Dickerman, 0.50; Others, do., 4.18; Warren.2.45; Springfield, 4.10; Holden, 1.17; Feltonville, 2,75; Rock Bottom, 3.00; L. Bigelow, Marlboro, 1.00; Others, do., 5.75.

AN APPEAL TO THE FRIENDS OF EDUCATION.
A Society has been for some time in existence, holding its weekly meetings in the west part of the city, having adopted for a name, "THE UNION PROGRESSIVE ASSOCIATION." Its object is the mental and moral improvement of its members, through the medium of exercises usual in literary organizations; and without affectation it can be asserted, that its efforts thus far have produced the happiest and most beneficial results, especially among those colored young men and women within the sphere of its influence.
As a means of extending its usefulness, donations of any kinds of Books, Philosophical apparatus, or other facilities for library and reading-room purposes, as the benevolence of individuals may prompt, and their means warrant, are respectfully solicited.
Donations forwarded, or communications relative thereto addressed to either of the undersigned, will receive prompt attention.
WILLIAM C. NELL,
Anti-Slavery Rooms, 221 Washington St.
ALBERT JACKSON, 
At smith & Lovells, 57 Devonshire St.
GEPRGE W. POTTER,
At Sabin, Page & Co.s, 92 Milk St.
CHARLES P. TAYLOR,
At E. Boyingtons, 225 State-Street Bloc.
J. HARRISON SHAW,
Room No.8 Scollays Building.
JOHN F. BROWN,
At Thomas Groom & Co.s 82 State St.
Boston, Jan.16, 1863.
REV. D.A. WASSON will preach at MUSIC HALL, Boston, on Sunday forenoon next, 25th inst., for the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, upon "Courage and Cowardice in Belief."
CAMBRIDGEPORT- PARKER PILLSBURY will give his Third Lecture in WILLIAMSS HALL, on Sunday evening next, Jan.25th, at 7 oclock.
THEODORE D. WELD will lecture on the Rebellion in CONCORD, N.H., this (FRIDAY) evening, Jan.23rd.
Members and friends of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, who are indebted for Pledges made to the Society in January last, or previously to that time, are requested to pay the same as early as practicable, either to the Treasurer, EDMUND JACKSON, or at the Societys office, 221 Washington Street.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M.D., has removed on 695 Washington Street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References-Luther Clark, M.D., David Thayer, M.D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P.M.
DIEDIn Canton, Mass, Jan.15th, MARTIN R. BOSWELL, aged 51 years and 11 months.
"Sleep sweetly, tender heart, in peace;
Sleep, holy spirit, blessed soul,
While the stars burn, the moons increase,
And the great ages onward roll.

Sleep till the end, true soul and sweet,
Nothing comes to thee new or strange,
Sleep full of rest from head to feet;
Lie still dry dust, secure of change."
154 Washington St, 5 doors South of Milk St.
October 24.

WEIS & ZOEBISCH,
European and Fancy Furs,
308 Washington Street, 308
OPPOSITE BOSTON THEATRE, BOSTON.
Particular attention is paid to altering and repairing
Old Furs.
Furs preserved during the summer. Nov 7tf

A. FOLSOM & SON,
MANUFACTURES OF
OIL CARPETING,
AND
ROOF OLOTH,
23 WATER STREET,
A. FOLSOM, BOSTON.
S.P. FOLSOM,<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
From the American Wesleyan.
LET MY PEOPLE GO.
On every gale from Southern plains,
On every breeze tis borne;
Tis heard in every clanking chain,
In every plaintive moan.
In every sigh, in every prayer,
out in bitter woe,
In thunder tones borne on the air,
Oh! let my people go.
Ay, let them go, or God in wrath
His plagues on us will send;
He will not stay His mighty hand,
Until He makes an end;
Till all the land be drenchd in blood,
Which shall not cease to flow, 
If all unheeded the command
To let my people go.
In vain shall mercy weep and pray,
In vain shall wail,
And ones lift up their cry-
Their tears will not avail.
Peace flies for aye from our domain,
Wars bugle blast shall blow,
Until we sunder every chain,
And let His people go.
Charlotte, Vt. AMELIA.
From the Chester (Pa.) Republican.
THE BIRTHDAY OF LIBERTY.
Day dawns: the darkened shades of night have fled,
While tranquil nature, bushed oer land and sea,
Awakes with murmured blessings oer the dead,
And whispers soft the magic words BE FREE!
The Southern pines take up the joyful strain,
And waft their greeting to an injured race,
While the lofty granite hills of Maine,
The New Year wears a bright and smiling face.
Ay! heart where Truth and Right prevail;
Beats warm and high on natal day;
And every voice, however weak and frail,
In trembling accents joins the cheerful lay.
The rod has lost its fatal power;
The boon of Freedom, God in justice gave,
The ruling feeling of the day and hour,
Like perfumed zephyrs, floats above the slave!
No more our dusky brothers toil in vain,
But every thought to noble purpose given,
The joyful cadence of their wild refrain
Ascends with praise the peaceful dome of heaven
Then bless the man who raised his voice on high,
In firm obedience to Divine appeal;
Who with a purpose crowned the battle-cry,
And stern, unyielding, broke oppressions seal!
Ay! haughty Southron, bold, defiant still,
The chains of death by iron hands are riven;
While Justice claims, with an undaunted will,
This day to holy consecration given!
Ye Poets! Who in fantasy abide,
Invoke the Muses to inspired zeal;
And let your influence swell the common tide,
Until to Justice human beings kneel!
Ye gifted Author! tune your lyres anew!
And be not loitering in the hour of need;
The friends of human progress look to you,
For words of cheer, an earnest, firm God speed!
We mourn as only hearts afflicted mourn,
Oer those who float upon a crimson sea;
But Justice firmly answers through the storm,
Cease not till every human soul is free!
It comes! the bright millennium  the earth,
Not distant far, when sin and sorrow cease:
Then hail! all hail! the day of Freedoms birth!
The glorious harbinger of lasting peace! L.J.L.
From the New York Evening Post.
BOND AND FREE.
All hail to the day in our countrys career,
That sounds the loud watchword of Freedom forever!
To down-trodden millions each hour shall appear,
Like hand of God lifted, their shackles to sever.
They are free, they are free,
Over land, over sea,
The tidings are wafted, eternally free.
Who dares to confront the bold fiat of Fate,
Whose words have gone forth, and whose will none can alter?
Let traitors and bigots in helplessness wait,
The heart of the patriot never can falter.
At last, oh, at last,
From the infamous Past,
The stain on our honor no longer is cast.
What verse shall rehearse to posteritys ear
The triumph and glory that circle the nation?
What paeans of joy shall the centuries hear?
What emblems of Art shall record our salvation?
Humanitys cry
Is answered on high,
In its own squalid shambles let Slavery die.
See where on yon summit the pennon is borne
So dear to our hearts, and so sure of Heavens blessing;
Its colors may fade, and its fabric be torn,
By the tints of the sun, and the tempests caressing,
But the symbol is there,
And will flutter and glare,
While its foes shall lie leashed in the chains of despair.
Then pledge a brave promise, that, happen what may,
Our country well save from distress and dishonor;
Intact her dominion, unstinted  sway,
The garlands of Liberty clustered upon her.
She is free, she is free,
Over land, over sea,
The tidings, are echoes, eternally free.
Riverdale, New Year, 1863.F.G.C.
From the New York Independent.
THE PRESIDENTS PLOCLAMATION.
BY EDNA DEAN PROCTOR.
John Brown Song.
John Brown died on a scaffold for the slave;
Dark was the hour when we dug his hallowed grave;
Now God avenges the life he gladly gave
Freedom reigns to-day!
Glory, glory, hallelujah,
Glory, glory, hallelujah,
Glory, glory, hallelujah,
Freedom reigns to-day!
John Brown sowed, and his harvesters are we;
Honor to him who has made the bondmen free!
Loved evermore shall our noble Ruler be
Freedom reigns to-day!
Glory, etc.
John Browns body lies mouldering in the grave;
Bright,  the sod, let the starry banner waveO! for the millions he periled all to save,
Freedom reigns to-day!
Glory, etc.
John Brown liveswe are gaining on our foes
Right shall be victor whatever may oppose
Fresh, through the darkness, the wind of morning blows
Freedom reigns to-day!
Glory, etc.
John Browns soul through the world is marching on;
Hail to the hour when oppression shall be gone!
All men will sing, in the better ages dawn,.
Freedom reigns to-day!
Glory, etc.
John Brown dwells where the battle-strife is oer;
Hate cannot harm him, nor sorrow stir him more;
Earth will remember the crown of thorns he wore
Freedom reigns to-day!
Glory, etc.
<col 2>
THE LIBERCATOR.
THE B0ST0N REVIEW ON SAWYER'S RECONSTRUCTION OF BIBLIOAL THEORIES.
REMARKS BY THE AUTHOR. MR. EDITOR:
DEAR SIR, Finding my Reconstruction of Biblical Theories  to be proved erroneous, and denounced as such, before the public, by an elaborate article in the Boston Review of November, 1862,I beg leave to consider some parts of that article in your columns, and to show the fallacy of its arguments. As the subject is one that has been little discussed, and yet is of transcendent importance, I fancy it will not be uninteresting to your readers. It stands connected with the greatest questions of the age, and the highest interests of Christianity and of the world. I refer to the origin of Aramaean letters, and the date and authorship of the early sacred books. Truth bears examination, and no amount of scrutiny impairs its strength. That which is feeble and sickly, or weak and cowardly, may be set down at once a lie. In the reconstruction of Biblical theories, the Mosaic authorship of the early sacred books is denied on several grounds, two of which are the following:1. That Aramaean letters were not in use in the time of Moses; 2. That the Hebrew language of the Pentateuch was not in existence in his time, but is the product of a later age.
The argument which I now propose to examine relates chiefly to the first of these propositions. The formal argument of the book stands thus:1 Major premise assumed Books are not written till after the use of the letters with which they are written. 2. Minor premiseThe use of Aramaean letters was not till after the time of Moses. 3. ConclusionTherefore the early Hebrew books, being written with Aramaean letters, are of post-Mosaic origin.
The reviewer takes little note of the arguments of the author generally, and charges him with " vast assumption." The minor premise of this argument he denies and rejects in the most explicit manner, and arrays against it three arguments of his own, as follows:
"I. The books within themselves give evidence that letters were in use in the time of  He wrote all the words of the law: he wrote in a book the overthrow of Amalek; he wrote the going out of the people of Israel according to their journeys; he took the book of the covenant, and read it in the audience of the people; he commanded the Levites to take the book of the law, and put it in the side of the ark of the covenant of the Lord. The charge of allegory and fiction, by recorders of later ages, will not avail against such prima facie evidence of the use of letters in those times."
Reply 1. None of these instances of writing assert the writing of the Pentateuch, or of any part of it. The Pentateuch may contain things which Moses wrote, but that does not prove that  wrote them in the Pentateuch. None of the instances of writing quoted bears the remotest relation to the authorship of this part of the sacred books. These assertions, so far from being prima facie evidence of authorship, are no evidence at all, having not the remotest relation to the subject.
Reply 2. If these accounts of letters are to be taken literally us assertions of facts, they must refer to Egyptian letters, and not to Aramaean. The Egyptian letters were of three kindshieroglyphic, hieratic, and common. The hieroglyphic were pictorial and symbolical, denoting things; the hieratic and common were modified hieroglyphs, denoting things and also sounds. They were a remote approximation towards Aramaean letters, but never reached them.
Reply 3. It is no depreciation of a document to call it allegorical or fictitious; the noblest and mast valuable productions of all ages are of these descriptions. This is true of the literature of all nations, ancient and modern. Fictitious writings take as high rank as any; they rank above all others. It is, therefore, no disparagement of these books to make them allegorical and fictitious.
Reply 4. If these books are allegorical and fictitious, in part, the writing mentioned may be fictitious, introduced in conformit
y to the views of a later period, as to what would suitable and proper, in the several cases, but establishing nothing in respect to the use of Aramaean letters in the time of Moses.
II. Unanimous tradition  the Biblical worthies of twenty-five centuries have assigned to Moses the authorship of the Pentateuch, and it is neither scholarly nor conclusive to meet it with a simple denial. It is true, Dewette and Gesenius maintained at one time, that the Hebrews knew nothing of letters before the time of the Judges, but they afterwards found reason for changing their opinion, and did change it.
Reply I. Tradition is proverbially erring; it cannot transmit truth with certainty one centurystill , twenty-five centuries. How many mistakes occur in traditionary narrations from year to year, and from month to month! If we wish to keep things correctly for a day, we  obliged to make a minute of them. Tradition is not sure to be right at first, and if it starts wrong, it can never become right; while if it starts right, it is liable at every stage of its progress to become wrong.
Reply 2. The author does not meet the traditionary opinion in favor of the Mosaic authorship of the Pentateuch with simple denial, but with conclusive argument and evidence.
Reply 3. DeWette and Gesenius were mistaken in some of their later opinions, as well as in some of their earlier ones, and did not finally get all knowledge on Biblical questions that was ever to be reached. If they had continued their examinations until this time, with the full exercise of their faculties, they would have made many more changes of opinion. None are to be followed implicitly, and none regarded  oracles of all truth that can be known. One degree of knowledge is but the condition of others, and the more one knows, the more he is capable of learning. Besides, neither of these men admitted the Mosaic authorship of the Pentateuch among their last and highest conclusions.
III. Ancient history and monuments attest the existence of writings in the times and country of Moses.  discoveries show that hieroglyphical writing on stone was known in Egypt as early as the fourth dynasty,  B. C. [100 years before the Noachian deluge, which was 2349 B. C.] This was 1000 years before the death of Moses, and writing on Babylonian bricks was common 800 years before. [That is, in the time of Eber, grandson of Aram, father of the Aramaean nations, and great-grandson of Shem.] Then follows an account of several hieratic papyri or books, of the 19th dynasty, , [1324-1232] which are discussed in the Cambridge Essays of 1858; from all which he concludes as follows:
(1) 	" Here we find a familiar use of writing in Egypt on various topics, only about a century and a half after the death of Moses.  From the use of the
sacred characters in writing, many centuries before, we may fairly presume that in the time of Moses, letters were common in Egypt.
(2) " And as Stephen informs us that Moses was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, we may
safely conclude, that he was able to write, and did write, as much as the Pentateuch ascribes to him."
(3) So the statement will seem strong and conclusive, when we consider who makes it. that "there is every reason to suppose that writing was familiar to the Jews, when they quitted Egypt."Rawlinsons Bampton Lectures, p. 53.
Let us analyze these arguments and  their validity.
ARGUMENT I. 1. Major premiseWe find a familiar use of writing [hieroglyphic and hieratic] in Egypt, on various topics, only about a century and a half after the death of  The use of the sacred characters [hieroglyphs] in writing [was commenced] many centuries before.
2. Minor premise wanting. To legitimate the conclusion, it should be as follows:Aramaean letters are Egyptian hieroglyphs.
S. Conclusion. We may fairly presume, that in the time of Moses, Aramaean letters were common in Egypt.                           <col 3>
In this argument, the minor premise is false, and the conclusion illegitimate.
ARGUMENT 1. Major premise wanting. To legitimate the conclusion, it should be as follows:The wisdom of the Egyptians in the time of Motet embraced the art of Aramaean writing.
2. Minor premise was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians.
3. Conclusion. We may safely conclude that he was able to write, and did write,  much  the Pentateuch ascribes to him.
He did write, too much. All that the argument proves is that he could write; the did write, it knows nothing about. This is another thing, which requires additional proof. The major premise in this argument the assumption of the question in dispute, so that the argument is an example of the celebrated fallacy of Begging the question.
ARGUMENT 1- Major premise wanting. To legitimate the conclusion, it should be, So all that Rawlinson says on the subject is strong and conclusive.
2.Minor premise. Rawlinson says, there is every reason to suppose that [Aramaean] writing was familiar to the Jews, when they quitted Egypt.
 Conclusion. This assertion of  strong and conclusive.
The major premise  false, and is another assumption. Rawlinson's opinion on Biblical questions is entitled to great respect; but he has not reached the end of Biblical knowledge, and may still have traditionary errors to abandon. This I judge is one that he will be very likely to abandon in the further prosecution of his immense and invaluable antiquarian researches. This argument, therefore, is another instance of the fallacy called Begging the question. Is this the logic of the Boston Review? Not in the defence of truth: it is only when in the wrong that it can be drawn to such straits.
With these few remarks, the author assailed refers the question in debate to the tribunal of the Christian public, and begs that it may have a deliberate and well-considered judgment.
Yours, very truly, L. A. SAWYER.
LETTER FROM JOSEPH A. DUGDALE,
ANZLIE FARM, NEAR MT. PLEASANT, Henry Co., Iowa, 1 mo. 3d, 1863. 
BELOVED FRIEND W. L. GARRISON:
The Liberator must be sustained. I hope its friends and the lovers of liberty  the soul as well as the body will not permit it to languish. Here in our prairie home, six miles from the pretty little village of Mt. Pleasant, of 5000 inhabitants, we greet the coming of the Liberator as an old and long-tried friend.
This terrible war has wrought many changes. We should not have been residents on these fertile and beautiful prairies but for this. War we have had these long, long years, but we called it not by that name. We have made unrelenting war on the slave, and crushed his rights and his manhood. At last, the accursed slave system clutched this nation by its jugular vein, and now tens of thousands who never uttered a sigh or shed a tear for those in bonds have seen their sons go into the sanguinary conflict, and many of them have fallen in their blood in the struggle to crush out the slaveholders' rebellion. "We are all verily guilty concerning our brother; therefore has this distress come upon us." We are waiting with trembling to hear whether the President will stand by his proclamation of the 22d of 9th month last. I learn that sixty thousand volunteers have gone to the war out of one hundred and twenty thousand voters in Iowa.
During the year we have been in this State, I have travelled into the interior and visited several counties, held a number of meetings, several of which have been for little men and maidens. The little folks will come by hundreds when a Convention is appointed for them.  love to look them in the eyes, and see the dew settling there, when a touching story of the sorrows and sufferings of the slave is told them. If you touch the heart of a child deeply, it never forgets the impression. I praise the Lord that He suffers me to live where children dwell. Heaven would not be heaven to me if children were not there. The divine Jesus said, "Of such is the kingdom of heaven." The Old School Presbyterians of Iowa City, owning the largest house of worship in the place, permitted me to use their building. The parson came with the flock of juveniles, and a good time we had of it.
Iowa City is situated on the banks of the Iowa river, and contains 9000 inhabitants. The soil in Iowa, on the prairies, is often from twelve to twenty-four inches deep. So rich, indeed, that if you could hear the potatoes planted in its soil, (without any compost.) they would be saying, in their vegetarian dialect, "Lay over; we are crowded"!  I never saw such! a prolific yielding for the labor bestowed. There are some very fine improvements in the State, and some excellent institutions of learning.
Wherever I go, I find a growing anti-slavery sentiment. The people welcome liberal utterances. At one meeting, an Orthodox friend invited me to visit him, saying,  I hope thou wilt come; I have an acre of children!" I knew I was in a wonderful country, but this seemed too much blessing to fall to the lot of one man. He explained, however, by saying, "My name is Rood, and I have four children."
I visited the mother of Edwin and Barclay Coppic. She and her present husband are Orthodox Friends. When she brought the photographs of her sons, she said of Edwin, " This is the one that was murdered; of Barclay, " This one was killed."  After a moment's pause, she added, " I seemed to have all I could bear, but many a poor slave mother has suffered as much I and more." No Roman mother ever excelled her in devotion to principle. We then gazed upon the likeness of John Brown.  On paper as it was, I was electrified anew as I gazed upon the calm, indomitable purpose in the countenance of that heroic old man.
The Society of Friends in Iowa (Hicksite) with great unanimity addressed a letter to the President, asking the emancipation of the slaves. Just before the going down of the , I mounted a steed and plodded through the mire in hopes of meeting some one returning from the city with the morning paper. I returned with the Proclamation in my hand. Our venerated mother, now well stricken in years, but vigorous in her love for goodness and freedom, was with us spending New Year's. She, with my beloved wife, lifted up their hands, while tears moistened all our eyes, and we united our hearts in gratitude to the Lord for this great deliverance. The next day, at our religious meeting, it was the theme of the fervent exercises of the occasion, and many were the tears of gratitude which were shed. Many feared the President would not stand firm, and almost the entire congregation were electrified by "the glad tidings of great joy " which the words of the first speaker revealed when the truth was told. Quite a number of the auditors were formerly residents of Slave States; but one feeling pervaded the assembly, that of thanks giving and praise. It is a burning shame that this deed was consummated as "a military necessity," instead of an act of justice to a peeled and outraged race. For the remainder yet in fetters, we  still toil on, abating no sacrifice or suffering, until "liberty is proclaimed throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof."
Thine, for the redemption of humanity,
JOSEPH A. DUGDALE.
THE PROCLAMATION. The following congratulatory extract is taken from a letter received from an esteemed Anti-Slavery lady in New York:-
"I do not need to wish you a happy New Year,' for you surely are rejoicing that you have lived to see the day when freedom is proclaimed for the enslaved of ten 'The die is cast'; the cause for which you have nobly struggled must triumph. I felt that I saw a promise of a new life to the nation in the  audience assembled, attracted hither, as it evidently was, by the magic word of freedom for the enslaved, sounded thus from the Executive of the Government."
<col 4>
EMASCIPATION CELEBRATION IN OHIO.
The  and gentlemen of Rome, Ohio, gave a demonstration, January 1st, of their interest in the welfare of  country, by a celebration of the Proclamation of Freedom. The following:, having been supported in an address by the Rev. H. C. H. Dudley, were unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That the Proclamation issued by the President of the United States on the n of September, and by which slavery is this day legally abolished in every rebellious State of this Republic, was simply act of duty too long omitted.
Resolved, That as slaver is the cause, the support, and the object of this great rebellion, a violation of God's law, disgraceful, degrading, and ruinous to society, and a cruel, inexcusable infringement upon man's natural rights, it ought to be heartily and unhesitatingly condemned by every patriot, Christian and philanthropist.
Resolved, That although the instrument of manumission would have possessed much greater merit and efficiency if it had been earlier in its issue, and of universal application, yet we regard it as the most reasonable and effectual measure that the Administration has adopted for the suppression of the rebellion, and worthy of the support and approval of the American people.           
At a Stated Meeting of the Philadelphia Female Anti Slavery Society, held January 8th, 1863 the following preamble and resolutions were unanimously adopted:
Whereas, the President of the United States did, on the 1st day of January, , proclaim that all persons held as slaves within the States of Arkansas, Texas, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, and Louisiana, with the exception of certain parishes, and Eastern Virginia, with the exception of certain counties, are and henceforth shall be free, and that the Executive government of the United States, including the military and naval authorities thereof, will recognize and maintain the freedom of said persons; therefore,
Resolved, That we hail with unutterable joy and gratitude the day of jubilee which has dawned on the American nation, and the emancipation of millions of American slaves, in whose behalf this association has, for thirty years, hopefully labored; and as we have sympathetically entered into their sufferings, and borne their burdens, we are now partakers of the joy with which, casting off their broken fetters, they are ruing new-born and exultant into a life of freedom.
Resolved, That in the enfranchisement of these millions, and in the signs of the times, which distinctly indicate the speedy abolition of slavery in the remaining portions of the Union, we foresee the consummation of our work, the fruition of our hopes, and find for all our toil and sacrifice glorious "recompense of reward"
SARAH PUGH, President
LIVERMORE'S "HISTORICAL RESEARCH."
A valuable contribution to our means of becoming acquainted with an important portion of American annals is made through the publication of An Historical Research respecting Opinions of the Founders of the Republic on Negroes as Slaves, as Citizens, and as Soldiers, by George Livermore, Esq. This work was read before the Massachusetts Historical Society on the 14th of last August, of which eminent body Mr. Livermore is one of the most distinguished members. The Society was so pleased with the labors of Mr.Livermore, that it was resolved to publish the paper at its own expense; but the author, while publishing it as read before the Society, declined to avail himself of the pecuniary offer, handsomely defraying the cost of publication himself. Several gentlemen spoke of the paper after it had been read,Mr. Everett, Mr. Waterston, and Mr. Washbur,and all in terms of the highest praise; and Mr. Waterston read a letter to the same effect from the venerable Mr. Quincy. The remarks of these gentlemen express what must be the sentiments of all who follow Mr. Livermore's pages, for he has done a great work, and in a man  that shows how thoroughly and critically he has studied his subject. We doubt if anything more can be added to the general subject, so far as the military service of colored men is concerned; and the author is not less happy in all that relates to the history of the colored man's connection with politics. He has brought together, and set forth in proper order, an immense number of facts gathered from every quarter, and throwing a flood of light upon questions that have been much neglected. His facts and statements help to show that, while there has always been some prejudice against the negro, it was less strong in former times than it is to-day, when it should no longer have an existence. In spite of all that has been done to spread intelligence, it is evident that men are not so liberally disposed now as they were in the last generation. We speak of the masses, for there are many exceptions to the rule. Those who would know what were the sentiments of the Fathers of the Republic on a matter that is now of greater interest than ever, could not do better that consult Mr. Livermore's book, from the contents of which they will learn that the great men of the great days of the nation were no more troubled with negrophobia than with hydrophobia, and that even the small men took the complaint but mildly. It was left for a set of miserable. Democratic leaders, a selfish, spoils-seeking crew, to get up a creed that is founded on the doctrine that God Almighty did not know what he was about when  made the world, but fell into a capital error, one that has vitiated all his work, because he did not consult John Van Buren, Jim Brooks, and a number of other political vagabonds, on the subject of race. All the force of the cry that is raised against the poor negro is derived from its party character. The Democrats, who once were as free from this contemptible prejudice as any class of men in America, have taken it to themselves so to speak, as a party badge, and are engaged in the dirtiest, meanest business that can command human attention; and all because they would get possession of power again, an end that might be accomplished in some better way. Some Republicans are no better in this way than the Democrats; and as they contrive to snatch up Democratic rags, they are as fierce in denouncing the "nigger" as if they had never done any thing but support the "riglar dimmyeratic ticket" ever since they chipped the gooses eggs from which they sprung. There is something so humiliating in all this, so different from the conduct of our predecessors, that Mr. Livermore's book may be considered a reproach to the present generation, and spoken of as an "incendiary" production. It does throw much light upon our history, and so doing, its contents ought to be as familiar to others as its authorship is honorable to him.Boston Traveller.
PETITIONS AGAINST NEGROES. The Crisis, and other "Democratic" journals, are urging the people, who like them are afraid of niggers, to petition the legislature to prohibit the immigration of people of color into the State. They desire to procure a very large number of names to memorials this winter. It is a great pity that these politicians should feel themselves so low in the social scale as to suppose it necessary to ask the protection of the Legislature against the poor, illiterate and degraded negro. It is proper, however, that every man should be a judge of his own standing in society; and if these men think they are likely to fall beneath the negro in social competition, it is very natural that they should ask for relief. But would it not be just as well to ask for special protection for themselves? As to the editor of the Crisis, we think it is wholly unnecessary, as it is doubtful if there is a negro to be found sufficiently degraded to wish to edit such a paper as the Crisis.Ashtabula Sentinel.
THE CAPTURED REBEL DESPATCHES. A dispatch from Washington states that the papers recently captured by our blockading fleet comprise some very important dispatches from Jeff. Davis and his Secretary of State to Mason, Slidell and others in Europe. They give many important facts and details in regard to the condition of the rebels. They also furnish the strongest statements of the desperate strait to which the rebel leaders are reduced, and show that unless they can quickly get relief, either by European interference or by dividing the Free States, and thus paralyzing the efforts of the Government, they must give up their bad cause for  These dispatches arrived at Washington on Tuesday of last week. They were put up in a tin box, loaded with lead at one end, so as to sink quickly in an emergency. The Government is strongly urged to make public these captured dispatches, and will do so as soon as certain special in-formation contained in them is made use of.
<col 5>
CONTRABAND LITERATURE.
M. HASKELL,We hear much of the inferiority of the negro race The lions have been painters. Let us now give them a fair chance, and judge, from the experiment, after fifty years, if they are destined by the Almighty to be, as a universal or very general thing, hewers of wood and drawers of water, like the faithless Gibeonites.
We do not believe that  your readers are so young as not to be familiar with the metrical alphabet, in the ancient Primer, beginning with "in Adams fall, we sinned all." It is well known, that wherever the cruel and brutal laws of the South have been nullified by the bayonet, the contrabands, the enfranchised slaves,  been instructed in reading and writing. Their proficiency is said to be remarkable; but we very much doubt if your readers, most of them, certainly, would not be surprised should they be told that the imitation of the ancient metrical alphabet, which we enclose, was the work of an aged contraband, to whom the instructor had presented one of the old primers. The grammar and spelling are very faulty, of course, and the writing is not easily deciphered.
Boston Transcript,SIGMA.
A. Good Massa ABE
He free de slabe. 
B. BUCHANAN he
Clime a tree,
And dar he be. 
C. Scip, CHILE, and wife
Was slaves for life. 
D. De DRIBER'S whip
Make nigger skip. 
E. De slabe trade com
Ole ENGLAND from. 
F. Ole FLOYD he stold
De guns and gold. 
G. GOD fix all right,
Twix brack and white. 
H. Tis HEBBEN'S 
Dat slabes be free. 
I. Hot IRON say 
De Slabe run away. 
J. De Rebble JEFF 
De Debble hisself. 
K. KING Cotton's dedAnd Sambo's fled. 
L. Slabes late in Now learn dar LETTERS. 
M. MASSA for shiner
Sell his chile by Dinah. 
N. De NIGGER'S free-Tis Juba Lee. 
O. OLE Tom's Is now worth habbin. 
P. Priest POLK  pray, And after slay. 
Q. QUASSHEE was sold 
When blind and old. 
R. De REBBLE De slabe hab hold. 
S. In time ob night
De SLABE take flight
T. TOM'S massa fleeDen why not he ?
U. Slabe galls UNDUNBy massa and son. 
V. VIRGINNY nigger Feel some bigger. 
W. Jackson fight all
Behind stone WALL. 
X. XANTIPPE  For joy run mad. 
Y. YANKEE knock De chains from Cuff. 
Z. Now nigger Brim full ob ZEAL.
Mr. S. D. Phillips, a nephew of Wendell Phillips, one of the faithful and devoted band of laborers among the Freedmen, died recently at Port Royal, S. C. one of the lady teachers, writing to the Newport (R. I.) News, says:
"We were all very much grieved, for he was one of the best friends of the colored people, and they felt it. The superintendents and teachers sung, as his coffin was laid on the communion table, 'Asleep in Jesus,' and then the people themselves commenced and sung one of the sweetest and saddest of their songs
I wonder where  brother is,
O, graveyard! I wonder where Mr. Phillips is,
O, graveyard! 
Carry his body in de graveyard,
Ring, Jerusalem!Grass grow in de graveyard,
Ring, JerusalemO, graveyard ought to know me,
Ring, JerusalemO, Jesus in de graveyard,
Ring, Jerusalem!Rise from de graveyard,
Ring, Jerusalem!'"
THE RESULTS OF THE PROCLAMATION.
The following table shows the number of slaves freed by the proclamation of January 1st, and the number yet remaining in slavery:
FREED.   		STILL SLAVES.  	TOTAL.
Alabama,		435,080 		435, 080
Arkansas,		111,115 		111,115  
Delaware, 		1,738     		1,798
Florida,		61,745      	61,745
Georgia,		462,198,     	462,198
Kentucky, 		225,483    		225,483
Louisiana,		238,564      	93,162    331,726
Maryland,		87,189     		87,189
Mississippi,	436,631      	436,631
Missouri, 		114,931    		114,931
North Carolina,	331,059    		331, 059
South Carolina,   402,406      	402,406
Tennessee,		275,719    		275,719
Taxes,		182,566      	182,566
Eastern Virginia,	452,118     	26,561    478,709
Western Virginia, 12,146    		12,146
Total,		3,113,532		837,059  3,950,586
Add to these, 3,155 slaves freed in the District of Columbia by act of Congress, and you have a total of 3,116,787 slaves freed within the last twelve months. These figures are carefully compiled from the census of 1860. They give a total of 837, still in bondage. But it must be remembered, that since the taking of this census, the loyal Slave States which hold these slaves have lost a vast number of them from the following causes, viz.:Confiscation, as in Louisiana and Missouri; the moving south of rebel masters, taking their slaves with them; the escape forcibly or by stealth, of great numbers of slaves, resulting from the disturbed condition of the country; manumission of slaves by loyal masters desirous of aiding emancipation, Legislative action, State and National unfriendly to From various causes, Missouri has lost at least 50,000, Kentucky 75,000, Tennessee 50,000 and other States in the same proportion. So we deem it safe to conclude that the actual number of slaves legally held under the authority of the United States is less than 500,000, or about one-eighth of the number two years ago. And the signs of the times point to the speedy and peaceful emancipation of this remnant. Thank God for Progress!-Cleveland Leader.
EFFECT OF THE ROCLAMATION. Gen. Clusseret has written to a Senator, under date of Winchester, January 7, a letter, in which he says-We have received-Gen. Milroy and myself-the Presidents Proclamation of Freedom. In consequence, we yesterday posted on all the walls of Winchester, and scattered throughout the country, from farm to farm, an order from Gen. Milroy notifying all slaves that they are free, beginning from the 1st of their masters, or quit them, and that in this case, the troops will protect their rights precisely as they will those of all other citizens
A correspondent of the New York Tribune also  of the effect the proclamation has already produced:-
The northern neck of Virginia, the heart of aristocratic and wealthy slavery, is alive with a vast hegira of bondmen and bondwomen, traveling under President Lincolns pass. The proclamation is depopulating the whole region between the Rappahannock and the Potomac. In farm wagons, in coaches, on horseback, afoot and in buggies, with valuable property, in every case, this second movement from Egypt to the promised land fills the highways and the woods.
The freed slaves come straight to our lines. On the other side, rebel raids daily snatch valuable slaves, and hurry them south ward and westward to the mountain fastnesses for security. It was so that masters hid away their perilous property in the mountains of San Domingo. In Baltimore, the proclamation daily strikes the fetters off the large number of slaves sent for safety to that city
The New York Evening Post estimates the amount of specie in the United States at the Present time at $716,000,000.
<col6>
Free speech has been vindicated at West Troy, N.Y. Some days since, it was announced that Wendell Phillips would lecture in that place, whereupon handbills were put in circulation warning ladies not to attend the lecture, and intimating that Mr. Phillips should not speak. The people, however, took up the challenge thus given by the rowdy population, and though a dozen or so of roughs jostled into the hall, breathing all manner of violent things against Mr. Phillips, they were very quickly ejected, and the lecturer proceeded, unmolested, to perform the duty of the evening.
The Boston  states a fact very creditable to Gov. Andrew, viz.: that on Thanksgiving Day,  with Lewis Hayden, the black man who holds the office of messenger at the State House. Twenty five guests were present, the Governor and his Secretary being the only white men.  We dare say says the Springfield Republican, the Governor had a good dinner and pleasant companions, and there is no reason why he should not dine with Hayden, or invite him to his own table, for Hayden is a sensible fellow, and quite up to the State House average of respectability, to say the least
QUERIES Whether, since Major-General Butler-who before the war was a staunch Breckinridge Democrat, and an equally staunch opponent of Republicans-has been convinced by experience and observation, that the existence of slavery is incompatible have the vituperative slang about fanatical A abolitionists come to an end, as a poor kind of partisan rhetoric, quite played out? Whether, since a majority of the loyal people are at last satisfied that the peculiar institution must be abated for the benefit of the white, it is worth while to abuse the minority, who rejoice over the promised emancipation for the justice it will do the colored population?-Boston Transcript.
THE PROBLEM SOLVED.
THE RESULTS OF EMANCIPATION.
BY M. AUGUSTIN COCHIN.
Translated by Miss Mary L. Booth, translator of M. Gasparins Works on America.
M cochin is an ex-maire and municipal councilors of the city of Paris. He has had great advantages for research among both public and private document; and has devoted his life to the subject on which his <illegible> coming volume treats. He recently received the order of knighthood from the pope, in acknowledgment of the ability displayed in this book; to which also was recently awarded the first prize of three thousand francs by the French Academy.
So little is positively known of the economical and social results of Emancipation in those countries where it has taken place, that the importance of this volume to the people of the United States, in the present crisis, can hardly be overestimated.
It was written at the suggestion of the learned  Montalembert; is based entirely on official reports; and its statements, which comprehend every form of the question, are fully reliable.
Of the style and attractiveness of the book, the following extract from a notice of the French edition, in the  Examiner, may testify. It is pronounced, among the most remarkable, fascinating, and timely books of the year. It is, at once, cautious and eloquent, candid and enthusiastic; as sagacious as De Tocquevilles work on America; and as ardent as Victor Hugos Legend of the Ages. It is scientific in its arrangement, accurate in its display of facts, logical in its reasoning, and clear in its conclusions
12mo. Sent FREE BY MAIL, on receipt of the price
ALSO,
THE REJECTED STONE; or , Insurrection vs. Resurrection in America. By a Native of Virginia. 12mo. Cloth, 59 cents.
This remarkable book says the Christian Examiner discusses the question of Emancipation as the result of the war, with a depth of conviction, a boldness of  cogency of argument, wealth of illustration, not withal a keenness of satire and a fervid eloquence, which insure readers for the book
Another critic remarks: This eloquent, argumentations, electric work is instinct with the passion of the south and the reason of the North.
The Independent opens its criticism with the significant query: Have we an American Carlyle?
ALSO,
THE TRUE STORY OF THE BARONS OF THE SOUTH; or, The Rationale of the American Conflict. By Rev. K.V. REYNOLDS, author of Records of Bubbleton Parish With Introduction by Rev. S.J. MAY. 12mo. 75 etc.
WALKER, WISE & CO., 
Dec12-3t.is    245 Washington Street, Boston.
Lewiss Normal Institute 
for 
Physical Education,
No.20 ESSEX STREET, BOSTON, MASS.
[Incorporated in 1861.]
THIS Institution is a pioneer in a new profession. Ladies and gentlemen of enterprise and industry will find in this field health, usefulness, and large profit. Three eminent medical men teach in the departments of Anatomy, Physiology and Hygiene. Prof. LEONARD has charge of Elocution; Dr. DIO LEWIS of Practical Gymnasties, and the Movement Cure. The course continues ten weeks. Tickets $75. Matriculation $5. Diploma $10.  prices are reduced 25 per cent. Two courses during this year-the first beginning on the 2d of January, and the 2d on the 5th of July. 
For a full circular, address Dr. DIO LEWIS, Box 12, Boston, Mass.
Dr. Lewis has solved the problem; he has marked out the way. Many eminent teachers are pursuing it with the most excellent results. We recognize the debt  Dr. Lewis; he has done us teachers and our pupils a vast amount of good-D.B. Hagar, Pres. of the America Institute of Instruction.
I am now satisfied that Dr. Lewis has found the true scientific process for physical development. It was my pririlege to welcome Dr. Lewis at his very first arrival here, and every thing since then has only confirmed my confidence in his ability to superintend the work -Rev. Dr. Kirk, at the first Commencement of the Institute.
Henceforth we shall delight to think of Dr. Lewis as one who holds our welfare very near his own; we shall turn to him for sympathy and encouragement in our failures, and shall love to bring our successes to him, as belonging more to him than to ourselves-Miss May,  at the first Graduating Class.
I rejoice, Mr. President, that the Normal Institute for Physical Education has been established in Boston. I rejoice that it has at its head a gentleman so admirably qualified to give it eminent success. I believe that no individual has ever, in this country, given the subject of Physical Education such an impulse as has Dr. Lewis. He  the credit of it.
You may not know it, ladies and gentlemen, but this Institution is famous in every part of the land. There is not a live  in America who is not looking to see what is to be the result of Dr. Lewiss institution in Boston. These exercises can be introduced into any  room with desks. The problem is solved.
I trust, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the commencement of a new era, and that the system taught by Dr. Lewis will be universally introduced into an schools-Extract from a speech delivered at the second  Normal Institute by J.D. Phillbrick, Esq., Superintendent of the Public Schools of Boston.
THE 
SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN.
THE ILLUSTRATED SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, the best mechanical paper in the world, commences a  volume on the first of January. It is published weekly, and every number contains sixteen pages of useful information, and from five to ten original engravings of new inventions and discoveries, all of which are prepared expressly its columns.
No person engaged in any of the mechanical  pursuits should thing of doing without the Scientific American. It costs but six cents per Week; every number contains from six to ten engravings of new machines and inventions, which cannot be found in any other publication.
The Scientific American is indispensable to every inventor, as it not only contains illustrated descriptions of  all the best inventions as they come out, but each number contains an official List of the Claims of all the  issued from the United States Patent Office during the week previous; thus giving a correct history of the progress of inventions in this country; and also a summary of all that is transpiring in mechanical science and art in the old countries.
To Chemists, Arcbitects, Millwrights and Farmers, the Scientific American will be found a most useful journal. All the new discoveries in the science of chemistry are given in its columns, and the interests of the architect and carpenter are not overlooked; all the new inventions and discoveries appertaining to these pursuits being published from week to week. Useful and practical information pertaining to the interests of millwrights and mill-owners will be found in the Scientific American, which information they cannot possibly obtain from any other source.  Subjects in the Scientific American; most of the improvements in agricultural implements being illustrated in its columns.
TERMS-To mail subscribers: Three Dollars a year, or One Dollar for four months. The volumes the first of January and July. Specimen copies will be sent gratis to any part of the country.
MUNN & CO., PUBLISHERS,
Jan2tf 37 Park Row, New York.
