THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
- AT -
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the <paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, Our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII.No. 29. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 18,1862. WHOLE NO. 1641.
Refuge of Oppression.

GOV.STANLEY'S SPEECH.
On the 17th ult., Governor Stanley spoke at Washington, N. C., at a Union meeting, in which seventeen counties were represented. The speech was also heard by a large number of soldiers, and the Newbern Progress says that by the army and by North Carolinians it was received with great satisfaction. In the course of it, Gov. Stanley said:-
"You say your slaves are all to be emancipated. What course has the Federal Government pursued thus far in regard to your slaves? When Fremont, Hunter and Phelps issued their proclamations of emancipation, did not the President revoke them all? Has he not adhered strictly to the Constitution and laws of the country? Does he not insist that all the States shall be protected in all their rights? Much is said about the slaves coming into the Federal lines, and many complaints are made because they are not promptly given up. Are they not in the Confederate lines, and are they not used to build fortifications, and do the work of rebels, and in many instances used to man rebel guns, and fight against the Union? The Federal army can't make a business of catching negroes, and delivering them up. They have come here to put down treason, and a war which the rebels inaugurated. If this war continues, look at the consequences! see what has already taken place! See what must follow! In Newbern there are nearly 5,000 slaves: they are here, more continue to come. Should the war continue, and the Federal army be obliged to advance into the interior, then will the consequences be upon your own heads. Then your institutions, and everything you have and own, will necessarily be in peril. Give back the forts, arsenals, navy yards, and all the property you have seized from the government, lay down your arms, send your commissioners to Washington, and in thirty days you can be back into the Union. The Union must be preserved, though all the institutions in the South should be perilled, and all her property of every kind devastated. This Union and government is worth more than all the property of the South, and the lives of all the rebels. Much has been said about the negro schools in Newbern. When I came, I found them there established by Mr. Colyer. He came to me, and asked my opinion. I gave it to him, and told him that I thought it was injudicious at this time, that it would look as though I intended to disregard the laws of the State, which would destroy all my influence, and make me a very unwelcome visitor to the people of North Carolina. I treated the gentleman kindly, made no threats to him, nor did I give him any advice or instructions. I have been misrepresented in this whole matter, which has unnecessarily engendered a bad feeling. I come with the olive-branch, and stand, for the time being, between you and the powerful armies of the Republic, whose onward march will sweep you under, and necessarily destroy your institutions when brought in contact with the opposing forces. Soon it will be too late for you to accept of my honorable terms. Then events must be left to the harsh and cruel necessities of the justice which is vindicated by the sword. After Hunter's proclamation, I called on President Lincoln, and told him that if a sweeping emancipation was the policy of the Administration. I could not go to North Carolina. He assured me that it was not, and that the Administration had no such power. I believe he is sincere in all he says, and that it is not his desire to distress unnecessarily any State, or deprive her of any of her Constitutional rights. Such is Mr. Lincoln, whom you have regarded with so much terror, and denounced so bitterly. He stands by the Constitution, unmoved, and I do not believe it is in the power of any human being or party to turn him either to the right or left."

THE FAILURE OF RADICALISM, AND THE DUTY OF THE PATRIOT.
A glance over the radical forces, as they now show themselves, is eminently instructive. We publish elsewhere the remarks of Wendell Phillips, who is the recognized organ of the faction, of which the New York radical newspapers, to whom he alludes, are distinguished adherents. Since the reception of Mr. Phillips with such distinguished attention on the floor of the Senate Chamber, by the Vice-President, and in view of the perfect accord which exists between him and such politicians as Governor Andrew, and of the further fact, that the highest Commendations are bestowed on him by the New York radical press, and that he is never found to have given occasion to them for criticism or rebuke, however treasonable in tone may be his remarks, the country is fully justified in regarding him as the recognized exponent of the radical party.
If in the disloyal and disgraceful sentiments which pervade this sermon, delivered last week in a Boston mosque, or meeting-house, or public hall, (it surely was not in a Christian church,) we found the abolitionist orator uttering sentiments which are not consonant with those elsewhere expressed by his political associates, we might doubt their importance and give them to the winds, as unworthy of serious attention. But, alas! we have had too long experience in this matter. When, in former years, conservative men exposed the plans of Boston abolitionists, and combatted their attacks on Union and Constitution, they were told that the game was too small; that they were only a noisy set of fanatics, of little influence, of no account, whom it was useless to notice. But, to the shame of American character be it spoken, that set of noisy enemies of the Union became worth purchasing, at their own price, by a political party who wanted their votes, and they sold themselves at the price demanded, and the nation is paying the price to-day. Had those men been transported from the shores of the nation they disgraced and helped to ruin, we might have had peace. We cannot ignore them now, nor shut our eyes to thief threats. Besides all this, what Wendell Phillips and his Boston abolition party may do and say, will be approved by Governor Andrew, will be commended by Senator Sumner, will be endorsed by the New York and other radical newspapers, and will be pressed on the country with radical vehemence, Then the wreck of the Republican party, now in alliance with the Albany octagonal Union party in this State, will be compelled to purchase the abolition vote again at whatever price is demanded, and there will be demagogues and office seekers to go for paying the price, which as before will be paid at the expense of the country.
What price will the abolitionists demand for their votes this fall? The question is important. The speech of Phillips gives a fair idea of it. The price demanded will be the dissolution of the Union. Let no one be startled. The abolitionists are no Union lovers. They have professed to be Unionists, because they saw in the war a possibility that they might wreak a long-cherished desire of vengeance on the slaveholding citizen. They were conditional Unionists, as Phillips tells us, from the fall of 
<c02>
Sumter to the 4th of July, 1862, a period of fifteen or sixteen months. What are they to be now? They say that they have lost confidence in the President. One man, speaking in a Boston meeting the other day, said he always discouraged enlistments, and he would fight for Jeff. Davis if he would emancipate the slaves. He was approved by his fellows in this remark. Another curses the Administration with the most bitter denunciation. The New York and Western radical papers begin to denounce Mr. Lincoln as weak, and declare that they have lost confidence in him. Governor Andrew remains cold on the subject of recruits, and Massachusetts is held back by the recent repressing influences of the radicals. Senator Dixon, of Connecticut, rushes home to encourage enlistments, and call his constituents to the field. Charles Sumner sits in Congress, watching lest a bill pass relating to some subject without a negro in it, and moving negro amendments to everything malapropos or otherwise, without reason or common sense. Senator Chandler boldly thrusts himself forward, and demands that the nation shall make an issue between the President and General McClellan, and turn out of office one or the other.
In short, the entire force of radicalism, from the lowest grades of Massachusetts abolitionism to the most dangerous, because office-holding, ranks of the leaders at Washington, now holds itself aloof from the cause of the Union, and unless the President joins their ranks, will demand, what they have long striven for, “the ruin of the American Church and Union." N. Y. Journal of Commerce.

DOWN WITH ABOLITIONISM.
Down with Abolitionism! Let this be the motto of the truly loyal and conservative men of the North and West, until the monster is not only crushed, but killed. It was scotched at the spring elections-let us finish the job in the fall.
Down with the abolitionists, and down with the men and presses who directly or indirectly endorse and sustain them!
They must go down, or the country will go down.
They must go down, or the Constitution will go down.
They must go down, or the rights and liberties of the people will go down.
They must go down, or the interests of the working men will go down.
They must go down, or the white race will go down.
There is no longer use in temporizing on the part of conservative men. The radicals led by <illegible> Wade, Wilson, et al.-have been and are as bitter enemies of the Union as the Secessionists in the South. They prosecute the war solely that abolitionism may be successful. Every day but furnishes additional evidence of their designs.
Voters, if you desire the restoration of the Union, the maintenance of the Constitution, and the preservation of your own liberties-if you love your race better than you do the negro-if you have any regard for the interest of the laboring classes in your midst-if you believe that this government was framed by white men for the benefit of the white race-strike as one man to drive from place and power the arch-abolition agitators who have labored to bring the country to its present perilous position-who have for years scorned the Union, trampled upon the Constitution, and violated the laws of the land. Let your watchword be, "Down with abolitionism!"-Dayton Empire.
Selections.

“ABOLITIONISTS AND SECESSIONISTS."
There is a sort of one-horse loyalty which attempts to sweeten the bitter task of condemning treason, by classifying Secessionists with Abolitionists, as equally enemies of the government. There is a class of politicians who have been engaged for years in abusing Abolitionists as the enemies of the Union. All at once, they find their old associates turned traitors, and learn that they have been made the tools of the only men in the country who had any designs against the government. What to do? How to get out of their most uncomfortable and mortifying predicament? They cannot give up their pet notion, that the Abolitionists are very black traitors, for they learned that of the Southern traitors, who were the only truly “national men," only a year or two ago. It is not safe for them any longer to uphold the Southern traitors. It might put them behind grated windows, or bring them to a consciousness of living in a very-dangerous neighborhood. So they insist that if they are obliged to abuse their good friends, the rebels, the Abolitionists shall be yoked with them, and go to infamy in their company.
There are others, however, who take up the cry less intelligently and less malignantly. They are men who are very honestly and very reasonably afraid of extremists of every class. A Secessionist is an extremist. An Abolitionist is an extremist. They therefore see no special injustice in bringing both into the same classification, and join in the cry of the sympathizers with treason against Secessionists and Abolitionists together. Are they either wise or fair? We think not.
What is a Secessionist? He is a man who believes that the United States government has no rights which a single State is bound to respect-one who believes that State rights override United States rights-who believes that at any moment when she chooses, any State can secede from and break up the United States government. He not only believes it, but he practices according to his belief. He is, moreover, an advocate of human slavery, and a holder of slaves, and he secedes from the Union for the simple purpose of benefiting his pet institution. He is a man who not only hates the Union, but he hates all who love it; and not only hates them, but approves of, or engages in, schemes for robbing and murdering them. The genuine Secessionist is an enemy to his country, an oppressor of the poor and the helpless, and a foe to every thing which we hold most sacred in our free American civilization. He it is who has taken the responsibility of this war. He knew his interests were in no danger. He knew the government never had oppressed him. He knew that the present Administration had no intention to injure him or his favorite institution. He struck wantonly for power, and the murder of a hundred thousand men, the bereavement of a million others, the impoverishment of half a nation, and the utter ruin of the other half, lie at his door.
Now, what is an Abolitionist? Literally and briefly, he is a man who advocates, and labors for, the abolition of human slavery in this country. In one sense, every decent man is an Abolitionist, provided he has been bred in a region where his judgment and conscience have not been corrupted by direct
<c03>
interest in, or association with, the institution of slavery. All humane persons-all who believe in the Declaration of Independence-all who believe in a pure Christianity-are, in their hearts, Abolitionists. That is, they wish there were some safe and proper way for freedom to come to every human being. We all go as far as this, but those who are technically known as Abolitionists go further. They believe it to be their duty to agitate for the immediate abolition of slavery. They have, in limited numbers, cursed the Constitution. Some of them have been willing to see the country divided, rather than see the free States saddled with any responsibility for slavery. But these men have been few and powerless. Their zeal has outrun their discretion, and their indiscretion has destroyed their influence; but their original impulses were good, and they have only loved the nigger “not wisely but too well." But where are the Abolitionists to-day? Almost all of them are supporting the government, while Secession, born of slavery, is demonstrating the devilish spirit of that institution to be precisely what they have always represented it to be.
The Abolitionists will bear us witness that we have been far enough from sympathizing in their peculiar schemes, or their mode of speech and operation; but we beg leave to say, that we can hear no coupling of the names of Secessionists and Abolitionists, as men who are equally guilty in the eye of national justice, and equally responsible for the evils of the present war, without anger. Such an association of names, which are intended to be disgraceful epithets, is a mean and cowardly act, no matter who performs it. The attempt to shift the responsibility of this war, with all its burden of blood and crime and misery upon Abolitionists, is an outrage upon the plainest historical truth, established by the voluntary boasts and confessions of the Secessionists themselves. The army which is engaged in fighting the battles of the country, and pouring out its blood like water, is more than half abolitionized to-day, by what it has learned of slavery during the war. Are these brave and self-sacrificing soldiers to be classed with Secessionists? President Lincoln and his entire Cabinet would rejoice in the emancipation of the slaves, and propose it. Are they to be classed with Secessionists? Out upon such nonsense! The only real enemies of the government are Secessionists, and there are none, North or South, who deserve classification with them, except those who try to lift the responsibility of the war from their shoulders, or those who, finding it unsafe to be indecent, take their revenge by abusing decent people.-Springfield Republican.

<illegible>
STINCT?
BY HORACE GREELEY.
The people of Illinois have recently voted on a new Constitution framed for them by a Convention largely Democratic, which was held at Springfield last winter. The Constitution itself was voted down by a considerable majority; so was a special provision stringently interdicting future Banks of Issue; so was a proposed Apportionment of the State for the choice of Members of Congress under the new apportionment; while two provisions, likewise separately submitted, 1. inhibiting negroes from voting or holding office, 2. forbidding their future migration into the State, were ratified by large majorities. These proscriptions are substantially such as were already a part of the public law of Illinois; but that which forbids colored immigration has never been much regarded, whether by Blacks or Whites. Blacks have from time to time quietly entered the State, and settled there in large numbers, and are living there to-day unmolested, as the better portion of them, with many more recent immigrants, probably will be twenty years hence. As many good people regard Liquor Prohibition by statute as an excellent thing, though no one regards who would prefer to defy it, so many like to evince and fortify their Democracy by voting a proscription of negroes, who would never think of descending to the practical wickedness and cruelty of hunting a poor Black out of the home of his choice, and into an exile from which his soul revolted. Still, the fact that a large majority of the people of Illinois-whether impelled by genuine negro-hate, or by political calculation, or by simple cowardice and want of humanity and principle-vote thus to proscribe and repel this most oppressed and down-trodden race, is a very sad one. The World, semi-Republican in its tone rather than its professions, while often inclined to regard political questions from a religious standpoint, thus dilates upon it:
WHY IS IT?
“It is worthy of note that, in the recent vote on Negro Suffrage in Illinois, the majorities are heaviest against equal rights in those counties where most of them (?) reside. Thus, in the central and lower parts of the State, the vote is all but unanimous against Suffrage, while in the Northern counties, where a negro is rarely seen, a number of townships voted for negro Suffrage. Winnebago county, on the Wisconsin line, gave nearly 3,000 majority for Universal Suffrage, without distinction of color. The same fact may be noticed all over the North; Abolitionism flourishes only where negroes are scarce and their peculiarities are unknown. It may be an unpleasant fact for humanitarians to realize, but nevertheless it is a fact, that the recent popular demonstration against slavery as a political power is not prompted by any kindly feeling for the African, or sympathy for his woes. On the contrary, while the popular current has set steadily in favor of Free Soil and Free Labor, the prejudice against and dislike of the negro race have grown with the growth of the Nation. This state of feeling may be, and doubtless is, inhuman and unchristian; but it exists, and must be considered and allowed by the statesmen who are hereafter to rule this nation. The Anglo -Saxon race to which we belong, in no quarter of the world tolerates any of the inferior races. They must submit to be enslaved or perish. Witness the American Indian, the negro the aborigines of Australia and Van Dieman's Land, the New Zealander, and the Kaffir. The Hindoo alone, of the inferior races that have come under the domination of an Anglo-Saxon power has been preserved from extermination or slavery; but the reason for this exception is to be found in the fact that Englishmen were not encouraged to settle in Hindostan, or own land during the continuance of the power of the East India Company.
“This pride of race has preserved its purity, as the Anglo-Saxon never tolerates the half-breed or the mulatto. Hence, too, the superior value of this great people to colonize. The Latin races readily mixed with the Indian and the negro, and the result has been what we see in Mexico and South America.
“While this unfortunate colored race occupies the country with us, there will doubtless always be parties who will sympathize with it, and insist upon equal rights being accorded to Blacks and Whites alike; but, as in Illinois, they will be few in number, and flourish only in those parts of the North where negroes are scarcely known."
Before discussing the above, let us carefully separate its truths from its palpable errors, or bold, baseless assumptions:
That whatever votes were cast for Equal Suffrage should be mainly cast in the Northern Counties, is no wise remarkable. Those Counties are strongly
<c04>
Republican in politics, while the South is intensely Democratic. Northern Illinois is almost wholly settled from New England, or by men of New England stock from New York, Ohio, etc.; while the Southern Counties are largely peopled from Slave States-Virginia, Kentucky, "Tennessee, etc. But no evidence is given, and I am confident that none exists, restricting the negro population of Illinois mainly to her Southern Counties. On the contrary, the last census shows that many more of them reside in Cook county (including Chicago) than in any five Southern or Democratic counties.
Still, there is a partial-only partial-truth in the statement, that Equal Rights to negroes have most champions where negroes are least known. Massachusetts and Rhode Island have many more Black inhabitants than Connecticut and New Hampshire; in the former States, negroes are allowed to vote on the same conditions as Whites; in the latter, they are not. New Bedford and Worcester are widely known as conspicuously Anti-Slavery among the cities of Massachusetts, and these have more Black inhabitants proportionally, than almost any other cities of the Free States.
The truth which underlies The World's statement is this: In Northern Illinois, the great majority vote for a cherished principle-Equal Justice and Equal Rights for all; in the Southern Counties, they vote against a despised and degraded caste, which they have known for the most part in a servile condition. The Poor Whites of the Slave States have little to be proud of; and by so much the greater is their exultation over the fact that they are not negroes. The baser and more degraded the White anywhere, the greater is his pride of caste-his anxiety to have some one else to look down upon. If he is neither honest, nor sober, nor intelligent, nor thrifty, nor respected, he is the more proud of his (technically) white skin, and the more tenacious of the patent of nobility into which he construes it. Hence the overwhelming Democracy and negro-hate of Southern Illinois, and of many other sections. No intelligent politician need be told the fact that the most overwhelming votes in this State in. 1860 against Negro Suffrage were cast at the Five Points, Corlaer's Hook, and other notorious dens of debauchery, squalor, and crime.
It is partially-only partially true-that “the recent popular demonstration against slavery as a political power is not prompted by any kindly feeling toward the African, or sympathy for his woes." The whole truth imports that this, like all other great popular movements, is impelled by a variety of influences and motives; that one man is a Republican because he does cherish a kindly feeling for the Black man and does sympathize with him in view same ticket mainly to keep the wild West uncursed by servile labor, therefore substantially free from negroes Others may be impelled to vote the same ticket by still different considerations; but to deny that "any kindly feeling toward the African" underlies the Republican movement, is to defy facts within the range of every one's observation.
But the broad proposition of The World, that this confessedly inhuman and unchristian “negro-hate," which we have found by no means universal here, is an antipathy that "runs in the blood," is too flagrant. "The Anglo-Saxon race," says our contemporary, "in no quarter of the world tolerates any of the inferior races," The writer need look no further than the British West Indies to be convinced of his enormous mistake. In Antigua, the Chief-Justice is (or lately was) a full-blooded negro, who was a slave less than thirty years ago; he may be seen holding courts with whites, whom he has known as slaveholders, on either hand. The Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of Jamaica is (or recently was) a man of color. The Mayor of Kingston ditto. Journalism is not in a palmy state in the British West Indies; but of such journals as they have, the best are edited by colored men. And nowhere under the British flag does color work political disability, or subject to involuntary expatriation.
The Hindoo is but one of many races inhabiting the great Anglo-Indian Empire, and none of them has been enslaved or has perished under British rule. In Canada, negroes and aborigines abound, and are neither enslaved, exiled, nor even proscribed. And the anti-negro prejudice, which was very rank in the West Indies under slavery, appears to have been greatly modified by a generation of freedom.
It would be a truth worthy of congratulation if the Anglo-Saxon “pride of race" had indeed preserved the purity of that race; but the copper-colored faces to be met in the thoroughfares of all our cities, but emphatically in those of the slave States, dispels the fond illusion. The concubinage of the plantations in our slave States is grosser and more general than that of any other rural Anglo-Saxon community, while the fact that young quadroon and octoroon female slaves are habitually and notoriously sold throughout the South at double to quadruple the prices they would command for any other than infamous purposes, is one of the most revolting features of the slaveholding system.
It is hardly probable that Equal Rights will be generally accorded to Blacks in our day; it will be well if we can secure to this unhappy race a legal and assured recognition of any rights at all. But it is no less the duty of humane and of Christian men to bear up against the flood-tide of prejudice, hypocrisy, mob-courting, and genuine slaveholding hate, which is perpetually playing upon and stimulating the spirit of proscription and caste whereof this Illinois vote is a fair exemplification. Years may yet be required to educate the mass of our people into that spirit of enlightened humanity and rectitude which perceives in a wrong done to the humblest, an injury and a peril to the entire community. Meanwhile, let every true man count it a privilege to be permitted to labor and suffer reproach for that full and hearty recognition of the Rights of Man as Man, which shall yet efface the memory of centuries of oppression and wrong in the full triumph of Republican justice and Christian love. 

GOV. STEWART ON EMANCIPATION.
In the Missouri Convention on the 13th ult., Ex-Gov. R. M. Stewart said:-
I believe the people of Missouri should extinguish slavery, and I believe further that the rebels have put it in a speedy course of extinction. In the unholy war which has been brought upon us by the leading conspirators of the State, they have themselves torn down their own pet institution, so that at this day it is utterly worthless. No slaveholder will come here with his slaves hereafter. On the border, to-day, I know slaveholders who are giving their slaves passes to go to Kansas, and anywhere else, because they know they will run away anyhow. I say that the besom of destruction and war has desolated our fields, burned our houses, stolen our property, bankrupted the State, and ruined the institution of slavery; and in order to regain our former position, we have got to depend upon immigration-not that class of immigrants who have come to this
<c05>
State heretofore with their slaves-they will not come because it won't pay-but we have got to depend on another class, who have prejudices against the institution of slavery, and who will not come because it is here. It leaves as standing without any immigration at all. The institution is nothing but a shadow. It has been virtually killed by the leaders of the rebellion, and I say it is proper for the people of the State to devise some plan by which the immigration of the non-slaveholders can be secured. I think it is time that the people of the State should calmly and deliberately think over the question, and look at it in a financial and moral point of view, with reference to their own interests and the interests of the State. It is with this view that I offer my substitute.
It not only embodies my views, but I believe the views of a majority of the people of the State. I believe it is morally necessary that the slaveholders should consider the matter at once, because, if this rebellion is carried on much longer, a blow will be struck by the general government that will take the negroes anyhow. I am opposed to that, and I am opposed to this prejudice which has governed us for so many years to such an extent that no man could speak upon the negro at all without being called an Abolitionist or a Yankee.

THE COST OF SLAVERY.
If ever we hated slavery, it has been within the past two days. As we think of the ten or fifteen thousand men, the flower of the North, all in the prime of youthful manhood, killed and wounded,-lying in agony or death, disabled by every form of wound the most vivid imagination can conceive, crowding all the swamps of the Chickahominy, and turning their festering wounds to the feverish heat of a July sun in Virginia-as we think of the sufferings of these men, we hate slavery and its abominations more than ever.
But the half is not told; no, nor the tenth. The loss by disease is always greater than the loss by battle. Within the last ten days, six days have seen as many battles. But when we think of the last fifteen months, of Fort Henry, Fort Donelson, Island No. Ten, Bull's Run, Ball's Bluff, Yorktown; when we remember that no division of our army has ever been without its hospital, no regiment without its surgeon and assistant surgeon, we believe it will be found that the list of killed, and of those whom sickness or wounds will permanently affect, numbers already over an hundred thousand of northern men, and that a six months' more conflict, carried through the hot weather, will add more than another <illegible>.
An equal number from the South have fallen, if they have not saved themselves by running away. Slavery has already barbarized the South, and cost the nation a quarter of million of men. It has created a national debt of five hundred millions of dollars. It is adding to that amount a million and a half of dollars every twenty-four hours. It has taken six hundred thousand men out of the productive ranks of the North-not less than a million on both sides-and made them consumers instead of producers. It has changed a pacific nation into a warlike one. It has diverted every channel of trade throughout the country, and put a tax on labor for the next half century. It has done all this, and would do more. If slavery could blot the Northern States out of existence, and kill off every Yankee, it would do it tomorrow.
Now what the North have a right to ask is, that this Institution shall never have the power to do this a second time. We demand that the slaveholders of 1900 shall never cost our grand-children what the slaveholders of 1860 have made us pay. The rebellion must be put down, and it will be. The South must once more become a component part of our national existence. But it must not be a disturbing element. The South must not claim to rule the North. Freedom must become national, slavery sectional. And the only redeeming element of our present difficulties lies in the thought, that every battle by which slavery prolongs the war is only an added nail to its own coffin.-Worcester Transcript.

THE RETREAT OF GEN MCCLELLAN.
Wilkes's Spirit of the Times has the following vigorous criticism on the recent movements in the Peninsula:-
"Shocked and dejected at the unforeseen result, the loyal public have anxiously endeavored to ascertain the cause; while, taking advantage of the general perturbation, every traitor in our midst has sought to locate the blame against the Government. It is also a feature of this vicious clamor, nay, it is its leading feature, that all these denunciations of the Government are invariably accompanied by the most fulsome eulogies of Gen. McClellan, and a schism is thus attempted to be set on foot, the object of which is either to open a Presidential campaign in his favor, or to distract the public mind on the subject of the prosecution of the war.
This game has been going on now for a considerable time; and it appears to us a little singular that Gen. McClellan suffers it to proceed, without a word calculated to rebuke the treason, and sustain the Administration from such injurious slanders. He cannot fail to see that he is put forward virtually as the leader of this factious opposition, and that his pretended wrongs are the redoubts behind which these sneaking traitors level their shafts against the bosom of the country. A warfare of this sort, being made apparently in his interest, should receive a share of his attention; and if he be not able to drive back the armed insurgents, he can at least rebuke their slanderous allies who are cooperating with them in the midst of our society.
In looking back upon the battles of the week, and reviewing the fruitless valor of our soldiers in connection with the sad result, it is not difficult to arrive at the conclusion that the whole campaign of the Peninsula has been a blunder. The true road to Richmond was due south from Washington, by which course an army of 250,000 men, covering the capital as it advanced, might many a time during the last nine months have been driven in one compact mass upon the then debilitated Rebel stronghold. The division of it into parts, so that one-half might make the strategic circuit round Robin Hood's barn, with the door open and the road clear (vide Jackson) toward the North, was the most fatal error that could have been committed; and the commanding general who consented to perform the leading part is truly responsible for the weakness of the scheme. If he did not approve of it, he should not have consented to it; if he thought his forces insufficient, his resignation would have been a more honorable and soldierly alternative than the sacrifice of the army. Being deficient in strength, he should not have located his forces amid swamps, and extended his lines for thirty miles in the face of a compact and superior enemy, nor for a long period of days assumed the attitude of giving battle. The position in which he had placed himself could hardly have been chosen
<c06>
worse. He was perfectly isolated from Pope's array and from Burnside's, while the Rebels, with superior tactics, had made masterly combinations of their forces at a common centre. Worst of all, he separated himself from his gunboats, the cooperation of which was the argument that sent him to the Peninsula. One would suppose, that the military mind which could, after the reflection of a fortnight, detect the fatal error of this inland isolation, might have seen its absurdity at the outset, and by occupying the river bank at the first available point below Fort Darling, moved forward with the gunboats acting as a left wing, and, in themselves, representing a strength equal to 30,000 men. He might have taken this position at Turkey Bend or Harrison's Landing before the battle of Fair Oaks, or on any day for a week after it; and it is most unfortunate that he did not think of a base of operations on the James River, until the enemy were prepared to make it cost us 20,000 lives.
It is proper that the people should think these things well over; and, while they give due credit to the wondrous valor of our troops, and the skill of those great captains, Heintzelman, Sumner, Kearney, and Franklin, who extricated them from their dreadful situation, administer condemnation wherever it may be due. Our seven days' struggle was one continuous retreat, conducted under a general order to that effect by the Commander-in-Chief; but its triumphs were reaped in a series of separated battles, the varying fortunes of which, the above-named able marshals were separately obliged to steer and govern for themselves. All that we have to add on the subject of this week of fighting is, that the Rebels suffered equally with ourselves; but, nevertheless, they have earned a great moral advantage, and the Union army has received a check which will retard its progress for six months. 

RIPENING FOR REVOLUTION.
Nothing but judicial blindness can prevent the rulers of this nation from perceiving that we are on the eve of revolution. The enemies of the Republic, North and South, have determined it; and without more prompt and vigorous resistance than this government has yet put forth or is likely to put forth, they will be able to carry it into execution. It is madness to shut our eyes to the fact that there is a grand conspiracy, all over the country, to put down by force of arms all ideas of justice, all regard for human rights, all equality among men, the supremacy of God's authority and God's law, and to substitute, instead, a dominion of brute force, a government of supreme selfishness, and having its founda-<illegible> death and desolation over the South, and watching the first opportunity to seize the helm of government at the North. There is not the slightest difference between the Southern rebel now in arms, and the northern advocate of slavery, who is seeking the same end, but who dares not at present use the same means.
The pro-slavery spirit of this city found expression at the great conservative meeting in the Cooper Institute' on Tuesday last. The Express says that twenty thousand signatures were appended to the call. The speakers scarcely attempted to disguise their treasonable intents. Ex-governor Wickliffe, of Kentucky, said that unless the abolitionists lay down their pens, there might be another revolution. Wm. A. Duer, of this State, said that if every traitor in this country were to be hung in the order of their guilt, the next man who marched upon the scaffold after Jefferson Davis would be Charles Sumner; and this was greeted by the loudest applause of the evening. Mr. Duer said the Emancipation and Confiscation bills were monstrous violations of the Constitution which would justify resistance.
But the ruling spirit of the meeting was ex-mayor Wood. His speech was enthusiastically cheered by the audience. The peroration, as reported in the Tribune, was as follows:
"In my opinion, the time will soon come when, if the rebellion be not suppressed, the people will rise up and demand either a change of measures or a change of men. (Applause.) The Constitution is to be preserved, in my judgment, only by a change of the present Congress, and by a change of the administration to succeed it. (Great applause.) Mr. Wood, after some further remarks in relation to the pernicious character of the abolition legislation of Congress, and the necessity of getting rid of such a Congress, concluded by saying: It is to be done as Oliver Cromwell sent home the Rump Parliament, by walking into Parliament, and scattering it to the winds. ("Love-joy!" -Great applause.) Let your voices be heard in the capitol of the country, and if your armies are not successful at once, I for one raise the standard-a change of measures or a change of men”! (Loud and long-continued applause.)
We do not quote this because it is anything more than has been often said before, and may be heard every day in the streets and saloons of this city. But, it is here put forth deliberately, seriously, earnestly, by one of the prominent leaders of a large party, one who is well known as a sagacious, sober, cautious, and generally successful leader. Mayor Wood does not utter sentiments at random. When he says that our generals are to walk into Congress, and scatter the representatives of the people as Cromwell scattered the Rump Parliament, he means it. The people who cheered him meant it. They mean civil war at the North; the shooting, hanging, and imprisonment of radical Republicans and abolitionists. How are their threats to be met? Shall we look to President Lincoln? He is doing all in his power to conciliate these insolent threateners. He fears a disruption of the North as much as President Buchanan did. We can look for no essential help from him, or from the pro-slavery generals into whose hands he has put the army. Are we, then, to remain idle, and allow ourselves to be bound band and foot? Shall we tolerate this spirit of anarchy until it seizes on some opportunity afforded by a reverse of our arms, or by foreign intervention, to carry its threat into execution, and break up the government? It is time the people were aware of the precipice on which we are standing. We protest against allowing the enemies of abolition to prosecute their schemes for the destruction of liberty, while we take no precautions against them. When the hour for revolution comes, if come it must, let the friends of freedom be prepared to deal with proslavery lawlessness as it deserves. The plotters of rebellion South are not half as guilty as the plotters of rebellion North.
The question with us must be, If revolution comes, how shall we be able to shape it in favor of freedom instead of despotism? Hon. H. B. Stanton, in his able Fourth of July oration at Brooklyn, said we were in the midst of a revolution now. “Startle not at the word. Deny not the assertion. A philosopher has said, a nation may be in the throes of a revolution, and yet not know it. It was long ere the masses of the French people would admit that the earthquake that toppled down the throne of Louis Sixteenth was a revolution." Just so we may
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
be deceived until our government is completely revolutionized to slavery, under republican forms. We see that none of the pro-slavery orators attack Mr. Lincoln. They all appear satisfied with him. Congress is the enemy that must be dispersed at the point of the bayonet. Then, again, the army must be wielded by pro-slavery officers. It must be still further weeded of abolitionists. Hunter must follow Fremont: Democratic Butler, even, cannot be trusted; and Secretary Stanton, though of the same political school, is assailed with every epithet of abuse, because he is supposed to wink at the employment of blacks in the army.
Mr. Mallory, on Saturday, declared in Congress that Mr. Stanton showed him a letter from an officer, asking permission to raise a regiment of blacks, to which he had not only returned a prompt refusal, but had ordered the officer’s arrest. Still, our pro-slavery revolutionists are not satisfied of the Secretary's loyalty to their favorite institution. He will not improbably be sacrificed as a peace-offering. Verily, the bands of another kind of government than our fathers gave us are being fastened around our limbs. If our President listens to the advice of these bad counsellors, he will ere long find the Republic crumbling beneath his feet, and his own authority swept away with the ruins. We speak not idle fancies, but sober probabilities.
Since the above was written, we find two numbers of the Herald filled with editorials designed to get up a civil war in the North. In his yesterday's issue, the editor grows so bold in his treason as to threaten the President himself, in the following significant and unmistakable language:
“We must state in advance that it will not do for President Lincoln to attempt to father Stanton's blunders, as he endorsed Cameron's extravagance. The people will allow such self-devotion for once; but if it be too often renewed, the people may take the President at his word. It is better to change a Cabinet officer than a President.” [American Baptist.

DEFEAT BY DELAY.
It is often said that au ingenious advocate can support any theory by examples from history, and time has at length brought its revenges to those who have suffered ridicule and odium for their too eager haste in urging a march to Richmond a year ago. They were held responsible for the disastrous defeat at Bull Run in July last. Their impatience, it was said, precipitated a conflict for which we were not prepared. Their zeal without knowledge compelled military men to march against their better judgment, and involved the nation in shame and sorrow. The culprits, it must be said, bowed submissively to the public censure. Some of them acknowledged their rashness, and others, without confession, changed their course.
A wonderful change followed in the public mind. Delay was declared to be the only salvation of the country, and the country acquiesced in the decision. For eight months an immense army, greater than that with which Napoleon won Marengo, or Austerlitz, or Jena, lay inactive on the Potomac. Their monotonous life of sleeping, drilling and eating, at an expense of near half a million per day, was said to be essential to their perfection as an army, and the country believed it, and paid the bills without murmuring. All offensive movements were forbidden, to save the possibility of defeat. Gen. Lander felt certain that he could capture Gen. Jackson and his entire force by a bold and rapid march, and begged permission to make the experiment, but the request was denied at headquarters, with a sharp reproof for his temerity. Jackson was spared to do untold mischief in the future. Gen. Wool was convinced that a sudden attack would take Norfolk, and destroy the Merrimac on the stocks. He begged the privilege of acting on his own responsibility, and was denied, lest haste should bring defeat. Norfolk escaped, and the Merrimac was spared to destroy millions of property, to paralyze our movements on the peninsula, and occasion alarm at every seaport in the country. Yet the delay was called prudent, and who could venture to question it?
At length, the grand army marched from the Potomac, drilled to perfect movements, and furnished with every equipment essential to complete success. Gen. McClellan assured them that the long and wearisome delay was ended, and the war was to be short and decisive. He intended to lead them face to face with their enemies, and to sharp fighting. The army was transported to the peninsula instead though it occupied two or three weeks, a longer time than a slow march from Manassas. The enemy had intrenchments at Yorktown, and it was thought prudent to carry them by a regular siege, with successive parallels. By this prudent strategy, the whole army of the enemy had time to gather at Yorktown, and a month was consumed in siege works. But the strategy was extolled on all hands, because the enemy abandoned their works without defence, and the way to Richmond was open from Yorktown as it had been from Manassas. It was true that the enemy retreated from Yorktown as from Manassas, without serious loss of men, or field guns, or equipments, but still they retreated, and great was strategy. There was sharp fighting, too, on the way to Richmond, but generally in resistance of attacks by the enemy, never by an offensive movement along our whole line.
While the country was hoping to hear that Richmond had been assaulted and taken, the news came that strategy was again to rule, and that the same process of a siege by successive parallels, which had been so effectual at Yorktown was to be pursued at the rebel capital. Some doubted if the malaria of the Chickahominy swamps would not be more fatal than the balls of the enemy, but again the country acquiesced in the wisdom of delay, and the prudence of winning victories by strategy instead of hard fighting.
On the 30th ult. the public mind was startled by the announcement of Mr. Fulton, of the Baltimore American, that Gen. McClellan had just executed the most masterly military movement of the century, which would precipitate the fall of Richmond, but he was forbidden by the government to reveal it. Again the advocates of strategy were eloquent in its praise, and all waited eagerly to hear of the fall of Richmond. Expectation gradually turned to anxiety, and hope to fear, as it was told that this grand strategical movement had been executed with constant fighting, with serious losses, with the abandonment of most of the siege guns, and of the sick and wounded in hospital, and with the loss of thirty or forty field guns. It began to be whispered that strategy might be a convenient term to cloak defeat; and when at last the public agony was relieved after a week's suspense, by the news that McClellan, with his army, was on the James river, twenty-seven miles from Richmond, it must be confessed that strategy was a less popular word than it had been for a year previous, After a week's delay, our grand army is beaten, with a serious loss of men, and guns, and camp equipage, and we are grateful that matters are no worse, that the defeat did not become a rout.
There is a little doubt at present in the public mind if delays are always wise. It may have been rash to fight at Manassas, last July, but it was the delay of attack from Thursday until Sunday, that gave time for Johnson to march from Winchester, and cost us a defeat. It may have been wise to throw up parallels for a siege at Yorktown and Richmond, but the delay of weeks has given time for Jackson to bring in his whole army, and perhaps, for a large share of Beauregard's army to join them, and has subjected us to losses quite as great, probably, as would have followed the storming of Richmond, four weeks ago. It is a little curious that Gen. McClellan, in his very able review of the Crimean War, criticises the allied commanders for their slow and cautious movements. A little more boldness, or rashness, even, he intimates, would have taken Sebastopol months earlier. Other critics, in future days, will probably commend the chalice to his own lips, and assert that his extreme caution and wish to avoid bloodshed prolonged the life of the rebellion for many months. Strategy is good, but it has allowed unobstructed retreats to the rebel army from Corinth, and Manassas, and Yorktown, while it has been hard fighting with troops little disciplined, that won the signal victories at Forts Henry and Donelson, at Roanoke Island and Newbern.
We would not intimate any doubt of Gen. McClellan’s eminent ability, or of the wisdom of a cautious policy, where such vast interests are involved. There have doubtless been formidable obstructions at Richmond, which he could appreciate better than any critics. The army has an unbounded confidence in his wisdom and skill, and the enemy fear him more than any of our military leaders. But it is only fair that those who have ridiculed the temerity of men who precipitated the disaster at Bull Run, should confess that the caution and delay which they have applauded have not won very brilliant laurels
<c02>
in the late march to Richmond.-Corr. of Boston Watchman and Reflector.

“STRATEGIC SKILL.”
The strategic skill of General McClellan, in changing his base of operations, is highly extolled by his eulogists; but, if he deserves credit for this, wherein did he display “strategic skill” in deliberately selecting, and persistently occupying, a base of operations that—as the event proved—needed to be changed; one that—according to the representations of his friends—was, in every respect and so demonstrably disadvantageous, and, of course, an ill chosen one? Was it Secretary Stanton, or was it The Tribune, or the “radical abolitionists,” that selected that position for him, and forced it upon him? The readers of the New York Herald are led to suppose that this must have been the case! How absurd! With Senator Chandler, we demand—“Who was it that led the army into the marshes of the Chickahominy, where they died like sheep?” Was it the abolitionists? Was it Generals Hunter and Fremont, whom the Herald and other secession sympathizers are now demanding to have ostracized? General McClellan's reputation is falling into bad hands! Secretary Stanton is fortunate in having earned the hatred of men known to have been in sympathy with the rebels from the beginning, and evidently operating in their interest now. —Principia. 

WHY McCLELLAN WAS NOT REINFORCED.
Unstinted abuse has been heaped upon the President, through Secretary Stanton, for not sending further troops to Gen. McClellan. The obvious answer to this is, that the Government did send him every soldier who could with safety be spared. No man with common comprehension can fail to see that, if the column of McDowell had been sent to Yorktown as it is said McClellan requested, Jackson would have inevitably captured Washington. Since that time, his force has been poised midway between Washington and Richmond, ready to swoop down our armies at either place, as their weakness invited. Surely, under such circumstances, it would have been the last degree of folly to have uncovered Washington to his force.
The fact is, Gen. McClellan, when he decided to move on Richmond by way of Yorktown, made it a necessity that the army should be divided. This undoubtedly entered into his calculations, as it is obvious to any one, at a glance. The only way to keep it one column was to advance by way of Manassas, thus interposing the entire army always between Washington and the rebels. There is no proof that, after he left Yorktown, he did not have the force that he deemed necessary. An officer under his command, now in this city, states that rations for 150,000 men were issued a few days before his retreat commenced. And it is now semi-officially announced that McClellan wrote to the President, after McCall’s division reached him, that “he had more than troops enough to enter Richmond.” 
It is by no means so plain that our army was out-numbered in its whole force, as that its troops were overpowered at the point of contact with the enemy. Our right wing appears to have encountered the enemy’s full force, for they scarcely made a show in any other quarter. And it is owing to the fact that this was not supported, that constant and disastrous retreat was made a necessity.-Roxbury Journal.

THURLOW WEED ON “CONTRABANDS.”
“To the Editors of the Commercial Advertiser:- I want to ‘strike while the iron is hot,’ and as your anvil is nearer than my own, will you allow me the use of it? The public mind is now taking the right direction with regard to ‘contrabands.’ Our army needs the ‘aid and comfort' which can be obtained from ‘contrabands,’ and in accepting it, we deprive the enemy of an element of strength. 
I was with Gen. Butler at Annapolis when he inaugurated a policy in reference to escaped slaves. I felt then, as I do now, that he ‘hit the nail on the head.’ I went directly to Washington, and urged the government to instruct all the officers of the army to receive, and not repel fugitives, proclaiming simultaneously that the slaves of loyal owners would be paid for, and those of traitors confiscated; and that all should be employed as unarmed auxiliaries of the army. At least two-thirds of the officers of selves, turned the fugitives back, thus making their condition worse than it was, and disheartening others who were eager to escape. Had Gen. Butler's policy been adopted a year ago, at least half a million of slaves, who have been at work in the rebel armies, would have been relieving our own-worn out troops from exhausting drudgery—thus weakening the enemy, and strengthening ourselves in a corresponding degree.
And this line of policy would have raised no embarrassing issues. It was simple, and so just both to loyal men and traitors, that all would have acquiesced. While it protected loyal citizens, it gave us the advantage we are entitled to in war over our enemy.
But, for reasons which were deemed sufficient, the question of ‘contrabands’ has been left to drift along, until public sentiment demands a policy. In that demand I perceive the dawning of a brighter day. Proclaim, at once, compensation to loyal men, in the order which directs commanding officers to receive and employ ‘contrabands,’ and the war will assume new and more encouraging aspects. Without the services of slaves, in relieving their troops from manual and menial labor, the rebellion would collapse in a month.
Respectfully yours,
T. W.”

THE “MASTER RACE.”
The rebels still adhere to the insulting assumption that they are the “master race,” and must conquer in the present contest through the superiority of their “blood.” The Richmond Whig of June 25 thus rides this favorite hobby of the slaveholders:—
“Since the great battle of Shiloh, and including it, we have had an almost uninterrupted series of victories. We have encountered the enemy generally with heavy odds against us, and frequently behind intrenchments, but in no single instance, unless it be the unexplained affair at Lewisburg, have Southern troops failed to exhibit superior manhood to the mongrel and many-tongued enemy.
Indeed, the whole experience of the war is an attestation of the truth long since discovered by impartial observers, that the master race of this continent is found in the Southern States. Of a better stock originally, and habituated to manlier pursuits and exercises, they have ruled in affairs of State by force of the stronger will and larger wisdom that pertain to and distinguish superior races of men, while on the field of battle they have in every contest held a priority of place conceded to them by their present adversaries.
This natural dominancy of the Southern people has had much to do in bringing on the war. The inferior race, grown strong in numbers and ambitious from prosperity, have revolted against and now seek to overthrow and destroy those whose superiority was a constant source of envy and self-reproach. There is no fiercer malevolence than that of caste, and it is this which has so long stirred the Yankee bile. Always in the presence of the Southern gentleman, he has felt a strong and painfully repressed impulse to take off his hat. This conscious inferiority has galled the jealous and malignant creature until he has broken out in servile insurrection. He has vainly concluded that his numbers can overwhelm and exterminate the objects of his envy, and that he, succeeding to the broad acres and liberal habitudes of the Southern gentry, will come to be looked upon as a gentleman too!
With us the contest is one for hereditary rights, for the sacred things of home, for the old repute of the better blood:—with the Yankee it is a rebellious and infatuated struggle for a place he is unworthy of, for privileges he would degrade, for property he would barter, and for institutions he could neither comprehend nor enjoy. It is the old and never-ending strife between patrician and proletarian, between gentle and vile. It is the offer of battle on a new field of muscle against spirit—numbers against courage. It is not upon Southern soil and among the descendants of Cavaliers and Huguenots that this battle will go in favor of brute force.
It may be that the armies in front of this city are about to rush into mortal wrestle. When they meet, it will not, perhaps, be upon such unequal terms as we have generally encountered. But should there be as great inequality of numbers as on other fields, it may and will be neutralized here, as it ever has been, by the superior courage and constancy of our troops.”
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 18,<illegible>
CELEBRATION OF THE FIRST OF AUGUST.
The Anniversary of British West India Emancipation will be celebrated in the usual manner at ISLAND GROVE, ABINGTON, on FRIDAY, August 1st, in MASS MEETING, under the direction of the Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society.
No event in history is more deserving of special commemoration than this—transforming, as it did, nearly a million of chattel slaves into free British subjects, by act of Parliament, in obedience to a regenerated public sentiment, through long years of Anti-Slavery agitation—and demonstrating, as it has done, the safety and beneficence of immediate emancipation on the largest scale, even under the most adverse circumstances,—to the confusion and ignominious exposure of all the prophesiers of evil consequences, and to the triumphant vindication of the atrociously calumniated negro race.
The friends of liberty, who desire to witness a still nobler jubilee in our own Slavery-cursed land, will, we doubt not, make their arrangements to be present, as far as practicable, in order to make the occasion instrumental to the furtherance of the sacred cause of human rights, without regard to the accidental distinctions arising from complexion or race.
The Old Colony Railroad Company will convey passengers, on that day, to and from the Abington Grove, at the following rates, being the same as upon former years:—
Boston, Savin Hill, Dorchester, Neponset, and Quincy,—to the Grove and back,—-for adults, 50 cents; children, 25 cents.
Plymouth and all way stations not already mentioned to the Grove and back, half the usual rates.
Excursion tickets good on other trains.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Committee of Arrangements.
SAMUEL MAY, JR., Committee of Arrangements.
ELBRIDGE SPRAGUE, Committee of Arrangements.
BRIGGS ARNOLD, Committee of Arrangements.
SAMUEL DYER, Committee of Arrangements.

GEORGE B. McCLELLAN.
In August, 1861, Gen. McClellan succeeded Gen. Scott as commander-in-chief of the army. Though but little was known of the latter by the country, his appointment somehow raised in every quarter” “great expectations,” and among all parties there was a generous disposition to rely, almost to an unbounded extent, upon his patriotic integrity and military ability. Addressing his army at that time, he confidently said:
“Soldiers! We have had our last retreat. We have seen our last defeat. You stand by me, and I will stand by you, and henceforth victory will crown our efforts.”
Month after month passed away, and no advance was made by Gen. McClellan upon the enemy. Still, there was great readiness to find excuses for him, and a forbearance of criticism was shown toward him as toward no other commander. Well, the fall and winter passed away, and nothing was done or attempted, though he had an army numbering hundreds of thousands, well disciplined and thoroughly equipped. Surprise, doubt, suspicion, indignation, began to be extensively expressed,—the air was full of mutterings,—till at length the President felt himself imperatively called upon to give directions for an onward movement of the army. Before starting, Gen. McClellan issued a sounding proclamation to his soldiers, in which he admitted that he had “kept them for a long time inactive,” (!) but gave, among his reasons for so doing, this “I have held you back that you might give the death-blow to the rebellion”—a very queer mode of procedure indeed, with such an object in view! After boasting of their strength and condition, he added—“The period of inaction has passed. I will now bring you face to face with the rebels. I shall demand of you great heroic exerprivations, perhaps.” That was in March: from that day to this, he has not fired the first gun at the rebels, but has been acting all this time as fearing an assault, rather than as seeking a victory! He did nothing at Manassas, except to allow the enemy to retreat without molestation, and was greatly surprised to find them among the missing, having left behind them a superfluous number of wooden guns “to fright the souls of fearful adversaries”! He then took his army down to Yorktown, and there, after several tedious weeks, the old game of Manassas was played over again. The enemy were not to be found. Next came Norfolk, with similar results. At length, the Chickahominy is reached, and crossed—the region of swamps and malaria! All this was “masterly strategy”! After considerable detention, and just as it was announced and expected that Richmond would be captured in the course of a few days,—behold! McClellan’s grand army, vigorously assailed by the enemy, is seen making a desperate retreat to the James River, back twenty-five miles, with great loss of supplies and ammunition, and fifteen to twenty thousand killed, wounded and missing! Great is “strategy”! Keenly does the New York Independent say:—
“Rolled up and driven back for seven days, that heroic army, invincible in retreat, fought with grandeur of courage; and only by such an exhibition of heroic spirit in officers, and pluck in men, as was never known on this continent, was it saved from utter destruction. Did the government frankly say to this nation, We are defeated? To this hour it has not trusted the people. It held back the news for days. Nor was the truth honestly told, when outside information compelled it to say something. It is even to this hour permitting McClellan’s disaster to be represented as a piece of skillfully planned strategy. After the labor of two months, the horrible sickness of thousands of men poisoned in the swamps of the Chickahominy, the loss of probably more than ten thousand as noble fellows as ever lifted a hand to defend their country, McClellan, who was four miles from Richmond, finds himself twenty-five miles from the city, wagons burned, ammunition trains blown up, parks of artillery captured, no intrenchments, and with an army so small that it is not pretended that he can reach Richmond. The public are infatuated. The papers that regaled us two weeks ago with visions of a Fourth of July in Richmond, are now asking us to rejoice and acclaim—not at victory—but that we have just saved the army! McClellan is safe, and Richmond too!!”

SIGNIFICANT.
Among the little things which show a continued rising of the tide, even in Boston, in opposition to slavery, are the following.
At the great meeting held in Faneuil Hall last Saturday to stimulate the raising of recruits under the last call of President Lincoln, the preliminary prayer was not made by Dr. South-side Adams, nor by his compeer in pro-slavery labors, Dr. Blagden. Dr. Lothrop, who was requested to open the meeting with prayer, is as little favorable to slavery as to agitation against slavery.
The unfavorable reflections cast upon Congress, in the introductory remarks of Mayor Wightman, were as heartily hissed by one portion of the audience as they were applauded by another.
The eloquent speech of Edward Everett contained but one slight reference to slavery, and that implying opposition rather than favor to it.
The repeated allusions to slavery which necessarily found place in that part of Charles G. Loring’s able address which sketched the origin and growth of our present troubles, referred to that institution as a fact existing, but not as in any way allowable or defensible. And no sentiment uttered during the whole meeting met with such enthusiastic and prolonged applause as the declaration of Mr. Loring that, if the continued existence of slavery should be found incompatible with the continuance of our Union, he would go for the utter extirpation of slavery from the land. The emphasis with which this was uttered showed the importance attached to it by the speaker; and the vehement cheers which followed were unmingled with a single sound of dissent. These things, occurring in a Boston “Union Meeting,” seem to me to be not without significance—C. K. W.
<c04>
ANTI-SLAVERY CELEBRATION AT FRAMINGHAM, JULY 4, 1862.
(Concluded from our fourth page.)
AFTERNOON SESSION.
After a very pleasant recess, spent in social intercourse and in numerous picnic groupings, the meeting was called to order by the President at half-past 2 o’clock, P.M.
Mrs. RAND, of Milford, read with dramatic skill the touching poem of the Runaway Slave, by Elizabeth Barrett Browning, and was loudly applauded.
The first speaker was Miss SUSAN B. ANTHONY, of Rochester, N. Y., who made a very earnest and impressive speech, designed to stimulate Abolitionists to fresh zeal and vigilance in the Anti-Slavery cause, and to warn against concluding that their work is done. [As the speech was written, no report was made of it; and not having the manuscript, we are unable to publish it in this connection.]

SPEECH OF JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen: It is with pleasure that I mingle my voice with yours in this celebration of the anniversary of the Declaration of Independence. The Abolitionists believe in the Declaration of Independence. It is our great charter; and we hope that, ere this war closes, the whole nation will believe in it, and accept the great truths that it teaches. What a glorious day of jubilee we shall have when the American nation is converted to believe what it professes;— when it shall be no longer a nation of hypocrites, but of humane and Christian men, who recognize the Bible, and believe in that religion which declares and teaches that “God is no respecter of persons,” and that he “hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth.” (Applause.)
The Abolitionists, who have been for more than thirty years thundering this anti-slavery gospel into the ears of this nation, almost in the sleep of death, have finally aroused it, but hardly in time to save it. Had Wm. Lloyd Garrison been born a quarter of a century later than he was, our country would have been destroyed by the demon slavery. As it was, the alarm came so late, and the people were so befuddled, and their ears so tightly stopped with cotton, that South Carolina had actually surrounded us before we knew where we were, and we were obliged to put our wits together to deceive her so as to gain time in order to save ourselves. (Applause.)
If this nation is saved, it will be through the warnings of the Abolitionists, who have been constantly preaching to you the immortal truths in the Declaration of Independence, which are so plain that wayfaring men, though fools, need not have erred therein. It is true, all did not see the tragic end so near. Many advocated emancipation as a matter of duty and of justice; but all saw and recognized slavery as a <illegible> wrong, and knew that as the nation sowed, so it must reap. Men do not gather grapes from thorns, nor figs from thistles. The present rebellion, with its barbarities, is the natural fruit of slavery. The abolition trumpet has been heard around the world, and yet there are legions in our midst who will not hear. The Americans are, I fear, a case-hardened people, and will go to their last final account without the saving influence of anti-slavery grace. (Applause and laughter.)
There are some among us who regard the Anti-Slavery movement as a success, and think it of but little consequence whether or no we keep up our organization. This is a mistake. As to the final triumph of our principles, there is not the shadow of a doubt; but for a general to give up in the heat of a great battle, because he believes the enemy cannot stand before his forces, is worse than folly,- it is madness, and the best way in the world to lose his cause. Give up! No; never give up or compromise while the enemy holds one foot of soil, nor until every slave is free. (Applause.) We were never more in need of assistance, friends and counsel than we are <illegible> we look for every man to be at his post, and do his duty. The work has but commenced. We cannot spare a laborer, and we are but illy prepared to sustain the losses which have come upon us through the ordinary course of nature. During the last three or four years, we have lost some of our ablest and best men. Among these were Charles F. Hovey and Theodore Parker,—friends who used always to assemble with us, and give their time, their means, and their influence, to arouse this guilty nation. Though resigned to this our loss, which we know is their gain, we have felt it heavily, but never more than we do now. Mr. Hovey, out of his large wealth, did what he could to repair the loss of his presence, and unborn generations will bless him for it. Mr. Parker has left a record which even a saint might envy. A man so pure, so humane, so patriotic, so noble, and so impartial, is not the growth of every age. He was one of the noblest of Freedom’s champions,—one who believed what he said, and practised what he preached. If he was with us now, would he not make our hearts burn while he exposed, in his inimitable way, the duty of this nation? It cannot be denied that he saw this day a little clearer than we saw it, and repeatedly warned us that either slavery or this nation itself must go down in blood. He is a loss that cannot be repaired. You knew him only to love him—no one could despise him; and many hated him only because they could not answer him. He was not only a philanthropist, but a scholar, a theologian, and a philosopher. He was a great pillar of reason: will be the study of learned men for ages, and the practical Christian world will be indebted to him forever. Indeed, he was far above the decoration of words. We have spared him because we could not help it; but we hope that it may so happen that the lives of those who have labored so long in this good cause may be spared to see the triumph of justice and humanity. (Applause.)
At our last celebration of this day, many of us hoped that, ere the next National Anniversary, we should all have occasion to meet to celebrate another day, which should inaugurate a new era, when the living truths laid down in the Declaration of Independence should be realized in our national life. But it seems as though we were too sanguine. We calculated without our host. God has not permitted this, the most guilty of nations to get off so easy. It must suffer still longer. The people are not penitent. The millions who have lived upon the hard earnings of the slave are unwilling to relinquish their unjust claims upon him. They had rather a thousand times that the country should go to ruin, than that the foundation of slavery should be shaken. On this account, the day of jubilee has been postponed, and the future of the country jeopardized. This is done because Northern men have mortgages on the slave property of the South, are dealers in slave produce, and emancipation will take from them the legal right to plunder the poor slaves who have sacrificed all that is dear in life to maintain them in idleness and luxury. Northern pro-slavery men, and the slaveholders in the States of Maryland, Virginia, Kentucky and Missouri, have done more to protract the war than all other causes combined. To save these four States, we risk the whole, like the miserly merchant who loses his entire cargo in a tempest, sooner than throw a part of it overboard. To lose a part to save the whole is a policy that but few men will comprehend. As they are, what are these States worth to the Union? What have they been but a clog in the machinery of the government? These four States that you are sacrificing the country to save are not worth the charcoal and saltpetre, the fire and brimstone, to destroy them. (Applause.) Must this nation be totally destroyed because these Northern men and Southern States consent to be kept in subjection by the federal army? The country would have been far better off to-day if these States had gone with South Carolina and Georgia, and we had been obliged to cut our way through them. (Applause.) They never have had any sympathy with the Union cause. They go for the Union because they cannot help themselves. They would rise up against the government to-morrow if they be-
<c05>
lieved they could succeed. They are only playing the hypocrite. They are by the South as the ancient Egyptians were by the ichneumon—they adored it because it was supposed to destroy crocodiles, and they worshipped crocodiles lest they should destroy them. They are, at heart, with the South, because they sympathize with her in her efforts to destroy freedom and free institutions, but they unite with the North for fear it will destroy them. I repeat it, they never have had any sympathy with the North. Go into Maryland to-day, and you will find the railroads, bridges, and even the machinery on the ferry-boats, guarded by Federal soldiers! What is true of Maryland is true of all the loyal (?) slave States. Ever since the commencement of this rebellion, the National Capital has been in danger of assault from traitors in these so-called loyal slave Slates. The people of these States are no more loyal, and can be trusted no farther, than the people of South Carolina. Open enemies are always to be preferred to treacherous friends. To keep these four States loyal, we will not interfere with the cause,—will not strike at the heart of the rebellion. What are we doing? What are we fighting for? What means this wholesale sacrifice of blood and treasure at Richmond? Can it be true that it is generally believed that this rebellion can be crushed, and the Union restored, without carrying the war into Africa? Suppose this could be done, where would it leave us? Just where we were before, with a fair opportunity at an early day to have this farce re-acted on a much larger scale. The South must either conquer or be crushed. Neither a compromise nor a recognition of the Southern confederacy will answer. It is not probable that two nations, with a civilization so opposite, could remain long at peace in the same country. We would be like the Romans and Carthagenians, “between whom at all times,” says Paterculus, “there existed either a war, preparations for a war, or a deceitful peace.”
The South, unprincipled as she is, has a policy which she has the courage to state to the world, and this fact alone has won for her a respect that she otherwise would not have had. No one is in doubt as to her motives. She means to establish a separate independence,—a slaveholding government. She vindicates the right and duty of capital to own its labor. To accomplish her objects, she is mean and wicked enough to do anything.
The North is fighting for the Union as it was—a slaveholding Union. The difference between the North and South may be plain enough to us, and we may justly say and believe that the cause of the North is the cause of liberty, of free speech, of freemen—in a word, the cause of civilization; but without an avowed policy, save that to restore the Union as it was, we cannot expect civilized States to judge us as liberally as we may wish them to judge us. Our National Executive, a pure man as is to be found on this continent, is beset on every side by traitors in the shape of Northern capitalists, who have loaned their wealth to prosecute this war with the vain hope of perpetuating slavery. They seem to think, as they advanced the original expenses, they ought to have every thing their own way. They remind me of one of the many poor whites at the South who cannot read. One of them, being among a number of gentlemen in Baltimore who bought the New York Tribune on its arrival in that city, thinking that he must do like the rest, bought one too. A gentleman standing near by, observing him looking intently at the paper, said to him in a low tone, “I beg your pardon, friend, but you have got that paper wrong side up.” He replied, indignantly, “That’s none of your business; my money paid for it, and I will read it which way I please.” (Laughter and applause.) This is the way in which some men <illegible> on carrying on the war; they have advanced a portion of the expenses, which must finally be paid by the people; therefore the war must be conducted to suit them. If the country is to be sold out to Wall Street and State Street, the sooner the people know it, the better will it be for all. The most simple-minded have long since perceived that much of <illegible> has been a<illegible> game, played by these pretended public benefactors for private ends. Some think that the people are so enthusiastic and so patriotic that they will fight forever without an object: and some would-be Governor says that Massachusetts will not stop to see whether or no she is right, but will do as she is bid, and ask no questions. Perhaps so. This may be the sentiment of the cotton brokers and secession sympathizers of Boston, but the people of Massachusetts will do their own thinking. The Governor whom we have chosen understands this, and his reply to the President found a hearty response in every loyal man of this State. And no man who is not up to the sentiment of the people is likely to be chosen to represent them. The Governor is a true man—true to humanity, true to this Commonwealth, and true to the nation; and Massachusetts will be honored if he consents to occupy the gubernatorial chair another year. For the respectability of my color and the credit of my race, I am proud to know that the Mayor of Boston is a white-man [Wightman]. (Laughter and applause.)
I suppose that next autumn all the hunkerism of the State will be rallied for the purpose of electing a conservative Legislature, to defeat the favorite Senator of this Commonwealth. It is, I understand, the determination of the pro-slavery element here, if possible, to prevent the reelection of Mr. Sumner. It is much easier to defeat than to elect a man; and I would ask the friends of Mr. Sumner to look well to it, and see that no man is nominated as a Republican representative who will not give him his entire support. Mr. Sumner is without doubt our ablest advocate in the Senate—a man always true and entirely fearless. We cannot spare him for many years yet. There is much work to be done, and we have no one so able and so willing to do it. When his work is finished, then we hope to have him President of the United States, with such a man as Owen Lovejoy for Vice President. (Applause.)
I do not wish to assail any one, but it seems to me the friends of the Union make a mistake in attempting to crush out free speech, even among secessionists. There are secessionists among us, and we all know it, but we know but little of them because they are afraid to speak: we only know that they exist. If they were allowed to express their sentiments, we should know the most of them, and would be put upon our guard. As it is, we know only the imprudent ones. When men are not allowed to express their sentiments, but are expected to utter those that they cannot approve of, we see secret societies springing up as in France, and, before we are aware, the revolution is transferred to our own doors, and in our efforts to extend, we crush out the vitality of our institutions. It is strange that our people do not see this. The stopping a man’s mouth neither converts nor prevents him from acting—the freedom of speech is often a great safety-valve. I have learned that there are many secret organizations already established throughout the North who are ready to do their best to overthrow this government, and who hold constant correspondence with the rebels. A clerk in one of the Departments at Washington told me, only a few days ago, that he could count a hundred secession clerks in the Department, some of them slaveholders. Another gentleman informs me that there is but one loyal white church in Washington, and that is Rev. Mr. Channing’s. We are completely surrounded by enemies, and yet we do not know them when we see them. Let them show themselves, and if they do nothing but talk, this will break no bones.
No one can doubt the presence of secessionists, else who would there be to defend the South? Who would there be to support such vile sheets as the Washington Star, the Philadelphia Inquirer, the New York Herald, the New York Express, and those in Boston too familiar to be mentioned? The secession sympathy as seen in the Northern journals is formidable. Indeed, we have but few out-spoken papers, except the National Republican, Boston Transcript, and the greatest of all American newspapers, the New York Tribune. They have fearlessly opposed any concession to those
<c06>
who have tried to prostrate this government at the feet of the Slave Power. Let the true friends of the Union rally around them.
I have no doubt but that emancipation will be the end of this war, not that it will be decreed as a matter of justice to the slave, but because the nation cannot help herself. It must be done, and you may as well do it first as last. There is no use in going around Robin Hood’s barn—emancipate the slaves, and let them help you fight the rebels. There is not much consistency in fighting the rebels, and finally <illegible> their property. Confiscate their property first, and use it to help subdue them. The means you take to subdue the rebellion remind me of Barrett and his cat and her kittens. A friend seeing two holes in the bottom of his door, asked him for what purpose he made them. Barrett said they were for his cats to go in and out. Why, replied his friend would not one do for both? You silly man, answered the doctor, how could the big cat get in the little hole? But, said his friend, could not the little cat get through the big hole? Egad, said Barrett, and so she could but I never thought of that. Now attempting to crush the rebellion without crushing slavery, is like attempting to put the big cat through the little hole, when the great door of emancipation is rusting on its hinges, and needs only to be thrown open to give peace and lasting tranquillity to our unhappy country. (Applause.)

SPEECH OF WM. WELLS BROWN.
Mr. President and Fellow-Citizens: The few words that I shall offer on this occasion will be concerning the black man’s future in this country. The question is now asked everywhere, and by almost every one, “What shall be done with the negroes?” and the idea of expatriation has been coupled with emancipation, by the Government, in freeing the slaves of the District of Columbia and other sections. This is a sad calamity. It seems as if the people of the United States had not the slightest idea of what really constitutes the nation’s wealth. The labor of the four million slaves in the Southern States is more valuable to this country than twenty millions of such persons as slaveholders have proved themselves to be; and since this idea of expatriating the colored people from the country has been mooted, and urged upon Congress, the governments of states in the tropical islands are astir, trying to get this class of labor into their own islands. England is moving. Jamaica to-day is willing to take out of this country any number of the slaves, if they are emancipated, and willing to go. English capital will be used for the purpose of carrying them out of the country without any expense to the United States. Hayti is doing all she can. The king of Denmark has made a proposition to carry off all who see fit to go. Why? Because they know very well that those who have produced the cotton, sugar and rice in the Southern States, and have made this country so wealthy, will make the West Indies more productive and valuable in the future, if they can get possession of them. Now, the people of this country ought to be alive to this fact. This spirit of expatriation ought to be met in every community, by the pulpit, the press, and every one who regards the future of this country. Let slavery be abolished and the spirit of expatriation carried out, and it will produce an effect in the Southern States which it will take generations to overcome.
The negro’s capability of taking care of himself has been already demonstrated. The report of Mr. Pierce, the report of General Hunter, the reports coming from the Southern States in every direction, prove that the black man is capable of taking care of himself. And not only that, but he is the element of wealth in the Slave States of this nation. I know the idea is prevalent all over the land that the negro when freed, is to be forced upon the country. Last week, the Boston Courier had a long article upon this very point—that negro equality is to be forced upon the people. They have no objection whatever to the black man as a slave, but they are horrified at the <illegible> the black man as an equal. Now this talk about forcing the black man upon society, upon the educated people of this country, is <illegible> nonsense. No one ever advocated anything <illegible> than that the slave should have his liberty; and this talk about forcing the negro into society is only for the purpose of working on the feelings of some over fastidious people upon the point of negro equality. I remember an exemplification of this very point that I saw last winter. I was stopping with a very good family in the State of New York, and there was a gentleman in the company who had been talking about forcing the negro into society. He said he could get along very well with educated colored people, but he objected to forcing the ignorant and degraded black man upon a white community. That evening, we happened to be in company, and a gentleman of the house had a very good-looking white servant, and his wife said to him, “Jimmy must fix himself up, and go into the company.” I was very glad of it, for I wanted to see how Jimmy, ignorant, degraded, would act among educated people. He came in, was introduced—about as fine a looking man as I ever saw, and very fashionably dressed—and did very well as long as he kept his mouth shut. I went to my <illegible> friend, and asked him, “What do you say to forcing ignorant people upon society?” The conversation went on, and Jimmy said nothing except “yes” or “no” in reply to questions that were put to him. By and by I missed him, and I went into the kitchen, and there was Jimmy smoking his pipe. He was the greatest sufferer in the company that night; he was where he did not belong, and could not get used to that society. I went after my friend, took him to the kitchen, and pointed out Jimmy. “There,” said I, “is the ignorant, degraded white man. We colored men have just as much objection to having ignorant white men forced into intelligent colored society as you have to having ignorant black people forced into white society.” It is all nonsense. You cannot force the ignorant black man into educated white society, any more than you can force the ignorant white man into educated black society.” All that I ask for my enslaved countrymen is that they may have their freedom, and be allowed to carve out their own destiny. I remember, when I was escaping from the South, the very first family I stayed with, after getting into anything like civilization, was a good Quaker family. I never shall forget them. That good Quaker lady had more benevolence slowed away in the third story of her cap than is to be found in one-half the towns of New England. (Laughter.) I was asked at once to come in and sit down to the table. I went in and sat down, but I had no appetite. She insisted I was sick; and I insisted I was not sick; She went out and got a bottle of something, put some into a glass, poured a little water in it, and told me to drink it I asked her what it was, and she said it was number six. I drank it, and it tasted like number twenty. (Laughter.) I could not eat anything. When dinner time came, she said she hoped I would have an appetite. Said I, “Madam, if you will give me something on a plate, and let me go into the kitchen, I think I can eat it.” She did so, and my appetite came Like poor Jimmy, I was where I belonged. Color don’t make any difference. I ate my dinner, and sent for more, and made up for what I had lost at break-fast time. I was then just coming out of slavery, and was afraid of white men and women; I had never been recognized as a man by white persons. Three years ago, I was invited to lecture before a country lyceum in that same community, and I sat at the table of some of that lady’s family, and found that I had an appetite; I had gone through the mill. Well, the white man has got to go through this mill as well as the black man. I don’t ask any community to help the black man into society. When the black man shall educate himself up to that point of culture where he shall deserve respect, I believe any civilized and Christian community will regard him accordingly (applause); and whether a man be black or white, if he is intelligent and fitted to occupy a high position, morally, socially and intellectually, he will demand it, and get what is due to him. This talk about degradation is not all on one side. We
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
colored people are just as fastidious upon this point as white people. We have our aristocratic feeling. I have my neighbors all around me—most of them white-some of whom my family are glad to have come in and chat with us; there are others we don’t associate with at all. I have no particular objection to their hair because it is a little red, or to their eyes because they are a little grey; my objection to them rests on other grounds. When my white neighbors shall arrive at a proper point of intellectual culture and moral development, I shall not object to their coming in and taking their position. Laughter and applause.)
Now, one or two words in another direction. We often hear the remark made, "We don’t want the negroes liberated; if they are liberated and come here, they will take work away from us, and we shall have nothing to do." That is the objection I heard made in Lawrence, in East Boston and in almost every place where I have spoken upon this subject. Now that objection is a very foolish one. The slave’s labor is more valuable in the Southern States, where he is to-day, than it ever could be in the Northern States. It is more valuable in raising cotton, sugar and rice than anything else, and when slavery is abolished, the demand for labor in the Southern States will be even greater than it is to-day. And they can till the soil, they can work out in the hot sun, and being acclimated will be far superior as laborers to any class of persons who can be introduced there. Look at the British West Indies. The attempt has been made to introduce white laborers there, into Jamaica, but they never could compete with the black man. And there is another thing to be considered. Let slavery be abolished, and it will be better for the country in every respect. Think of 4,000,000 consumers who will spring into existence in the Southern States! People seem to forget that. These slaves, who are now living upon Indian corn, bacon, and hickory nuts, will at once wish for something better. Your cheese, your butter, your flour, and all such things, would at once be demanded in the Southern States, and those 4,000,000 of slaves would become the consumers of the fabrics that are made here in the Northern States. These are things that the people of the North, as I think, ought to take into consideration when asking the question, "What shall be done with the slaves, if they are liberated?" (Applause.)

SPEECH OF CHARLES C. BURLEIGH.
The short time which it is possible for me to take, in justice to other speakers, will not permit a speech; and therefore I shall only give you a fragment, torn out of the middle of one, with neither beginning nor end.
We have been reminded in the course of the day of the method, or rather, perhaps I should say, the want of method, in which the military operations of the North are carried on against the rebellion. If the antislavery movement which has been agitating the country for the last thirty years still stood in need of any justification to the minds of candid and sensible men, it would be found in this very attitude of the North today towards the rebellion, acknowledged on almost all hands to have sprung from slavery, and nothing else. Here stands the North, cowering before the very power which has stirred up that rebellion, and talking about putting down the rebellion without going behind it, and putting down its admitted cause; as if you should try to put down diabolism in the world, and respect the vested rights of Satan. Why is it so? Because slavery has blinded the minds of the people, and stupified their understandings; and all the way from Abraham Lincoln in the chair of State, down to his lowest follower in the halls of Congress, you find the same evidence of a want of clearness of vision-not only of moral, but even of intellectual vision. We suppose that men in conspicuous public stations ought to know something; and these men do know something about every thing except slavery, and what slavery teaches; but going there, they seem to know nothing, or, at least, they do not know every thing which it is important they should know at this time. We are told that Abraham Lincoln is a very good, well-meaning man; I hope he is. All the stronger, if so, is the proof of what I have said; for your well-meaning man, if he understood his business, would never go about the work of putting down a pro-slavery rebellion after the fashion in which he has gone about it. But men say he is waiting to see if the people will support him; he is going to drift upon the tide. I tell you the man who understands his business never waits for his followers to drift him in the right direction., He is resolute to go forward, and his very resolution serves to bring his followers after him. If Abraham Lincoln had spoken the right word at the right time, he would have been supported by the whole country; not only by those who are marking out a policy, but by multitudes who would have thanked him from the bottom of their hearts for saving them the trouble of seeking one for him; and not only they, but those who stand and waiting for an opportunity, and mean to go with the strongest party, and when they see one party in deadly earnest and the other shivering in the wind, by instinct, they recognize the deadly earnest men as the strongest party; and still others, those who were opposed, would have been swept into the current, if Abraham Lincoln had shot forward with energy enough to make a wake behind him that would draw men in.
Men say the Constitution stood in his path. But why is not the constitutional right of everybody else as sacred as that of so-called loyal slaveholders the "black swans" of this age to hold men as chattels, when we know that the very root of disloyalty is the practice of holding men as chattels? I think I have some rights, I think you have some rights; but this government of yours stretches its long arms to the North and the South, and sweeps you all up together, your property, your lives, your liberty, and crushes them into one mass, which is to be hurled against the rebellion. You strew the battle-field with slaughter,—nobody’s constitutional rights meddled with there; you crowd your prisons with captives, put there without warrant of law, save martial law-nobody’s constitutional rights meddled with there; and you destroy the property of the nation until you burthen the land with a thousand millions of dollars of debt and nobody’s constitutional rights are meddled with there. There is but just one thing sacred in this land, and that is, not your person, not your freedom, not your life or your property, but the slaveholder’s claim to make a beast of his brother man. (Applause.)
Now, I answer all that in a great many ways, but I only make one answer this afternoon. In the first place, I say that if you want Constitution, you shall have Constitution, to the very end of it as much of it as Portia in the play would give of his bond to the Jew; you shall have all that the law awards, and nothing more; and then I say, that by the Constitution of your country, and by the law of your land, Abraham Lincoln is a perjured man if he allows slavery to be recognized as a legal institution in this country another hour. I tell you that slavery died in every rebellious State of this Union the instant it raised the flag of rebellion. I prove it to you in a few short words. What is the legal basis of slavery, if it has any? Positive law. Lord Mansfield said, in England, years ago, that slavery is of so odious a nature, that it cannot be suffered to exist upon any other ground than that of positive law. The courts of Georgia, Mississippi, and almost every one of your States, slave and free, have recognized that same principle in by-gone times; and all the North Abraham Lincoln and all the rest recognize it to-day. Slavery is the creature of positive law, so far as it has any legality at all. Positive, not natural law. It has no prescriptive rights, no rights based upon nature; it has nothing to uphold it as a legal system but judicial precedents and statute enactments. Well, what holds up judicial precedents and statute enactments? The government from which they proceed-nothing else. If I have a natural right to anything, you may annihilate all the governments this side of God’s, and my natural right remains unharmed; but if I have a right created by government, when the government sinks, my right goes to the bottom with it. Is not that plain common 
<c02>
sense? The Creator dying, his creation perishes with him. All your theologians will tell you that. Now, the rebellion has annihilated the law-making power in the slaveholding States. Is there any government in South Carolina, is there any government in Georgia or Virginia, or any other rebellious State, which any loyal citizen of the North has a right to recognize as a government? Does Abraham Lincoln recognize any government there except his own? He sends a Governor down-more’s the pity-to North Carolina, who goes there to enforce the laws of North Carolina! Poor fool! Not knowing that if he does, he is like the man who stood out upon the branch of a tree, and sawed it off close to the trunk-the instant he attempts to enforce the laws of North Carolina, he cuts off his gubernatorial existence. He ought to know that. But in sending a Governor to Tennessee, North Carolina, and elsewhere, President Lincoln recognizes the fact, that there is no government except his own in any rebellious State; and whether he recognizes it or not, you know it, as a matter of plain common sense. No man can owe allegiance to two governments, at war with each other. The rebellion, therefore, by annihilating every law which the slave States have enacted, has left those States with no other law but the natural law, which does not support ,and the laws of the Federal Government, which neither do support nor have any constitutional or legal power to support it. (Applause.) You see, therefore, that there is no legal slavery in any one of those States.
Abraham Lincoln said in his inaugural address, speaking to his "dissatisfied fellow-countrymen"-a very pleasant phrase to apply to men in armed rebellion against the government, trying to pull down the very pillars of the commonwealth upon their heads and his own-addressing his "dissatisfied fellow-countrymen, "he, says "You have no oath registered in Heaven to pull down this government; I have an oath, a solemn one, to uphold, and defend, and protect it." He is sworn to protect the Constitution. By the Constitution of the country, every man in every rebellious State is a free man this day, and therefore Abraham Lincoln has sworn that he will recognize the freedom of every man in those States. What right has he, then, when General Hunter, as his subordinate, does his part of the work by issuing an order freeing every man within his jurisdiction, to send out and countermand that order? There have been but few men in conspicuous places earnestly engaged in putting down this rebellion-I think there have been a great many more down lower; but the few who have shown good sense in their action have been thrust back by the well-meaning President, and the well meaning government of which he is the executive officer. I should like to know, if he has such a very earnest desire to go the right way, and such a sincere hatred of slavery, if there is a chance to show it, why he allows General Halleck’s order Number 3 to remain in force, which thrusts slaves back into their chains; thus indirectly violating a plain act of Congress, which declares that no officer or soldier of the United States shall return a fugitive slave? What is the difference, pray, whether you give him up by not allowing him to come into your lines, or letting him come in, and then pushing him back? It is only pushing him back a little sooner in the one case than in the other. Why did not President Lincoln put an extinguisher upon Governor Stanley’s order the moment his nonsense was published? I see he is beginning to crawl back from his position, and has even found Mr. Colyer so good-natured as to be his medium, and say there was a mistake. I think the "mistake" was in his thinking that he should get more support than he did.
The rebels have gone on gaining victories and winning advantages because they have had a purpose, and knew what it was to drive right at it. If a man gathers all his strength up into the muscles of his right arm, and strikes one manly blow right forward from the shoulder, it is felt by the man he strikes. But if a man does not know what he will strike, and spreads his fingers all abroad, and flourishes his arms this way and the other, he will hurt nobody. Beauregard will laugh in your face at such kind of strategy; and the people who have not made up their minds whether this war has a meaning or not, ought to be defeated, and will be defeated; and it is but a vindication of the ways of Providence, the natural working out of the principles of common sense, when they are defeated. I say all this is the natural result of the stupifying influence of slavery upon the minds and hearts of the people. They have lived under the shadow of this evil institution so long, that they do not know how to behave themselves when the shadow begins to grow less, and so they keep crawling after it and getting under it, because they are afraid of the fresh air and clear sunlight of freedom. (Applause.)

SPEECH OF REV. DANIEL FOSTER.
This gathering to-day shows us that there is no need of exhorting the Abolitionists to keep up their interest. The fourth of July, 1862, is celebrated only by those who meet to demand, in the name of the Fathers, and of the ideas under the inspiration of which they fought through the Revolutionary struggle, the abolition of slavery as the termination of this contest or revolution in which we are engaged to-day. What do we see, just on the eve of this celebration? After a whole year of wonderful military strategy, the mustering of the finest army ever gathered on the face of the earth-an army with which Napoleon Bonaparte would, in a single year, have conquered Europe-with all the resources at his command that have ever been placed at the command of any General, McClellan has fought no battle that he has not been compelled to by being attacked, he has encamped upon the swamps of the Chickahominy, where his men have died by thousands, and now he is driven away, and has escaped with little more than half his army; and all the pro-slavery journals are lauding him as a wonderful General, because he has not lost every man and every siege gun. If the people submit any longer to the charletanism of being commanded by men of absolutely pro-slavery character, like McClellan, Sturgis, Denver, and some others, then the judgments of God will continue to fall upon them. It is true, as our friend Dr. Rock said in his speech, that we want an idea to fight for. That idea is freedom. The fathers fought for freedom, and they pledged themselves and their children after them to maintain the grand and glorious idea that liberty is the birth-right given by Almighty God to every man-a birth-right that no combination of men can ever take away from him; and as our friend who has just taken his seat has clearly shown, whatever interpretation may be placed upon the Constitution, the moment South Carolina disowns that Constitution, she throws away all her laws; and slavery, if it be created by positive law, and if it be recognized in the Constitution, falls to the ground that moment. In the name of God, in the name of the fathers, in the name of freedom and humanity everywhere, I call upon our government to take this position, I call upon you to demand it of the government. We have had the finest army that has ever been gathered; an army drawn from our school-houses, our work-shops; an army of intelligent men who love freedom, who went into the war to fight against slavery, to make a free as well as a united father-land; and throughout this whole war, our Generals have been fettered with red tape; have been following the strategy of Europe before the days of Napoleon Bonaparte; while Beauregard, and Johnston, and Stonewall Jackson, have been exhibiting the energy, dash, and the strategy of Napoleon, concentrating their forces where they could strike an effective blow-and with limited men, with neither money nor credit, they have won nearly all the victories that have been won in this war so far. Our army fought nobly at Pittsburg Landing, at Fair Oaks, at Williamsburgh, at Winchester; and now, after five days fighting on the banks of the Chickahominy, they have maintained themselves against overwhelming odds, and have saved the army, in spite of incompetent and traitorous Generals, by their indomitable pluck. (Loud applause.) Let President Lincoln turn General McClellan out, and put General Hunter or Mitchell in. (Applause.) That man has proved himself
<c03>
incompetent; and I see that the editor of the New York Evening Post now demands, in the name of common decency and humanity, that General McClellan shall retire, and give this war into the hands of some body who knows how to carry it on. (Applause.) Give the command to General Mitchell, with his dash, with his live ideas, with his sympathy for freedom, or to General Hunter, with the ideas he has put forth in South Carolina, and the war will be closed before another Fourth of July comes round, and we may meet in this grove to thank God that we have a free and united father-land. (Loud applause.)

SPEECH OF ANDREW T. FOSS.
I fully agree, Mr. President, with the criticisms that have been made upon our President and our Generals to-day; and yet, with all the fault I have to find with the conduct of this war, I am in favor of it, and believe it will work out a beneficent end. In saying this, I do not say that I am in favor of returning fugitive slaves, as was done by the army for a long time, but which, happily, they can do no longer; I do not mean to say that I am in favor of any of those pro-slavery policies that have controlled the President and his Generals; but I know, Mr. President, as you said this morning, that this war has been occasioned by the rebellion of the slaveholders, and that they have made that rebellion in favor of the eternization of slavery; and when I see the North and the South arrayed against each other, and know that the question at issue is nothing else, I cannot but rejoice that there is life enough in the people to produce this degree of inflammation.
Now, Mr. President, when I say I am in favor of this war, I agree with every slave in this land. They are in favor of this war. I believe very much in instinct, and very much in the instinct of the slaves. After all that has been done by the Government to drive them over to the other side, after they have been outraged in every way, they yet entertain the idea that this war is to eventuate in their deliverance. I think it will. I do not thank Abraham Lincoln, I do not thank the Generals, but I thank God, for this war. I know that war is horrible, but I know that there is something more horrible than war, and that is slavery; and we must have slavery all over this land, and that eternally, or we must have war. There is but one path to freedom, and that is through the red sea of blood, and therefore I am glad of the issue; I accept it with joy.
Now, Mr. President, with regard to the conduct of this war. Those who have heard me speak upon this question know that no man has denounced the conduct of the war more freely or more earnestly than I have. I have believed and do believe that Mr. Lincoln has been utterly wanting in statesmanship, utterly wanting in fidelity to freedom; I believe our Generals have been; and yet, after all, I believe that a great deal has been done and is now being done in the way of freedom, and in it I rejoice and will rejoice. But, Mr. President, there are people so stupid that they cannot understand how you and I can be in sympathy with the result of the war, and yet not fully and entirely endorse all the proceedings and actions of the government in carrying it on. I can understand how we may be in favor of one course of action on the part of some man, and opposed to another course of action on his part. Abraham Lincoln, returning fugitive, slaves, I condemn; but Abraham Lincoln, signing the bill giving freedom forever to the slaves of the Territories, and establishing freedom in the District of Columbia, I commend. While I condemn Abraham Lincoln for all his pro-slavery acts, I rejoice to see him signing the treaty, recognizing the independence of Hayti and Liberia. I agree with Mr. Burleigh, that the President having the power to free all the slaves, is the greatest slaveholder in the land to-day, and as such I denounce him; but I will not denounce him for a right act because I denounce him for a wrong act. I desire to be discriminating. I rejoice in the good that I see, while I condemn the evil.
Mr. President, I have great hope in regard to this war. I believe it will issue in the disenthralment of the slaves of this land, and because I so believe, I herein do rejoice and will rejoice. I suppose that we are all saddened-I am sure I am-by hearing of the defeat of our arms; but I expected it. I agree with Mr. Foster, that General McClellan is utterly wanting in the qualities of a great leader of a free people. In the first place, he has been, from the beginning, in sympathy with the slaveholders; and no man in sympathy with slaveholders is fit to be a military leader in this war. But, Mr. President, although I lament the reverse to our arms, and mourn, deeply mourn, that fifteen thousand of our countrymen, brave and noble young men, have been sacrificed, yet, after all, I do not know but it will do good. This nation must endure still more chastisement at the hand of God, before they will let the people go; and for aught I know, there may be, as in Egypt, one dead in every house; but this work is begun, and will go on, until God by his hand shall sweep slavery from this land; or it may be that he will sweep us all away; but slavery is sure to die in this land, and I rejoice in that belief.
I do not want to be misunderstood, Mr. President. I am in favor of this war, I am glad of it, I rejoice in it, but I criticise and condemn all the pro-slavery action in regard to it. I cannot conceal from myself, you cannot conceal it from your eyes, that during the last fifteen months, the cause that has been advocated on this platform has gone forward; its prospects have brightened, and we are allowed to cherish a clearer hope in regard to the triumph of our principles than ever before. The day of redemption draws near. As I have said before, so I say now, I believe no society that was ever organized for a moral purpose has ever seen its work carried so far forward, so near its consummation, in so short a time, as this.

SPEECH OF HENRY C. WRIGHT.
I think that our friend, Mr. Burleigh, has demonstrated to the entire satisfaction of this audience, that there is not, at this moment, a slave legally held in slavery in the Rebel States. They were made free by the act of the slaveholders themselves, and now the question is,-Are we fighting to re-enslave those whom the slaveholders have freed?
Mrs. FOSTER. Yes.
Mr. WRIGHT. Our friend, Abby Kelley Foster, says "Yes." That is the question. Are we now contending for the reenslavement of those whom, by their own act, the slaveholders have set free? I believe that a great portion of those who are now sustaining this war, especially the officers in the army, and the great mass of the politicians of the country, are really and actually fighting to reenslave those who have been made free by the act of rebellion; and it is my most earnest prayer that the nation may forever be defeated in that object. They never will succeed in such a diabolical scheme. For myself, I believe that from the moment Charles Sumner introduced into the Senate of the United States, early last winter, his resolution, proclaiming that by the act of rebellion, the State governments, through which the slaves were held in slavery, were annihilated,-from that hour, the slaves were free, and the Constitution of the United States recognized their freedom, because it ceased to recognize the rebellious States as States; they are Territories, and no longer have any State government. Now, every man who is fighting to restore this Union to its original basis, or where it stood two years ago, is fighting to reenslave some four million of men, women and children whom the rebels have set free.
Mr. MAY read a letter from WENDELL PHILLIPS, stating that he was prevented by a cold and hoarseness from attending and addressing the meeting, as he had intended. [Of course, the absence of the eloquent orator was greatly missed by the immense gathering.]
A brief but lively, pertinent and witty speech was then made by Rev. Mr. TENNEY,of Marlboro’, who was followed by Mr. GARRISON with some appropriate concluding remarks. An Anti-Slavery song was sung, and the exercises of the day terminated.
<c04>
THE CONFISCATION BILL.
The rebel Confiscation Bill agreed upon by the Joint Committee of Congress, and which was adopted by the House of Representatives on Friday by a vote of 82 to 44, was agreed to on Monday, 27 to 13, by the Senate. The bill, therefore, only requires the signature of the President to be the law of the land, and from the heavy vote cast in its favor in each house, we presume it will be approved, whatever may be the President’s objections to this or that particular feature of the measure. The bill provides:-
First-That the President, by proclamation, shall give sixty days’ grace to the rebels to return to their allegiance, and that the property of every rebel failing to do so within this interval of sixty days shall be forfeited.
Second-Death is declared the penalty of treason, and the liberation of the traitor’s slaves, if possessed of any; or he shall be fined $10,000, imprisoned five years, and his estate, except his slaves, shall be seized, the slaves to go free. The pains and penalties of the bill apply with particular force to the office-holders, civil and military, attached to the rebellion; and rebels are disqualified from holding office under the government of the United States
Third-The President is authorized to seize the property of traitors of every kind whatsoever, slaves excepted, and turn over the proceeds thereof to the government.
Fourth-Slaves of rebels and of those giving aid and comfort to the rebellion, when such slaves shall seek the refuge of our lines, are to be forever free; as also slaves abandoned by their owners, and coming under the control of the government; as also the slaves found at places falling under our military occupation.
Fifth-Fugitive slaves, escaping from one State into another, except in cases of crime against the United States, &c., shall not be delivered up until the claimant shall have sworn that he is and has been loyal to the Union.
Sixth-No person employed in the army or navy shall decide on the validity of any claim to a slave, or surrender him back to his owner, on pain of dismissal from the public service.
Seventh-The President is authorized to employ as many persons of African descent for the suppression of the rebellion as he may think proper, and may use them in such manner as he may deem best for the public welfare.
Eighth-He is also empowered to make provisions for the colonization of our negro population beyond the limits of the United States.
Ninth-The President is invested with full discretion in the matter of pardon and amnesty to rebels held as prisoners.
This bill, literally enforced in its sweeping operation, ranks with the "Domesday Boke" of William the Conqueror, the English confiscation acts from time to time in Ireland, and the confiscations of the first French revolution against the revolutionary Poles. There is something, however, of charity in the sixty days’ grace granted by this bill to our Southern rebels, and something of conciliation in the large discretion given to the President in regard to amnesties and pardons.
What will be the effect of the bill in regard to the war will depend upon various contingencies. If, within the sixty days’grace allowed, we gain a great victory over the rebels in the field, there may be a powerful Southern popular reaction for the Union; otherwise we are very likely in for a longer war, which will completely change the whole existing face of things in the South, as our armies advance-institutions, political and social, and population, white and black.
If in the judgment of the President the act is seasonable and expedient, and he shall sign it, we must bow to it as to a law of the land, and rely upon the sagacity and humanity of Mr. Lincoln to make it as easy as possible against the innocent and helpless, while pursuing the guilty connected with this rebellion.-N. Y. Herald, July 13.
This Bill received the votes of every Massachusetts member of Congress except Messrs. Delano, Thomas, and Train-Delano and Train being absent, and Judge Thomas voting against it. Of the forty-two votes which were cast against it, the name of only one representative appears who was elected as a republican-Mr. Granger, of Michigan. The democrats and border State men, with the exception of Messrs. Blair of Virginia, Casey of Kentucky, Fisher of Delaware, and Maynard of Tennessee, voted against the bill. Senator Wright of Indiana, a member of the conference committee, and a democrat, was a staunch friend and advocate of the bill.
[The bill has been signed by the President.]

MESSAGE FROM PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
WASHINGTON, Monday, July 14, 1862.
The following Message from the President was delivered to Congress to-day:-
Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:
Herewith is the draft of the bill to compensate any State which may abolish slavery within its limits, the passage of which, substantially as presented, I respectfully and earnestly recommend.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
Be it enacted, by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That whenever the President of the United States shall be satisfied that any State shall have lawfully abolished slavery within and throughout such State, either immediately or gradually, it shall be the duty of the President, assisted by the Secretary of the Treasury, to prepare and deliver to each State an amount of six per cent. interest bearing bonds of the United States equal to the aggregate value at -dollars per head of all the slaves within such State as reported by the census of 1860, the whole amount for any one State to be delivered at once, if the abolishment be immediate, or in equal annual installments if it be gradual, interest to begin running on each bond at the time of delivery, and not before.
And be it further enacted, That if any State having so received any such bonds shall at any time after ward, by law, reintroduce or tolerate slavery within its limits, contrary to the act of abolishment upon which such bonds shall have been received, said bonds so received by said State shall at once be null and void in whose so ever hands they may be, and such State shall refund to the States all interest which may have been paid on such bonds.
The bill was referred in the Senate to the Finance Committee, and in the House to the Select Committee, especially charged with the consideration of the Border State question.
A correspondent of the Baltimore Sun reports the President’s remarks, in an interview with the Border State Representatives, as follows:-
"He said to them in effect, that the friction of war was wearing away, or seriously damaging the slave interest in the border States, and that it was best for their people to at once inaugurate measures for emancipation, when the government has the will and the ability to pay, and when the former have slaves to dispose of. The President also expressed it as his opinion that the Confederates hold out in rebellion by reason of the expectation of future armed co-operation by the border States."
WASHINGTON July 15. The border State representatives to-day finally agreed upon their reply to the President’s emancipation proposition. It is represented as temperate and respectful. They cannot, for reasons stated, indorse his policy, and differ from him in the belief that the declination of those States to act upon and adopt it may or will prolong the war.
They join in the recommendation that those States give a respectful consideration, but in no way commit themselves to its support. Probably twenty members of Congress have been in consultation upon the subject. Some of those from the border States were not present at the meetings, while others have left the city. Several will prepare a reply of their own, the tenor of which has not transpired.

ADDRESS OF MAJOR GENERAL POPE.
WASHINGTON, Monday, July 14, 1862.
To the Officers and Soldiers of the Army of Virginia:
By special assignment of the President of the United States, I have assumed command of this army.
I have spent two weeks in learning your whereabouts, your condition, and your wants; in preparing you for active operations, and in placing you in positions from which you can act promptly and to the purpose.
I have come to you from the West, where we have always seen the backs of our enemies-from an army whose business it has been to seek the adversary, and to beat him when found-whose policy has been attack, and not defence.
In but one instance has the enemy been able to place our Western armies in a defensive attitude.
I presume I have been called here to pursue the same system, and to lead war against the enemy. It is my purpose to do so, and that speedily. I am sure you long for an opportunity to win distinction you are capable of achieving; that opportunity I shall endeavor to give you.
In the meantime, I desire you to dismiss certain phrases I am sorry to find much in vogue amongst you. I hear constantly of taking strong positions and holding them-lines of retreat and of bases of supplies. Let us discard such ideas. The strongest position a soldier should desire to occupy is one from which he can most easily advance against the enemy.
Let us study the probable lines of retreat of our opponents, and leave our own to take care of itself. Let us took before us, and not behind. Success and glory are in the advance. Disaster and shame lurk in the rear. Let us act on this understanding, and it is safe to predict that your banners shall be inscribed with many a glorious deed, and that your names will be dear to your countrymen forever. (Signed)
JOHN POPE, Major General Commanding.
<c05>
LETTER FROM GEN. BUTLER.
The following characteristic letter from Gen. Butler, explaining his reasons for issuing the celebrated order in regard to the women of New Orleans, has been received by a gentleman of Boston:-
Headquarters Department of the Gulf, New Orleans, July 2, 1862.
MY DEAR SIR-I am as jealous of the good opinion of my friends as I am careless of the slanders of my enemies, and your kind expressions in regard to Order No. 28 lead me to say a word to you on the subject.
That it ever could have been so misconceived as it has been by some portions of the Northern press is wonderful, and would lead one to exclaim with the Jew, "O, Father Abraham, what these Christians are, whose own hard dealings teach them to suspect the very thoughts of others!"
What was the state of things to which the Woman Order applied?
We were two thousand five hundred men in a city seven miles by two to four wide, of a hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants, all hostile, bitter, defiant, explosive, standing literally on a magazine-a spark only needed for destruction. The Devil had entered the hearts of the women of this town, (you know seven of them chose Mary Magdalen for a residence,) to stir up strifes in every possible way.
Every opproprious epithet, every insulting gesture was made by these bejewelled, beerinolined and laced creatures, calling themselves ladies, toward my soldiers and officers, from the windows and houses, and in the streets. How long do you suppose our flesh and blood could have stood this without retort? That would lead to disturbances and riot, from which we must clear the streets with artillery-and then a howl that we had murdered these fine women.
I had arrested the men who hurrahed for Beauregard. Could I arrest the women? No. What was to be done? No order could be made, save one that would execute itself. With anxious, careful thought, I hit upon this: "Women who insult my soldiers are to be regarded and treated as common women playing their vocation."
Pray, how do you treat a common woman plying her vocation in the streets? You pass her by unheeded. She cannot insult you. As a gentleman, you can and will take no notice of her. If she speaks, her words are not opprobrious. It is only when she becomes a continuous and positive nuisance, that you call a watchman, and give her in charge to him.
But some of the Northern editors seem to think that, whenever one meets such a woman, one must stop her, talk with her, insult her, or hold dalliance with her, and so from their own conduct they construed my order.
The editor of the Boston Courier may so deal with common women, and out of the abundance of his heart his mouth may speak-but so not I.
Why, these she adders of New Orleans themselves were at once shamed into propriety of conduct by the order, and from that day no woman has either insulted or annoyed any live soldier or officer, and of a certainty no soldier has insulted any woman.
When I passed through Baltimore, on the 23d of February last, members of my staff were insulted by the gestures of the ladies (?) there. Not so in New Orleans.
One of the worst possible of all these women showed disrespect to the remains of gallant young De Kay, and you will see her punishment. A copy of the order which I enclose is at once is at once a vindication and a construction of my order.
I can only say that I would issue it again under like circumstances. Again thanking you for your kind interest, I am, truly, your friend,
BENJ. F. BUTLER,
Major General Commanding.
Two men named Fidell Keller and John W. Andrews had been sent to Ship Island for confinement with hard labor, for exhibiting bones alleged to be those of Yankee soldiers, fashioned into personal ornaments.
A Mrs. Phillips, for laughing and mocking at the remains of Lieut. De Kay during the passage of his funeral procession, had also been imprisoned at Ship Island. The Delta says:
"Mrs. Philip Phillips, the lady who is about to spend the hot season at Ship Island, is a Jewess. She is a vain woman, with a large hankering for notoriety. She used to be a leader in flash society at Washington, and on the occasion of the battle of Bull Run illuminated her house in honor of that Southern victory. She was finally driven out of Washington, and came to this city about a year ago. She has repeatedly offered insult to the Union troops here; but it was not until Monday morning that Gen. Butler condescended to take notice of her conduct."

JEFF. DAVIS’S ADDRESS TO THE CONFEDERATE ARMY.
The Richmond Despatch of the 8th publishes the following Address, issued by Jeff. Davis to the officers and men who participated in the late series of sanguinary battles on the Peninsula:-
RICHMOND, July 5th, 1862.
To the Army in Eastern Virginia:
Soldiers,-I congratulate you on the series of brilliant victories which, under the favor of Divine Providence, you have lately won, and as the President of the Confederate States, do heartily tender to you the thanks of the country, whose just cause you have so skilfully and heroically served.
Ten days ago an invading army, vastly superior to you in numbers and in the material of war, closely beleagured your Capital, and vauntingly proclaimed its speedy conquest. You marched to attack the enemy in his entrenchments; with well directed movements and death-defying valor you charged upon him in his strong positions, drove him from field to field over a distance of thirty-five miles, and, despite his reinforcements, compelled him to seek safety under cover of his gunboats, where he now lies cowering before the army so lately derided and threatened with entire subjugation.
The fortitude with which you have borne toil and privation, the gallantry with which you have entered into each successive battle, must have been witnessed to be fully appreciated; but a grateful people will not fail to recognize you, and bear you in loved remembrance. Well may it be said of you, that you have "done enough for glory;" but duty to a suffering country and the cause of constitutional liberty claims for you yet further effort.
Let it be your pride to relax in nothing which can promote your future efficiency; your own great object being to drive the invader from your soil, and, carrying your standards beyond the outer boundaries of the Confederacy, to wring from an unscrupulous foe the recognition of your birthright, community, independence. (Signed) JEFFERSON DAVIS.

THE IMPUTATION ON GEN. BANKS.
The following is the letter of Major-General Banks to Mr. Gooch of the U. S. House of Representatives, relative to the resolution of June 16, offered by Mr. Voorhees of Indiana, directing the Committee on the Conduct of the War to inquire whether persons of color were allowed Government transportation on Gen. Banks’s retreat from Strasburg, while white people, including sick and wounded soldiers, were compelled to walk:-
WINCHESTER , June 19,1862.
HON. D. W. GOOCH: Dear Sir,- In answer to your inquiry, I have the honor to say there is no foundation of fact for the statement contained in the resolution in closed to me. No person, not belonging to the army, white or black, was allowed to occupy or use Government transportation of any kind on the march of my command from Strasburg.
If any instance occurred it was, with one exception, not only without authority, but against orders, and has not yet come to my knowledge. Citizens, traders, refugees and fugitives were protected in the occupancy of their own wagons, and allowed to move with the Government train in order, and no further.
The rear guard, infantry and artillery, halted in the rear of Martinsburg from two o’clock till evening: When at a considerable distance on our march, we overtook a small party on foot. My attention was attracted by a little girl, about eight years of age, who was toddling over the stones by the wayside, and I asked her how far she had traveled. "From Winchester," she said.
We were then about 27 miles on our march. I requested the cannoneers to give her a lift, and the gallant men who had hung upon the rear of the column for its defence the greater part of the distance, answered with alacrity.
No successful efforts were made to ascertain her complexion, but it is not impossible that she belonged to the class referred to in the resolution, and that her little limbs had been strengthened by some vague dream of liberty, to be lost or won in that hurried night march.
I have the honor to be, with much respect,
Your obedient servant,
N. P. BANKS, Maj. Gen. Commanding.
The correspondent of the Anti-Slavery Standard remarks on the singular fact that our disasters commenced with the decision of the President to revoke Hunter’s emancipation order. Still more striking is the Providence that caused the culmination of these disasters in the most stunning blow of the whole war, to commence on Thursday, the twenty-sixth of June, the same day that Fremont was superseded in command by the appointment over him of his subordinate, Gen. Pope!
The guerrillas near Memphis are becoming more bold, burning cotton almost in sight of the city. Disguising themselves as cotton buyers, they find where it is secreted, and then come in force and born it. Even the safety of Memphis is in peril.
<c06>
COLLECTIONS
By the Finance Committee, at Framingham Grove, July 14,1862.
Geo. W. Simonds $7.00 W. W. Dutcher, 1.00
Edward B. Perkins 5.00 W. Brown 0.25
Timothy Davis 8.00 B. Snow, Jr.1.00
Wm. F. Parker 2.00 Margaret P. Snow1.00
Sarah E. Wall 1.00 Rufus Pond 1.00
H.V. Pond 1.00 -Johnson 0.30
John Midgley 1.00 Louisa Humphey 0.25
I. Stimpson 0.35 H. G. O. Blake 1.00
P. B. Southwick 1.00 E. Wight 1.00
A. H. Tilbon 0.25 A. M. Chase 2.00
Richard Clapp 1.00 Mrs. L. R. Draper 0.25
Thos. B. Rice1.00 Jonathan Buffum 1.00
J. Mitchell 0.25 Alden Sampson 1.00
D. Russell 0.35 James Curry 0.10
A. Gifford 0.25 John Wesby 0.15
O. S. Brigham,1.00 J. Wilmarth 1.00
John Wenzell 1.00 Wm. Sparrell 1.00
Mr. Hoyt 0.25 E. Lyon 0.25
Chas. Breek 1.00 -Caswell 0.20
T. Hazard 0.25 Henry O. Stone 1.00
Wm. B. Harrington 0.50 Do. (for Society) 2.00
Wm. H. Howe 0.25 Mr. Crout 0.25
Thos. P. Knox 0.50 A. Wyman 1.00
Daniel Foster 0.25 L. Jewett 0.25
L. Stratton, Jr.1.00 S. H. 1.00
S. M. Whipple 0.25 A. E. Foster. 0.50
A. H. Harlow 1.00 W. E. Budd 0.30
H. Swasey 0.25 I. W. Forbush 1.00
N. Swasey 0.25 A. L. Babcock 0.50
E. B. Underwood 0.25 J. H. Bingham 1.00
H. W. Carter 0.25 Samuel Barrett 1.00
Susan H. Remond1.00 D. B. & A. B. Morey 1.00
Mrs. Wm. Ives 1.00 S. S. Jones, 1.00
E. D. & Anna T. Draper 2.00 S. H. Southwick 1.00
Joseph Treat 0.25
Oliver Johnson 1.00 M. C. Mason 0.25
Samuel May, Jr.1.00 L. D. Gray 0.50
J. Miller McKim 1.00 Cash and friends, in various sums, 18.43
W. L. Garrison 1.00 
Pledges,
E. Bailey 1.00 Oren W. Adams 0.25
WOMAN AND THE PRESS.
On Friday afternoon, May 30, a meeting was held in Studio Building, Boston, for conference in regard to a new periodical to be devoted to the interests of Woman. While none questioned the value and the need of such an instrument in the Woman’s Rights cause, the difficulties that would endanger or even defeat the enterprise were fully discussed, but with this issue-that the experiment should be made. For the furtherance, therefore, of so desirable an object, we insert and call attention to the following

PROSPECTUS OF THE WOMAN’S JOURNAL:
When we consider that there is scarcely a party, sect, business organization or reform which is not represented in the press, it appears strange that women, constituting one half of humanity, should have no organ, in America, especially devoted to the promotion of their interests, particularly as these interests have excited more wide-spread attention in this country than in any other, while in no other country can the double power of free speech and a free press be made so effective in their behalf. This appears stranger from the fact that conservative England has successfully supported a journal of this sort for years with acknowledged utility.
America needs such a journal to centralize and give impetus to the efforts which are being made in various directions to advance the interests of woman. It needs it most of all at this time, when the civil war is calling forth the capabilities of woman in an unwonted degree, both as actors and sufferers-when so many on both sides are seen to exert a most potent influence over the destinies of the nation, while so many others are forced by the loss of husbands, sons and brothers, to seek employment for the support of themselves and families. Social problems, too, are gradually becoming solved by the progress of events, which will leave to that of woman the most prominent place henceforth.
To meet this want of the times, we propose to establish a WOMAN’S JOURNAL, based on the motto, "Equal Rights for all Mankind," and designed especially to treat of all questions pertaining to the interests of women, and to furnish an impartial platform for the free discussion of these interests in their various phases. It will aim to collect and compare the divers theories promulgated on the subject, to chronicle and centralize the efforts made in behalf of women, in this country and elsewhere, and to render all possible aid to such undertakings, while at the same time it will neglect no field of intellectual effort or human progress of general interest to men of culture. It will comprise reviews of current social and political events, articles on literature, education, hygiene, etc., a feuilleton, composed chiefly of translations from foreign literature- in short, whatever may contribute to make it a useful and entertaining family paper. Its columns will be open and respectful attention insured, to all thinkers on the subjects of which it treats, under the usual editorial discretion, only requiring that they shall accept, a priori, the motto of the paper, and shall abstain from all personal discussion.
Among the contributors already secured to the Journal whom we are permitted to name, are Mrs. Lydia Maria Child, Mrs. Caroline M. Severance, Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Mrs. Frances D. Gage, Miss Elisabeth Palmer Peabody, William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, George Wm. Curtis, T. W. Higginson, Moncure D. Conway, Theodore Tilton, and William H. Channing; and other distinguished writers have promised us their aid. No pains will be spared to enlist the best talent in the country, and to make the paper one of literary merit as well as practical utility.
The Journal will be issued semi-monthly, in octavo form, sixteen pages, at Two Dollars per annum, the first number appearing on the 1st of October, next, and will be published in Boston.
Subscriptions will be received from this date by agents of the Journal, or by the Editors, Roxbury, Mass., lockbox 2 to be paid on the receipt of the first number of the Journal. In this connection, we would earnestly solicit the co-operation of friends of woman throughout the country, in extending the subscription list of the Journal, and thus placing it on that permanent basis which will insure its continued utility and success. Those interested in the enterprise are respectfully requested to communicate with the editors at the above address.
A discount of twenty-five per cent. will be made to agents.
Agents will please return all prospectuses with names before the 15th of July.
MARY L. BOOTH,
MARIE E. ZAKRZEWSKA, M. D.
Boston, May 15, 1862.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in Union Hall, Harwich, Sunday, July 20, all day and evening. Subject: "Man and his Destiny."
GO AND HEAR HIM!- Rev. SAMUEL GREEN, the colored Methodist preacher, who was sentenced in Maryland, in 1857, to ten years’ imprisonment for having in his possession a copy of Uncle Tom’s Cabin, will narrate a history of his sufferings on Sunday next, July 20, as follows:-Zion Church, West Centre Street, 10 1-2 o’clock, A. M.
Twelfth Baptist Church, Southac Street, 3, P. M.
Joy Street Church, (Mr. Martin’s,) quarter to 8, P. M.
The case is a very remarkable one.
Rev. JAS. N. GLOUCESTER, of Brooklyn, N. Y., will accompany Mr. Green, and speak upon the demands of the hour.
SUMMER RESORT—ROUND HILL HOTEL, NORTHAMPTON, Mass.— Terms-$1.50 per day, or 7 to $10 per week.
"We freely commend it as a delightful place of sojourn. The scenery is of unrivalled beauty; valley, hill, and river give it inexhaustible variety. There are numerous delightful drives in the vicinity, and the hotel is well kept, containing every accommodation for guests, as well for their comfort as amusement."-N. O. Picayune.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M.D. 
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.

OBITUARY.
CAPTAIN PARTRIDGE. Capt William T. Partridge, of the 5th Regiment N. Y. S. V., commonly called Duryea’s Zouaves, was killed in the battle at Gaines’s Hill, on Friday, June 27. This announcement brings sincere grief to many hearts. One of God’s noblest works-an honest, a true, and a brave man, has fallen. All whose privilege it was to know him felt a profound regard and a warm attachment for him. Men who were far beyond him in years willingly confessed his superiority in soul. His character was transparent as crystal. There was no guile, no treachery, no low cunning in it. He spoke and acted his real thought with a frankness that astonished the worshippers of policy and expediency. He knew not how to wear any disguise, or stoop to any stratagem. His abhorrence of whatever is mean, base, or dishonorable, was instant and spontaneous, the very instinct of his nature. He hated oppression, tyranny, slavery, and every form of injustice, with an intensity that was almost divine. He could not conceive how one could love God without loving man; or how one could be a Christian without being generous and self-sacrificing. Tested by the pure word and life of Jesus, he was a true disciple, an inheritor of the kingdom of heaven. Of his death, in the service of freedom and humanity, of his country and his God, may fitly be spoken that saying of Christ, "He that loseth his life for my sake shall find it." D. R. B.
 <C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
 Poetry.
 For the Liberator.
 WANTED-A POLICY.
 ADAPTED FROM FREILIGRATH.
 Our land is Hamlet!-Grave and dumb,
 There walks each night his castle-yard
 A ghost from buried Freedom’s tomb,
 And beckons to the men on guard.
 She halts, in glittering steel arrayed;
 Cries, as he shrinks through doubt and fear:
 “Be my avenger! draw thy blade!
 They have poured poison in mine ear!”
 He hears with trembling limbs, till she 
 The awful truth as dawn makes clear;
 From that hour would avenger be-
 Could he at last but really dare!
 He thinks, and dreams; yet sees the goal 
 Of firm resolve always recede;-
 Ah, for a strong, courageous deed
 He lacks a strong, courageous soul! W. P. G.
 
 For the Liberator.
 SONG FOR THE TIMES.
 AIR-Bruce’s Address.
 From the lowly cabin, hear!
 Sounds like these salute the ear:
 “Bless the Lord, the time is near,
 When we shall be free!”
 Shall this aspiration fail?
 Shall the captive still bewail?
 Shall the tyrant’s power prevail 
 O’er this fated land?
 Powers of darkness! hence, away!
 Ye that lead the mind astray,
 Ye whose teachings will betray, 
 And in ruin end.
 Will no sense of justice dawn?
 Will no powers of light transform
 Those who seem in error born, 
 By their senseless cry?
 He who marks the sparrow’s fall,
 Judge supreme of great and small,
 Hath ordained, alike for all, 
 Freedom’s glorious boon.
 Can we thwart His high decree,
 Which would set the captives free,
 When they humbly bend the knee,
 To implore his aid?
 How much longer shall we dare
 To defy the Father’s care?
 He hath said, of this beware, 
 “Vengeance is mine own.”
 He bath said, “But for a span 
 Shall my spirit strive with man;
 Yield in mercy while ye can, 
 Or in judgment bow.”
 Long has been his mercy shown,
 Long, too long, the captive’s moan
 Hath ascended to his throne, 
 For his power to save.
 Let the people then arouse,
 And the bondman’s cause espouse;
 And sincerely plight their vows, 
 That all shall be free. H.
 
 THE MILLS OF GOD.
 “Die Muchlen Gottes mahlen schr fein.”
 Those mills of God! those tireless mills!
 I hear their ceaseless throbs and thrills:
 I see their dreadful stones go round,
 And all the realms beneath them ground;
 And lives of men, and souls of States, 
 Flung out, like chaff, beyond their gates.
 
 And we, O Lord! with impious will,
 Have made these NEGROES turn Thy mill!
 Their human limbs with chains we bound,
 And bade them whirl Thy mill-stones round:
 With branded brow and fettered wrist,
 We bade them grind this Nation’s grist!
 
 And so, like Samson-blind and bound-
 Our Nation’s grist this Negro ground;
 And all the strength of Freedom’s toil,
 And all the fruits of Freedom’s soil,
 And all her hopes, and all her trust,
 From Slavery’s gates were flung like dust!
 
 With servile souls this mill we fed,
 That ground the grain for Slavery’s bread:
 With cringing men, and grovelling deeds,
 We dwarfed our land to Slavery’s needs;
 Till all the scornful nations hiss'd,
 To see us ground with Slavery’s grist.
 
 The mill grinds on! From Slavery’s plain
 We r p great crops of blood-red grain;
 And still the Negro’s strength we urge,
 With Slavery’s gyve and Slavery’s scourge;
 And still we crave-on Freedom’s sod-
 That slaves shall turn the mills of God!
 
 The mill grinds on!-GOD lets it grind!
 We sow the seed-the sheaves we bind:
 The mill-stones whirl as WE ordain:
 Our CHILDREN’S BREAD shall test the GRAIN!
 While Samson still in chains we bind,
 The mill grinds on!-God LETS it grind!
 N.Y. Tribune. 
 A. J. H. DUGANNE
 
From the New York Independent.
MEN OB DE NORF!
MEN OB DE NORF!, Why don’t you come along?
Dat is now de burden ob de brack man’s song.
We’s bin a waitin’ dese many years,
Wid patient hearts, but bitter tears;
We’s bin a waitin' in griefs and pains,
For de break ob day an’de break ob chains;
An' now, tank God, dere’s a light in de sky,
An’de brack man’s heart jumps up to his mouf;
An’ now tank God, dere’s a stong arm nigh,
An’a blast ob a trumpet troo de Souf!
MEN OB DE NORF! oh! oh! come along,
Come along, come along, oh, come along!
We don’t belieb in murder, an’ we don’t belieb in crime,
For dere’s bin enuff o’ dat ting in all past time;
But we's bin a keepin’ quiet, an' a waitin' on de Lord,
For we knowed dat our bondage was accordin' to His word;
An’we knowed dat de day ob deliberance would come
In de fulness ob de time, jes’as sure as de sun.
An' now dere's a Voice wid a mighty soun'-
“LET THE SERVANTS GO FREE, AND NEVER MORE BE SLAVES.”

De massas stare at one anudder all aroun’,
But de hearts of de brack folks leap like de waves!
MEN OB DE NORF! oh, come right along.
Come along, come along, come right along!

Oh de juberlee is comin' to de brack man’s soul,
An’ de clouds ob his trouble all away shall roll;
An’ de sun shall shine on a happy race,
An’ de Souf shall wear a smiling face;
An’ we’ll work for de white folks de same as before,

But dey sha'n't sell our chil’ren and our wives any more!
An’ we’ll work wid a song an’ a cheerful word,
A raisin’ ob de cotton, an' de rice, and de corn,
An’ de land shall look like de garden ob de Lord,
An’ we’ll all get rich jes’ as sure as you are born!
MEN OB DE NORF! oh, quick! come along,
Come along, come along, quick, come along!

Dere was massa Hunter, he write a little note,
An’ set a million niggas jes’ as free as a shoat;
But old massa Linkum, he modify,
An’ say wait a bit, till we see by-an' by.
Now massa Linkum is a bery fine man,
An’ he’s a gwine to do all de good dat he can;
But MEN OB DE NORF! jes’ you come on,
An’ bring all your powder an’ your guns for de fight,
Den you jes “pitch in,”while de niggas “toat along,”
An’ole massa Linkum soon’ll come around right!
MEN OB DE NORF! yah! ho! come along,
Come along, come along, ho! come along!
Lafayette, Ind., June, 1862.
<c02>
The Liberator.
ANTI-SLAVERY CELEBRATION AT FRAMINGHAM, JULY 4, 1862.
 In accordance with its long established usage, the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society celebrated the National Anniversary in mass meeting at the beautiful Grove in Framingham. From Boston, Worcester, Milford and Northboro', the trains came crowded with as choice a gathering of the friends of universal liberty as ever assembled on any occasion-very many of them representative men and women in their various localities, distinguished for rare moral worth and intellectual vigor-all inspired by the noblest sentiments, and with full purpose to redeem the day from its general perversion by “remembering those in bonds as bound with them,” and earnestly striving to deliver them from the house of bondage. So large a gathering was probably not held in any other place in the Commonwealth. (1)
 At a quarter to 11 o’clock, A. M., the meeting was called to order by E. H. Hey wood, who submitted, in behalf of the Committee of Arrangements, the following list of officers for the occasion:-
 President—WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
 Vice Presidents-E. D. Draper, Hopedale; George W. Stacy, Milford; Alfred Wyman, Worcester; William H. Fish, New York; Daniel Foster, Kansas; John S. Rock, Boston; Benjamin Snow, Jr., Fitch-burg; Oliver Johnson, New York; John Bailey, Lynn; Chas. L. Remond, Salem; J. Miller McKim, Philadelphia; William F. Parker, Cleveland, Ohio.
 Secretaries-Samuel May, Jr., J. M. W. Yerrinton, Wendell P. Garrison.
 Finance Committee-Jerome Wilmarth, Mary Willey, David B. Morey, Sarah E. Wall, Caroline R. Putnam, Frances H. Drake.
 These nominations were unanimously adopted.
 The President (Mr. Garrison) said he would commence the proceedings by reading some appropriate selections from the book of the prophet Jeremiah. Having done so, prayer was then offered by Rev. Daniel Foster, of Kansas-followed by the singing of an original hymn, commencing-
For the sighing of the needy, to deliver the oppressed, 
Now the Lord our God arises, and proclaims his high behest;
 Through the Red Sea of his justice lies the Canaan of rest: 
 Our cause is marching on!
 Mr. GARRISON then said:-Friends of Freedom! the ground on which we are assembled is consecrated ground-consecrated by precious memories, by high aspirations, by the mingling of hearts and hands in a common effort for the deliverance of our country from its shame, its crime, its all-abounding iniquity, and for the carrying out of the Declaration of American Independence, and the Golden Rule of our Saviour. Turning away, as we have hitherto done, from the thoughtless frivolities, the base hypocrisies, and the hollow mockeries which characterize the general observance of this anniversary, we meet once more to bear our testimony in regard to the oneness and brotherhood of the human race, in behalf of the rights of all men, without distinction of race or complexion, and to vindicate the law of eternal justice and right.
 There has been no time since the organization of our Government when it was not a mockery, on the part of the people, to pretend to celebrate this day in the spirit of impartial and universal liberty. While men are held in bondage, and clanking their galling fetters, the people who can enslave them are not in a condition to sing the praises of Freedom. At the present time, especially, any attempt to treat this day as though it were properly a day of rejoicing, on the part of the nation, would indicate great hardness of heart and blindness of mind. The nation is reeling and staggering to-day like a drunken man; the nation is divided and torn asunder by civil war; the nation is bleeding at every pore; and the cries of enslaved millions are still fresh in the ear of the Lord of Sabaoth. It is a day for sackcloth and humiliation, rather than for exultation of spirit on the part of the nation. And yet, amid this terrible tumult and clash of arms, are there no signs of the times which indicate progress, and a hopeful future for the cause so dear to our hearts? Yes, the very conflict itself is hopeful. It is because, at last, there is so much of conscience here in the North, in opposition to slavery, that the South can no longer possibly tolerate companionship with us, even upon the old conditions. I might recapitulate many events, all going to show that, with whatever of darkness there may be still remaining around us, we have much to rejoice over. Think of the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, our national capital! Think of a treaty between Great Britain and our own country for the effectual suppression of the foreign slave trade! Think of the passage of a bill by Congress, consecrating all present and future Territory forever to freedom! Think of the recognition of those two hitherto despised and rejected republics, Hayti and Liberia, recognized now as independent nations by our own! Think, finally, of the passage of the Homestead Bill, whereby in the great opening West, forever and forever, slavery shall find no heritage, nor be able to acquire those vast landed possessions which are essential to its vigorous existence. (Applause.) These are some of the cheering signs of the times; and though there are some discouraging incidents-incidents which sadden the heart, and exert a dispiriting influence for the moment-yet, on the whole, our great and glorious cause is advancing with irresistible power. Happily, its triumph does not depend upon the result of any battle, whether upon the Potomac or at the West: that triumph is ultimately pledged by the word of God, and by the rights and necessities of human nature itself. I will not, however, extend these prefatory remarks, but will reserve what I have to say, in regard to the state of the country, to a later period in the proceedings of the meeting, should an opportunity be found.
 The first speaker announced was Mr. E. H. HEYWOOD, of Boston, who was warmly applauded.
 SPEECH OF E. H. HEYWOOD.
 Mr. President and Ladies and Gentlemen:
 This is the Fourth of July-a day that smacks of earthquake and revolution; a day remindful of events which appealed from expediency and tradition to the inner facts of nature, from governments to justice, from men to man. Granting all that is claimed for the birth-hour of a great people, that the Declaration of Independence might be the programme of the millenium even, the Abolitionists long ago leapt into this pulpit to preach repentance to Democratic oppressors and deliverance to their enslaved victim. This negro question is no ephemera of fanaticism, no mushroom of a night; its roots widen to all races and deepen through the strata of centuries. What we see today-commerce ruined, manufactures unmade, industry beggared, churches sundered, parties in fragments, the Union “lying loose around,” and millions of Americans in the death-grapple-all this has been a great while preparing. Water trickling behind Alpine rocks is unobserved, until the thunder of the avalanche announces the work of years, perhaps of centuries.
 The strife of politics is merely a strife between the ins and the outs. One party climbs on the people to power, and kicks away the ladder, which is again picked up by a second, ascending to pull down the first. There is so much downwardness in human nature, so dishonestly and effectually did the fathers, who demanded impartial liberty, confer slavery, that
(1) Notwithstanding this fact, none of the daily papers in Boston had the fairness or courtesy to make the slightest reference to the meeting, excepting the Courier, which, with characteristic mendacity, said of it-“We intended to give some of the proceedings at the usual traitors’ meeting at Framingham, in order to show that none of the old and vile spirit is extinct..... Mr. Phillips was absent, Mr. Garrison as good as ‘played out,’ and the other per-formers of no account. “Slang like this calls for no reply formers of no account.” The proceedings, as reported by Mr. Yerrinton, and given in our present number, speak for themselves.-[Ed. Lib.
<c03>
the chief task of the abolition movement-as indeed of all moral reform, the root of its rare patriotism and profound religious significance-has been not so much to unify this nation as to break it up; not so much to organize men into bodies as to unorganize them into individuals, as Jesus did; to drag these States out of the by-paths of cowardice and hypocrisy, and relaunch them on the high road of truth and instinct; to harmonize society with natural law, and enable the body politic to move under the impulsion of the Divine Heart. Hence its power; hence the South flying from the Northern conscience; hell seceding from heaven; or, as the Carolina negro expressed it, when he was asked why he expected deliverance from the North-“Because,” said he, “in a dream, the Lord appeared to me in the form of a Yankee.”(Laughter and applause.)
 No government, however powerful, no institution, however deeply rooted in present emolument or traditional favor, has been able to withstand the application of this moral force, method. A few strong men, appealing to the common sense of the English mind, unfrocked bishops, disbanded parliaments, sent one monarch to the block, and turned another like Nebuchadnezzar out to pasture upon the continent. An insolent sovereign could afford to flout the great religious poet and reformer of that period as “a blind adder spitting his venom upon the king's person,” but who now does not love to rise, from the cricket chirp of Charles Stuart, to the sphere harmony of Milton and impartial liberty? “I am the State,” was the proud boast of Louis XIV. in the seat of Charlemagne, with the church kneeling at his feet and the army waiting at his gates, as he plotted the subjugation of empires; but in the quiet chamber of some modest thinker-of Pascal, or Charon, or Rosseau-you may find the drop of democratic truth, whose electric forces shattered that throne to the four quarters of Europe. With this free platform for a pulpit, with the broad acres of democracy for a diocese, we will yet make an Eden of this bare garden of the. West, and lift America to the level of Calvary. The highest office is not to be president or king, but to be right. If servant girls, plough-boys and gravel-tossers are with us in a moral issue, Wall street and Washington must come round. They called you a fanatic, sir, but in asserting fair play for black men, you stood behind the Declaration of Independence and Plymouth Rock, behind Hampden and Magna Charta, behind Luther and Jesus, behind human nature and the throne of Infinite Truth.
 A German play makes Adam cross the stage, going to be created. (Laughter.) Democracy here is just in that state-in embryo; has not taken to feet and life; has not uttered itself in organic forms, cut its wisdom teeth. Young, athletic, dreamy, feeling within stirrings of a great future, hearing distant voices calling it to high destinies, yet the gristle of democratic sentiment has not hardened into the bone of manly purpose. Nature is a stern schoolmistress, and still holds the race to the primary benches. Massachusetts even, the best State in history, has not yet graduated from the infant school of human rights. The same men who brought Magna Charta to Bunker Hill, the same hands that smoked with the blood of British tyrants, spread the shield of Federal law over the slave pens of the South. Within the same year, the first slave ship cursed the soil of Virginia, and the free feet of the Pilgrims consecrated Plymouth Rock. From those two opposite points have arisen two hostile, belligerent, defiant types of society; or rather, a society and a chaos: the one rising and broadening into the freest, purest, most energetic and beneficent civilization known to history, the other treading under its impious feet all the guaranties of human rights which the toil and agony of ages have erected, would make the Republic itself a stepping-stone whence to vault into the throne of a universal slave empire.
 This conflict now raging through the Republic is simply, then, the old battle between despotism and the people-feudalism against the free cities, Cavaliers against Roundheads, old Sarum against Manchester. What the Tarquins were to Rome, what the Haps-burghs are to Hungary, what the Stuarts were to England, what George the Third was to the Colonies, that slaveholders are to the States. As a portion of the people, I do you the honor to suppose that you do not intend to be abolished. Well, then, abolish slaveholders!-for one of you must go under. (Applause.)
 As you said, sir, in the opening, this is the progress in national affairs since the war. Happily, Southern interests among us are at somewhat of a discount. The explanation of it is this. The democratic masses of the North have been made to face the music; have been brought in collision with their natural, despotic enemies of the South. But it is not so much a change of sentiment and principles as a change of relations. Slavery has not changed. When Jefferson Davis spoke in Faneuil Hall, and waltzed with the beauty of New England, he was as really a pirate as now; for every thread of his garments was the stolen earnings of the slave. The war-it is only a thunder-clap in dog-days to clear the atmosphere; it is an earthquake coming up under our feet, jostling apart States built on an unnatural' basis. It unmasks slavery, and makes it sit for its portrait; reveals the foot of clay in the silver slipper. “When rogues fall out, honest men come to their own.” Herein is the hope of the slave. That is why you have thought that this roll of Federal drums, crossing the continent with the morning light, will yet end in the grand chorus of the negro’s redemption.
 An impression has got abroad, that the negro’s freedom, if not guarantied, is at least pledged; that this moral force agitation, passing from words to blows, is superseded by the conflict at arms; thought unplumed by the sword, and “Othello's occupation gone,” this Society may adjourn to heaven on the wings of jubilee. True, the negro’s freedom was always assured. Launching a great principle, abolition, from the first, was only a question of time-how long these children of the Declaration of Independence could resist self-evident truth, could defy the laws of nature, stem the tide of events, and fight up against the frowning wrath of God’s retribution. Here a refluent ripple, there a wave breaks and rolls back, but the great flood steadily advances. The cause, which has gone through England, which has gone through France, Holland, Turkey, Russia; the cause which has scaled and captured every throne of Europe, will not be strangled here by a fibre of secession cotton. When this gigantic system trembled under the single blow of Harper’s Ferry, Mr. Virginia Hunter, in the Senate, said “If slavery ever stands on bayonets, it will fall.” It is there, Mr. Hunter; stand from under! (Applause.) Moreover, the late rapid and determined strides of this cause, compared with its early halting progress, bespeak the goal.
 “A stumbler Stumbles least in rugged way.”
Our country never walked so erect as in the present calamity. The suppression of the foreign slave trade, abolition in the District, the consecration of the Territories to freedom, and the spirit of the age, electric with free ideas, floating through every crevice and fissure of its shattered system, reveal the beginning of the, end of slavery.
 Then we have a President who at least fries to represent the people. This confidence in his executive ability and good intentions, this general applause of all parties, is unexampled in our politics; and though not born like Alexander upon the steps of a throne, or like Caesar in the folds of imperial purple, if the President but carry emancipation, all the nations shall greet him with royal thanks, and history crown him with a nobler laurel than has graced the Father of his Country (applause); for while George Washington, in patting his hand, red with the life of tyrants, to the slave clauses of the Constitution of’89, wittingly or unwittingly, consigned the weaker race to chains, may it be the good fortune of Abraham Lincoln, by tearing out that “stripe of blood,” to redeem the good old pledge, and make the “cause of America the cause of human nature.”(Applause.)
 <c04>
 I am aware, sir, also, that our Government compares favorably, in respect of justice and efficiency, with any of which history brings us the account. If the hot violence which bound Indian Sepoys (English rebels) to the muzzle of English guns, to be blown to fragments, had inflamed our people, Mason and Slidell, instead of crossing the Atlantic from Fort Warren, would hare been invited to a hasty cup of that British tea at the bottom of Boston harbor. The last question asked in Parliament of West India emancipation was, “Will it be safe for the master longer to retain his slaves!” The only gospel light which Louis Napoleon respects from Italy is the gleam of Orsini’s dagger and Garabaldi’s sword; while the ultimate argument for emancipation with Alexander of Russia is the thin film separating his feet from the fiery gulf of insurrection. But let not these hallelujahs take you off your feet. We are not yet out of the woods. Neither an efficient government, nor late successes, nor good intentions of the President, can redeem an impenitent pro-slavery people. Good intentions! “Hell is paved with good intentions.” We have passed the “slough of despond,” but not Apollyon or the valley of humiliation. Grave in victory, cheerful in defeat, you will “think nothing done while anything remains undone.” When Illinois flares a new code of atrocious black laws in the face of the age,-when manacled fugitives from the marble steps of the Capitol are handed back to bondage,-when millions are in chains yet recognized as legal by a Republican Administration,-when slavery is strong enough, holding one race under its feet, and keeping 20,000,000 of another, race at bay, to decimate the finest army raised in modern times,-it is no time for Abolitionists to resign. So long as the best President can merely represent an unregenerate people, so long as that capillary column of water in the White House can only balance the ocean without, I prefer to believe in God rather than in Abraham Lincoln,-to appeal to the eternal moral sense of the people, which was before governments, and will survive them.
 But a little while ago, you recoiled with horror from Federal officers. They would apologize for ‘slavery, hunt fugitives, raise mobs, and all because they accepted the Government as a fixed fact, with all its respectable crimes. Well, stripping the Democrats of their official robes, the Republicans have crept into the same poisoned shirt. May we not fear lest they lose their souls also? In Boston, it is yet to be proved whether or no there is a path from the Custom House to Heaven. I allow the Republican party has done well. It attempted all that could be done inside of our Government, and girdling slavery with the fire of non-extension until the scorpion should sting itself to death, it was an earnest and heroic effort on the part of the people to do the best thing with the institutions on hand. The reason Massachusetts reaches over Beacon street and Harvard College, and lifts. Henry Wilson into the Senate of the United States, is not from any young America recklessness or want of respect for cultured dignity, as the heartless scholarship of the Courier affirms, but because there has been more efficient politics, more practical statesmanship hammered out on that cobbler's lapstone than the classic brain of Everett, with his world-embracing learning, ever knew. (Applause.) But the Republican party did as little as possible. They only struck at a twig of the system, not at the tree itself. You Abolitionists were so “rash,” so “radical”!-But they found a tiger while beating the jungle for a deer; and quailing before him, after having fought their way to the Capitol on the doctrine of non-extension, they at first organized the Territories without the guarantee of freedom; so that Mr. Wilmot entered one door of Congress just in season to see his proviso flying from the other.
 I refer to these things to show you that we cannot depend, in a moral struggle, even upon the best of parties. Politicians, statesmen, scholars, theologians,-why, they are only passengers scolding on the deck, whom the ocean, the people, heaving below, sail or sink at pleasure. The muttering wrath which broke out in Governor Andrew’s late letter to Secretary Stanton shows the volcanic indignation which under-gulfs and will overwhelm this Administration, unless it speaks for liberty. I was going to take Mayor Wightman for a target, but if he were not too dirty to touch, he is not worth the powder. (Laughter and applause.) Let the people of Massachusetts repeat and emphasize that protest by reelecting Mr. Andrew as Governor (applause); and if you would have your trumpet at Washington give no uncertain sound, see to it that Charles Sumner next winter is returned to the leadership of the Senate. (Prolonged applause.) But outside and above politics is the party of justice-of justice, under whose serene, firm eye alone these trembling States can find refuge, their only interest in this conflict for truth and liberty. Having appealed to the world against the sin of their own government; flinging out “No Union with Slaveholders” as a signal of distress to the nations; holding up a fat, impenitent, recreant church to the indignation of Christendom; outcast and execrated as “radicals,” “fanatics,” “infidels,” “traitors” cursed by the Church, lampooned by the Press, hunted by the Government; for thirty years treading alone the wine-press of national wrath, the party of justice will make their way over every obstacle, against every foe, by the Constitution or in spite of the Constitution, through the Union or over the Union, to break the last fetter upon the continent (Applause.)
 If this war is to be fought with Northern treasure and Northern blood, ought it not to be fought with Northern ideas? (“Aye, aye!”) Granting war to be right, until that Yankee sword, which now lightens on the black front of the South, means liberty, it is murderous, the disgrace of the nation and the age. (Applause.) I would have Massachusetts put her foot down; say to the President, “Not another dollar or another man until you decree emancipation.”(Applause.) God in his mercy will send defeat and disaster, even to the slaying of the first born of all your households, unless this nation lets His people go. Gen. Hunter understands this question, and responds to the impudent resolution of Wickliffe by promising, before November, to cram 50,000 black troops down the throat of Kentucky. (Loud applause.)
 These appeals to expediency and interest, this following the lead of slavery, assuring posterity that we will never be guilty of a disinterested motive, this tendency to forget the negro, even among Abolitionists, to merge everything in Union, to make Human Rights a mere bob to the kite of political success, betrays an alarming distrust of justice and human nature-more faith in Diabolism than in Divinity. It is a feeling that God is not quite strong enough to take us through this crisis; we must lean on the Devil a little.(Laughter.) I distrust this cry of “Union.” It is a Union under which families are sundered at the auction-block, and women sold for prostitution; a Union under which tottering, fainting age, and tender, beautiful youth, are hunted with bloodhounds; a Union under which men are burned alive for their love of liberty, and which for two generations has been a death’s-head and cross-bones erected above the grave of Freedom. This nation has forgotten God. The tyrannic dogma of the Stuarts, dug up from the asphaltic contempt of two centuries, and robed in Republican ermine, is abroad here. We say, not “the king can do no wrong”-he is out of fashion; but the majority can do no wrong-the Union can do no wrong-the army can do no wrong. In Mr. Dickens’s phrase, we “dignify all our favorite vices as institutions.” Any respectable rascality may be “voted up or down.”
I would not attack the President; from my baby level I could not fling a spear so high. I know his policy; it is to go to heaven backwards; to drift with the tide of events; “to float, and let the current find the way”
 “To blow the villains all sky high, 
 But do it with economy.”
 (Laughter.) Yet from anything uttered by the Commander-in-Chief so far, the Federal army to-day is fighting for as really a selfish object as the Confederate army. I know it is an unpleasant thing to say, chiefly unpleasant because it is true. Many an officer has been cashiered for his love of liberty; where is the
<c05>
officer cashiered for his lore of slavery? Fremont’s and Hunter’s orders to free men are annulled; Halleck’s orders to enslave men are approved. No sane man doubts the war power of the President to abolish slavery. One stroke of his pen would annihilate the system. Indeed, the rebellion of a State is in itself a decree of emancipation to every slave in that State. These slaves are not held, then, by the laws of God, or the laws of man, but by Abraham Lincoln, the greatest slaveholder in history. I have no confidence in this death-bed conversion, this “military necessity”-I scout it. The nation that will abolish slavery merely to save itself, will establish slavery to save itself. It is idle, it is wicked, it is atheistic, for the President to make terms with men in armed defiance not only against all Federal authority, but against the laws of nations and the laws of God. Ah, Mr. Lincoln, Mr. Lincoln, above this war of words, above these hurtling epithets, more potently than political expediency or military necessity, louder than the shock of battle, speaks Eternal Justice-“Break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free.”
 MR. GEORGE DRAPER. I would like to ask the speaker why he wants us to send back Charles Summer, who speaks so highly of President Lincoln, when he can use such language against him?
 MR. HEYWOOD. In order that Mr. Sumner, by his Territorial doctrine, may annihilate the slaveholding South (Applause.)
 Emancipation is the method of peace and civilization-the only name under heaven by which we can live, it kills the slaveholder, and saves the man. I would have let the South go out; or, rather, repudiated her on moral grounds. The policy of the Anti-Slavery Society, for seventeen years, to dissolve the Union in behalf of liberty, to cast out slaveholders as other criminals, is the most honest, direct, practical and statesmanlike method of solving this question yet proposed. The North wants to marry the South. Well, she won’t have you, and what are you going to do about it? We are two nations, and the sword, which never heals the wounds it makes, which is never wreathed in myrtle-the sword can never make us one nation. The war is no cure; it only announces the disease, that the physician may appear. You cannot illuminate men’s minds by letting daylight through their bodies. As religious reformers, the sword, except to be execrated, is beneath your notice. The time will come when to wear a sword will be a greater disgrace than to hold slaves. You may think that fanatical, but I bring truth, not apology. Conquest confers no right. If my fist is bigger than yours, is that any proof that my heart is larger or my brain clearer? We must rule the South, not by the weight of our fist, but by superior ideas, larger philanthropy, more beneficent civilization; for if this nation cannot come back to the basis of justice, God grant that it may sink forever from the sight of men! (Applause.)
 But to hold the South on the basis of force, even, you must innoculate her with a new principle-freedom to the blacks. This oyster must be opened with the pen, not the sword. Teamsters say, that when you have failed to catechise a baulking horse into motion with a cudgel, a handful of mud, scooped from the gutter and pressed against his nose, will start him, because it gives him an idea. (Laughter.) Nothing but this mud of Democracy, of abolitionism, will ever put the South on the road to progress. The Democratic party, leaping from its grave, spurs into the conflict to break another lance against justice, to bring back the Union as it was; and Mr. Lincoln says we cannot allow this struggle to degenerate to revolution. But the revolution is upon us, and we must go up to it, not down. The old Union! it’s a last year’s Almanac; a Union of red tape; a Union of diplomacy it never was a Union of ideas. This Union sentiment at the South is a fiction. The Border States would have gone long ago, if they had not been pinned to their loyalty with federal bayonets. Norfolk is defiant, Nashville is defiant, New Orleans is defiant. Slavery and Rebellion, one in life and love, in death cannot be divided. Hang the leaders! Hang the leaf, and leave the tree! Hang the incident, and leave the cause! Rather pluck up the thing by the roots, and brandish it in triumph over the enemy. If, as Mr. Vice President Stephens says, slavery is the foundation of the rebellion, then one simple airy word-Emancipation-dropped in, knocks the bottom out of secession.
 Put down this agitation! Let owls and bats put down sunshine! They tried Texas, they tried Fugitive Slave bills, they tried Nebraska swindles, the Dred Scott decision, bludgeoning Senators, secession; and, in Boston, the mobocratic waves clapping their hands above the City Hall and the State House, said-“It is done; Wendell Phillips is hushed up!” When, lo! one morning the Courier waked to see that same irrepressible agitator go into the Capital of the Republic, a conqueror! (loud applause)-while the same men who breathed threatening and slaughter to all who dared lisp the name of John Brown, by the unseen omnipotence of this idea, in embattled legions were hurled against slaveholders in the tune of “Glory, Hallelujah!” This is the Lord’s doings, and marvellous in the eyes of the Courier. (Laughter.) Oh no; to “keep step to the music of the Union,” you must keep step to the music of the negro. In all your pride of arts and arms, the sheen of victory, the heroism of defeat, the black shine of the negro’s countenance alone reflects the smile of Heaven. “Pharaoh sits upon the throne, but Joseph is governor over all Egypt.” Colonize the slaves! Colonize the Rocky mountains! It cannot be done. We do not want to do it, for we must have the negroes as a metropolitan police to hold the South. We shall yet have those cotton States represented at Washington by black faces instead of black hearts. (Applause.)
 In Conway’s vigorous phrase, “The war will never be over till slavery is over.”[Mr. BURLEIGH-Until slavery is under.] This slaveholding oligarchy must go for guano. By eight generations of outrage to a trampled and bleeding race, by Sumpter and Corcoran, by Baker and Lyon, by our brothers scalped, and desecrated in their hallowed graves, slaveholders are outlaws! I would not stir your blood or wake revenge.
 “Though by their high wrongs I am struck to the quick, Yet with your nobler reason ‘gainst your fury
 Do I take part.”
 These men were not natural friends; the spirit they incarnate, which bound twelve gigantic States to the chariot wheels of Rebellion, which sends death and desolation to thousands of Northern and Southern homes, and drives its murderous steel to the heart of free institutions, is Slavery. Then, in the name of government periled, of families beggared, of wives widowed and children orphaned, of unborn generations to inherit the poverty and woes of this, of the black race for centuries trodden into the burning marl of oppression, hurl this fiend to the pit whence it rose!
 There are, Mr. President, but two methods of handling this thing. One is, to forget the negro; the other is, to acknowledge his rights. Long and fairly tried, the former is a failure. Entrenched in all the strongholds that command the public mind, the pulpit, the press, the Senate, the seats of learning, mounting on its flying car all the machinery of our civilization, for seventy years Slavery was victorious on every field. Your public men, for ability, for learning, for virtue-notwithstanding the excellent curses launched upon them from this platform-would not suffer in comparison with those who have administered political affairs in England or France during the same period. Where, then, was the hitch! They essayed to reconcile freedom with slavery, an impossibility; for where the intellect of Webster, the eloquence of Clay, the scholarship of Everett, the statesmanship of Seward, and the conscience of Sumner could not succeed, the gods themselves must fail. The other horn of the dilemma, which is the lesson of this day, is fair play to black men. Some mornings ago, as a nosegay of the nursery floated under my window, and one tiny slip of womanhood put her saucy foot on a mutual right, the others scattered, screaming, “I’ll tell mother, I’ll tell mother!” It seemed girlish; yet there was
<c06>
deep wisdom in the method of reconciliation. “An ounce of mother is worth a pound of clergy,” says the old proverb. So in our trouble we must go back to first principles, back to justice, back to impartial liberty, back to the laws of God, until we can make better. (Loud applause.)
The President said it gave him great pleasure to introduce, as the next speaker, one of the earliest and most devoted advocates of the cause of the oppressed JAMES MILLER MCKIM, of Philadelphia, so long identified, with the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society as its Secretary and General Agent.
Mr. MCKIM (who was warmly applauded) proceed ed to give a very interesting and most encouraging sketch of his recent visit to Port Royal and Beaufort, with reference to the “contrabands” and the educational and industrial efforts making in their behalf. [We defer its publication, at his request, until he shall be able to revise and complete it.]
An original hymn, by CAROLINE A. MASON, of Fitchburg, was then sung; and it being 1 o’ clock the meeting adjourned for a social picnic till half past?, P. M.
For the remainder of the proceedings, see the second and third pages, inside.

THE BRUTALITY OF THE REBELS AT THE MOUND CITY DISASTER.
Colonel Fitch bears testimony, in his official re port, to the brutality of the rebels at the Mound City disaster, and a correspondent of the Cincinnati Commercial says of the scene, after the explosion:-
“In the confusion of the moment, some 60 men, badly scalded, jumped overboard-thirty or more of whom we are sure were drowned or murdered-the enemy’s sharp-shooters literally picking off our poor fellows while they were swimming and struggling in the water for life.
When the accident occurred, Master Dominy was standing out forward on the starboard spar deck, (the only man then on the deck. Capt Kelry being at his post in the pilot-house) giving orders during the hail of cannon, rifle and musketry shot. Discovering the flow of steam, Dominy pulled off his coat, with which he covered his head, and begged his men, 'For God's’ sake not to jump overboard!’ He next went to the stern, waved his handkerchief for the gunboats below to come up and tow the disabled Mound City out from under the rebel batteries-<illegible> pounders-which were playing on her very heavily at the time. While signalling the gunboats to come up, the handkerchief was shot out of his hand. As fast as he pulled the men out of the water at the stern of the Mound City, the enemy’s sharp-shooters shot them down.”
Of the terrible sufferings that were undergone by the victims he says:-
“The agonizing scene cannot be described or imagined. Here lay the bodies of some twenty men, scalded to death, others with their <Illegible> bodies severed asunder by the fatal shot.
The gun deck was literally strewn with from <illegible> to 80 others, who, being badly scalded and horribly disfigured, were tearing off their clothing, and long strings of bleeding flesh dangling from their finger ends, hands, arms, and lacerated bodies, and with eyes burned out and closed, crying out for’ Help help-water, give me water, water-save me. ‘Oh God, save me, save me.’ ‘Oh! kill me, shoot me’ ‘Oh! do end my misery.’ Doctor, will I live?’ Tell my wife how I died,’ and numerous pitiful exclamations and pathetic appeals of this character. The features of all were wonderfully distorted. Many could not be recognized by their most inmate friends. We pray to God we may never have occasion to look on such a scene again.”

“WE KNOW NOT WHERE ELSE SO MUCH AUTHENTIC INTELLIGENCE OF THE REBELLION CAN BE OBTAINED.”
“NO OTHER WORK POSSESSES THE VALUE AS WORK OF REFERENCE.”
“IT IS RELIABLE, COMPLETE, AND DESIRABLE.”

THE
Rebellion Record,
EDITED BY FRANK MOORE,
Is the only publication which gives the HISTORY OF THE GREAT STRUGGLE FOR FREE GOVERNMENT NOW GOING ON.
IT IS
Full, Impartial and Reliable.
A RECORD WHICH THE COURTS, THE DEPARTMENTS AND THE PRESS quote as the 
HISTORY OF THE TIMES.
It appeals to the intelligence of every citizen. By reference to it, every person can be fairly and truthfully posted up in relation to this
GREAT R EBELLION.
IT CONTAINS,-I.,
The Causes of the Great Struggle and the Great Issues before the Country,
BY EDWARD EVERETT.
II.
A DIARY OF VERIFIED EVENTS:
Commencing with the meeting of the South Carolina Convention, Dec. 17th, 1860-giving, in the form of a Disry, concise, succinet, and truthful history of every event as it occurs.
III.
Documents, Speeches, Extended Narratives, etc.
CONSISTING OF ALL THE
OFFICIAL REPORTS OF BATTLES, SKIRMISEES 
&c., MESSAGES AND PROCLAMATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
SPECIAL ORDERS, &c. &c. 
GRAPHIC ACCOUNTS of the Movements of Troops, IMPORTANT SPEECHES AND LETTERS, from leading
 Men, North and South.
PICTURESQUE NARRATIVES, (from eye-witnesses) of the GREAT BATTLES, SECESSION ORDI-NANCES, MESSAGES, PROCLAMATIONS, &c.
IV.
Rumors, Incidents, Patriotic Songs and <illegible> Illustrated with correct Portraits, engraved on steel, of the NOTABLE MEN OF THE TIME, AND WITH MAPS AND DIAGRAMS OF THE PLANS OF BATTLES.

The Rebellion Record
Is publishing in PARTS, each Part Illustrated with 
TWO FINE PORTRAITS, 50 cents each.
ALSO, IN VOLUMES.
Six Parts, with Copious Index, comprise a Volume.
NOW READY,
VOLUMES ONE, TWO AND THREE.
Bound in cloth, $3,75 each; sheep, $4.00; half <illegible> or half calf antique, $5.00 each.

A NEW EDITION,
Sold EXCLUSIVELY by Canvassers and Agents, is now publishing in Nos. at 25 cents each. Each number illustrated with a Portrait on steel.
Agents wanted, to whom liberal commissions will be given.

Copies of the REBELLION RECORD, in Parts <illegible> in Volumes, will be sent, free of expense, on receipt of <illegible> Sent in registered letters, the publisher will be responsible for all remittances.
Clubs will be supplied at the following rates:
FIVE COPIES of each volume, in semi-monthly Nos, <illegible> monthly Parts, to one address, or separately, <illegible> 
TEN COPIES, ..... <illegible>
Remittances must be sent in registered letters, otherwise the Publisher will not be responsible, and in current <illegible> W>
G.P. PUTNAM, Publisher,
532 BROADWAY, New York.
C. T. EVANS, GEN. AGENT.
New York, July 9.
