THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the Generall Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financia Committee, be are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, ENMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 6. BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1722.
<c01>
Selections.
OUR CORPS D’AFRIQUE.
We have now about sixty thousand negro troops in the field. This number is being very rapidly increased by the recruiting officers at Fortress Monroe, Louisiana, and East Tennessee. Every advance of our forces into the enemy’s territory, and every raid made by our dashing cavalry, (and, by the way, that same cavalry,) which, it was said, it would be impossible to organize, because the Yankee can never be taught to ride a horse properly, an act which the Southerner performs with ease and grace, because he is by habit and education a gentleman, has done us immense service in carrying the Proclamation of the President into every village between Vicksburg and Baton Rouge, and over Tennessee, North Carolina, and Western Virginia; has brought into our camps hundreds, and sometimes even thousands of brawny black men, who are ready to go back to their old masters, if the United States will give them a uniform and a musket. The machinery to accomplish this is about completed.
The abolitionists have urged the duty upon the Executive ever since the war broke out. The Executive, knowing that the great body of Americans were not ready for so for startling a movement, hesitated. Then gradually it dawned upon the minds of the North as they read the long list of casualties, that, after all, if the black man was willing and able to fight, it would be a good move to allow him to stop the bullets of the foe, while their sons worked peacefully at home to help pay the war tax. We did not consent to the enlistment of the negro because we had much faith in him, we did it from a motive purely selfish; and the black man has won for himself a position in our ranks as a soldier, and in our society as a citizen, in spite, not merely of the animosity of the really disloyal, but also of the deep rooted prejudices of a large majority of the people. He has received only hindrance from us.
And there has happened no more remarkable event in this much boasted century, than the perfectly quiet exodus of the slaves from their bondage, and their enthusiastic entrance into the Union ranks. Had they, in their jubilee, organized themselves into guerilla bands, burning the houses of their masters, plundering rich estates, and murdering all who have been directly or indirectly connected with their bondage, we should have felt that the passions thus venting themselves were seeking a very natural, though a terrible revenge, for the years of vile sub-serviency and cruelty which this people have suffered. However much we might have deplored such scenes, we should have known that they were the legitimate results of the system of slavery. But nothing of the kind has occurred. The freedom which Banks conquered for the slaves of the Teche was received, frequently, on bended knees, with uplifted hands, and lips trembling with the utterance of the heart’s thanks giving. The moment our advance cavalry came in sight, when they saw the dear old flag floating in the dusky distance, and heard the solemn tramp of our army, they hastened to the roadside with large tubs of cold water; with arms full of flowers; with pieces of bread and homely cake; and seemed delighted at being able to do something for our wearied boys. It was not merely their love of excitement which prompted them to these things; it was their great desire for freedom; for the word was on their lips continually, and old men and little girls called upon God to bless the Union army. I very such doubt if a large body of soldiers, marching through an enemy’s country, ever before witnessed such a scene.
Well instead of butchering all in the “big house,” (and their hatred of their masters was equal to the act,) they came rushing up to me, saying, “Marster, may we go to yonder plantation, and git our wives and children?”
“But what do you want of them? You had better let them take their chances, while you cut as fast as you can for Brashaerity,” I rejoined.
“No, master, can’t do dat. Don't care to be free less de ole coman is free tu.” And the negro would shake his head sadly, while the score who had collected about me would cry out in an undertone, “Dat’s so, dat’s jess so.”
They followed us in crowds. The only damage they ever did their masters was in taking the mules and wagons with which they formed a caravan perhaps a mile long, and  which we should have taken had not negroes done the work for us. When they reached Brashaer City, they were, generally, the most docile people I ever saw. The only time I knew of any hard words being used was when they were on the road, making their way as fast as possible to Brashner, and were stopped by some of their old masters, who attempted to browbeat them, and carry them back to their plantations. Their spirit was thoroughly roused. I rode up to a little knot of men who were shaking their heads very ominously, and using various denunciatory gestures.
“Boys,” I said, when I had learned the cause of the excitement, “don’t you think you had better go back, after all? You are going to have a pretty hard time of it at the city.”
A series of grunts, sullen and ominous, went through the crowd. They ran their hands into their pockets, muttering various curses which I could not understand, and at last one tall, very black fellow cried out,
“Marster, wese ony jess tasted de bard tack of de Yankees, but wese had nuff to know dat wese goin’ to eat no more hoe cake in de slave cabin.”
“Yes, marster, dats jess what wese ‘cluded,” broke in a dozen.
I think a word of encouragement would have set them, like so many fiery bounds, upon their masters. They were ripe for bloodshed. If I had said, as I was half a mind to, “Boys, go in,” they would have made and work with some dozen Southern gentlemen and their property. That is the only time I have seen the white caps on the sea. The general calmness of these freed thousands has astonished even the most <illegible> of the abolitionists.
There are, however, among the black troops in the field, different degrees of fitness for the work in hand. The negroes in the service vary in their moral worth as much as the same number of white men, and when we prophesy concerning them, we ought to discriminate more than we have done in times past.
They may be conveniently divided into three classes. First, those who have enlisted from the free States. From these we have a right to expect good  conduct. Those who have gone from the Bay State have been the school boy companions of our own children. In many instances they have been to the same schools, and have studied under the same teachers, with us. They have been acted upon by the public opinion of a free State, and have done no dishonor to it by their conduct under fire. It is not at all to be wondered at, that they feel themselves to be <illegible> and morally better than the regiments which have been recruited from the plantations of South Cardina. Many men in the fifty-fourth had traveled over a great part of Europe, could converse in any one
<c02>
of half a dozen languages, and were really accomplished scholars. Others, again, were competent mechanics, men who could read and write and think. It is not at all strange that these troops should dislike to be catalogued as on a par with some of the raw recruits of Port Royal. If we mistake not, there was the same exclusive feeling among the famous Seventh of New York, and perhaps just a little among the Forty-Fourth of Boston. It is a hopeful sign that differences in social position are being mapped out and acknowledged.
Second, we notice those who have been recruited from the free negroes of the great Southern cities. The first two regiments of the Corps d'Afrique of New Orleans belong to this class. They are men who would feel insulted if mistaken for slaves, who are proud that they were born free, or that they were manumitted many years ago by their masters for some signal service. They can say “nigger” to one of their own color who happens to be a slave, as contemptuously as the best bred white man. They generally get their living by keeping a little shop, or by hiring themselves out as masons and carpenters. Some of these men have acquired quite a property, and are respected as much as a black can be in a slave community. They have learned to read, and many of them to write.
They are quick at figures, and try to get the best end of a bargain as cutely as any Saxon. They sometimes own slaves, and carry on a plantation, where, under the impression that by a little extra cruelty to their hands they will more nearly approach to the likeness of a model white man, they are proverbially severe in the use of the whip. These are the men who made the splendid charge, four times repeated, against the masked battery at Port Hudson, and who, by their courage and persistency, in the face of almost certain death, won the esteem of the whole Federal force, and the public congratulations of the commanding general.
Third, we notice the bulk of the Corps d’Afrique, made up of able-bodied men from the plantations. These are, almost without exception, deplorably ignorant, and are led by good men and true, who are captains and colonels all day, and school-teachers in the evening.
Now it is evidently unfair to judge all these men by the same standard. We have no right to expect from the last class the same amount of fortitude and bravery that we do from the first. And yet, so far, we have beard of no one who has insisted on this discrimination. We have a right to expect that our own boys will die bravely; and that the children of foreign parents, who have had the benefit of our schools, will do the same; but we have no right to expect from these ignorant, enslaved black men, any more than the raw Irishman, the wretched Canadian, would give. The men, the conservatives, who always knew that the negroes would run in battle, have demanded of them the heroic deeds which would cover our own children with glory, and we have only echoed their words. In spite of this, the negro has fought like a true, brave man, a man who, though he can neither read nor write, understands that every blow at the Southerner is a blow that knocks his own chains off. So far the negro regiments have done themselves infinite credit. And if, instead of standing by with a cynic’s sneer, or half hoping that they will do something, and half fearing that they will not, we should set about praying with all our might that God will wipe out of our hearts all prejudice against color, and so act upon society by a miracle that it shall become fashionable to give our charities to the black as well as the white man, we would soon see that when twenty millions of republicans are determined to elevate and educate, and make useful citizens of four millions of oppressed blacks, they are the best school-masters in the world.—Corr. of Boston Christian Register.

CELEBRATION IN PORTLAND.
The citizens of Portland celebrated the anniversary of the President's Emancipation Proclamation, on New Year’s Day, in a very enthusiastic manner. The City Hall was beautifully decorated, and, not- withstanding the severe storm, was crowded. The various introductory exercises included music by the Band, the reading of the Proclamation, Prayer, and the singing of “The Battle Hymn of the Republic,” which was performed by a select choir in a in a manner to elicit the greatest enthusiasm.
Hon. Woodbury Davis presided on the occasion, and Rev. Horatio Stebbins delivered the Oration, which was very able and patriotic. The brief introductory address by Judge Davis was a gem.:—
“FELLOW-CITIZENS:—I accept the position to which I have been invited, by the committee of arrangements, not as an honor to myself, though for that I am grateful; but I accept it, as I know it must have been intended, as a tribute to the anti-slavery cause.
“I do not claim the honor, though I should rejoice if I could, of having been one of those who, thirty years ago, laid the foundations of this great movement. I was then but a boy, taking no part in public affairs. But it is now more than twenty years since I became connected with it. Three years of my life were devoted to it exclusively, so that there is scarcely a city or large town in the State in which I have not had the privilege of pleading the cause of the oppressed, when that cause was despised and apparently hopeless. And as I look back over those years to-day, I cannot find words to express the feelings of my heart. So sudden and so great is the change, that it seems more like a dream than a reality; as if it were some great drama, and the curtain had just risen upon a new scene. I can hardly realize, as I look upon it, that I1 am in the same country, and that the same men are on the stage.
“I look for the Slave Power, that great political abomination of desolation, that has so long stood supreme in our national temple, and I see it broken into fragments,—the prestige of its aristocracy overthrown and destroyed. I see slavery abolished in the District of Columbia. I see one half of Old Virginia a free State. I see Missouri, that but yesterday sent forth her hordes to enslave Kansas, now standing beside her sister State, clothed in the garments of Freedom. I see Maryland practically free; and Baltimore, the stones of whose streets are still wet with the blood of the first martyrs in our present struggle, now welcoming emancipation, and sending an abolitionist to Congress. I see tens of thousands of colored men, from all parts of the country, trained to arms, standine side by side with us in defending the flag, now their flag as well as ours. And more than all, because encouraging and sustaining all other measures, I see the President's Proclamation of Emancipation gradually undermining and overturning this great system of wrong, so that soon there, shall not be left one stone of it upon another.
“As yet, <illegible> all these great changes, nothing is more marvellous than the change in public sentiment among ourselves. Such unanimity of feeling, who of us could have anticipated? All former distinctions of party, all acrimonies of old political contests, are forever buried out of sight.
<c03>
“I was not surprised that the Proclamation excited no more public attention when it was issued. Great epochs in the world's history are seldom noticed until they are passed.
“There was once a humble birth, in an obscure manger in Bethlehem, over which there were angel hallelujahs in the skies, but of which the proud rulers of the Roman empire had no knowledge; and had they known it, it would have been but to despise. But after eighteen hundred years, while most of their names and their deeds are alike forgotten, the return of Christmas day is greeted on every continent, in every tongue. 
"The authors of the Declaration of Independence had no conception of the importance which posterity would attach to that act. They knew it sealed their doom unless they should succeed. But to their minds, it was far more likely that their children would, with annual rejoicings, remember Concord, or Bunker Hill, than Independence Hall, and the immortal charter of Liberty there first promulgated.
"And so, when the Emancipation Proclamation was issued, though it had been prayed for, and was expected by many waiting thousands, especially among the colored people, the country little understood its importance. Many loyal men were afraid of it. Many disloyal derided it. But it is already beginning to be recognized as the great event of the war. It has not only prevented foreign intervention —it is the mortal blow struck home to the heart of the rebellion. Slavery has been the great disturber of our peace ever since our government was organized. It has sought to destroy our national life. It has taken the sword. And this proclamation of the President is but the voice of the people, saying —By the sword let it perish! 
"But the importance of this measure cannot even yet be understood. None of us can understand it until we look back upon it from the higher summits and the purer air of the future, after the smoke and dust of battle have passed away. 
"I have recently, with a few friends, visited the highest mountain in our State. As we approached its base, there were other peaks, nearer at hand, sometimes hiding it from our view, that seemed to rival it in beauty or grandeur, claiming a share of our admiration. But when we had passed by, and looked back from a distance—thirty, forty, fifty miles—its companions had sunk out of sight, and Katabdin stood alone, lifting its rocky summit in sublime majesty against the sky. So, as the years roll on, when Port Hudson, Gettysburg and Chattanooga shall have become invisible in the dim distance, this Proclamation of Freedom will stand distinct and peerless above the horizon, to cheer the hearts of all who love mankind, down to the latest ages of time.
“Since it was issued, the earth has swept around through its annual circuit, until it has reached again the same point in the heavens. Here, at this place, one year ago, we emerged from the darkness of slavery into the light of liberty. Here, with the opening morning of the new year, the nation’s voice of freedom was uttered. We celebrate its return to-day. The Fourth of July, that has gladdened our days of peace for three quarters of a century, was born amid the storms of war. Let us be grateful to God, who bringeth good out of evil, and maketh the wrath of man to praise Him, that out of this time of  civil strife another day has arisen, like 
"Another morn 
Risen on mid-noon,”
whose anniversary will be celebrated, when these troublous years of war are over, so long as our country shall have a name and a place among the nations of the earth.”
"The address was received with marked applause.
WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENCE.

WASHINGTON, D. C., Jan. 19, 1864.
The consideration of Senator Wilson’s resolution for the expulsion of Garret Davis, on Wednesday last, filled the galleries of the Senate chamber to excess, and brought upon the floor a large number of the members of the other House. Senator Wilson's speech, in the opening of the debate, was brief and strictly confined to the allegations of the resolution of expulsion. Mr. Davis in reply spoke over three hours. His speech was bitter, scurrilous and personal, and more objectionable than his resolutions on the score of treason. He took especial delight in assailing Massachusetts for her course in relation to slavery, and retailed anonymous, false and malicious scandals against her Senator. His speech was very much outside the limits of parliamentary rules, but no one seemed disposed to hinder the exhibition of himself which he chose to make. He boldly avowed that, if expelled from the Senate, he would go home and preach opposition and resistance to the Administration, and revolution to the people of Kentucky. His declaration caused a decided sensation in the Senate, and I think some Senators, who would not have voted against him on the ground of his resolutions, will vote: against him on the ground of his speech. In the course of his speech, he took occasion to predict that, at the next election, the people will set aside Abraham Lincoln, and put George B. McClellan in his place. Time was when the announcement of McClellan’s name would have roused the enthusiasm of the galleries, but, alas for the hero of Yorktown and the Chickahominy, not the faintest ripple was excited by the announcement. It fell upon the crowd perfectly still-born. One of the great difficulties under which Garret has labored, since the Cincinnati Conservative Convention, has been McClellan on the brain. Garret was a member of that convocation of respectable fossils, and was quite active in procuring the nomination of McClellan by that body. The redoubtable leader of the shovel brigade fairly effected a lodgment on Garret’s brain then and there, and no doubt has been intrenching himself ever since. Meanwhile, Garret has become so deeply impressed with a sense of his great responsibility in sustaining “the little Napoleon” and "his fortunes, that he is totally unable to sit till when any possible opportunity of assailing the Administration offers itself. Never did Irishman at Donnybrook Fair, with shelaleh in hand, watch half so intently for opportunity to thwack some unlucky pate, as does Garret for opportunity to "pitch into” the Administration, or some officer thereof. Another chronic disorder under which Garret labors is pro-slaveryism. This disorder seems" to have greatly increased in intensity, since his attendance on the Cincinnati Convention. What the precise connection, if any, may be between this last stated, and Garret's first described misfortune, I am not able to state, but think there must be some connection between the two; for it  a pretty general fact that an attack of McClellanism is followed by an eruption of Pro-slaveryism. Such has  been the case with Garret Davis. When he first entered the Senate, he was willing that slavery should die, that the nation might live; but now that slavery is crumbling around him, he fancies that the temple of liberty is tumbling in ruins. Hence he is ready to resort to any means to stop further progress. If need be, he will subvert and revolutionize the government to save it.- [Corr. Dover Morning Star.star. 
<c04>

FREDERICK DOUGLASS IN NEW YORK.
NEW YORK, Jan. 20, 1864.
To the Editor of the Morning Star:
The address of Frederick Douglass, Esq. upon the "Mission of the War," delivered at Cooper Institute a few evenings ago, has been denominated by his friends the finest and most brilliant effort of the black orator. The spacious hall was densely packed at an early hour with an intelligent and enthusiastic audience. A negro never addressed a larger or better assembly in America. Many remained standing in the aisles, through the nearly two hours which the address occupied. Although the chief part of the multitude was white, still here and there were seated many of our prominent and enterprising black citizens. William C. Bryant, Esq., was to preside, but was prevented by a sudden death in his family circle. Oliver Johnson, Esq.—editor of the Anti-Slavery Standard—occupied the chair. It will be quite beyond my present limits to attempt any synopsis of this eloquent lecture. Mr. D. is considered one of the best lecturers that visit our city, and the progress of events in the nation makes him daily more acceptable and popular. Every blow he deals on that “peculiar institution” from which he graduated not many years ago, is now received with immense satisfaction, and followed by a storm of applause. And when the speaker said, “This must be the last rebellion, and the death of slavery,” the hall rang to an echo again. It was gratifying to hear such words as these: “I AM AN AMERICAN! (immense cheers, numbers in the audience springing to their feet, swinging their hats, and shouting  “Hear, hear!”) —and there are vacant places at my hearthstone, which must remain such while the war lasts; for the boys have enlisted for the war.”  Mr. D. gave us an amusing description of his recent visit to the White House, or of “a Rail-splitter meeting a Nigger." He eloquently argued that we were fighting to make the school-house of New England take the place of the whipping-post of Carolina, and that the day would come when Methodist can meet his brother Methodist in prayer-meeting, without bowie-knives or revolvers. The speaker concluded by pointing out some of the strong points in the old pro-slavery party of the North, founded upon the weakness and wicked prejudices of the loyalists. He urged the complete and thorough extinction of slavery at the South, and of negro-hate at the North. Many hearts were touched as ho spoke in tenderness and gratitude of Ireland, and the great O’Connell, while the blood of the negroes who fell in our July riot has hardly been washed from the murderous hands of New York Irishmen.

MINISTER ADAMS AND REV. MR. CONWAY.
 Mr. Conway’s unfortunate correspondence with Mr. Mason appears to have been the subject of one of Minister Adams's communications to Secretary Seward, and to have given rise to some interesting general remarks on our self-appointed missionaries abroad, as will be seen in the following extract from the dispatch of June 25,1863:—
"SIR: I doubt whether it be strictly within the line of my duty to call to your notice a 
proceeding, originated by Mr. M. D. Conway, the nature of which is explained in a correspondence between him and Mr. Mason, lately published by the latter in the London newspapers, doubtless in the hope of gaining some fancied advantage or other by it. The Executive Committee of the Emancipation Society, fearing that it might be supposed to have given some countenance to the apparent pretensions of Mr. Conway, adopted a resolution, a copy of which was put into my hands by their President for transmission to you. I have concluded to send it, rather as showing the very friendly spirit of that organization than as having much intrinsic importance. The act of Mr. Conway injures himself more than any one else. Nobody is more sensible of the error he committed than himself. He has called to see me, and has expressed so frankly his regret, as well as his entire loyalty to the Government, that I cannot help feeling his mistake to have originated rather in his want of practical experience, and in his deference to injudicious advisers, than in any serious intention to do evil. He signified his wish to exonerate himself from all suspicion of disloyalty to the Government by addressing a letter to you, if I thought such a course proper. I replied that the question seemed to me purely a personal one. If he, as a good citizen, was anxious to redeem himself in the eyes of the President from such suspicion, a private letter, addressed directly to you, would probably be received with good will, and would have the desired effect.
It is one of the peculiar circumstances attending the present crisis, that many Americans come to this country impressed with a strong conviction that, in some form or other of public address, they shall be able to produce a decided effect on public opinion, favorable to the United States. Most of these persons, utterly unconscious of the difference in the social organization of the two countries, and of their habits of thought, the imperfect information as to America, the prejudices and passions prevailing here, proceed very much in the same way that they would in an election canvass at home. The consequence is, not unfrequently the commission of mistakes, which, if they have any effect at all, do harm rather than good to the cause they advocate. With the best intentions, they frequently misconceive the means of prosecuting them to advantages.. Laudations of the institutions, the resources, or the men of America, in which they are naturally apt to deal more or less freely, are likely to have an opposite effect to that which is expected; while strictures and criticisms are seized upon and made ate of to our disadvantage and undisputed truth.
Mr. Conway has gone much further in error than most of his class, owing no doubt to an idiosyncrasy which has heretofore kept him standing rather alone, even among ourselves. But I much fear the presence of any of them is seldom to be ranked among the auspicious events to a permanent good understanding between the two nations.”

CHARLES SUMNER.
"The Radical Abolitionists are the bravest men, and at the same time the greatest cowards the world ever saw.Sumner, in the Senate, was brave enough to ridicule the physical infirmities of the venerable Senator Butler, but when Brooks, as man of scarce half his strength, took him by the collar, he fell at his feet like a whipped hound.’ 
The paragraph above, with more of like import, appeared as editorial, several weeks ago, in the columns of a certain (weakly) sheet of coppery luminosity, not a thousand miles from Tunkhannock. We understand it to justify and applaud the brutal and murderous attack made by that South Carolina bully, Preston Brooks, upon the person of Senator Sumner several years ago, while quietly engaged at his seat in the Senate chamber during the hours of recess. He "took him by the collar"! Strange! when it is well known that, without a moment’s warning, with the true intent of an <illegible>, be struck a blow with
<c05>
intent to kill or disable him for life,—a fast which a mere child or pigmy, no matter how great a coward, could have performed, even upon the person of a giant, without any great merit for the deed. 
Mr. Sumner's speech upon the "Barbarism of Slavery," which gave such offence to the haughty Brooks and the imperious Keitt, who had no Grow near by to floor him, was a master-piece of eloquence, and one of the most profound ever uttered within the walls of the Senate; but there is not a word of truth in the assertion, that he “ridiculed the physical in firmities of the venerable Senator Butler.” It was the moral bearing and the dangerous political here sies of Senator Butler's speech, and not his physical decrepitude, that Sumner combatted, not ridiculed. It was in opposition to that spirit of aggression which claimed the right to rule the country under the dictates of a Carolina despotism in the interest of slavery, which George McDuffie had claimed as “the corner-stone of our republican edifice.”
Charles Sumner is known for his refinement, his scholastic attainments, and his great culture; and Butler himself used not unfrequently to repair to his desk for information on some Latin quotation, or classic phraseology, he desired to use in a speech. In political philosophy, he may not have been in advance of his cotemporaries; but his honesty and purity of character have never been called in question from any respect able source. He was a long time under the most skillful medical treatment, both in this country and. Europe, before he fully recovered from the effects of the murderous bludgeon, and was able to resume his duties in the Senate; but that speech stands recorded as one of the brightest leaflets that were ever woven into the chaplet of his fame, which is far above the reach either of slander or of scurrility to tarnish. —Tunkhannock Republican.

TRYING TO RAISE THE DEAD.
A few days since, in one of our principal cities, was assembled a conclave of seedy politicians, whose consciences, in searching out ways to perpetuate the damnable system of slavery, had become seared as with a red hot iron, to look up a candidate for the Presidency, and set a ball in motion which would roll into the Presidential chair one who would follow in the treasonable footsteps, and reproduce the political atrocities of Franklin Pierce and James Buchanan. These fossils, following their instincts, turned away from the living to the dead, and George B. McClellan was taken from the “tomb of the capulets” for their purpose. With a great flourish of trumpets, they then resolved that the hero of the Chickahominy Swamps was the man to lead the lost tribes of Copperheadism to certain victory, and drive Honest Old Abe into the retirements of private life. Like one of old, they then called upon the people to "fall down, and worship the image they had set up.” The invitation was long, loud and protracted; but no response came, and none ever will come. This attempt of a set of traitors and Southern sympathizers, to galvanize into life a man who stands as low in the estimation of the American people as he does high in military rank, and who has forfeited not only the confidence but the respect of the loyal men and women of the country, is not only a useless effort, but it dwindles down into imbecility, and merits contempt.
In the terse language of the lamented Douglas, there are now but two parties,—patriots and traitors,—and that will be the dividing line in the next Presidential election. Abraham Lincoln, if he lives, is just as sure to be re-elected to the Presidency as that the sun will rise to-morrow. His majority will be counted by hundreds of thousands. The combined powers of traitors and copperheads can never prevent this result. No “old gentleman" candidate, whether it be George B. McClellan, Horatio Seymour, or Clement L. Vallandigham, will stand the ghost of a chance against him. That kind of “conservatism”" which fosters slavery, either directly or indirectly; that kind of democracy which sympathizes with the rebellion; that kind of whigism which spends its strength in crying out against the loyal doctrines, is already dead and damned. The people hate them with a hatred that knows no limits. The loyal people of the American States have determined that this unholy rebellion shall perish, and with it will perish all who sail under its piratical flag. They have become terribly in earnest. Among the Northern sympathizers with this infamous rebellion, there will hereafter be more candidates for the halter than for the Presidency; and the day will never dawn upon this country, when the culprit at the bar of Justice will be permitted to mount the bench, or usurp the authority which should consign him to certain doom.—Oxford (Me.) Democrat.

THE LEGISLATURE OF PENNSYLVANIA AND THE NEXT PRESIDENCY. 
To His Excellency Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States.—DEAR SIR: The undersigned, members of the Legislature of Pennsylvania, thus early in the session of that body, hasten to congratulate you on the success of the policy of the national Administration, and the auspicious circumstances under which the second Congress of your term has been organized. When it is fairly considered that the policy of your Administration was made the issue in the late elections—when it is known that in the contest for the most important State, as well as the most insignificant municipal office, the issue involved all the essential principles of the policy of your Administration, the result must be the more highly appreciated by the friends of freedom abroad, and cheering to the defenders of freedom, the Union and the Constitution at home. We would be unmindful of the duty we owe our country, if we hesitated to acknowledge the force of that policy in the elections which placed us in our present legislative positions. When fearlessly advocated and set before the people, it won us victory in the face of the most persistent and bitter opposition from the foes of free government. You need not be reminded of the effect which the late election in Pennsylvania had on the destiny of the nation. The triumph at the ballot-box aroused the ardor, and seemed to breathe fresh valor into the hearts of our soldiers, for the achievement of victory on the battle-field. And if the voice of Pennsylvania became thus potential in endorsing the policy of your Administration, we consider that, as the representatives of those who have so completely endorsed your official course, we are only responding to their demands when we thus publicly announce our unshaken preference for your reelection to the Presidency in 1864.
The hope and the life of the American people are now centred in the purpose and the effort of the government to crash rebellion. In more than two years of struggle, we have discovered that the rebellion is continued for an object more important than that of redressing even a real wrong., It is waged for the establishment of a dogma and the recognition of a barbarism. It is carried on against the government for its absolute destruction. In such a struggle, there can be no compressive devised to of.
<c06>
for or considered for acceptances. One or the other of the contending parties must triumph. Justice must be vindicated by the full recognition and operation of the government in all the States, or the claims of traitors will be maintained, this magnificent structure of our government destroyed, and the rights of men forever ignored. To make a change in the Administration, until its authority has been fully established in the revolted States, would be to give the enemies of the government abroad the pretext for asserting that the government had failed at home. To change the policy now in operation to crush the rebellion and restore the land to peace, would be to afford the traitors in arms time to gather new strength, if not for immediate victory, at least for ultimate success in their efforts permanently to dissolve the Union. Having a firm faith in the logic and <illegible> of these positions, we are frank in our <illegible> thus to urge on you the acceptance of a re-election to the Presidency. We believe that the policy of your Administration rendered us  victorious at our last election, and we now insist that that policy, if represented by yourself in all the States, would give the victory to the government in November, and thus forever put an end to all hope of the success of treason.
We do not make this communication at this time to elicit from you any expressions of opinion on this subject. Having confidence in your patriotism, we believe that you will abide the decision of the friends of the Union, and yield a consent to any honorable use which they may deem proper to make of your name, in order to secure the greatest good to the country, and the speediest success to our arms. Pennsylvania has always wielded a potent influence in the politics of the country. Her preferences have been tantamount to the success of the statesmen to whom she attaches herself, and her voice has never failed to give the victory to the right. And while we, the representatives of the great majority of the masses of the commonwealth, thus avow our confidence and reliance in your official action and capacity, we feel that we are responding to the clearly expressed  preferences of those masses, and that Pennsylvania would hail your re-election as the omen of complete victory to the government. Expressing what we feel to be the language not only of our own constituents, but also of the people of all the loyal States, we claim to indulge the expectation that you will yield to the preference which has already made you the people's candidate for President in 1864.
"Hoping, sir, that you may live to see the full triumph of your efforts to rescue your country from rebellion, and enjoy many years thereafter of its tranquil peace and prosperity, we remain your friends and fellow-citizens.”
[Signed by every Republican member of the Senate, and every Republican member of the House of Representatives, as certified by the Clerks of both Houses—a unanimous nomination of Abraham Lincoln for re-election to the Presidency in 1864.]

THE REV. DR. LORD. 
The Rev. Dr. Lord; ex-President of Dartmouth College, is recommended for the copperhead nomination for Governor of New Hampshire. The preference for him arises from the fact that he is a “political parson”-a genus that the copperheads profess greatly to abhor—and has spent much time and prostituted much learning in endeavoring to convince the people of this country that the Bible sanctions slavery, and that, in consequence, it must be a beneficent institution.
Time was, when the views on this subject, propounded by Dr. Lord, were held by him in common with most of the fashionable clergy, especially those ministering to metropolitan congregations. The lords of manufactures, commerce and finance found great profit in Southern trade, and the clergy “prophesied smooth things” to the slaveholders, their confederates and apologists. All that, is now changed. The servile prostrations and abasements of Northern people, the “calling of light darkness, and darkness light,” did not avail to stay the inevitable catastrophe. Slavery was doomed, by the instincts of humanity, by the genius of our political institutions, by the inevitable march of civilization, and, more than all, by the precepts of Christianity, which were so refulgent as not to be obscured by all the sophistries and perversions of the combined sects of the scribes and pharisees.
Some pluck is evinced by the copperheads of New Hampshire in sticking to Dr. Lord, and the issue which he embodies in his own person. In no way could they more distinctly proclaim their recognition of the fact that slavery is at the bottom of all our national troubles, and that they are on the side of slavery. But there is more courage evinced in this than political tact. Even the Rev. Dr. Spring, who has managed to do his country as much mischief as any man now living, except Jefferson Davis, has got his eyes opened, and acknowledges that he has been wrong on this whole matter.  The drift of public opinion is that way. Slavery is not only dead, but will soon he plucked up by the roots. It will shortly take its place in history as one of these gigantic monstrosities, like Juggernaut, which people bowed down to, and sacrificed themselves and their children for, in the days of ignorance and superstition.—Honesdale Democrat.

THEODORE PARKER AND THE UNION.
The London Inquirer of Jan. 2d, in a notice of Mr. Weiss's book, after speaking of the old Union as "this hollow system of shams and compromises,” adds,
"Theodore Parker is more than ever missed in this great crisis of the national history. His clear, <illegible> eye would have seen in the present was a new form of the old national idolatry he so  <illegible> <illegible>. The man who are foremost in urging on this civil strife are the are there who systematically counteneddsed<illegible>  the South in all their <illegible> rights; who <illegible> the Fugitive Law, and preached <illegible> up ‘The Union-the Union with whatever compromise.” Would Theodore Parker have followed, their leadership? Would he have eared much to save such a Union as that?
If Theodore Parker were living now, he would, undoubtedly, be found in company with Mr. Garrison, Phillips, Rev. W. H. Channing, and other veteran abolitionists, in laboring for the reconstruction of a Union based on the idea of universal liberty. Our worthy cotemporary still persists in closing his eyes to the real nature of the present struggle. Blind to the marvellous changes going on, he stands where Phillips stood before the attack on Fort <illegible>. Our  friend across the water reminds us of the legend of the seven sleepers-after having buried himself in  the past, he rouses himself and walks among men, talking of things which belong to that bygome time, as if they were the issues of the living present. We would tell him that not an abolitionist in America but is now hoping and laboring for the <illegible> of the Union on the basis of universal liberty. If Theodore Parler were now alive, he would throw himself, heart and soul, into this work. His clear voice and stirring words would <illegible> from the <illegible> to the Guff of Mexicon, in <illegible> of the <illegible> holders Rebellion, and in behalf of the unity of the nation and human freedom.-<illegible> Register.

“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all <illegible> institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. .……….. From the<illegible> that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war power of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE <illegible> WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to early on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to <illegible> all the slaves in the invaded territory.”  J.Q. ADAMS

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE LIBERATOR.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1864.
GEORGE TEOMSON.
In the next number of the Liberator, we confidently expect to have the high satisfaction of announcing the safe arrival of Mr. THOMPSON of in Boston thirteen years having elapsed since his last visit to America. There are multitudes waiting to give him a hearty greeting Below is the last letter received from him 
LONDON, Jan. 9, 1864.
My DEAR GARRISON:—I this morning received the Standard and Liberator, and read in the former the resolution passed at Philadelphia, in reference to myself. I am deeply grateful to you as the proposer of that resolution, and to those who so unanimously adopted it. Such a notice of my humble labors, by such men and, women as composed the assembly at which it was passed, richly recompenses me for any exertions I have made daring my part life in the cause of freedom and humanity.
My passage is taken in the Asia, which will sail on the 23d. I have several anti-slavery meetings before me. On the 12th, I apeak at a great meeting in London. On the 13th, I give a lecture on the approach tag triumph of the cause of liberty in America. On the 14th, I speak at Oxford. On the 16th, I am to be entertained at a farewell soiree, given me by the London Emancipation Society. On the 21st, I am to be entertained in the City Hall of Manchester; and on the 22d, at a breakfast at Liverpool. Here will end my public speaking in England. All these meetings will, I trust, more or less promote the great cause in which we are in common interested.
I trust the arrangements of the Parker Fraternity Committee will not have been seriously disturbed by the postponement, for a fortnight, of my departure. I suppose I shall not reach Boston before the 5th or 6th of February. If, on my arrival, I can render any service to the good cause by speaking in public, I shall be happy to do so to the extent of my physical ability.
My kindest regards to your family and all friends.
GEO. THOMPSON.
A friend at Manchester sends us the fallowing Farewell Address to Mr. Thompson on his leaving England for the United States, which was to hare been presented to him at a Select Soiree, In the City Hall or Manchester, on the 21st ultimo:—
DEAR AND HONORED SIR,—For ourselves, and on behalf of many thousands of your countrymen, who have long admired, esteemed and loved you, (and who would have gladly joined in this tribute of personal regard had circumstances permitted.) we most cordially and tenderly bid you FAREWELL!
For upwards of thirty years, your name has been prominently and meritoriously associated with nearly every advanced movement for the welfare, elevation and enfranchisement of the human race. But preeminently, and with uniform consistency, have you labored and suffered in the glorious cause of HUMAN FREEDOM, with a spirit of undaunted courage and untying devotion. In Great Britain, in India, in America, you have been "in labors more abundant"—your energies and sympathies consecrated to the service of all man kind, of whatever race, color, condition or creed. Not only have you borne the heat and burden of the day, in sunshine and in storm, but never have you flinched in the utmost stress of conflict, in the darkest hour of danger, or in any emergency or crisis, however terrible to the less brave and less hopeful champions of Freedom. Whoever the foe, whatever the difficulty, and however others may have faltered, compromised or retreated, you have always been the steadfast and trusty friend and defender of Liberty and Right-Tour able pen, your eloquent tongue, your indomitable spirit, have always been at the service and call of the truest and wisest friends of Universal Emancipation. We cannot rehearse the multifarious occasions on which, as a public man, you have Mood forward the advocate and friend of those who were prostrated by rechless oppression, crushed by unjust social burdens, or trampled upon by iniquitous legislation. But the record of those services is cherished in the memory and affection of millions of grateful hearts, and will be graven by the pen of historic truth on an enduring tablet of the nation's memorials of her good and gifted citizens, who have consecrated their lives, their talents, and their manly energies to the cause of Humanity and Progress.
Your character and services are not unknown to either the friends or the foes of Liberty in the great Federal Republic of America, whither you go to take up your residence. With the name of that large-hearted and heroic-souled man, WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, yours has long since become a cherished household word, in tens of thousands of he homes of the free citizens of that kindred and friendly nation.
On this occasion, you go to America under circumstances and prospects very different from those you had to encounter on your previous visits. Within the last three or four years, it may be said almost literally that a nation has been born again in the cause of Freedom.
That noble martyr of liberty—JOHN BROWN, the hero of Harper's Ferry—by his magnanimous devotion and death, sent a thrilf of new life to the nation's heart of hearts. The moral electricity of that grand human soul not only galvanized the dead bones of social rottenness in the South, but awakened to new life to new purpose, and to new hope, the drooping spirits of the North. Had it not been for John Brown's immolation on the altar of liberty and patriotism, HONEST ABRAHAM LINCOLN could not have been President of the Union, and thus be enabled to become the second deliver of the nation. And had not Mr. Lincoln been elected, the cause of Negro Emancipation would have gone backward probably for half a century. It was the time and crisis of the nation's utmost social, political and moral need; and the Providence of God, blessing the efforts of good men, raised up a man who had a heart, a conscience, and a soul above the tricks of politicians and the subtleties of diplomacy.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, nearly eighty-three years since, gave the American nation the boon of Independence. In our day, ABRAHAM LINCOLN has confirm a more estimable blessing, by proclaiming the Federal Nation the home of impartial and universal freedom.
It is true that the great work of the present day is not fully and finally accomplished; but the foundation is laid, the noble edifice is rising in grandeur, and the glad day is near at hand, when the top-stones shall be placed on its pinnacles and domes, amid the jubilation not only of four millions of a redeemed race, but the plaudits of every free nation throughout the world.
Commending yon to the care of an all-wise and eve watchful Providence, and to the fraternal sympathy o all good men, we again bid you an affectionate FARE WELL!
The following handsome tribute to Mr. Thompson appeared in the Boston Traveller of Tuesday evening, by John P. Jewett, Esq.

GEORGE THOMPSON.
In a recent issue of your journal, I noticed an article from a New York paper, which stated that a proposition was before the Manhattaners for the erection o a suitable statue of John Bright, in one of the New York parks. The idea is a noble one, snowing that the people of the North can appreciate the labors of a foreign friend, By the side of Bright, or a little in the foreground, should be placed in enduring bronze the statue of him whose name beads this article—the man who, by his transcendant eloquence and unanswerable logic, converted John Bright to the views which he now holds on Amercian affairs, and which he so ably defonds to and out of parliament.
To Mr. Thompson, more than to any hundred men in England, including Bright and Cobden, are we indebted for the creation of a correct public sentiment touching the Slaveholder' Rebellion. His matchless eloquence hat moved and swayed the masses as with the wand of an enchanter. His labors in all parts of England am Scotland have been unceasing from the commencement of the war to the present hour.
He has lectured so frequently, and written so much, and aided in the formation of so many societies of Northern sympathizers, that his health has suffered greatly in consequence, and he comes to this country to recuperate his wasted energies, hoping to remain here until the Jubilee. He deserves the most enthusiastic evation ever given to any visitor from foreign shores; he has earned it by his self sacrificing devotion the Federal cause.
In years past, Mr. Thompson has been known principally as a warm abolitionist, bat during the whole progress of our civil war, he has been an ardent and devoted friend of President Lincoln, the Washington Government, and the Northern cause. I speak not from hearsay, but from personal knowledge and observation, during the greater part of the next year, having attended many meetings with him, and been familiar with his daily toil. If any one man in England has so far modified public opinion as to prevent a war between that country and this, that man is George Thompson. Let our reception of him throughout the entire North, and at Washington, show that we can appreciate such labors.
Yours truly,
JOHN P. JEWETT.
<c02>
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.
At the Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society. Tremont Temple, Thursday morning, Jan. 28.
[Phonographically reported by JAS. M. W. YERRINTON.]
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: I respond most heartily to the tone of the speech of my friend, the Rev. Mr. Waterston,—and the hopeful aspect which be paints for us of the nation's probable, certainly possible future. I think, as he very rightly and forcibly said, that this very hall to-day is one of the best arguments for hope. Three years ago, we could hardly find room upon this platform, and you could find no room in those seats, from the presence of a mob, pledged to breakup the meeting of the Anti-Slavery Society. Society. Where would you find that mob to-day? You would find some of its leaders, its active men, in the national uniform at Fortress Monroe; you would find others in the service of liberty in New Orleans; others still at Port Royal, bearing high office in the nation's service; and the rest of them you would find in honorable graves, found in the very service of that idea which they met here to crash. More than our brothers, some of them are leaders to-day in the great effort to save a race. On this platform sat, I think, that morning, the bosom friend of John Brown, the foremost man whom Mason's arm sought in the North, thinking him a fit subject for national prosecution as a traitor, and the fit tenant of a District of Columbia prison. For months that man [Maj. Geo. L. 8tearns] has been the Assistant Adjutant General of the United States for the enrolment of colored troops, his headquarters the mansion of Felix Grandly at Nashville, appointed to do, under the stars and stripes, in broad daylight, by wholesale, what Virginia murdered Brown for trying to do in detail (applause);—then sought by the long arm of executive prosecution; to-day the right hand of the War Department, with all the colored men under the flag of the Union for his department and diocese. Certainly, no one, looking over the field, can be ignorant of such facts as these. Through these very streets, where the colored man was mobbed at midnight, he has marched under the banner of the Union, with the proudest names in Massachusetts for his officers. No man can fail to see the immense stride in our progress; and no student either of history or republican institutions can doubt the ultimate result I believe, with Tocqueville, that the future and inevitable form of all governments is to be democratic; that all progress tends to that final and happy goal. I believe, of course, as I believe in God, that the system of human bondage is to fail and cease on this continent, and I believe enough in events to have a perfect faith that it is to cease soon. In anything I have to say to you to-day, therefore, do not doubt for a moment my belief in the ultimate success of republican institutions here, and in the certain triumph of the effort to emancipate the negro. I have no doubt on either point. My only anxiety is in regard to the path by which the nation, is to reach that goal—whether easily, with as few obstacles as may be, or painfully amid many difficulties. The sick man will live; he will kill his present disease. Shall it be at once? Shall be leap from his sick bed to health, or shall he continue, through invalid and painful years, a tedious and ugly padi back to health? Which? That is the only question, it seems to me, presented to twenty million of enlightened, determined people. Of the real purpose, and of the final success of that purpose, there can be no doubt.
Having said thus much,—shown you at least my normal standpoint,—let me read a resolution which I want to submit to this meeting:—
Resolved, That, in our opinion, the Government, in its haste, is ready to sacrifice the interest and honor of the North to secure a sham peace; thereby risking the introduction into Congress of a strong confederate minority to embarrass legislation, and leaving the freedmen and the Southern States under the control of the late slaveholders embittered by their defeat in war, and entailing on the country intestine feuds for another dozen years; and we listen in vain, either from the leaders of the Republican party or from its journals, for any such protest as would arrest national attention, or create a public opinion decisive enough to avert the sacrifice.
I have as little doubt as my friend Waterston of the spirit of the Northern people. I have no hesitation in regard to our future, so long as the war rests in the bands of the people—none whatever. I believe with him in the sincere anti-slavery purpose of a large portion of the Northern people; and in regard to the rest of them, I believe that, although not lifted to the level of an anti-slavery purpose, they are yet thoroughly convinced that we need the negro to fight for us, we need him to work with us; and therefore the whole North is willing, from the higher or the lower motive that justice shall be done to the negro. So long as the war rests where it has done, in the hands and purposes of the people, it is daily removing obstacles of its pathway, changing the minds of the Northern and of the Southern people, as rapidly as any such change was ever wrought in the history of the world. But the South watches to-day, and the thoughtful Northerner fears to-day, that the decision of this question is passing into the hands of the Government in the very crisis of a Presidential election. The South era leader says—"Let me bold on a few months longer, no matter at what cost—let me keep the stars am bars flying six months longer, and in the turmoil of that fight, in the selfish ambition of that struggle, may find, if not a confederate, at least so much sympathy that I shall go out of this contest with very good terms, if not victorious."
He knows, and we know too, the effort of what may be called the Government in the coming eight months and during that eight months, the effort is to be made partly by mercantile influence, partly by political influence, from ambitious motives, to put an end to this war. Whoever brings back half-a-dozen States into the Union stamps himself the President for the next four years. Whatever General conducts the procession is the next candidate, four years ahead. Mean time, Washington is crowded to-day with speculators—men anxious to grasp the confiscated plantations for seven or ten years on lease, and that the Government will allow them to bold the freedmen on that soil as apprentices. With these two concurring circumstances they can snatch a fortune oat of seven years, and leave the Government question, the negro question, the whole question, to settle itself. Money hungering of increase; the greed of the merchant, with his capital at present unemployed, El Dorado beckoning him to exertion, be can but say " Amen " to the colossal fraud in which Presidential candidates trade.
These are the two forces that are at present pressing close on the Government, to manipulate it into a willingness for some plan by which the war, as such, may be closed. Now, I believe in the North, as my friend does, provided it can be heard. I believe in the purpose of the people, provided it is not baulked. But there is that in politics, you know by the history of every party that the country has seen, which brings down its profession to a much lower level of actual exertion; and the Republican party is like its fellows The nearer you get to Washington, the more your hope sinks. One of the shrewdest of oar politician said to me—" I come out of Washington hopeless; go back from Massachusetts cheered." It is exactly hate that I wish this Society to discriminate in its position; to see bow much labor is left as; to say what our appropriate work is. We are not to say that slavery is not largely destroyed. We are not to believe that it has not received its death-blow. So many a man has got his death-warrant from a typhus fever, who lingers some weary years after the fever leaves him Slavery may linger, death-struck though not dead years after the war ends. The President wishes it killed, but will hardly sanction the measure necessary to kilt it Kentucky, the Gibraltar of the Border States obstacle, stands full of slaves. Treat her as you treated Maryland, and in twelve month you could take the rivets out of the slave system. That the Executive will not allow; and so the breakwater which saves the system, stands firm and untouched. As with Kentucky, so with other unsur-
<c03>
mountable obstacles. When the enthusiastic enlisters of negro troops placed the recruiting stations in Tennessee, on the line between that State and Kentucky, in order that indirectly, within sight of its vast, unbroken mass of slaves, they might catch one, leavening the mass, penetrating it with the purpose and the hope of freedom, the Department ordered the recruiting stations removed South thirty miles, for fear of touching the reserved Gibraltar of the Border States, where the root of the system is planted, whence its future influence is to grow; unless such means are provided in the more Southern States as will prevent its re-entrance.
Now, in these circumstances of the North, where is the South? My friend Brown read you an extract from a doubtful paper in St Louis. We need not go there. Take the last speech of Andy Johnson, of Tennessee-if not the ablest man west of the mountains, if not the ablest statesman of the country, then, at least, among Southerners, the greatest force known in a politics-the Unionist, whose life is not worth an hour unless the armies of the Union hold Tennessee-the caps heaf of the converted slaveholders what says he? “I am for a white man’s government; I am for the freedom of the negro. The destruction of slavery is the only end of this conflict; but I am for a white man’s government.”(1)
Mr. GARRISON. I think GOV Johnson added that he was for a government broad enough for whites and blacks.
Mr. PHILLIPS. No, Sir; he was for a government broad enough for the liberty of whites and blacks, but not for a government of whites and blacks. That is the point. Our democratic institutions rest on this; and this is the essential distinction, in the quarrel between North and South. You recollect Benton’s very remarkable letter, dated a year or two before his death, in which he says, “The rebellion is to break out; slavery will be its pretence, but aristocratic institutions are the real motives.” That is the Southern quarrel aristocracy. The North has democratic institutions, and their essence is this-no class is safe which has not the means to protect itself. That is democracy. England says.” The educated will take care of the ignorant; the rich will take care of the poor.” The Fourth of July said, “No class is safe in any nation which has not the means to take care of itself.” (applause); and hence we have given the ballot, which is the Gibraltar of self defence, to every class Never will this nation be a unit until every class God has made, from the lakes to the Gulf, has its ballot to protect itself. (Applause.) Never will there be a Union worthy of the name until we make the Carolines the counterpart of New England. (Loud applause.)
Now, every thoughtful man sees that this is not a war of cannon, but a war of ideas. Its present phase only is cannon; its last phase was politics. I want it ended with cannon; I don’t want it remanded to politics (applause); and there will be no end of it until the institutions of the Southern States correspond to those of the Northern, and then Union is inevitable, by the natural attraction of parts.
Now, when Gov. Johnson says, in Nashville, “I am for the liberty of the negro, but I am for a white man’s government,” he shows that the foremost man of the South is not yet converted. He is the capaheaf Below him stand-what? What has made the difference between a Northerner and a Southerner? What has been the weakness of the North? Servility! We never dared to stand erect in the presence of a Southerner. Our great men were vassals before Southern assumption. The Southerner in his heart believed that there was no man in the North his equal; that there was not a “gentleman,” in his phrase, north of Mason and Dixon’s line. That spirit is not exorcised. That aristocratic, overbearing, slave-overseer-ship is not killed out. The Unionists of the South are so proud yet, that they have not the remotest idea that this government can do them a favor. They think they do us a favor by accepting the conqueror’s benefits? There is no evidence to-day that even in the better part of the Southern mind, that mood is extinct If they come back, they come back to govern, not to co-operate. Now, I express here my conviction, as I have done, that until we change or provide against that mood of mind in the governing class of the Southern States, it is not safe to reconstruct State governments. There will be no Union until that is done; we are merely adjourning the battle into Congress. The South has always been victorious in Congress. We have beaten her in the field. Mr. Lincoln’s project is to adjourn the battle from Grant to the Senate Chamber. I believe in Grant, and I don’t believe in the Senate Chamber. (Loud applause.) I believe in Major Generals, not in the Republican party. Therefore, I am not in favor of reconstruction yet. Mark you, what reconstruction means! We are always cheated with words. “Amnesty,” in Europe, means pardoning a rebel. It means, when the Czar of Prussia utters it, a Polish peasant permitted to plough the land he does not own; and that is all it means. “Life” is a correlative and synonymous term; and that is all. “Amnesty,” from the lips of Abraham Lincoln, means the ballot-box; it means an admission to sovereignty. If the Czar should say to the General of the Polish rebels,” Come here and share my throne!” he would be saying what Lincoln said to the rebel States, when he sent out the Proclamation of the 8th December. I say, before you share sovereignty, you should be certain of the mood of mind with which you share it. So to-day, the negroe is in our hands. To-day, there is nothing between him and the stars and stripes. To-day, if his rights are invaded, the quick and long arm of the War Department may reach to the mouth of the Mississippi, and redress his wrongs. May do it; I do not say it does. We stand to-day where, according to its professions, the nation has ached to stand for a quarter of a century. For a quarter of a century, we have stood on platforms like this, and argued to the people their duty in the matter of slavery; and most of them went home and said” The logic is inevitable; slavery is a sin; it ought to be abolished. The abolitionists are right, if we only had the power; but, unfortunately, we have no more power over Carolina than we have over Timbuctoo.” A line, black and broad, stretched on the parchment of the United States Constitution, separated Washington from Carolina. The cannon shot at Sumter passed over it, and when the smoke cleared away, the line way, the line was gone! (Great applause.) To-day, the Executive of the United States is omnipotent in the Carolinas. To-day, the government of the United States can protect the black man at Columbia as thoroughly as it can in Washington. I never will part with that right, or draw that line between us again, God helping me! until I have furnished the black man with the power to protect himself. (Applause.) Shall I stand, seven years hence, and see Gov. Aiken whip the children of Robert Small to labor, and have no right to interfere; when to-day I have the right and the power to put Robert Small and Gov. Aiken side by side, each with equal power and right to protect him self from the other, and God help the bravest! (Applause.) No; before this war is closed, at least the black man, whom we have tempted into the unpardonable sin of helping us, is to be substantially protected,
(1) It is proper, in this connexion, that the exact language used by Gov. Johnson should be given. In addressing the late Free State Convention in Nashville, he said:-
“Slavery has been the destroying element which tried to put down the government, and the government should put it down immediately and forever. He unsheathed his award for universal freedom, and had thrown away the scabbard. He wanted a free white man’s government, but his platform was broad enough for the freedom of all black and white. Let all harness for the great battle of human rights and justice to all, and defy the negro aristocracy and slave-drivers. Our victory is certain; for we seek the freedom of whites as well as blacks. We must restore the State government on righteous principles, and defraud none of their natural rights; strike the fetters of the slave, and let the oppressed go free. Gradual emancipation was preposterous, for it proposed to fit the slave for freedom by prolonging his slavery. There must he no compromise with traitors till slavery goes down. Perhaps to-day is the chastening of the nation for our great national sin. Slavery is in our way-1st truth triumph, justice prevail, and slavery go dows, let us striks for liberty. Freedom’s alter is creeted, and he who will not come forward and worship is a coward and slave.”
<c04>
on his own soil, against the master who hates him. If one of you allow that line of division between the sovereignty of the Union and the exasperated state of Carolina of be drawn again, until you have planted there such institutions, as ensure to all classes an standard liberty, the professions of thirty years have been rank hypocrisy, and you have been basely wanting to your great opportunity.
I think that the government is in the mood to do so. I think that unless public opinion be imperiously enforced, you will see it done. North Carolina is almost ready; Louisiana is quite ready; Tennessee is getting ready; and it is said that Mississippi and Arkansas may be readily manipulated into States. They then take their places in Congress; and do they take their places in Congress Northerners in opinion? No; not a man as good as GOV Johnson. Men all the way behind him down to the slaveholder; and Sumner and Wilson, and Wade and Stevens are to be checkmated and balanced by half-converted men. Massachusetts, the leading mind of this war, is to be neutralized,-her vote exactly neutralized,-in the Senate and House, by Louisiana, in the twilight of her ideas. “Presbyter,” said Milton, “is old priest writ large.” Reconstruction is compromise, with a syllable added, nothing more. It is giving back the slave in to the hands of his master with technical liberty, that is all. It is handing him over to toil under legislation which you cannot dictate. The West Indies will show you how fatal is such a course. It is sending into Congress the same war between men substantially aristocratic and you. It is wasting one-half the effort made by the North to crush this rebellion. It is to leave us, weakened, for the next ten years, to all sorts of struggles and feuds.
I said when I began, that I believed in the success of the Republican idea; but I see as clearly as any man that it is by no means a self-evident proposition, that the Republic is to come out of this war a real, living and vital democracy. What are the two elements which have always killed Republics? The military spirit and the money spirit Great debts have been the grave of all free governments. Military ambition has been the executioner of Republican Government when this war closes, in the field, we are to have a million of disciplined soldiers We are to have five or ten thousand high officers coming back into civil life. The nation’s professions, mercantile, legal, medical, clerical, are full. Where are they to find opportunities? Every ordinary avenue to profit and distinction is crowded. There is nothing left for them but politics. Now, citizens, go back to 1783. Our little army disbanded, Hamilton and Burr came out from the camp into civil life. They, with their followers, found places at the merchant’s desk, in the courts of the States-full employment, ample reward for their ambition. Suppose they had not Suppose, she when the first gentle rocking of the wave under the newly-launched frigate of the Constitution made every Federalist tremble for the result, that Burr, idle, ambitious, crafty, inexpressibly able, had gathered the fragments of his loving soldiery together, and sought to crush the new enterprise of union, who can say that the blow which came so near succeeding ten years later would not have dashed the Union to pieces in 1791? And yet every student of our history knows, that for fourteen or twenty years after the war, every great office in State and nation was filled by men available as candidates because they had always the soldier’s vote behind them. Now, you are never to see the old Republic into which you were born. No one of you is ever to see the peaceful, farming, steady, reading, quiet, homely Republic, that we loved to think of, associated with seventy years of successful existence. You are to see a first-rate military power; our resources developed; our strength manifested; the poison of military ambition infused into our feints; our leading influences thirsty for war, half-ruined young men, the privates of large armies, longing for the camp,-that is to be the next thirty years. Side by side with that, you are to see a debt of from two to four thousand millions of dollars, funded, one half of it, in the hands of the capitalists of this nation, and the other half in Europe. Mr. Chase is a pre-eminently successful financier. The bonds of the Union are above par. We rejoice, and bid the world take notice. Don’t waste your efforts! The Rothschilds know it to-day, and they will invest in it fast enough. “Where the carrion is, there will the vultures be gathered.” And when they come, what is to be their influence upon the word and policy of the nation? Why, the New York papers swore terribly, years ago, that they could not hold up the real republicanism of the State against one of the Rothschilds’ agents. The owner of a little driblet of some thirty millions of dollars was able to fight the Empire State at the ballot-box, and turn back the career of her republicanism. Foreign capitalists are to hold a thousand, two thousand millions of dollars-check the merchants, affright the bankers, change exchange, and manipulate the nation as landholders always have Money in the left hand, the sword in the right-the Republic between them! For God’s sake, cut up every other root of bitterness, and gird up your loins for there are enemies enough on the other side the water and in the camp! Save us from every other Let Congress be united; let the States be water, melted into one homogeneous mass, before we enter on those doubtful paths!
The reason why I counsel and protest against any settlement that does not root out slavery, and the aristocratic element to which it has given birth, is because there is danger enough ahead, without leaving any thing which is not inevitable in our path. Now, there fore, while the thunderbolt is grasped in the President’s hand, while his omnipotence is unquestioned while the progress in opinion is marvellous, while the South itself is growing into an honest Union sentiment, why give up the priceless opportunities of the hour? Dr. Bowen, of Tennessee, told us that he took a petition from Arkansas, for immediate emancipation, into the State of Tennessee, and presented it to twenty-two slaveholders, and eighteen of them refused to sign it, on the sole objection that it asked for compensation. They said, “Our property has jeoparded the nation-let it go!” Major Steams reports a meeting of the same character in his own parlors at Nashville, with the same result. Let that State ripen; let starvation and want, let bloodshed and confusion rest upon it, until out of the cloud rises, not a conquered, but a converted people (loud applause,)not a subjugated but a changed heart And no other influence but this, no other method but leaving the States to their own thought, to the remonstrance’s and counsel of their own sons, will ever do it I would not put a rough Yankee hand among the thrilling and throbbing cords of a Carolinian’s State pride. Why should I? He loves the Palmetto as I love the Indian. I will not try to break that strong cord of State pride which, in the emulation of thirty sisters, is to make the impetus and motive for daily progress. Preserve it! Leave Carolina to convert herself! 
Hold her! Embolden the Unionists to speak! Consult, convert! Take those confiscated baronial possessions, of ten or twenty thousand acres, carve them up into farms, holdings. Give the magnificent country that Aiken once called his, to the black men who have saved it for as, (applause,) and to the white men who have survived the pestilence of the Port Royal Islands, and won them back to civilization and the Union! Why should they not have them? You say it is cruel to the landholders. Well, I am willing to be as magnanimous as the nation can afford. I am willing to be as magnanimous as is safe for the nation and for the negro, but not one jot more. (Applause.) I pity the rebel. He shall have everything the nation can give him, and be safe. Davis and Toombs, and all the rest that survive, may fly to Florence, and patronize the arts, with the gold they have filched from their victims, unhanted, and, if you please, unhated. Let them go to the grave in the bad which Garabaldi will make free. (Loud applause.) I care not. I want no gallows; I want no punishment; not one jot little of it. The nation is strong enough to crush her rebels, and not punish them. But it is to be done by a policy which prevents their harming us. If Ten. 

<c05>
nessee comes back with seventy thousand slaveholders owning Tennessee, it will come back substantially an aristocratic element in is the nation, and Yankee thrift, energy and capital, and Yankee school-houses have got, bit by bit, man by man, acre by acre, to clutch back the Tennessee which the Government will thus have surrendered to despotism. To-day. as, is our friend told us, the educational apparatus of New England follows close behind the cannon. The moment we get an acre, we set a school houses on it. God speed New England! (Great applause.) And next door to it we set up a spinning machine; and next to that a sewing machine; and next to that, we plant in the sweat of each man’s brow the hardest be is to gather and to eat Civilization taking possession of the recovered states!-my painted it to us. But how long will those Massachusetts girls, how long will; those Massachusetts sons, be permitted to educate the black man, when the Palmetto waves over the Port Royal Islands, and representatives from the State sit in the capitol? Just as long as the half-converted rebels of Carolina allow. Why should we consent to that? Why ask Aiken or his comrades for the right to educate the black men of Carolina? I shall not deem this war safely ended, if, when it closes, there is anything left between Northern wishes and Southern needs. I would have a clause in the Constitution of the United States, that no State shall make a law which recognizes any distinction of race. If an ignorant white man can vote, an ignorant negro shall. If a white man who can read can vote, a negro who can read shall. (Applause.) If a white man who owns a hundred acres votes, the negro who owns a hundred acres shall vote. Never until we secure that, spite of Southern white blood, is the Union safe. Abolitionists! do you mean to be footed with words? “The President has struck off the fetters of the slave.” Yes, I know it. All honor to Abraham Lincoln for so much! And the man who has won such prayers as those of which our friend has told us, may well be willing that we should criticise him. I know he has done so much; but there stands the black man naked, homeless; he does not own a handful of dust; he has no education; he has no roof to shelter him. You turn him out like the savage on the desert, and say to Europe, “Behold our magnanimity! That man made the South a paradise? and when it was done, he shouldered his Basket with us, and saved it to the nation. Look at him!”
The gratitude of republics! disfranchised, naked, homeless, poor, we gave him back to the white man who hates him, to dictate the terms of his existence! Are you contented? I am not The negro has earned land, education, rights. Before we leave him, we ought to leave him on his own soil, in his own house, with the right to the ballot, and the school-house with in reach. (Load applause.) Unless we have done it, the North has let the cunning of politics filch the fruits of this war. Do you suppose that if, at the end of the revolution, England had offered to pay us back the tea tax and six per cent, interest, we should have been contented? Men's demands rise as their expenses increase. We have baptized Baltimore with the first baptism of honest brood it ever knew. We have given Virginia a prouder title than that of the mother of Presidents; for now she is the grave of martyrs. We have covered the South with the enthusiasm and conscience of the North, moved to this great strife in the providence of God, and when we furl our banners, and call home our cannon, we will leave the negro our ally,-at least able to protect himself. (Applause.)
If you go to Washington, and ask one of your Senators, “Can a bill to abolish slavery pass that Congress?” he will tell you there is not a chance of it If you say to him, “Why, sir, you have a large majority,” he will answer, “We have not” Abraham Lincoln is an honest man, as politicians go. He is as good a man as could come out of his circumstances; I am not here to blame him; but, for all that, he has not yet done what no human being hardly ever does do-he has not yet outgrown the prejudices of his first forty years. He is a President of the United States, unfortunately born in Southern air. We have the misfortune, in this great struggle of ideas, to have our standard-bearer emphatically a southern man. He has gone as fast in his conversion as he could go; but, as I said last night, the process in a Southern-bred man and a Northern-bred man is totally different. I read last night, you recollect, a letter from Major General Butler, wishing success to the Festival. Now, Butler was a much worse man, five years ago, than Abraham Lincoln. (Laughter.) Abraham Lincoln, at that time, was an honest-intentioned Whig; and I am free to say that Butler was (omitting the adjective) a very equivocal Democrat (Renewed laughter.) I have not a doubt of it over both-over the fresh ripe soil of the hearts of both these men swept the storm of the revolution. What sprang up from that soil? Northern Democrat-Southern Whig? There sprang up in Butler’s heart the old English fair play principle-“ Before I have the meanness to ask a man to fight for me, I will give him all his rights (applause); and before I leave the man who has fought for me, I will leave him capable of taking care of his rights.” (Renewed applause.) That is a Northern Democrat, flowering out into an Abolitionist. (Loud cheers.) So, Nathaniel P. Rogers, of New Hampshire, told us, twenty years ago, “Whenever the Democrats of the White Mountains do move, they will shame you all by their consistency and their enthusiasm.” To-day, the prophecy fulfils itself. Now, mark you! over the Southern heart of Abraham Lincoln breathed that same inspiration, and he comes out-what? Honestly in favor of the negro’s liberty. Honestly! I believe that if the President's blood could, be analyzed, you would not find one drop in him, from head to foot, which was not resolved that the negro in the end shall be free. (Prolonged applause.) But there he unfortunately stops. He does not recognize the negro as a man; he does not remember the negro as a soldier; be does not blot out races; be does not forget them. He does not tell of rights, he talks of benefits. He says, substantially, essentially, in his recent programme, “The negro has received immense benefits.” No doubt of it. “He has broken his chains.” Granted. “I leave him to the Unionists of Carolina to take care of him. They will grind him to powder, no doubt. (Laughter.) But he has a great deal to be thankful for; a great deal more than he could ever have expected; and under the harrow he will come up by and bye, twenty years hence, a free man:-all in good time!” Now, that is a very decent sort of an American, but it is not a MAN. A man to is drowning in the Atlantic; Butler catches him by the hair of his head, and does not leave him till he sets him on Plymouth Rock, high and dry. (Applause.) Lincoln brings him to low-water mark, at high tide, and says, “My friend, wait there six hours; when the tide goes down, you’ll find yourself in the mod. You can’t drown-it’s a marsh. Webster used to shoot snipes there!” (Roars of laughter and applause.) The one is radical, earnest, and to be trusted; the other is a half-converted, honest, Western Whig, trying to be an Abolitionist.
We will be thankful for so much, and labor hard for before. and I know the day when, if we had got only one half as much, we should have rent this roof with plaudits. Yes, I have no doubt of it. But since that time, almost every house counts a vacant chair; almost every mother remembers one whose voice does not answer to hers. All the way down to New Orleans, the pathway reddens with the rich blood of the young martyrs of New England. Shall their blood be shed even half in vain? We have that power and the right-why should we not use both? Let the war, if necessary, go on; at any rate, let no State come back that does not come back in the hands of working-men, white or black. Massachusetts is a Democratic State, because every man owns his farm, and works on it; New York is like Massachusetts; Illinois the same; and we stretch away to the West, democrats, because every man has something to do, and does it. He may shut off his covetous neighbor, a hundred acres, right and left, and say, “Here, at least, I am sovereign!” Good! such a mood against capitalists and armies; only preserve it. Make over. 
<c06>
the South in the same likeness; plant the same seeds; then let the States come back when you please.
I believe in natural forces, not Parliaments. I believe in nothing strong enough to quell the war but natural laws. The South is aristocratic. Every one of you, who has read history, knows that there is nothing but a priesthood so hard to kill as an aristocracy.
If you have not-and probably cannot kill it is this generation, then plant the seeds which will smother it, and set up a barrier that meanwhile will check its power.
You know I told you here a fortnight ago, the story which our friend Yerrington brings from Nashville. Think of it! The reporter and printer of the Liberator planted at Nashville, with a copy of the Liberator is his pocket, and sharpening his pencil, blunted in reporting an anti-slavery speech in Boston, to take downs repentant slaveholder’s last confession! He was standing in an office at the Capital, when there came in a man clothed in ragged butternut, but still a white man, and therefore a superior being! He told our friend he was a deserter, fresh from the Chickamauga fight. He wanted to get bread enough to support him on the way home-some thirty hours down the river. He was told by the officer that the Government had exhausted their supply of rations for such cases, and all they could do was to furnish transportation. “But what am I “Do?" said the man. "Why, it will be easy enough for you to work to work your way down on the boat; you are strong and hearty enough; all you would have to do would be to carry in a little wood at the stations." The man looked up at him and said, “I never did work an hour, and I don’t believe I’ll begin now.” “Well,” said the Northern-bredofficer, “it seems to be a question between working and starving.” “I will starve a week before I will work an hour,” (laughter,) was the reply. That was a poor white man, in rags: should you like to have him bring poor white man, in rags: should you like to have him bring back Tennessee?” (Laughter and applause.) What do you think would be the mood of Davis, still able to dress in purple and cloths himself in fine linen, allowing he gave fifty pieces of Confederate paper for a gold dollar? Has Lincoln made him or those like him over into fit timber for Senior of the United States to legislate with Charles summer! 
I throw not. You have not crushed out the contempt for labor in the mind of the starving and ragged paper of Tennessee-what are you going to do with the landholder? Trust him with one-half the President Chair and the Senatorial vote? Who will but green-backs, if on that man’s vote is to rest a tariff for your interest? How shall we lift off this burden, resting so heavily on the nation’s back, in thirty years? I will tell you. Put every slave on his own acre; and we will treble the cotton crop in twenty-four month. Is a free man, statistics have proved for fifty years, will produce three times what a slave will; and with such a Union, we can pay this debt, and leave no sear. But introduce these states, the white man crippling the white man cripping the <illegible>, endeavoring to cheat, demoralize him, and kill out his ambition, and that debt will hang over an us for a century. There is not one motive of humanity, of espediency, of statesmanship, of prosperity, which does not dictate to us the necessity of waiting—not to hery reconstruction,
Now, I will tell you when I shall be willing to abolish this society. There sits my friend, the Rev. Mr. Grimes. He ran the risk, a few days ago, of being made the chaplain of the Massachusetts Legistrate. Ran the risk! (Laughter.) Now, when a black man runs the risk of being elected a senator of the Can from any Southern State, as well as chaplain of the Legislature, I will vote to abolish the American Anti-Slavery Society. I don’t ask to have him elected, but only to have the ghost of a chance. (Laughter.) Has that day come? You laugh at it. Down on the Port Royal Island, there is a black man who ought to have been born on Plymouth Rock, because skins don’t make Yankees, it is brains. When the Port Royal expedition landed, this man stood there penniless and ragged. They gave him an old wagon that would sell at auction, and he managed to buy a horse for six dollars at auetion, and set up an express. (Laughter.)
The profit in a month was no good that he bought a boat, and run an express between the island and the main land. The last I heard of him, he had hired, half a plantation, had ten negroes working for him, and six thousand dollars worth of cotton (Applause.) That man ought to have been born have, except that South Carolina can’t afford to a lack him. Another man just behind him, has been about 75 percent, as successful. Let these men go on, let the rest go on; give them a fair chance to make money-that sine qua non in America, for you must either make money, or be after it, or there is no pardon for you in this country—and who knows that they may not arrive at the possibility of being in danger of being elected to something!? (Laughter.) You remember Mrs. Child’s old story of the church member up in a Worcester, who, finding a black man sitting in the next pew to him, left his seat in a flaming rage, and asked his neighbor, “What did you bring that negro in here for?” “He is a friend of mine.” I don’t care; he is black. Why did n’t you send him up stairs?” I have known him these twenty years.” What of it? Why didn’t you send him into the negro pew!” He is a correspondent of mine. ”Hang it, I don’t care; this is no place for him.” Why, my dear friend, he is worth:-a million of dollars.” Introduce me.” (Great laughter and applause.)
Extract from a private letter received from Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY, dated Syracuse, N.Y.:-
“If we do not now exterminate slavery, and do the freed people full and exact justice, I believe we shall bring upon our nation a severer punishment, a move awful calamity, than we are now suffering. I am have insisted, again and again, in my speeches and summons, that the newly freed people of the South have the first right to homes there, and that our government is under the highest obligation to see that they all have comfortable portions of the soil they have no long tilled without compensation, and watered with their sweat, their tears, and their blood.
Then the poor whites, should be cared for, as they never have been;. and encouraged, and if need be, helped to obtain good homes. There is land enough, and they should all have a fair share of it. The future peace and prosperity of our country are to be measured by our treatment of those, who have been hitherto so ruthlessly oppressed. The Lord has came in judgement upon our nation, and He will require exact justice. His name be praised! His will to be done!”
NORTHAMPTONS, Jan! 27, 1864.
W. L.GARRISON:
DEAR SIR-I have not a copy of our friend WASTIER’S kind note, in reference to mine of the 28th <illegible> which you recently published, touching the friendly attempt to serve you, by Mr. Clay, at the time of your imprisonment in Baltimore. My object was, in <illegible> make known the fact that Henry Clay, at the suggestion of J.G. Whittier, did attempt to effect your release from prison. The case, I suppose, <illegible> with almost literal exactness,-excepting that, on reflection, I believe “fine and costs” were not meaticed by Mr. Clay. That must have been infected with me from the consideration, that after a season <illegible> of imprisonment had been passed, it would not <illegible> very likely to be reversed, and hence that there was no other way of effecting the object sought for <illegible> that that of “paying fine and costs.” Still, I was would have preferred to have confined myself to the <illegible> truth. I think our friend for calling my attention that error.
As to the, part Henry Clay would have acted him <illegible> he lived till now, of course we cannot know. What Whittier, in the abundance of his charity, seems to this <illegible> he would have been all right. I certainly would have<illegible> the same thing; but I cannot divest myself of the belief, that had Henry Clay lived to this time though he never would have ceased to be party <illegible> his patriotism would have been developed, she waslike <illegible> of his friend Crittenden, in constant and <illegible> efforts to make peace by compromises. He never <illegible> have sanctioned the emancipation policy.
Very truly, &c., A. W. THAYER.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Thirty-First Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society was held in Boston, at the Tremont Temple, on Thursday, Jan. 28, 1864. It was called to order at 10 12 o'clock, by the President, EDMUND QUINCY.
Wendell P. Garrison was nominated, and unanimously chosen Assistant Secretary of the meeting.
SAMUEL MAY, JR., the General Agent of the Society, made a brief verbal Report of the action of the Society, in co-operation with the American Anti-Slavery, Society, and other kindred instrumentalities., during the year past. He closed by saying that the immediate, pressing question now before the Society is this: Shall we, yielding to the counsels of some: extremely hopeful members of this Society, disband, and withdraw the great moral element and power of organized Anti-Slavery action from the field!-or, shall we by a vigorous union of all our hearts, hands and labors, do our utmost to keep awake the aroused  conscience and moral sense of the nation,-the element which is now absolutely indispensable to the rightful decision of those questions, upon which the safety and security of our country entirely depend!
Mr. GARRISON read to the Society a letter from the venerable Jesse Stedman, of Springfield, Vt.
Mr. MAY read a letter from Hon. Tyler Bigelow, of Watertown, addressed to the Ladies' Anti-Slavery Committee of the Music Hall meeting of last evening, and for which there had been no time then. It bore a very strong testimony on the subject of slavery, and was heard with eminent satisfaction.
On motion, the following were chosen a Business Committee-William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell- Phillips, Andrew T. Foss, Parker Pillsbury, Henry C. Wright., Wm. Wells Brown, Stephen S. Foster, Abby K. Foster, Elizabeth B. Chase.
The President spoke briefly, contrasting the present meeting with that held by this Society, in this very place, three years ago--tumultuous, bloody minded-the Secessionists and Slavery-ists of the North, co-operating with the secessionists and incipient rebels of the South, to destroy this Society, and to take the lives of some of its members, and especially of Mr. Phillips, who, it was designed, should never go from the Hall alive. Mr. Quincy said, a gentleman now sat near- him, who on that day of mob-rule came into this Society's meeting, and offered prayer,-Rev. R C. Waterston. He hoped Mr. W. would now give to the meeting some of the views which the changed state of the city, the country, and the nation, could not have failed to impress upon his mind.
Rev. Robert C. Waterston said that the mob referred to was apparently the last spasm of the pro-slavery element. We have been rescued from the vortex in which the nation seemed likely to be swamped, and one can look forward to the answer to our appeals and efforts in general emancipation. This is one of those times in which the Divine hand is visible in human affairs. It is no longer faith but sight. We know that the cause of justice will obtain the support of Providence and final victory. That which was uttered in times past from the Anti -Slavery platform, in regard to the demoralizing influence of slavery, and which was deemed groundless, harsh, or bitter, Providence has demonstrated to be the truth, and has developed already the essential antagonism of slavery and freedom. The colored people were considered unfitted for immediate emancipation, unable to sustain themselves; or were argued feeble-minded and incapable as a race; or again were asserted to be vindictive, and formidable if ever set at liberty. Providence has demonstrated them to be free from all spirit of vindictiveness; and has made manifest their power and their will to support themselves. Their desire for knowledge has been perfectly surprising, in all ages and both sexes, and their skill, industry, and thrift have been wonderfully displayed. As soldiers, they have repelled the accusation of cowardice, with unsurpassed heroism. All honor to our friends and kinsmen, who have gone to expose their lives for their country, and to all who endure privations in her cause; but if any distinctions are to be made, who are the bravest of the brave?
 Those blacks who were willing to fight merely as privates, and in the face of barbarity and torture if taken prisoners. It was a proud day for Boston when the first colored regiment marched through her streets. The capacity for discipline which- they have manifested was joined to the highest courage when opportunity offered at Fort Wagner. The testimony to the soldierly qualities of the blacks comes from those who were formerly the most prejudiced against them. 
Turning to the work of this Society, Mr. W. asked if the whole of its duty was performed when the slave was simply freed. Emancipation is but the pioneer work  of blasting the rock and levelling the forest; education follows to sow the grain and raise the golden harvest. The most glorious work is yet opening-to lift up the freedmen with education, counsel, culture. The day of antagonism is over, and that of befriending begins. He  is the greatest mind who could contend when it was necessary, and can now assist and elevate those for whom he had contended successfully. Our duty towards the colored man should constitute a part of our duty to mankind. The spectacle is sublime of the progress of our educators amid the carnage of this war. The school-house follows the advancing lives of our armies. The spirit was admirable with which young men and women of the highest intelligence have abandoned Pecuniary advantages and personal ease, in order to instruct the freedmen, and to satisfy their thirst for knowledge. 
Mr. Waterston's speech was one of much eloquence, and moved the sympathies of the audience deeply. We regret that a full report is not in  our power.
WM. WELLS BROWN said the colored people had a most lively interest in passing events. He reviewed the spirit in which the war was at first waged on the part of the government  and nation. Union  was to have been restored without affecting slavery. The services of the colored man were rejected with contempt. Defeat on the battle-field necessitated the employment of the blacks as soldiers, and since then our progress has been steady, both in the war and in the political status of the colored people. The President to-day receives colored men at his reception, and in Louisiana they have seats in a loyal convention. Still, the drawbacks are numerous. The more loyal a slaveholder in the Border Slave States, the more secure is he in his power to hold slaves. Kentucky and Tennessee, being exempted from the Proclamation, are the asylum of more slaves than ever. Kidnapping is active, even in the District. The colored servants accompanying some of our returning regiments, and who were freed by the Proclamation, were seized in Louisville, imprisoned, and exposed for sale.
These facts are a source of fear to the colored people. To abandon anti-slavery work at such a crisis would be folly. We must talk, petition, labor in every way till the black man's rights are recognized, and till slavery is buried beyond all hope of resurrection.
The President nominated the following Finance Committee:- 
James N. Buffum, Eben. D. Draper, Lewis Ford, Joshua T. Everett, Mrs. Frances H. Drake, Nathaniel B. Spooner.
WENDELL PHILLIPS was introduced, and came forward amidst applause. He offered the following Resolution:-
Resolved, That, in our opinion, the Government, in its haste, is ready to sacrifice the interest and honor of the North to secure a sham peace; thereby risking the introduction into Congress of a strong confederate minority to embarrass legislation;, and leaving the freedmen and the Southern States under the control of the late slaveholders, embittered by their defeat in war, and entailing on the country intestine feuds for mother dozen years; and we listen in vain, either for the leaders of the Republican party or from its journals, for any such protest as would arrest national attention, and create a public opinion decisive enough to ayert the sacrifice. 
<c02>
[This Resolution Mr. Phillips supported in an elaborate and eloquent speech; for a full report of which, see the preceding page.] 
At a quarter put one o'clock, adjourned to half past two.
AFTERNOON. Met according to adjournment, the President in the chair.
JOHN PARKER, a, colored man, recently from Virginia, addressed the meeting. He said he had been a slave in Virginia,-was takes into the rebel army to work upon fortifications and dig ditches, and was a gunner in the first battle at Bull Run. He was promised his freedom, and land for his own," when the Yankees were whipped"; but, he asked himself, where would the land be, if the Yankees weren't, whipped? So he took leg-bail, and got away into Pennsylvania. [He continued in a humorous strain; and afterwards, by request, gave account of hit brutal: treatment by a party of seven newly-recruited soldiers in Worcester. Three of then were arrested and held for trial, but were taken from the county jail, and suffered to rejoin the army, going unwhipped of justice.]
Mr. GARRISON read a letter, just received from George Thompson, acknowledging with thanks the resolution passed at Philadelphia, (at the Third Decade Meeting,) referring to himself and his services in behalf of the American cause since the breaking out of the rebellion. Mr. Thompson said be had taken passage for America in the steamer Asia, to sail from Liverpool January 23d. 
Mr. G. also a read a letter from Daniel Ricketson, of New Bedford, enclosing a series of Resolutions to be oflered to the meeting, and they were read, as follows-
Resolved, That to charge the Abolitionists with being responsible for the present war, is in the nature of the same injustice as to accuse Christianity with being the cause of alt the violence and bloodshed that her exposure of wickedness may have aroused in the hearts of the enemies of the truth. 
Resolved, That the weapons of the Christian reformer are not carnal, but spiritual; and that nothing short of a living faith in God and Christianity can ensure success to the cause of humanity, against its foes. 
Resolved, That if the teachers of religion of the North had been faithful to the doctrines and precepts of Christianity, it is reasonable to conclude, with the light of the nineteenth century, the abolition of slavery could have been effected without bloodshed. 
Resolved, That with our faith unshaken in the doctrine of" peace on earth, and good will towards men," we still recognize, amid all the confusion of the present bloody struggle of Slavery against Freedom, the hand of an overruling Providence, evolving good out of evil, and hastening the day when the sword of the oppressor shall be broken, and the oppressed set free. 
Resolved, That we not only have no sympathy with that portion of the community," who cry peace, when there is no peace," but we abhor in our hearts that base hypocrisy, which, under the semblance of good, would enact evil, and" steal the livery of heaven, to serve the devil in." 
Resolved, That while we rejoice in the Proclamation of our President of January 1, 1868, by which the rebel States are pronounced free, we shall not rest from our labors until a full and unconditional act of emancipation shall be consummated; and that we, on this occasion, renew our pledge to this great object and end. 
HENRY C. WRIGHT read an extract from a speech of Hon. Henry T. Blow, of Missouri, upon the modes to be employed in restoring Missouri to the Union as a free State; also the resolutions of a preliminary free State Convention in Florida; also part of an editorial article from the New York Tribune, showing the tendency of slavery to its downfall in the Border and conquered Slave States. These remarkable indications of the revolution of public sentiment at the South were contrasted with tile rebellious posture of every Slave State at the outbreak of the war. Mr. Wright alluded to yet other encouraging facts in our national progress, especially the legal emancipation of 3,000,000 slaves, and contended that the aim of the Abolitionists was not the reduction of aristocracy, but simply the abolition of chattel slavery. This latter question he thought virtually settled; and so far our work was done. But he heartily coincided with what had been said in regard to our duties towards the freedmen. He was full of hope as to the destruction of slavery under the war, and strong in the faith that oar republic will live a higher life because of the struggle through which it has passed. The grand idea of the future is the equality of all men without regard to race or locality. In this we should school ourselves, and u|ion this build a free government at home, and pull down every despotism abroad. 
A gentleman in the audience, confirmed by Mr. Phillips, corrected Mr. Wright's statement of the sole aim of the Society, which embraces the elevation and improvement of the colored race as well as its enfranchisement.
NAHUM OSGOOD, of Salisbury, adverted to his early connection with the anti-slavery movement, and of the principle of doing to others as he would others should do to him, which he had endeavored to keep strictly before him. He saw constant and great progress; and believed that the colored man must be, and would be, lifted up into freedom and citizenship. 
JAMES N.BUFFUM, chairman of the Finance Committee, announced the result of the morning's collection, and urged its increase to the sum of $1000. His own experience was, that no investment was better than in the Anti-Slavery Society. He referred to the mob which, three years since, broke up the John Brown Commemoration Meeting in this city. He was told in that meeting, by Mr. Richard S. Fay, that the anti-slavery movement must be put down; and I am determined, said the speaker to me, to pat it down." Well, Mr. Fay," said I," you have got a great job on your hands. Won't you let me know when yoa have done it?" Since that, Mr. Fay has found it needful, for health or some other reason, to leave the country. But be could not go without writing a letter publicly expressing his satisfaction at the prospect that slavery would be utterly destroyed in the land, as the result of the Southern rebellion, and of the growth of anti-slavery sentiment in the country. 
Mr. Baffum gave some account of a recent visit to Washington, and bf the many evidences of anti-slavery growth he there met with. He heard from the lips of a slave woman belonging to the rebel General Lee, the account of the flogging she received at her master's own band-a fact which has been made public and denied. 
EDWIN THOMPSON indulged in some retrospective remarks, for our encouragement amid the present struggle; and urged a generous and steady support of the old Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society. 
STEPHEN S. FOSTER said our duty was, in the past, to tear up and destroy a wicked institution, but now he thought it was somewhat different Reconstruction is to take the place of destruction; for the old system -the old Union-is gone forever, and can never be restored. If, as is charged, we brought on this war, the same Power who enabled us will continue the war till our end is accomplished. In rebuilding, we must rear upon principles, fundamental and far-reaching. To this point, Mr. F. read some resolutions which he had prepared, and would submit to the meeting. Mr. Foster said be thought the Declaration of Independence was a neglected instrument in the present conflict, and yet it contains the supreme law of the land, and it ought to be wielded with powerful effect Freedom was the promised reward of those who were summoned to take up arms against the mother country. The pledge was for liberty and equality, and was irrevocable. 
Mr. Foster criticised the feasibility of Mr. Phillips's plan for checkmating the Supreme Court by amend-
<c03>
ing the Constitution. He thought that Court would not recognize an amendment, except from three-fourths of all the States. It was on this account that he deemed his own resolutions important. The people most assert their supremacy, and not commit themselves into the power of their servants. 
The Chair appointed the following persons a Committee on nomination of officers of the Society, for the ensuing year:-
John T. Sargent, Boston; William Ashby, Newbury port; Bourne Spooner, Plymouth; Jefferson Church, Springfield; George Miles, Westminster; Elbridge Sprague, Abington; Elias Richards, Weymouth; Wm. Wells Brown, Cambridge; Benj. Snow, Jr., Fitchburg: H. W. Blancbard, Dorchester; Ezekiel Thacher, Barnstable; Josiah Hay ward, Salem; Otis G. Cheever, Sheldonville. 
Adjourned to half-past seven o'clock.
Evening. Met according to adjournment, the President in the chair.
Rev. JOHN T. SARGENT, with a few preliminary remarks upon the encouraging aspects of the times, and urging the faithful use of every means of influence, presented presented the report of the Nominating Committee, as follows:-
PRESIDENT,
EDMUND QUINCY, of Dedham.
VICE PRESIDENTS,
Bourne Spooner, of Plymouth; William Ashby, of Newburyport; Adin Ballon, of Hopedale; Jefferson Church, of Springfield; Josiah Henshaw,"of West Brookfleld; Henry I. Bowditch, of Boston; James N. Buffum, of Lynn; John T.Hilton, of Brighton; Ellis Allen, of Medfield; George S. Flint, of Rutland; John Bailey, of Lynn; David P. Harmon, of Haverhill; Thomas T. Stone, of Bolton; Ezekiel Thacher, of Barnstable; Charles Lenox Remond, of Salem; John Clement, of Townsend; Atkinson Stanwood, of Newburyport; Joshua T. Everett, of Princeton; Benjamin Snow, Jr., of Fitchburg; George Miles, of Westminster; Timothy Davis, of Framingham; Zebina H. Small, of Harwich; William Pope, Jr., of Dorchester. 
Corresponding Secretary-Samuel May, Jr., of Leicester.
Recording Secretary-Robert F. Wallcut, of Boston. 
Treasurer-Edmund Jackson, of Boston. 
Auditor- William I. Bowditch, of Brookline.
Counsellors-William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Philips, Maria W. Chapman, Charles K. Whipple, Anne W. Weston, John T. Sargent, Charles E. Hodges, Ezra H. Heywood. 
Report amended by adding Mrs. Sarah J. Nowell to the list of Counsellors, and then unanimously adopted; and the persons therein named were duly elected. 
ANDREW T. FOSS, of New Hampshire, said be had recently travelled very extensively in New Hampshire, and he found it to be the nearly universal belief there, that slavery was illegible with its death-wound. This was the conviction of both friends and foes. It was his own belief. In all great causes, there are the two periods of seed-time and harvest. For a long time we were sowing the precious seed of anti-slavery truth; now in accordance with unchangeable moral law, we may rightfully look for the harvest. We are not content to demand the emancipation of the slave as a military ecessity. Others may do that, and I am glad to have it demanded on any grounds; but we demand it in the name of the living God, and in accordance with the principles of eternal justice. In New Hampshire there exists a party which still aims at conserving slavery, though I think they are beginning to doubt the possibility of it, and so are striving after other new issues. Now 1 am willing to say, that I believe it to be one great part of our anti-slavery duty at this time to keep that party out of office and power. This may sound like politics. I can't help it. I am for helping with all my strength whatever goes for the death of slavery. I know the Republicans are not very anti-slavery, and many of them protest they have no such purpose or thought as to interfere with it; but I know, too, that parties, like individuals, are often agents of a power higher than themselves; and I believe the Republican party is destined and foreordained, whether they know it or not, to give slavery its death-blow. I have no wish or design to mix in party politics; but I hope to be one to help save New Hampshire from copperhead, or in other words democratic power, as the word democratic is used or abused now-a-days. Stephen S. Foster and Anna E. Dickinson saved New Hampshire from the copperheads last year, and anti-slavery agents lope to do at least as well this year. 
WILLIAM A JACKSON, ex-coachman of Jeff. Davis, said he felt embarrassed at speaking amid the pioneers of the cause. But he felt strengthened by the thought that he should speak for a race, and not for an individual. In regard to his own birth, birthplace and color, he had not been consulted, and was not responsible for these accidents. If any one found fault with him on account of these, he might settle the matter with the Almighty. Having had but twenty months of freedom, he must be judged in his effort this evening by the fact of so short a term of schooling. He thought Jeff. Davis must be feeling pretty bad, now that his best friends are leaving him-James, his body-servant, and himself, his coachman. To get the body-servant is next door to getting Jeff, himself, and perhaps forebodes it.
Mr. Jackson referred to his New Hampshire campaign with Mr. Foss as a proof of great progress. The only difficulty of getting into the churches was on account of the objection of their occupants to their defilement by tobacco juice, &c.
The Border States now constitute the strength of slavery, and we must not rest till the system is abolished from Missouri to Delaware. Slavery will then tumble of itself in Virginia and the other rebel States. Loyal slaveholders are the most dangerous class of men. They are the obstacle to the perfect Union which ought to be. They are the allies of the British aristocrats who are seeking a division of the republic.
In this connection, Mr. J. (who has himself bean in England during the past year) paid a proper tribute to the efforts of GEORGE THOMPSON, JOHN BRIGHT, PETER SINCLAIR, and others, In staving off the efforts at recognition of the South by England. He alluded humorously to his interview with Mason, upon whose departure for Paris he himself left for America, thinking all was well in England. 
In conclusion, Mr. Jackson presented forcibly the connection between the cause of the slave and oar own welfare, and the necessity of vigilance and further work.
Mr. GARRISON came forward, and said:- 
I have never listened to such a speech as that which has just been made with so much modesty, propriety and intelligence by our fugitive-slave friend, Mr. Jackson, without being powerfully impressed as to that awful feature of the slave system-namely, the suppression of all intellectual and moral activity on the part of its victims. The numerous instances we have had, in the course of our long straggle, of fugitives from the house of bondage, who, whenever an opportunity has been presented, have manifested a surprising amount of hitherto latent shrewdness, sense, and fluency of speech in creditably addressing public assemblies, demonstrate that the emancipation of those in thraldom will be a general resurrection of buried moid, and the commencement of a career of improvement and self-elevation that will ultimstely be crowned with glory. 
I bold ia my hand two resolutions, in addition to those already offered, which I will read to the meeting:-
Resolved, That the results of the general emancipation of the slaves now going on in our land, in consequence of the rebellion of the South and the efforts of the Government for its suppression, have gloriously confirmed the most sanguine predictions and expectations of the Abolitionists, and demonstrated the folly and iniquity of those who prophesied" evil, only evil, and that continually," if slavery were abolished; and
[This Resolution Mr.Phillips supported in the elaborate and eloquent speech; for a full report of which, see the preceding page.]
At a quarter put one o'clock, adjourned to half past two.
AFTERNOBN. Met according to adjournment, the President in the chair.
JOHN PARKER, A colored man, recently from Virginia, addressed the meeting. He said be had been a slave in Virginia,-was taken into the rebel army to work upon fortification and dig ditches, and was a gunnet in the first battle at Bull Run. He was promised his freedom, and land for his own,"when the
Yankees were whipped"; but, he asked himself, when would the land be, if the Yankees weren't whipped? So he took leg-bail, and got away into Pennsylvania. [He continued in a humorous atrain; and afterwards, by request, gave account of his brutal treatment by a party of seven newly-recruited soldiers in Worcester. Three of them were arrested and held for trial, hot were taken from the county jail, and suffered to rejoin the army, going unwhipped of justice.]
<c04>
that the matter how or whenever tried, even under cir cumstances of a fearfully depressing nature,-whether as free laborers or as soldiers,-the liberated bondmen have shown themselves abundantly competent to take care of themselves, to vindicate their manhood, and to he put in posseesion of all those rights and immunities which are conceded to all other classes in this country.
Resolved, That while we deeply regret that our honored friend and faithful co-laborer, GRORGE THOMPSON, is not with ns on the present occasion, in accordance with his original intentions, we rejoices to believe that he is now on his way to the United States; where on his arrival be may be assured of a hearty welcome, not only from his old Anti-Slavery associates, for his long-continued services in the cause of the chattelized millions in our land, but also from all truly loyal men, for his zealous and powerful sup port in England of the American Government in its efforts to suppress the most unjustifiable and most hideous rebellion ever recorded upon the bloody page of history; and we call upon all such to manifest their gratitude and respect, by seeking the earliest opportunity to make such public recognition of his services as his patriotic and republican efforts eminently deserve.
Mr. President, in the presence of this audience, I need add little, by "way of remark, to the resolution concerning GEORGE THOMPSON-the true and faith ful-friend of our country for thirty years, if ever it had one. (Applause.) It is cause for joy and con gratulation, that the times are so far changed that he can now come here, not only without fear of insult or mob violence, but with the assurance that be will receive the respect and greeting of all freedom-loving and truly loyal spirits in the land. Even since this monstrous rebellion broke out, he has proved himself to be its most active opponent, and, consequently, the most devoted and untiring advocate of the American Government and its emancipation policy, of all who have spoken or written on the subject in England; and to him, primarily, we owe a very large amount of that friendly popular manifestation which, from time to time, has been transmitted to us, in various forms of expression, across the wide Atlantic. Certainly, we shall all delight to do him honor on his arrival, and to give him a most cordial welcome. (Applause.)
Mr. President, in consequence of a severe domestic affliction and of bodily debility, I am not mentally or physically in a condition to make a speech; and, there fore, I shall not attempt to make one. But I wish to propose an amendment to the resolution which was submitted to the meeting by my friend Mr. Phillips this forenoon, and which he advocated with his usual ability and eloquence. As it now stands, it reads thus:-
"Resolved, That, in our opinion, the Government, in its haste, is ready to sacrifice the interest and honor of the North to secure a sham peace," &c.
 President, in consequence of a severe domestic affliction and of bodily debility, I am not mentally or physically in a condition to make a speech; and, therefore, I shall not attempt to make one. But I wish to propose an amendment to the resolution which was submitted to the meeting by my friend Mr. Phillips this forenoon, and which he advocated with his usual ability and eloquence. As it now stands, it reads thus:-
"Resolved, That, in our opinion, the Government, in its haste, is ready to sacrifice the interest and honor of the North to secure a sham peace," &c.
I am not prepared to bring this charge; nor to cast this imputation. I believe that there is only one party at the North that is ready to make such a sacrifice for such an object, and that is the party of copperheads. I would therefore propose that the resolution be amended as follows:-
" Resolved, That, in our opinion, the Government, in its haste, is in danger of sacrificing,"," &c.
This, Mr. President, is what I am willing to admit, and what I believe; but I would always rather err on the side of charitable judgment than of excessive condemnation. The resolution, as offered, is an impeachment of motives, not of ability or vigilance. It com mits us to the assertion, that we believe the Govern ment-meaning Mr. Lincoln in particular-is ready to do a most infamous act, namely," to sacrifice the in terest and honor of the North to secure a sham peace,"," whereby the President's Emancipation Proclamation shall be rendered null and void, and the slave oligarchy restored to their original supremacy. Now, sir, I do not believe a word of it, and therefore' I cannot vote for it. To be ready to do a base thing for a base end implies both will and purpose; it means something more than, liability; it amounts to perfidy. There was a time when I had little confidence in Abraham Lincoln, and very little respect for him: it was when, for almost eighteen months after secession bad had taken place, he was evidently averse to seeing that slavery had any vital connection with the rebellion, and so re fused to strike a blow at its existence. Then he was specially admired by the democratic party, and warmly eulogized all over the North by such papers as the Boston Post and Courier, the New York Express, Bennett's Herald, and the Journal of Commerce, as the sagacious, patriotic and faithful President, who kept all" fanatics" at a distance, and refused to be guided by their policy. But the time came at last, when the President, unless he was determined to be wilfully and wickedly blind, was compelled to see that slavery and the rebellion were indissolubly bound up together. Then came the proclamation of unconditional and everlasting emancipation to three millions three hundred thousand slaves, leaving not one to clank his fetters in any rebel State; and then, all that is vile and seditious in the copperhead, pro-slavery, rebel-sympathizing element in the North burst forth against him, and to this hour continues to pour every vial of its wrath upon his head. Since that event, and in view of what has followed in the enrolment of tens of thousands of colored soldiers, I have changed my opinion of Abraham Lincoln. In proportion as he haa has fallen in the estimation of the disloyal portion of the North, he has risen in my own. True, he is open to criticism for his slow-ness, and needs spurring on to yet more decisive action; but I am not willing to believe that he is" ready to sacrifice the interest and honor of the North to secure a sham peace" with the rebels. That is a very grave charge. Such is not the conviction of the people, nor of the rebels themselves who would like to destroy him. Popular conventions and gatherings are nominating him by acclamation for re-election to the Presidency. The Legislature of Kansas,-radical, suffering, anti-slavery Kansas,-has unanimously given the same verdict. Every Republican member of the Legislature of Pennsylvania has signed an address to the President, earnestly urging him to consent to a re-nomination. Even the Legislature of Maryland-now overwhelmingly loyal and strongly anti-slavery-has by vote formally expressed the same wish. 
Taking all things into consideration-especially in view of the fact that be he has not only decreed the liberation of every slave in Rebeldom forever, but stands repeatedly committed, as no other man does, before heaven and earth, to maintain it so long as he is in office,-in my judgment the re-election of Abraham Lincoln to the Presidency of the United States would be the safest and wisest course, in the present state of our national affairs, on the part of those who are friendly to his Administration. No other candidate would probably carry so strong a vote in opposition to copperhead democracy. Such, at least, is my conviction.
Mr. May gave notice of the financial needs of the occasion, and of a collection especially for the expenses of the meeting.
WENDELL. PHILLIPS read from the Business Committee three Resolutions, being a portion of those of-fered by Mr. Foster in the afternoon, together with an additional one:-
Whereas, recent events having thrown the whole question of slavery into the hands of the Federal Gov ernment, it has become our duty as abolitionists.',' in this critical moment of our national existence, to make known our wishes and intentions in regard to the political future of the colored race; therefore.
Resolved, That, as abolitionists, we demand of our countrymen the adoption of no new political theories, but simply a faithful and impartial application to the colored race of the well-established principles of pop ular liberty.
Resolved, That we can consent to no settlement of our present national troubles which fails to recognize the manhood of the negro, or would leave him an affectsalien to the Government which is to dispose of his destinies. On the contrary, we defund for him an equal share with the white race in the management of the political independence
institutions for which he is regard to required to fight and blood,
<c05>
and to which he is clearly entitled by every consideration of justice and democratic equality.
Resolved, That to the demand of the Government for men, we answer-"-" Set free the slaves, and invite them to enlist under officers who prefer success to defeat, and offer them the same bounties and pay as white soldiers."
Resolved, That we demand that Congress, now that the war power gives it the right, shall abolish slavery throughout the Union, and shall take measures to amend the Constitution so as to provide that there shall be no slavery in any State of the Union, and no law in any State making any distinction on account of race.
Mr. Phillips, said, in regard to Mr. Garrison's proposed posed amendment to his resolution, that he be could not accept it, since he be believed the Government was knowingly preparing for a peace in disregard of the negro. He believed the war would cease before slavery- which has received its death-blow-would perish. Institutions die slowly. The war of ideas, not of arms, is destructive of slavery, and ends with it. The system has been a long time doomed by the laws of God, bat but herein has been no excuse for inaction in times past, nor can be now. God works through means. " Stand still, and see the salvation of God,"," was poor advice from Abraham Lincoln. We are to kill the rebellion, not to see it killed. Events are destroying slavery? True, and this meeting is one of them. Critism and education are our weapons. As for criticising motives, for the slave'sslave's sake, I am ready to do even that. Mr. Lincoln and the Government are not synonymous, but the latter, with all its adherents, is willing that the President's plan should be carried. To mention the contingencies which are possible under such a policy, is not to impeach motives. The treatment of the colored troops, to which Mr. Garrison has already referred, is proof that the Government is ready for terms which ignore the rights of the negro. But, aside from technical interpretations of law, Mr. Lincoln has not advanced to a comprehension of what is demanded of him. Witness his refusal to cashier Gen. Schofleld, on appeal of the radical Missourians. I cannot trust him in reconstruction. His Proclamation is not valid where Mr. Wright has claimed it. It does not, when applied, bestow -those rights which this Society was established to secure. The technical liberty which the black man gets is no better than apprenticeship. Equality is our claim, but it is not within the intention of the Government to grant it to the freedmen. I cannot trust the Government, therefore, especially when it has no better support than the Fall elections. To this weak brace at the North, the Government proposes to add the doubtful States of Mississippi. The same Executive proposes to annul the Confiscation Act-the jewel of Congressional legislation. If he is our pilot, I shall criticise his capacity to carry us into port. As Abolitionists, we must not forget the blacks. Slavery is not yet dead. In Kentucky it is not touched. Nay, there is well understood to be a tacit agreement between Gov. Bramlette and the President, to shield Kentucky from another Gen. Birney. In the Missouri conflict, Mr. Lincoln was neutral, when he might have settled it with Fremont in an instant. Is this the leader in whom we can trust for reconstruction? Not unless the North can crush him into submission. Some hope lies in the fact that Mr. Lincoln's obstinacy is not so long as the course of events. But the voice of trade begins to be heard. Presidential speculation to is rife. A new banking system is to make the country $18,000,000 poorer than it would be if the banks were uncreated. We are in danger of letting the wound film over, instead of healing from the centre.
I am not here to oppose the renomination of Abraham Lincoln. Give me a North, and I care little for men. Three New York presses in their right mind can counteract any officer. The peril of the moment is, that the nation is crystalizing round the President's plan, and new States are already ic in the process of return. South Carolina restored under the Amnesty would not be safe for Robert Small; and for this, if for no other reason., I say Veto to the President's Amnesty Proclamation, and shall to my dying day.
Mr. Garrison, in reply, said the lateness of the hour rendered it undesirable to prolong this discussion; but he could not refrain from saying a few words. Without approving all Mr. Lincoln's acts, censuring much that he has done, he was inclined to regard him as a fair representative of the popular sentiment, and perhaps to have advanced, on the whole, as fast and a as far as the people were ready to endorse him. ["[" No, no!"]!" J Well, that is a matter of opinion; every one most must decide for himself. The President must be judged by his possibilities, rather than by our wishes, or by the highest abstract moral standard. That he might safely have done more, he (Mr. G.) believed; but the President did not think so, and had been true to himself.
Mr. Phillips had expressed his warm approval of and entire confidence in Gen. Grant and Gen. Butler; but neither of these had, in word or deed, gone beyond the line of the President's policy. Why, then, were they to be approved and confided in, and he to be held up to suspicion and condemnation?
Mr. Garrison said be he scarcely knew how to reconcile the sentiments of his friend respecting the President. Last evening, at Music Hall, he spoke of him as the son sun so bright in its effulgence as to make it difficult for some to see the spots on its surface; to day he had expressed the belief that there was not a drop of blood in the President's veins that was not anti-slavery; and now he had occupied almost an hour in representing that sun as one globe of darkness, and imputing, to Mr. Lincoln a readiness to" sacrifice the interest and honor of the North to procure a sham peace,"," whereby his own emancipation measures would be thwarted by a return of the rebels to power.
Mr. Phillips had also eulogized Gen. Fremont; but he (Mr. G.) must frankly confess that, while he had been a warm admirer of Fremont, his interest to) in him had been lessened in view of the fact, that in is no way had he be publicly expressed any satisfaction in regard to the President's Emancipation Proclamation, nor any approval of the act authorizing the enrolment of colored soldiers.
Mr. Phillips- It to is not fair to criticise him when he to is forbidden by the Government to speak a word.
Mr. Garrison-No! but he has always a right to be magnanimous; and if he may not censure, he may at least loudly approve of those measures which strike at the very roots of the rebellion. What a glorious opportunity he has lost to show himself superior to all personal feelings towards the Government!
As to the Amnesty Proclamation, he entirely concurred with Mr. Phillips in regarding it as pregnant with evil consequences. He had elsewhere condemned it in unequivocal terms. He denied the competency of the President to set aside the confiscation act, or to recognize a State as fu in the Union, when only one-tenth of those who voted at the polls in 18601880 should avow their loyalty, leaving the other nine-tenths still arrayed in rebellion against the government. He held that no election should be deemed valid in any rebel State until it was thoroughly subdued.
In conclusion, Mr. Garrison referred to the treatment of our colored soldiers, and especially ofat the Massachusetts 54th and 55th Regiments, in the matter of pay, and to their refusal to accept the payment of ten dollars a month offered them by the War Department, and so admit their inferiority to white soldiers. Nothing in history, in this connection, is more honorable and noble than this action of theirs. It is a shame to the Government that just and equal pay has sono long been withheld from these soldiers, on the pretext of a law of Congress, passed in reference not to colored soldiers, but labrers. Nor is in any special law needed to secure the payment of these arrears, or to do justice is to the future. There is already law enough. These men were corolled as citizen-soldiers of <illegible> and the United States, and it to not constitutionally in the power of Congress or the War Department to degrade or defrand them. He hoped Senators Sumner and Wilson wou'd oppose the pas-
<c06>
sage of any special enactment<illegible>, and demand full payment for them under the general <illegible> law of Congress.
The signs of the times are encouraging. All loyal men, North and South, agree in the necessity of having slavery destroyed. But let us to be vigilan and un-compromising to the end, and at the same time ever disposed to give credit to whom it is due.
S. S. FOSTER regretted the lateness of the hour, which compelled an adjournment of this most interesting getting discussion. He desired that the Society should be unanimous at this crisis. For himself, be he was hopeful, but he saw that our mission was not yet terminated. To leave the freedman where he is now, would leave him grovelling in the condition of the poor whites, a little better than a slave. Since Sumter fell, there has been no unanimous expression of principles on the part of this Society, but each member has been obliged to speak for himself. Our great debates have ceased altogether.
Mr. Foster expressed his surprise that the President of the American Anti-Slavery Society should nominate for President a man who is keeping a million of slaves in bondage. Mr. Lincoln is the embodiment of the Dred Scott decision., He it was who sought to save the Union, and save slavery at the same time. Having now the power to abolish slavery in the Border States, he refuses to exercise it
He thought the proposed amendment of the resolution would render it worse than useless. For this own resolutions., of which only a part were reported back, he wished action to be taken on the whole series in detail, so important did he deem them.
The question was then taken on the amended amendment to Mr. Phillips's resolution, as moved by Mr. Garrison, The Chair being in doubt as to the vote, it was again taken by the raising of hands, and the amendment was declared to be lost, but the number of those these voting on either side (quite large) was not given.
The original resolution was then adopted, by almost the same majority which had rejected the amendment.
The other resolutions before to the Society, as reported from the Business Committee, were adopted.
The entire cash collection of the Finance Committee was $387.
The Society then, at half-past 10, P. M., adjourned, sine die.
EDMUND QUINCY, President.
SAMUEL MAY, JR., 	}	Secretaries of the meeting.
WENDELL P. GARRISON, 
Meeting.
FRATERNITY LECTURE. A very intersting lecture, the second of the supplementary course given by the Parker Fraternity, was delivered is in the Music Hall, on Tuesday evening last, by Rev. Robert Collyer, of Chicago. He presented a detail of certain facts in physical nature, and certain observations on the course of Divine Providence, which gave him the comforting and heartening assurance that this country is to have a safe issue out of her troubles, and is to enjoy a prosperous and glorious future, under the rule of free institutions and equal laws,. The report of last week's Anti-Slavery proceedings leaves no room for even a brief sketch of the lecture. It was enjoyed and applauded by a very large audience.
The cordial greeting given to Mr. Collyer on his appearance at the desk seemed to say that many in the assembly would be glad to welcome him as a resident in Boston. After the close of the lecture, many members of the Fraternity had the pleasure of an interview with Mr. Collyer in the ante-room.
The Organ Concert which preceded the lecture was admirable, both in selection and performance. The next lecture, to be delivered by our excellent and eloquent English friend, George Thompson, will to be given in the Music Hall, two weeks hence, on Tuesday, the 16th of February.-c.  --C.K. w.
The Thirtieth National Anti-Slavery Subscription-Anniversary? under the auspices of the ladies'-managers, was held at Music Hall on Wednesday evening, last week, and attracted a very large, highly respectable and brilliant assembly---thousands being present in the course of the evening. The seats were all removed from the body of the hall, which was filled, as well as both galleries. Anti-Slavery banners, with suitable mottoes, were tastefully displayed; there was spirit-stirring music by Gilmore's band; eloquent addresses were made by Theodore Tilton, of New York, and Weadell Phillips; and social interchange was lively and universal. It was a very pleasant occasion to all present. The pecuniary result was much beyond anticipation--several hundred dollars more than last year---amounting to about FOUR THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED DOLLARS. [Full particulars will be given in a future number.)
Our readers will please recollect that, in order to secure the publication of the proceedings of the late great Anniversary Meeting, in Phildelphia, of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, it is necessary to obtain subscriptions in its behalf, and it is in considered best to have these subscription made for copies of the pamphlet, at cost; which we believe will not exceed thirty-five cents per copy, or say, three copies for one dollar. Subscriptions may be sent to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston,; or to OLIVER JOHN-SOWSON, 48 Beekman street, New York.
LORING MOODY, agent of the Educational Commission for Freedman, will lecture in
Harwich, Sunday,  Feb. 7.
Andover, Tuesday, " 16.
Haverhill, Wednesday, " 17.
Dover, N. H., Thursday," 18.
Biddeford, Me., Friday. " 19.
Portland, Sunday," 21.
North Yarmouth, Wednesday, " 23.
Bath, Thursday, " 24.
Brunswick, Sunday " " 28.
Augusta, Tuesday,  March 1.
READING.-.-- E. H. HEYWOOD will give two is lectures in Reading, on Sunday next, 7th inst., at the usual hours, in the afternoon and evening. A full attendance may be expected from Reading and the adjacent towns.
FREDERICK DOUGLASS--- This distinguished champion of freedom and the rights of man will deliver his great lecture on" THE MISSION OF THE WAR,"," in Tremont Temple, Wednesday Evening, February 10. Tickets 25 cents, to be had of agents, or at the door, on the evening of the lecture. Doors open at 7 o' clock.
o'clock.
MEDALLION OF JOHN BROWN.--The subscriber in invites the attention of her friends and the public to a number of Medallions of JOHN BROWN, just completed by her, and which may be seen at rooms No. 89, Studio Building, Tremont Street.
M. EDMONIA LEWIS.
Boston, Jan. 29, 1864.
THEODORE PARKER'SPARKER'S MEMOIRS,
JUST PUBLISHED BY 
S .R. URBINO..
13 School street, Street,
FOREIGN BOOK-STORE.
THE PROBLEM SOLVED
An intensely interesting work, arguing the inevitable<illegible> and only just solutions of the relations of the White and Negro races on this continent. It may be startling<illegible> to some, but it is TRUE, and is being demonstrated by every day's events. Wendell Phillips said, "I have no hope for the future, as this country has past and European <illegible> has no past, but in that sublime mingling of races which is God's own method of civilizing and elevating<illegible> the world."." It is entitled
"MISCEGENATION."
It unfolds a Future for this country hardly dreamed<illegible> of as yet by its people, as the result of the recognition<illegible> of the brotherhood<illegible> and social and political rights<illegible> of the Negro. It treats of the relations of the <illegible> and Negro Miscegenetic Ideal of Beauty in Woman, Secret of Southern Superiority, The Type Man a Miscogen, The Nature, No White, No Black, etc.
Address AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, 121 Naman street, New York,133 <illegible> to Tousey & Dezter Hamilton. Price, 25 etc.,
New York, Feb. 3.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
THE "THIRTY YEARS’ WAR.”
BY ALMIRA SEYMOUR.
'Twas midnight. In fair Southern hall
Each despot waited for the hour
When a whole Continent should crawl
And cringe to Slavery's power.
He saw the mighty North advance,
Quailing before his fiery glance;
E'en Massachusetts should enhance
The triumph with her dower
Of cultured manhood, meekly given
To keep the blood-welt bond unriven-
The Sires for RIGHT had nobly striven,
The Sons to Might must cower.
‘Twas midnight. Near old Faneuil Hall
One patriot ranged his little band-
A handful of brave souls, yet all 
That dared by him to stand.
There, erst, the fearless Attucks fell;
There Adams, Otis, dared to tell
The truths which made their great hearts swell
With tyrant-hatred grand;
There, too, that conquering sword was drawn,
Which hewed a pathway to the dawn 
Of holy Freedom's natal morn
For this wide Western Land.
The night wore on: the tyrants mused-
A grim, assured smile 
Each haughty countenance suffused
With soulless light the while.
Never so certain had they been, 
Through all their rockless raid of sin,
That they the subtle game should win
By menace or by wile;-
When, hark! what sounds the heart appal!
Through the deep dark there comes a call,
Firm, clear, though far-FREEDOM FOR ALL!
God's own AEolipile!
As starts the lion from his lair 
With death-determined bound,
So roused the despots everywhere,
Shaking the hollow ground;
First to their coffle-dens they sprang, 
Where the drear night discordant rang
With hammer-strokes, a furious clang,
Each gyve more firmly bound; 
Then to the Nation’s Citadel,
Assassin-armed, with purpose fell-
But few, they knew, alas! too well,
To front them would be found.
Ah, MASSACHUSETTS stood there, yet!
Her Adams must be heard;
And when his glorious day was set,
Her Sumner took the word!
Nor coward taunt, nor craven blow,
Shall stay the ever-onward flow
Of Truth's deep current, struggling slow,
By passion's whirlpools stirred;
By mountain prejudices barred, 
Where that brave Garrison kept guard,
By traitor death-thrusts still unscarred, 
Unscarred and undeterred!
And Woman’s fearless faith was there,
Nerving the gentlest form
All things to do, all things to bear,
Save falsely to conform;
Truer than Mary at the tomb,
She mourned not o'er a hopeless doom, 
But called for CHRIST-LIFE from the gloom,
In words with Christ-Heart warm.
Deride her that remembered not 
Was woman's more congenial lot,
The sheltered peace of hall or cot,
In conflict with the storm?
Dear God! her sex in woe's worst thrall,
And she in pampered peace! 
A Race of Women vainly call
On woman for release!
Never so sweet her voice's tone,
Never so pure her pure brow shone, 
Never such grace her mien has known,
As when, forgetting ease,
Fashion and fame, and caste's false pride, 
Custom's constraints she thrust aside
To breast, with man, sin's surging tide,
Till the dark surges cease.
And now, when dawns that cloudless day
For which these watched and toiled, 
While we still kept the guarded way
With trailing robes unsoiled, 
I kneel to kiss their garments’ hem; 
I would unmine the choicest gem 
To glitter in their diadem,
Who struck the serpent coiled! 
AGES shall own to them ’twas given 
To speak the mandate of just Heaven-
Humanity, thy bonds are riven! 
Tyrants forever foiled!

THE BLACK HEROES. 
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON:
HONORED SIR-Having heard of your liberality of sentiment in favor of the colored people and their rights, and being one of that despised race, I venture to ask that you will give publicity to these lines, through the columns of your far-famed paper, the Liberator. It is nothing classic, but merely the spontaneous gushing of a black girl's soul, who has felt the influence of slavery and the blighting breath of prejudice too long to keep silent:-
When shell and ball were falling fast
Upon the battle plain, 
Brave heroes fought of sable caste
Amid that leaden rain; 
No flinching eye or faltering step
Was seen along that line, 
But firm and bold their muskets kept,
And to the fire kept time. 
O, must they calmly die at last, 
Those heroes black and brave, 
With prejudice still clinging fast-
O, must they die as slaves?
Ah! let the siege at Wagner tell
Of each heroic deed, 
When Shaw and others bleeding fell,
How black men took the lead! 
Brave Carney, too, of sable blood,
By patriot pride impelled,
Though wading through th' opposing flood,
Our glorious flag upheld. 
“Ah! boys, it never touched the ground,"
Were the brave words he said, 
When quietly they laid him down
Among the other dead. 
And must such noble deeds 
Our fetters stronger bind, 
Or shall they to fair Freedom load,
And make us all mankind?
For the Liberator.
ABRAHAM DE JUST.
To dat are man in de Congress from Kentucky, who say dat 
our fader Abe be Abraham de Fust.
Not Abraham de fust, my frend, not Abraham de fust, 
But Abraham de second, known as Abraham de Just:
De fust was called de frend ob God, de second ob de same, 
And boff ob dem dere peoples freed,-dat be de voice ob Fame.
De fust defeat Confed'rate knaves who steal he brodder's son, 
And try to make de people slaves-he make de rascals run;
He get de blessing ob de priest because he trust de Lord
Would in a just an' righteous cause gib vict'ry to his sword.
De second, called de Rail-splitter, at dat he neber lag;
Besides, he split de Democrats, an' make dem show dere flag.
He hab one nuder title-Honest Abe-our noble Dad; 
You habn't got dat title, frend; ah, don't you wish you had?
It bear no sign ob treason, not'de' semblance nor de smell, 
But grateful nation tell him he hab served his country well; 
And Liberty will claim him for her eber faithful son,
<c02>
And 'grave his name upon her shield wid dat ob Washington.
Now if you want good title while you live or when you die,
Be honest, like Ole Fader Abe-not speak nor act de lie;
Not slander honest gentlemen-not do your country harm,
And neber go great way from home widout you ask you marm; 
Den you get crebber title-all de peoples like you well, 
And say-"Nobody buy dat man, because he not to sell." 
But learn dis truth from darkie: dey who serve dere country true, 
Dere country will remember-will remember traitor too.
OLE CUFF.
The Liberator.
PLANTATION PICTURES
BY MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON,
Author of "Cousin Frank's Household."
CHAPTER XVIII.
REVELATIONS.
Lelia's life, since marriage, could only be compared to one of those balmy days without a cloud, so rare, so like a dream of heaven. Of late, however, a cause of disquiet had appeared, strangely in contrast with the bright past. Certain ladies of her acquaintance had remitted the accustomed civilities, and the old cordialities had been chilled; not that she felt different towards them, or that she had consciously given occasion for the change. She was confiding and unsuspicious, and could not accept of the proofs of alienation that met her, till one evening at a party, the coolness was so marked as to fill her with uneasiness. Leaving the drawing-room for the parlor, in search of her friend Mrs. Brownlee, for the purpose of mentioning the subject to her, she passed a group of ladies in excited conversation, of whom Mrs. Gray was the centre. They did not notice her approach, and one, whose cordiality had remained unchecked, was saying,-
"I do not believe one word of it! It's absurd, indeed it is; and as for my part, I detest these cruel insinuations that separate friends, and destroy the reputation of people before they have any chance for explanation. If Mrs. Gray has proof that it is so, let her produce it, and I'll hold my peace!”
"If Miss Langdon's memory was a little better, she would n't call for proof, when I've said over and often, that it's only my impression that she is what I say," said Mrs. Gray. "But I tell you, I'm on the track; and depend upon it, the proof will be coming soon enough for the impudent little upstart"
Lelia's appearance cut short the sentence. A dead silence succeeded, while some of the party gave such evident signs of embarrassment as to make Lelia ill at ease in turn; and feeling like an intruder, she passed on. That night, at home, she revolved the incident, convinced that she must have been the subject of their remarks, and that Mrs. Gray was the secret enemy whose tongue had invaded her peace. But why should Mrs. Gray thus injure her? What had she done to draw down upon her head such hostility? While considering the matter, she recalled many things in that lady's conduct that now appeared significant of a deeply settled animosity; and tracing back, link by link, the chain of circumstances that indicated this, she came at last to the first time of their meeting, when poor Chainy was returned. The conclusion was easy; it was her involuntary expression of sympathy for the wretched fugitive that angered the clergyman's wife,-an offence that she had never forgiven. But here a difficulty met her; "proofs" were challenged and promised; proofs of what? What hideous crime could they lay to her charge, backed by evidence that was to overwhelm her, and convince her friends? Lelia pondered deeply, and at length exclaimed,-
“I see it all now! It's to be proved that I am an Abolitionist-a Garrisonian Abolitionist-because, forsooth, a stray tear found its way into my eyes, when that fire-eating woman dragged Chainy back, and little Kitty sprang so lovingly into her mother's arms. But what have I done since, to give any foundation for such a slander? Am I not the lady-owner of slaves? Have I shown the least repugnance to such a situation? On the contrary, have not all seen that my happiness was unalloyed? But what will come of it, I don't know. She has appealed quite successfully to their prejudices, and prejudice is the most hard-hearted, unreasoning thing in the world; and if I protest my innocence ever so strongly, they will think, notwithstanding all, that I'm a monster of fanaticism, and as artful as the serpent in Paradise!"
The affection that had sprung up between Lelia and Mrs. Brownlee deepened constantly. Lelia knew of no one so competent to advise her in regard to Mrs. Gray's course, and wrote to her detailing the circumstances, and asking advice. This led to a prompt visit from her friend. Amelia also visited with her.
As was formerly their wont, Amelia and Lelia spent the early evening strolling in the park. As the twilight drew on, arm in arm, on their way in, they lingeringly passed through the avenue of fragrant flowering trees that shaded the carriage road, chatting pleasantly as they walked. Deepening shadows were brooding on the landscape, when at some little distance they saw a woman approaching, accompanied by a dog. She was dressed in linsey-woolsey, and wore an antique bonnet, that gave her a wild and gipsy air. 
"Who can that be?" exclaimed Lelia. "What a singular looking creature! I am almost afraid of her!”
"Oh, she won't hurt us! " replied Amelia, in a loud tone, "that's the ferry-woman."
"No, it's like I shan't hurt ye," replied Hinna, as she came up. "I'm only Hinna-it aint my trade to hurt folks, 'xactly!"
"O," said Amelia, "you're the ferry woman, and you tell fortunes. You told our overseer where to find Chainy and Trolo-didn't you?"
"Well, he found them, I reckon?" said Hinna. 
"No, indeed," rejoined Amelia, "when he got there, they were gone."
"Well," said Hinna, "I didn't pertend to say how long they'd wait for him. Next time he must travel faster!" Then attentively regarding Lelia, she added,-
"This is Miss Nelson, I reckon?
“That is my name."
"Yes, I thought 'twas you," replied the ferry woman, musing, as if a crowd of recollections thronged her memory. "You don't know me, but I remember you."
"Remember me! I think you must be mistaken in the person. I have heard of you, but do not recollect of ever meeting you before."
“No, miss, 'tisn't likely you remember, when you was only a little baby, 'fore you could talk. I reckon I saw you then."
"Impossible! unless you once lived North." 
"Not so sure of that, miss. Aint you Miss Robert Nelson's foster-child?" 
"Yes."
“Did Miss Nelson ever have any other child?" "No, I suppose not.",
"Then you're the very one! Just as Miss Gray thought- she was asking me about it. She said old Miss Raymond, jest from Boston, told her you must be Miss Nelson's foster-child, and that Miss Nelson never had any other. I told her I know'd all 'bout you then-at any rate, I'd come and see." 
"But what do you mean? I do not understand you," said Lelia, apprehensively, for Hinna's manner boded no good. 
"Mean?" repeated Hinna, sharply. “You'll know what I means soon enough, I reckons. Slavery's a nice good thing, is n't it? Having mighty fine times now you own so many slaves, aint ye? But I suppose I'll hafter spoil it all, and let ye find out what's what for yourself. If it's good for other folks, it'll be good for you. And you might as well begin to onct.”
"Come,” whispered Amelia, pulling Lelia towards the house, "she's crazy, I make sure; let's go in." 
Lelia, half frightened, complying, had gone a few
<c03>
steps with an abstracted, bewildered air, when she stopped, and turned deathly pale, as Hinna said almost fiercely,-
"You don't believe Hinna, eh? But I'm gwine to tell you what you'll hafter believe sooner'n you want to, I reckons. You're the baby called Becca, that fell to Miss Robert Nelson when the slaves were divided. But she did n't like slavery, and so she called you her foster-child, and named you Lelia!" 
"That's false!" said Amelia, quickly, "for then Lelia would be only a servant, and that can't be-indeed it can't! And would n't uncle know? He wouldn't marry a servant. I reckon if anybody knows who Mr. Robert Nelson's foster-child was, he'd know, as he was his own brother." 
“Not so sure of that, miss," said the ferry woman, triumphantly. "Don't I remember that Mr. Hugh Nelson was in England then? And don't I know, too, that after he came back, Robert and Hugh never spoke together for years, because Robert was such an abolitionist? 'Taint often folks troubles themselves about what becomes of slave babies; and what should your uncle Hugh know about the little slave infant that I saw Miss Robert Nelson take to Boston with her, and a baby that he never saw either, as 'twas born while he was in England? You don't think her abolition foster-parents 'ud be sech fools as to tell 'ont themselves, do ye?"
Amelia, thunderstruck, had disengaged her arm from her companion, and spell-bound could not utter a word.
While Lelia-poor Lelia-unable to resist the conviction that went with the ferry woman's terrible revelation, felt as if precipitated from heights of almost unearthly bliss to the abyss of outer darkness. The tremendous vista that, unwarned, had opened before her, was crowded with images of horror and dismay. From the caressed and worshipped bride, she had fallen to a slave. Her brain whirled, she lost all mental control, and with a fearful shriek fled, like a frightened bird, up the path to the mansion, up one long, winding staircase, then another to a lonely, unfurnished room, and fell senseless to the floor. 
Lelia's cry had reached Mrs. Brownlee's ear, and hastening to the colonnade to ask what had happened, she met Amelia, who exclaimed,- 
"Oh, Mrs. Brownlee, Hinna's come, and told such dreadful news! She says Lelia's slave-born, and it's frightened her so!" 
"Where is she?"
"Why, did n't you see her! She screamed dreadfully, and then ran as if afraid, right into the house." 
"This is strange indeed; but be calm, and don't mention the matter to any one-there must be some mistake about it-all will be explained yet."
At this moment Hinna came up, and sat down on the steps.
"Hinna!" said Mrs. Brownlee, kindly, “what is this that Amelia says? She tells me that you accuse Mrs. Nelson of being slave-born. Amelia must have misunderstood, I think-did she not?"
"I calls Miss Nelson a slave," said Hinna, abruptly, "and she is a slave; and she'll find it out afore long, I reckons."
"But what makes you think so?”
"I thought so 'fore I come here, and I knows it now," said Hinna. "Don't I know that Judge Wordsworth, Miss Robert Nelson's father, had children by one of his slave-women? He was a famous gentleman, of course, like all these ere Christians that trades in their own children; and don't I know that baby Becca, when the slaves were divided, fell to Miss Robert Nelson, and she took her to Boston with her; and don't I know that she never had any child, but she that's now Miss Nelson?"
"But how came you to know all this?" asked the lady.
"Know it! wasn't I Miss Judge Wordsworth's nuss five years? How could I help knowing it?"
"If this is true, it will be heavy news for Lelia, as well as for me," said Mrs. Brownlee, deeply agitated.”
"If it's true?" replied Hinna, angrily; "don't you think I tells true?"
Mrs. Brownlee did not answer. She felt the conviction gaining ground that the statements of Hinna were credible, and was overwhelmed by it. While the ferrywoman went on,-
"And is it any wuss for one to be a slave more than another? I'd like to see all these ere folks that thinks slavery right, haftertry it; 'twould do Hinna's heart good. And if there's one that ought to try it more'n another, it's them that warn't eddicated to love it like! Didn't Miss Lelia live all her days where they aint no slaves? where the poor is jest as high as the rich? And when I see sich fall in love with slavery, I say they've no excuse for it. Money blinds folks' eyes and hardens their hearts, but they haven't any money in human beings; and when they come here, and marry and get slaves, and 'pear to be jest as happy and contented as if they were not living on the groans and tears and stripes of them that's jest as good by nater as themselves, I say that they are more selfish and wicked than the rich whites that's brought up to sich things. And they'd better drink a little from that cup, and see if it's so sweet-that's my opinion!" and Hinna angrily stalked away.
"Where is Lelia?" asked Mrs. Brownlee of Amelia, as she re-entered the parlor.
"I make sure I don't know," said the latter, in an indifferent tone, adding,-
"Do you think she's only a servant, after all? What will uncle say? Won't he be disgusted? For of course she deceived him,-the artful thing!" 
"I am astonished to hear you talk so of one you seemed to love so much," Mrs. Brownlee replied; "it would at least be just to hear the other side, before withdrawing our confidence. But where can she be?" she added, anxiously, going in search of her.
In a remote chamber of the third story, Mrs. Brownlee at last found Lelia, looking as if years of sorrow had passed over her. 
"Tell me-tell me!" she exclaimed, “that it's all a frightful dream, and I can die for you-I will love you so! Or," smiting her forehead with her open hand, "say that I'm crazy, and it's all a horrid fancy! Oh, my friend, pity me, and tell me that it is not so; that I am not a"-and she paused, shuddering as if the word was too revolting to utter.
"Lelia," said Mrs. Brownlee, "be calm! It may not be true, and we have need of all possible self-possession to discover the misapprehension. Mrs. Gray is cruelty itself, and if, in this matter, she has slandered you to effect your ruin, even she will not be able long to conceal the diabolical plot. It shall be exposed, and the guily authors held up to everlasting infamy." 
"But if it should be true!" and the tone in which it was spoken expressed utter despair. “If it should be true! IF IT SHOULD BE TRUE!" she wailed, and then bursting from the arms of her friend, fled again, but with an uncertain step, to her room, and fell helpless on her bed. The sickness that followed was too alarming to allow of the return of Mrs. Brownlee at Mount Pleasant, particularly as Mr. Nelson was absent at the legislature. Mrs. Brownlee, indeed, felt glad that he was away, hoping the evil tidings that Hinna had brought would not reach him until some clue was obtained that would give a different aspect to the affair.
The next morning, Mrs. Gray called. She soon made known her errand, for it was too congenial to be deferred. 
"So then, this milk-and water abolitionist is found to be a servant, after all! I told them at Col. G's party, that the proof would come soon enough, and I think they'll find I kept my word. Good enough for her, the saucy minx! I always said that folks that had so much sympathy for runaways, and none for their masters, were made to be servants-were out of their place going at large as if nobody ought to own them. 'Birds of a feather flock together,' and they ought to. Those that love servants belong with servants. At any rate, I reckon this Lelia will find it so!”
“But how do you know that it is so!" asked Mrs Brownlee, with something of asperity.
“Know it! bless me, I should be stupid not to
<c04>
know it, when Judge Wordsworth was my father's cousin. I know it as well as I know my A B C's. I recollect perfectly <illegible> the Judge had a little servant named Becca-too good a name for a servant, I said at the time-but she was handsome, that's a fact, and the very image of the Judge; and they gave her a pet name. "She then detailed the circumstances of the child being taken North, and the testimony of Mrs. Raymond, as Hinna had already done. 
“Well," replied Mrs. Brownlee, with a sigh, “perhaps it will make little difference with Lelia,-it certainly cannot if she does not get better soon."
“Is she sick?" asked Mrs. Gray. 
“Yes, very." Then hoping a sight of her condition might soften her persecutor, she said, “Perhaps you would like to see her; she does not recognize even me," and led the way to Lelia's room.
On the bridal bed, the roseate bloom of her cheeks, heightened by the raging fever, lay the fair young wife, moaning, heart-brokenly, as she tossed from side to side.
Mrs. Gray looked sharply at the sufferer, with her stone-cold eyes, and then drawing a miniature portrait of Judge Wordsworth from her reticule, said, -
“The likeness is perfect! there can be no mistake! she is of African descent by the mother, and is a servant, and always will be!"
Mrs. Brownlee was shocked at her heartlessness, and immediately returned with her to the parlor.
It was no part of her plan, however, to avoid hearing all her visitor might have to say connected with the singular revelations made, and she observed,- 
“If Lelia is a servant's child, I do not see how it is that she has always remained in ignorance of it. It is true she might have been taken North when an infant, but is it to be supposed that her foster-parents had no one friend to whom they entrusted the secret? Can we think that they would ignore all risk of her ever coming South, where her origin might be discovered, and that no one would be commissioned to warn her of her danger, by disclosing to her the secret of her true condition? Surely, her Northern friends, disapproving as they do of our institution, would have the more sympathy for her, had this been told them, and would have rallied around her all the more warmly, to save her from the consequences of her unfortunate parentage."
Mrs. Gray's eyes snapped impatience at Mrs. Brownlee, while the latter was speaking, nor did she wait for her to finish as she said,-
“It puts me out of all patience to see folks so dull! Do you think that the abolitionists like niggers any better than we do? No indeed! they despise them, and trample on them! Let a nigger come into a coach or steamboat, and how long will darkey stay there? Why, these Northerners can't endure them as well as we can! They put them up in the gallery, or in the 'nigger's seat' at church; and if this Lelia had been known to be slave-born, do you think her best friends would n't have cut her acquaintance? Mr. Robert Nelson did n't dare whisper the secret to the trustiest of his abolition acquaintances, (knowing it would have doomed Lelia at once. Now let me tell you what the abolitionism of such people amounts to. Just this: it's somebody else down South that has the money and the power in having servants; it's somebody's else sin, not the sin itself, that they object to; in their circumstances it would n't pay to commit it, and therefore they turn up their pious eyes at our criminality, and talk philanthropic reform, and rant from the text,-at least their ministers do,-that says that ‘God has made of one Mood all the nations;' but they boast more than we do of their Anglo-Saxon veins, keeping up a general chorus of self-gratulation, and pass laws against the free blacks living with them even in the same commonwealth. I tell you it's all talk, and I despise them the more for it! There isn't enough principle in it all-in all the abolitionism in New England, clergymen, conventions, parties and all, if it could be turned into gold, to fill a tooth-indeed there isn't! Why, there was Col. Marks, a regular out and out nullifier, went North from South Carolina after a family of servants that had settled down quite comfortably, supposing where there was so much talk against slavery, that of course they'd be safe; and the Col. said when he came back, that the Northerners were the best servants he ever had. All he had to do was to say, Union and Constitution, though he hated both, and the highest in office were ready to go down on all fours, put their noses to the scent, and turn regular bloodhounds. And there was Rev. Dr. Spooney that came on purpose, as he told Mr. Gray and myself- the great fool!-to see just what slavery was. So I experimented on him to learn where his anti-slavery was located; and where do you suppose it was?"
“In his conscience, I conclude,"said Mrs. Brownlee. 
"Not a bit of it there-'twas in his stomach! I stuffed him with one of my best dinners till I thought he'd do, and then had him taken round the plantation a second Columbus on a voyage of discovery. Well, he passed right by the whipping-post as my stupid husband would have it, and I expected nothing but he'd break his gold-bowed spectacles against it, or at least condescend to ask what it was; but he didn't do either, and I've no doubt that if he'd had to wade up to his ankles in. blood just drawn from the servants’ backs, he'd thought he was passing through a strawberry bed, he had so fallen in love with everything South; and the dear old Spooney, when he got home, actually gave a lecture so eulogistic of our institutions, that when I got a copy of it he sent me after it was published, I laughed over it till the tears ran; I did indeed!
What a model of the virtues he painted me! My husband was canonised; and as for that villain Dick, who had just been whaled within an inch of his life for running away, he found him so contented and happy! I have heard of people that could see through a grindstone, if it had a hole in it; but I'd defy such as he to see through one If 'twas all hole! Tell me such blunderers think so much of liberty and so badly of slavery as they pretend! They think only of themselves, come to the right of it, and love the niggers-a great ways off!-and this Lelia would have found it, so I'm thinking. Why, those old Professors at Boston, whose long poking noses blot their manuscripts as they write abolition trash, would shun her as the seven-years'-itch, though she were as good as Gabriel and beautiful as Eve, if they heard she had a mite of nigger blood in her body-if it was so small that they couldn't detect it with a microscope. Robert Nelson was no fool, and so he kept the secret well; and I like that in him, because it showed he knew something."
“Well, if the statements concerning Lelia are reliable, it will be a heavy blow to Mr. Nelson. He is ardently attached to her, and I cannot doubt that with a manly courage he will seek to shield her from the storm, standing by her side to sympathise and protect-that is, should she survive; as her present condition, I confess, does not indicate."
“Nonsense! all nonsense, from first to last! You have not known Mr. Nelson as long as I have, nor are you as conversant with the habits of Southern gentlemen. I know well what Mr. Nelson's expectations are. He is a man of strong will and towering ambition. He is also a rising man with his party. Do you think he never dreams of a home in the White House? If I am not deceived, his plans are laid for such a destiny; and, think you, he can connect with such aspirations the taking a slave there as his wife? Never! Nor would the South permit it. His party would not, at least; for at the outset it would ensure their defeat to put forward such a candidate. Besides, is not Mr. Nelson a champion of Southern doctrines-a representative man? Will he then tear himself away from his life-long opinions and habits of thought, destroy his brilliant prospects, set at nought Southern laws and social bonds at the bidding of a servant? We shall see; but I do not believe his love will he chivalrous enough to endure such tests. And as for this Lelia's surviving, trust me for that,-she'll live! ’Taint so easy to kill these servants; I've seen that
<c05>
tried over and often. I tell Mr. Gray, when he talks about some of the hands dying from punishment, that they can't die by such means. It's amazing how much they will stand before they give up for good. I tell him that if a cat's got nine lives, every nigger on the estate has got nine times nine; and he needn't be afraid to pay on when it's necessary, and won't interfere too much with the work. It 'll come hard on her at first, but she 'll break in after a while, and be as docile as a kitten. If she don't, she must take the consequences, that's all!”

LETTER FROM PORT ROYAL.
Sr. HELENA ISLAND, (S. C. ) Jan. 1, 1864. 
FRIEND GARRISON-Already, in anticipation of the accomplished fact of total emancipation, a great 
problem, in spite of ourselves, is forced upon us. The negro in the Rebel States, no longer a slave,-afloat, "landless and homeless,"-what are the speediest, most practical, most humane steps for us as a people to take, to put him on the track to his more advanced and final stage-that of a freeman? This is the work before us. In the event of the dissolution of your Society, shall the initiative be left to the Church? Judging from the past, this can scarcely be. To the State? No, not now. Individuals in or out of the Church, of the right ring and metal, through organization, must bring and hold this subject before public attention, with a view to such national and State legislation as shall have for its object the right of the freedom man as he passes on to rational citizenship. The legislation of the British West Indies we do not wish to be copied here. And perhaps at this very hour comparatively few expect to see much else than the “disappearance," or "apprenticeship," or "hewer of wood and drawer of water,” or, at most, a species of serf to be either fastened upon the soil by stern necessity, or by operation of statute law, or else to be ejected and shoved back as often as the land changes hands, at the convenience of either buyer or seller, bearing as in mockery the name of freeman, but deprived of all its blessings. He is, in the estimation of many, to become the future "laborer" in the South; to be used at low wages to himself, but at large profits to his employer; and this to be regulated by such agencies as the employer, in his own interest, may deem judicious.
President Lincoln, in his late carefully conned and clearly written message, is true to the theory of our republicanism. He is not a master nor an autocrat. He can only execute literally and constitutionally the wishes of the people as they are expressed on parchment. Who will say that he has not been faithful to this theory? When it became clear to him that the people called for a proclamation of freedom, it came; and just as frequently after the war began, as the people unmistakably expressed themselves, he has, through the legitimate agencies, responded to their behests. If this be so, it is precisely the republicanism we profess, and should be fast to maintain; otherwise, instead of a representative government, we get that of a dictator. Two-faced, and squinting both-ways-with Kentucky on his back, Massachusetts in front-where she always is, God bless her!-rebellion on his right, and a copperhead row through the North-if he seemed at times to falter, poor man! it was because he awaited the decree of the people.
Though I was sorry, in the depths of my heart, that he proposed to leave the fate of these "landless and homeless" beings to the tender mercies of forced loyalty, to forced acquiescence in emancipation, because whipped into a choice between good behavior and open villainy, yet he seems to have done all the people required him to do, and stands by what he has done, while he appears ready to do more. Let the next step of the loyal American people be to guard the freedman in all his rights, through the government, as an act of justice, against what may yet prove to be a more bitter hatred, and quite as selfish an interest as ever; and that, too, finding its expression in State legislation. Are the souls of conquered plantocrats, proslaveryists or negro-haters to be cleansed by a return to the political Union? Good men and women in the North, and everywhere, must see to it that these poor sufferers shall have justice meted out to them in full measure. They should not, it is true, be encouraged to depend on external aid any longer than they can help themselves. The chance to help themselves they should have, at all events. They should be made proprietors of the soil in fee simple, as speedily as possible. The ruling prices of cotton, for some years to come, will be a powerful temptation to the present proprietors and to future purchasers of land in the South, and, of course, it is natural that they should wish to buy their labor at the cheapest rate; and while the white man, full-witted, knows well how to guard his own interests, it should be seen to by the friends of the freedman that what he lacks by reason of his former ill-treatment, to see and hold on to, he should be helped to till he can help himself. If large sums of money can be made at cotton growing, why should not these people who have served so long and painful an apprenticeship at this business, now that they should be attaining to their majority, have their share of this business, and thus gather up for themselves some of the ordinary comforts of life, and use their surplus earnings to help on their civil, economical and educational interests? If millions of dollars can be made anywhere in the South at this paying business, why should it not be made by them, and spent by them on their own homes and in their own section, rather than be made, in part, by the temporary settler or absentee, to be spent elsewhere? It is going to make a mighty difference to the " landless and homeless," whether they are to get only the poor pittance of twenty-five or thirty cents per day, and be thus kept dependent, or whether they shall receive four or five times this amount by planting on their own land. In the one case, the profits are carried off; in the other, they would be used to improve and enhance the value of their own possessions, and to build up the interests of their own section.
I tell you the friends must be up and doing, or these people will be ridden over roughshod. The conflict between capital and labor is as old as the world; but in this case the contest could never be more unequal. In the first go-off, because of the high price of cotton, and the yet untutored thrift and foresight, together with the destitution and credulity of the freedman, the odds are fearfully against him, and he needs the faithful interposition of his friends for the emergency now coming over him.
"Where there is a will, there is a way." If the people help the freedman so far as to secure to him an interest in the soil, to the degree that he shall be independent in all cases where he is ready to help himself, there it can be done; as all may see if they will take their slates and pencils, and figure for themselves. So soon as we begin to figure, a thousand ways open to the view, by which an end so desirable could be brought about with more or less of justice to the negro, and with but little sacrifice to ourselves.
Take the following, viz: Allowing that there are 4,000,000 of freedmen, five acres of land to each one is 20,000,000 acres; equal to 31,256 square miles, or to a territory less than the size of the State of Indiana; making a population per square mile of 127, or a little less than that of Rhode Island, or thirty less than Massachusetts. At two dollars per acre, this tract of land would come to $40,000,000-a sum less than the cost of the war for a month. One-fifth of this land planted with cotton one season, and producing only 100 lbs. of ginned cotton to the acre, (it ought to produce 200 lbs.) at 50 cents per lb. would give 200,000,000 of dollars,-equal to five times the cost of the land. This small crop of cotton would be equal to 1,000,000 bales, of 400 lbs. each, or a little less than one-fifth of the aggregate cotton crop of the United States in I860.
But where is the land, provided the means were at hand! We all know where it is, and where it ought to come from. But if we take the viper to our bosom, as the President proposes, without first depriving it of its sting, then the problem is complicated, but not impossible of solution. If this rebellion is ever conquer- 
<c06> 
ed on right principles, the rebels should be made to pay, not only their share of the cost of the war, but also that of furnishing homes to the freedmen. This would be just in the poetical sense, and the nation would from this moment spring to its feet, and rise to a higher and nobler life.
A word more: "Will the negro work for wages!" Stated according to the Rule of Three: If he worked over two hundred years for nothing when will he work for something? A profound inquiry before the anxious bench! From William Lloyd Garrison down to the autocrat of all the Russias, including the humblest in his empire, don't they all work for wages? Don't the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air work for wages? It is the great law. Even nature herself would not work to send the sap through the rootlets and capillary tubes into leaf, bark and blossom, if she did not expect to get her wages in full-grown fruit. It verily seems as if pro-slaveryism, to which we owe the debt of our "completed" education, had well-nigh turned our common sense out of doors. To one who has spent eighteen months in this department among the plantations, such a question is simply absurd. See Scipio, Hannibal, Hercules or Plato in the late morning, with hoe on shoulder, creeping like "the school-boy unwillingly" to his task, at the enormous wages (!) of 27 to 32 cents per day, including use of cabin and land, with molasses at 80 cents per gallon, sugar 20 to 25 cents per lb., flour 6 cents, rice 121/2 cents, while Sea Island cotton is worth to the producer $1,00 to $1,25 per lb.-when the cost of such living as he gets is double what it was two and a half years ago; and then on the morrow see him tripping to market with winged feet, over ten long miles, with a huge basket of his own produce on his head, and a motive in his soul; then ask if such a man will "work for wages." Verily, "reason hath fled to brutish beasts." Now, it is time to stop this copperhead twaddle, and to take right hold and help him in the only way we can-not to tinker his spiritual interests-for, in this respect, the light of the Caucasial pales before that of the African. God and his own soul will take good care of these. We do well to scale off the outside crust of his immoralities when we can without blushing; but the most essential service which we can reader him touches alone his ordinary wants. We can help him in this respect now, better than he can help himself; and it is our duty.
For 240 years he has shown his capacity to receive abuse and to work for nothing. He has proved himself a brave soldier. He has well learned to obey; by the rule, when will it be his to command? No thanks to British Colonial Legislation he worked up through unprecedented difficulties in the West Indies to ownership in the soil. He has "worked" for amazing LOW "wages," here and elsewhere. Experienced
 teachers complain of no lack of ability in his children. Now let us see if he cannot make as good a land proprietor as he has a soldier. And when we finish this work, let us send him to the ballot-box; but, in Heaven's name, do not send him there "landless," "homeless," shirtless and foodless! God deliver him and us from such republicanism as this!
I send an extract from a Mississippi valley correspondent of the New York Herald, of Dec. 28th, which possibly you may not have noticed. It shows the spirit of some latter-day-saint emancipatists:-

SOCIAL PROSPECTS IN THE SOUTHWEST.
The signs are unmistakable that the relation of the laborer to his master is to be completely changed. There were many individual failures in the experiments of last year; but the general result showed that the working of negroes under hire is perfectly feasible. In the transition from slavery to freedom, the negro has suffered much, both from his own helplessness and the dishonesty of many of the white men into whose hands he fell. But few of the government lessees lived up to their contracts in feeding and paying the negroes they employed. Many of them treated the negroes worse than they had ever been treated upon the plantations where they were owned. The discouragements were numerous; but still the conviction is irresistible that the negro can be worked just as we well out of slavery as in it. Many of the planters, both of cotton and sugar, are anxious to take their plantations on the new plan, and hire the negroes, just as is being done by the lessees. Some of them tried it last year, and represent themselves as fully in favor of it. Arkansas is taking the initiatory steps for making herself a free State. Louisiana is moving in the same direction, and there are symptoms of a similar feeling in Mississippi. The war has brought about a great social revulsion-the very change that those who inaugurated it were striving to prevent by the very means with which they have produced it.
The negro "can be worked just as well out of slavery as in it." And he should have added, abused and cheated as he always has been. The negro MUST OWN THE LAND. There is no other earthly salvation for him or for us. The plantocrats are coming in, too, it seems, to gracefully accept the fact of emancipation, and to re-enact, no doubt, if they can, the British West Indies. God bless you!
F. J. W.
WAIL1NGS FROM REBELDOM.
The Richmond Enquirer fears that the proposition before the rebel Congress, to tax the present values of the Confederacy to the amount of $700,000,000, will bankrupt the country, and overthrow the framework of society, and production, and says the bill reported from the Military Committee should be entitled, "An act to establish an irresponsible despotism at Richmond, and to starve the country, including the army."
The Richmond Whig says:-
"Three thousand men in Longstreet's corps are barefoot; Johnston's army is suffering terribly for want of blankets and clothing; Lee's soldiers are destitute of socks and other necessary clothing; and the whole energies of the Confederacy are summoned to supply the demand; the prospect for clothing next year is dark and gloomy; it cannot be got through the blockade, and there are no materisls in the home market. The sources both of leather and wool are diminishing every month; the supply of food is equally scant; very little bacon is left; beef is going, and mutton would not feed great armies, even could it be had; the crops are failing, and prices constantly going up; besides, there is no labor, without which there can be no production; the conscription is taking to the ranks all the whites, and the negro will not work. Even if he would, he could not prevent famine, which would bring insurrection with it. Even now, horses sufficient to serve the purposes of the existing army are obtained with the greatest difficulty, so that it is utterly impossible to double the army and increase the trains, as some extravagantly talk of doing; still further, besides
wagons and trains, muskets, cannon and ammunities must be had, and these it is not possible to procure. There is now only a bare sufficiency of muskets and cannon to supply present needs, and as to ammunition, since Charleston and Wilmington have been closed, and the nitre beds of Tennessee torn from the rebel grasp, the supply can never be more than equal to the demands of the present army."
The Raleigh Progress says that peace alone can prevent starvation, and that it is folly to talk about there being supplies enough in the country. The dearth of provisions is not caused by want of confidence in the currency, but because the producers have nothing to bring in. It adds, that when the currency of the government ceases to serve as a means of trade, and will no longer buy what the soldiers and people want, the army and the people will resolve themselves into a mob, and those who have misled and ruined them will have to fly for their lives.
PORTENTOUS. The New York Times’ New Orleans correspondent says: 
“A letter from a secesh lady in this city to a friend in Mobile, I think, was recently captured, and reveals the fears of the secessionists better that anything I had yet seen. Among other remarks of the kind, occurs the following amusing and significant passage: ‘The work of spoliation is going on rapidly, and the Yankee officers are locating their families with an air of permanency truly distressing.'"
GREAT BRITAIN HELD ACCOUNTABLE: Secretary Seward, in a letter to Minister Adams, dated the 6th of October last, as appears from the pulished correspondence, says: "The United States does insist, and must continue to insist, that the British Government is justly accountable for the damages which the peaceful, law-abiding citizens of the United States sustain by the depredations of the Alabama, that repel, having been built and fitted out in British waters."
The rebel Secretary of the Treasury proposes an immediate tax, to raise $400,000,000. As there are not more than 7,00,000 heads of families within the present limits of the Confederacy, each must pay $5,700! The tax collectors will no doubt have a precious time of it.
