THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNIG,
—AT THE—
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE 21 CORNHILL
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS—Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, IF Payment be made in advance.
All remittance is to be, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agents.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents—one square for $1. 00
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, via:—FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PEILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 19
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1860.
WHOLE NUMBER, 1521.

SELECTIONS.
<c01>
RICHARD REALF UPON JOHN BROWN.
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune.
SIR. Permit me, who have barely escaped from being lynched as an Abolitionist in the South, only to find myself denounced as a recreant apostate in the North, and who therefore can hardly be suspected of bidding for sympathy from either section, to say a word or two in answer to the allegation, asserted with so much heat and clamor, 'that the Harper's Ferry insurrection of John Brown was the natural, legitimate, and inevitable consequence of the teachings of the Republican party.' In contradicting and disproving this charge, I am moved, not by any particular regard for Republicanism, nor any particular hatred of Democracy, but only by a desire to do justice to the memory of John Brown, between whose principles(which I revere) and their latest mode of application(which I condemn), a great many persons seem unable to distinguish.
The charge thus alleged is wholly and altogether untrue, and this for the simple reason, that the movement of John Brown was conceived and originated at latest a score of years antecedent to the formation of the Republican party.
While yet Clay was in the zenith of his fame, and Webster had not 'sold himself to the South,’ and the issues which have since torn the country were unknown, John Brown was brooding upon his scheme. In the Convention held at Chatham, C. W., he made a speech declaratory of his purposes and expressive of his views, wherein he stated, that for twenty years the project which has resulted so fatally to himself and disastrously to the slaves, had been the absorbing passion of his nature, to which all other pursuits and purposes had been rendered subservient. In the year 1851, he(being then on Ohio wool-grower)went to England, bearing samples of wool as his contribution to the great International Exhibition; and this journey was undertaken solely on account of the reasons which follow:
With a view to the abolition of Slavery, he had been a close student of the theory of mountain and guerilla warfare, through a long series of years; and, being desirous of practically examining the different modes of fortifications, entrenchments, &c, employed in the states of the Old World, he chose for the period of his visit that in which London would naturally be thronged with the representatives of Continental Europe, and when, consequently, it would not be a difficult matter to provide oneself with letters of introduction to people in all parts of those countries. Immediately he had secured such letters, he crossed into France; where, after a very careful inspection of its fortifications, he started for Spain, Italy, Austria, Prussia, &., through which countries, especially their mountainous portions, he made a lengthened tour, with the sole view of applying the knowledge thus obtained to the prosecution of the enterprise in which he died. This was in 1851. The Republican party had no existence until 1854. The statement, therefore, that the incursion into Virginia resulted as a consequence of the inculcated doctriues of Republicanism, is now disproving.
Nor was Brown himself, nor were any of his coadjutors, committed to the Republican creed. Henry Wilson, in 1857, advised that party in Kansas to secure the legislature to them by voting under the provisions of the Lecompton Constitution. The advice was taken, and the result predicted was achieved. Not one of Brown's original parties voted. Some of us were at that time correspondents of the Eastern press; and in the interim between the Grasshopper Falls Convention, (when it was decided upon to vote) and the day on which the election occurred, we opposed the action of the party in every available manner, for which we were denounced as abolitionists by the leading Republican journal of that Territory.
Once more: the only representative of Republicanism who received any inkling of John Brown's plans, learned them from a hostile quarter, and took immediate steps to put it out of brown's power to commit any illegal act whatever. I allude to Senator Wilson, and his letter to Dr. Howe, of Boston.
John Brown, in his heart, despised the Republican Party, whether rightfully or wrongfully, of course I do not undertake to say. He called it a party who had assumed the name of Liberty, and prostituted it to base purposes. He said declared all men to be free, equal, entitled to liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, and yet deprecated any interference with Slavery in the States where it existed; a craven-heartedness which met only with his contempt. So, putting no faith in the professions of that party, he undertook to abolish Slavery himself.
They who assert that, in this enterprise, he was moved rather by haltered of the slaveholder than affection for the slave, do his memory most foul wrong. The love of his heart comprehended and encompassed both. He believed that, unless the interference of some third party should anticipate and thus prevent the interference of slaves themselves, these later would, one day, overthrow the institution by a bloody war of extermination against their masters:
And it was to prevent the havoc and carnage which, as he conceived, threatened the South, that he entered upon his ill-fated movement. For, he argued, the same elements of resistance to oppression which would result in all bloody excesses if not wisely and properly directed might be made subservient to the accomplishment of high purposes of humanity, if the governing intelligence was at their side. Wherefore, in order to supply that intellectual sagacity which
The slaves lacked, and thus enable them to achieve their Freedom, while restraining them from the cruelties into which their instincts would hurry them, he grave himself to this enterprise.
In regard to his personal character, I must, though! I reside in the South, where I expect to live and die permitted to say that it has been most studiously and elaborately misrepresented. Then never lived man whose desire to promote human welfare and humane happiness was more inextinguishable. Men grown hoarse with calumniating his memory, who were never worthy to unloose the latchet of his shoes, Venal politicians, grown sleek upon pubic plunder, and men who cannot perform an act that it is not stained with some deadly sin, have lifted their hands in holy horror, and yelled out their execrable execrations against his name. John Brown was no tongs-hero-no virtue-prattler. He was a reticent man; and when he did speak, the utterance was very simple. He desired society to be pure, free, unselfish—full of liberty and love. He believed it capable of such realization. The whole history of his life is that of an upward endeavor. 'Liberty!' that was the key to his soul; the master-passion which controlled all his other ambitions, personal, social, or political. It swayed him like a frenzy But he had too much individualism of character, and he was too sensitive to the sufferings of others, to be able to reason calmly on the every-day practical concerns of life, where abstract right is modified by a thousand conditions of expediency; and he was too indignant against all forms of wrong be able to discriminate between a theory and its
<c02>
Practice; and thus, by his very self-denial, his benevolence, his moral courage, he was precipitated upon the deed which brought his to the scaffold, Seized by this principle of liberty, be proceeded, as he thought, to carry it out; never stopping to think how it was limited and restrained on all sides by other principles; thus drawing his purpose so near the eye as to shut out all other things; and thus, too, becoming a monomaniac, mistaking his own , conscientiousness for a call unto him from Heaven.
I have now a word to say in relation to myself, it is known that I was formerly associated with John Brown, and it is known that I now reside in the South. That which follows is in regard thereto. There was a time when I thought our contemplated insurrection to be absolutely right. I had occasion to alter my opinion: thus. The evidence upon which I committed myself to that enterprise was available only in the court of conscience. Now, in the depths, of my being, even below the law of distinct consciousness, there lurked the instinct and impulse of another law that forbade the exercise of those feelings which would connect themselves with such a deed. With this impulse, thus dimly working, the promises I had made came in conflict; and my conscience, divided against it, plucked me on and plucked me off, suggesting the resolution but preventing the performance. However much I multiplied reasons and motives in favor of the deed, there yet sprung up from a depth in my nature, which reflection has never fathomed, an impulse against it which I could neither account for nor resist. I could not translate that which appeared to be an outward call of duty into a free, spontaneous moral impulse; and, as I could not perform it until I had so translated it, of course it was not performed at all. Upon returning from Europe, I passed into the Southern States, for the purpose of investigating the nature and character of that Institution, to oppose which, the faculties and resources of my being have been so taxed and strained. I have my own thoughts, my own feelings, in relation thereto; and it may chance that, in the end, it will appear I have not been as unmindful of my duties to humanity as have, some of those who, at the safe distance of a thousand and miles, are so profuse in lip-philanthropy. But I have gained one lesson, which I thought never to have learned. This, namely: that while the North is worse than her professions, the South is better than her laws. Most respectfully,

RICHARD REALF.
Washington, D. C, Jan. 30, 1860.

A LETTER FROM THE WIDOW OF JOHN BROWN.
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune:
SIR: Through the columns of the Tribune, I wish to correct some misapprehensions in the country, through the medium of a small book, namely, that John Brown was guilty of several murders, among which were the wives of two men, whose bodies (the wives) he burned to ashes to escape detection. Now, permit me to say to whom it may concern, that it is not at all strange to me; that Pro-Slavery men should rack their inventive genius, fired by frenzy, even to the last extreme? and desperation, to fabricate and set a float false statements to prevent a sale of the memoirs of the life of one whose influence, with that of others, in the scale of liberty, operates so powerfully against them, both morally and politically.
False witnesses appeared against the great Saviour of men, both before and after his death; and is it not enough for the servant if he can fare as wall as his Master did? The public may rest assured that Mr. Brown never committed the murders and the burning of the bodies of murdered wives to ashes, which are so maliciously alleged again him; nor ever confessed any such thing. Neither do the reading, thinking, liberty-loving part of community believe that such reports have even the shadow of a foundation. The spirit and tenor of his letters, his speeches, and his deportment, read by the civilized world during the last few weeks of his earthly career, testify conclusively and unmistakably to the character of the man. Truly yours, MARY ANN BROWN.
North Elba, Jan. 17, 1860.

LETTER FROM SALMON DROWN.
NORTH ELBA, Dec. 27th, 1859.
DEAR Sir: You letter to my mother was received to-night. You wish me to give you the facts in regard to the Pottawatomie execution, or murder, and to know whether my father was a participator in the act.
I was on of his company at the time of the homicide, and was never away from him one hour at a time, after we took up arms in Kansas; therefore, I say positively, that he was not a participator in the deed, although I should think none the less of him if he had been there; for it was the grandest thing that was ever done in Kansas. It was all that saved, the Territory from being overrun with drunken land-pirates from the Southern States. That was the first act in the history of Kansas, that proved the demon of Slavery that there was as much room to give blows as to take them. It was done to say, life, and to strike terror through their wicked ranks.
I should like to write more, but I have not time now. Yours respectfully, 
SALMON BROWN.
From the Edinburgh Witness, Dec. 24.

SYMPATHY FOR DR. CHEEVER IN EDINBURGH.
A large and influential public meeting took place on Thursday afternoon, in the Queen Street Hall convened for the purpose of expressing sympathy with the Rev. Dr. Cheever, under the painful distances which that eminent divine has lately been called on to occupy with reference to slavery. Among those on the platform was the Lord Provost, Sir James Forrest. Sir John Melville, Rev Dr. Candles, Rev. Dr. Guthrie, Rev. Dr. Alexander, Rev. Mr. On lien, Rev. Jonathan Weston, Rev Mr. Graham of Newhaven, Rev. Mr. Pulsford, Dr. Greville, Dr. Russell, Mr. J. F. Macfarlan, Mr. H. D. Dickie, Councilor Fyfe, Mr. Cruickshank, Mr. Burn Murdoch, Jr. , Dr. Snowy, &c. &c. Can the motion of Sir John Melville, the Lord Provost was called to the chair. The meeting having been opened with prayer by Mr. Pulsford,
The Lord Provost briefly stated the object of the meeting, which, he was happy to say, was not of a very usual character in Edinburgh. They were called together to express sympathy with a Christian minister in very peculiar circumstances; a man well known to the people of this country by his writings and by his admirable illustrations, he believed the best of all others, of John Banyan, and one who at the present time needed all our sympathy and encouragement. He thought there was sufficient in the information which had been received to warrant has in saying Dr. Cheever, his aunty and admirable denunciations of slavery; was entitled! To the sympathy of all Christian and well thinking men in this country. (Applause)After remarking that it was by no means uncom
<c03>
mon or extraordinary for the people of the country publicly to express their approbation or disapprobation of events in other lands, in proof of which be instanced the case of the Jew boy, Mortara, and the remonstrance they made in the case of those who were tried and imprisoned in foreign countries or reading the Bible, his Lordship went on to excess his astonishment that, in the United States of America, which vaunted so loudly of their freedom, civil, political and religious, there should not only a toleration of the abominable system of slavery, but that, when Christian men opened their mouths to condemn it, they were not only not sympathized with, but were themselves condemned by public opinion.
Dr. Candish, who was received with loud cheers, then addressed the meeting.
[For the speech of Rev. Dr. Candish, see the Liberator of last week.] After speeches by Rev. Jonathan Watson and Dr. Alexander—
Dr. Guthric, in seconding the motion, said that, late as was the hour, lie could not help saying that he heartily concurred in everything that had been said by preceding speakers. I believe (he said) slavery to be the sum of all villainies; I believe it to be the origin of the worst evils that afflict humanity (cheers); and I entirely agree with that old Englishman, Dr. Johnson, when he proposed as one of his toasts—and although I am not in the habit of drinking toasts (laughter), I would be disposed give this one, promising it by saying under circumstances that promise success,’ The next insurrection of the slaves!’(Loud cheers.) I hold that by the honor which I render to Sir William Wallace, to William Tell, to the men who broke the Stuart yoke—by the honor which I render to our Covenanting fathers, who took to the field of battle rather than submit to tyranny—I am bound to render honor to the slaves themselves, if they can work out and light out their freedom in America. (Cheers.) No man under God's heaven has a right to sell me; , my wife, or my children; and I say, that if a man seizes my wife or my children to sell them, I hold myself justified in using any arms which God may have given me, to resist him to the vary death. I premise what I have said by observing, that the rising against slavery is a matter of prudence and of Christian judgment, and that it should not be done if the end of it is only to rivet more firmly the fetters of the slave; but, if there is a fair prospect of the slaves asserting and making good their freedom, they are as much entitled to rise against slavery and to resist it, as are the Italians to resist the Pope of Rome. (Cheers.) I won't blink that question. I would so act, if I were a slave; and would rather go from the scaffold of John Brown, and stand before my God on the judgment day, than stand in the place of those ministers of the gospel who put the lock of silence on their lips, in regard to this matter, in their pulpits. (Cheers.) I have been often asked to go to America; they've promised to frank me back and fore. I have the highest opinion of the United States of America. I think that the people of America are, next to our own, the noblest people under the sun; and it is because I love them that I wish this foul blot removed from their escutcheon, and that they would break the chains of the slave. I think, if that were in done, it would be a happy day for the world when they march south to Cape Horn with their Protestant truth and liberty; but may God shut them up within their territories—may He never allow them to set a foot southward or northward of the continent which they occupy, if they are to carry with them the accursed system of slavery. (Cheers.) I have been, as I told you, asked to go to America; and I will tell you the reason, plainly and publicly, why I will not go. If I went, I could not keep my temper (laughter)-and I might have to meet the fate of John Brown, for anything I know. I could not go and see a fellow-creature—a little child or a woman—set up to auction to be sold, perhaps with a horse or a wheelbarrow; it would stir my blood, and I could not hold my tongue. I could not stand the sight of such things in the South; and there are things also in the North which I could not stand. I could not go into one of their pulpits, and see a large sea of white faces, and then behold some poor negro, in whose beaming eye, in the tears rolling down whose cheeks I see a loving heart towards my blessed Lord and Savior, and who, perhaps, is a believer passing any in that house—I could not see that man standing in a corner, and professing Christians refusing to sit down with him at the Lord's table-the man who, perhaps, will go into the kingdom of heaven in front of them all—these are things which I could not stand. Neither could I stand this in a railway carriage—a poor woman, whose misfortune it is—if it is a misfortune—to be black, and who, because she is black, is turned out of that carriage, and dares not set foot amongst her white-footed and proud oppressors. These things I could not stand; and, therefore, I have never gone to America. They may think there is little loss in that (laughter); I but I never will, till they abolish slavery. (Load cheers.) I love the Americans. In the months of August and September, I see the clergy of every denomination, and men of every profession. I throw open my doors to them, and I am never happier to see any than Americans; but I make it a moral duty, when they are breakfasting with me, to dose them on the subject of slavery. (Loud laughter.] And it has always seemed to me that, the moment I touch upon that subject, it is like getting near a man or woman with corny toes. (Roars of laughter.)
Dr. Guthrie then briefly noticed the remarkable progress made by the United States since its commencement sixty or seventy years ago; referred to its noble school system, its churches and its missionaries; and said, that it was his prayer that God in his providence might lead that great people to break the yoke of their slaves. The existence of slavery had led many to doubt the work of the revival in the United States; and the Churches of America were at this moment upon their trial before the world. He then stated that his Kirk Session, and that of Dr. Candish, had resolved to have collections in behalf of Dr. Cheever; and he hoped that the other ministers and congregations of Edinburgh would adopt the same course, and thus let the Americans see they were in earnest on this matter.
The resolution was then unanimously agreed to.
The Rev. Wm. Reid proposed the next resolution to the effect that the present appeal in behalf of Dr. Cheever afforded a seasonable opportunity for bearing an emphatic practical testimony against American slavery, as well as for expressing sympathy with those who, on Christian grounds, denounced it, and suffer loss for so doing; and that it ought therefore to be promptly and liberally met (Applause.) Mr. Reid read several extracts from Dr. Cheever's work, to show the testimony which as he bore against slavery, and the state of the American Churches in relation to it; and concluded by saying that he trusted that, not only in this city, but throughout the length and breadth of Southland contributions from individuals and from Churches would be freely given in behalf of the cause which had brought them together.
<c04>
Mr. Dickie, in seconding the resolution, said the addresses which they had heard to-day were well fitted to stir up their feelings, and to call forth a liberal response from the friends of the anti-slavery cause in all parts of the country. This resolution was also cordially agreed to.

NEW PHASE OV AMERICAN SLAVERY.
Every fever has its crisis. The moral fevers of the world are no exceptions to the rule. The fevers of crime, of panic, of corruption, of enthusiasm, of persecution, all pass through that culminating stage which is to determine whether death or recovery shall be the result. In America, the fever of wickedness appears to be at its height, May; sometimes we are tempted to think that the fever has passed its height, and that the work of decay has already begun. It is a new thing in the world's history, that a company of civilized men, of nominal Christians, should meet for the purposes of legislation with arms in their hands, and not infrequently garnish their discussions with threats, or even with deeds, of personal violence. It is a new thing in the history of civilization that the citizens of a free country, not content with subjecting a foreign race to all the horrors of slavery, should torture with fiendish cruelty everybody suspected, on the slightest grounds, of disapproving the system, or deprecating the evils which it has brought upon them. It is a new thing since the days of the French Revolution that magistrates should act as the mere creatures of the mob, and illegally imprison unoffending persons for the expression of an opinion. It is a new thing, since the days of Pontius Pilate, that they should hand over their innocent prisoners to be tortured, and nearly murdered, by a frantic rabble thirsting for blood, because their sins were reproved. But the atrocities committed by the citizens of Carolina sink into nothing, compared with the monstrous proposition made in cool blood by some citizens of Maryland.
The population of this State consists of about 700, 000 persons, of whom 500, 000 are whites, 100, 000 slaves, and nearly another 100, 000 free Negroes. Of these Negroes many were born free, others have obtained their freedom with a great sum; others have been set free by the gratitude or scruples of their former masters. But some citizens of Maryland find this freedom a great eyesore. The unity of their State is destroyed, and the peace of their minds grievously disturbed. A free Negro is as hateful in their sight as Mordecai was in the eyes of Human, and probably for much the same reason. If Mordecai had been Human's humble servant, had done all that Human wished, had never stood in Human’s way, he would not have run so great a risk of the gallows. If the free negroes would only be slaves of the whites—if they would do work just at the bidding and will of the whites-if they would never compete with the whites for labor, or stand in the way of their getting a good job, their presence might be passed over with dignified silence. They need not be touched or thought about, but, at all events, might live under the shield of contempt in tolerable safety. It seems, however, that like all despised races, kept down by the force of public opinion and by the enactments of State laws, they have many of the vices which a free people naturally dislike. Their habits are often vagrant; they take day work, instead of hiring themselves as laborers for a year; they are often dishonest, slovenly, idle. Many of them get; into jail, and many more deserve the same lot. Such, at least, are the allegations of the citizens of Maryland, whose petition we print in to-day's columns; and though, of counter, they have tried to make matters as bad as possible, we may fairly believe that the statements contain a great deal of truth. The truth, however, is a matter of but little importance; for, as in the celebrated precedent of the wolf and the lamb, they are quite prepared with another charge in case this fails. If the free Negroes don't work, their idleness calls for the State interference; if the free Negroes do work, their competition with the white workmen calls for the State interference. In either case, therefore, the citizens of Maryland are provided with an unanswerable charge against the free Negroes. The power of the State must be called in; for, as the’ Government was instituted for the benefit of the white man, and as he has to sustain its burdens they taxation, and defend its safety by his own life, it his legitimate and exclusive right to have all the benefits it affords;’ and, therefore, 'to allow the free Nero to compete with the white citizen in the industrial pursuits of life, is gross injustice on the part of the State.’ The legitimate conclusion iron these arguments is, that slavery and free egoism cannot much longer exist side by side;’ and the practical result is, that these citizens pray the honorable and general Assembly of Maryland’ to pass laws enslaving the free negroes for life to the citizens' of that State.
How many citizens of Maryland may be as utterly possessed with the slavery madness as to put the! Names to this hideous proposition, time only will show. We trust, indeed, that very shame withhold those who are not kept back by higher motives, from handing their names down to perpetual infamy by affixing them to such a document. But what must we say to the moral feeling of a State in which such a petition could even be gravely; suggested? if anybody in this country were propose enslaving all working men who had not had regular employment for a year at a time from on master; if he were to propose that henceforth they should never be listened to as witnesses in a Court of Justice, they should be placed under the absolute dominion of a master who might flog them near to death, might work them quite to death, might separate them from their wives and children, might sell the whole family into different parts of the country, might treat them as oxen or horses, or any other possession; if anybody were to propose this or any other of this, in our 'aristocratic' country . What man would believe him sane? He would be treated as the most hopeless lunatic. His proposition would seem so utterly wild, that fear of its consequences would be the last feeling we should entertain. Pity for the unfortunate man who proposed it, would be our only sentiment upon the ', subject. Yet here is a proposal equally monstrous’ capable of no better defense than could be set up in the case we have supposed, not only made openly! and unblushingly, but going about the State seeking for supporters, and having, we may suppose, in the eyes of the originators, a fair prospect of success. At all events, the idea is not too wild to be broached it accords sufficiently with the public temper to make it valuable as a hint. It will not be driven with hisses off the stage, even if it does not’ call -down the house,’ and obtain a decided run of success. Such a state of feeling is a sign of the times which cannot be neglected. It indicates an eclipse of every feeling of right, of every sentiment of humanity. It shows that passion has at present got the better of everything noble, generous, or even reasonable, in the breast of the Southern Americans; the slavery question has turned them from men into friends. If this state of things is to continue long either the North most ignominiously surrender every claim to respect which could be derived from resistance to crime and advocacy of freedom, or a
<c05>
Rupture between the two divisions of the Union must inevitably follow. The Americans certainly have little reason to pride themselves on their’ peculiar institution.’ It has made their statesmen a set of armed ruffians, their free whites a set of brutal assassins; it has destroyed their moral perceptions, it has rendered labor a badge of infamy, it has converted their citizens into buccaneers and pirates, it has driven them to wholesale spoliation mad breaches of public faith; and now it threatens to sunder their Union and destroy their existence as a great nation. Truly, they have already paid a dear price even for such a crime as that of slavery.’ But the end is not yet. '—Leeds (Eng.) Mercury.

SPURGEON ON SLAVERY.
From the Boston Christian Watchman and Reflector.
Mr. Spurgeon, as will appear from the following letter, cannot be silent under the imputation of suppressing his views on slavery, to gain favor with Southern readers. No one, who knew him, could suspect him of such moral cowardice. He does not believe the policy of the Tract Society to be manly or Christian, and gives utterance to his opinions in language not to be mistaken. Like Englishmen, in general, he loathes the system of slavery, and seems to make no allowance even for those masters who would emancipate their slaves, if Providence opened the way for such a movement. Dr. Gutbrie has recently expressed similar opinions in a speech at Edinburgh. American Christians, with a broader comprehension of the subject, have more charity, and while loathing the system, regard differently from Mr. Spurgeon, some of the masters who are its born victims. Mr. Spurgeon will probably receive from his publishers a volume of sermons from an eminent Southern divine, and as he reads its pages, he will confess instinctively that the preacher has felt the power of the cross. We may abhor the sin, and yet exercise due charity for those who are involved in it—especially when the circumstances of the relation are not of their own creating, nor subject to their control. It is well known that such cases are numerous.
Eds. Christian Watchman and Reflector:
I have always considered it to be my duty to deal with those sins which I perceived to be most rampant among my hearers. We miss the mark when we preach of absent individuals. It is very easy to talk about the brutality of the uneducated when in addressing my lord and my lady, but I prefer to tell these gentry their own sins, and not to flatter them by comparing them with other? This rule has brought me at diver’s times into no little trouble, which has very cheerfully endured, and has rejoiced therein. But now a new outcry rose in your land, and I am charged, not with being too severe with Brother Jonathan, but with letting him off too easily. Having no slaveholders in England, I should have been beating the air if I had preached against slavery to my people, for this is the very last crime they are likely to commit. It is far more probable that any slaveholder who should show himself in our neighborhood would get a mark which he would carry to his grave, if it did not carry him there.
I do, from my inmost soul, detest slavery anywhere and everywhere, and although I commune at the Lord's Table with men of all creeds, yet with a slaveholder I have no fellowship of any sort or kind. Whenever one has called upon me, I have considered! It my duty to express my detestation of his wickedness, and would as soon think of receiving a murderer into my church, or into any sort of friendship, as a man-stealer. Nevertheless, as I have preached in London and not in New York, I have very seldom mode any allusion to American slavery in my sermons. This accounts for the rumor that I have left out the anti -slavery from my American edition of sermons. This is not true in any measure, for, as far as my memory serves me, I cannot remember that the subject was handled at all in any of my printed sermons beyond a passing allusion, and I have never altered a single sentence in a sermon which has been sent out to my American publishers, "beyond the mere correction which involved words, not sense. However, if any think me capable of such doable-dealing, I doubt not that they judge of me by themselves, and from such persons esteem is not desirable. I do not therefore regret the loss of it. I have this much to say to all who respect me in America: I did not want to be blaming you constantly, while there are sins enough in my own country, but I shall not spare your nation in future. I shall remember that my voice echoes beyond the Atlantic and the crying sin of a man-stealing people shall not go unreduced. I did not know that I had been so fully adopted a citizen of your republic, but finding that you allow me to be one of yourselves, I will speak out quite severely enough, and perhaps more sharply than will meet with approbation.
I have not been altogether silent upon the subject, for I have spoken burning words when the matter has been on hand; but as this has usually , been upon the platform, and not front the pulpit, these utterances have not reached the press. I most see that there are some such things in the sermons, 'if not in England, at least in America. Messrs. Sheldon & Co. are ready to publish anything I may have to say on the matter, and I shall also avail myself of the Watchman and Reflector.
Finally, let me add, John Brown is immortal in’ the memories of the good in England, and in my I heart he lives. I am yours most truly, C. H. SPURGEON." Clap ham, London, Jan. , 1860.

DISABILITIES OF AMERICAN PERSONS OF COLOR.
The following is the correspondence which took place between Mr. Dallas, the American Minister, and Miss Sarah P. Remond:
No. 6 GRENVILLE STREET, BRUNSWICK 
SQUARE, W. C, Dec. 12, 1859. 
'SIR: I beg to inform you that, a sort time since, I want to the office of the American Embassy, to have my passport vied for France.
‘I should remark, that my passport is an American one, granted to me in the United States, and signed by the Minister in due form. It states—what is the fact-that l am a citizen of the United States. I was born in Massachusetts, ’upon my asking to have my passport vied at, t the American Embassy, the person in the office Massachusetts.
'Upon my asking to have my passport vied at the American Embassy, the person in the office refused to affix the vise, on the ground that I am a person of color. 
'Being a citizen of the United States, I respectfully demand as my right that my passport be vied by the Minister of my country.
 'As I am desirous of starting for the Continent, I must request an answer at your earliest convenience. I remain, Sir, your obedient servant,
'SARAH P. REMOND.
'THE HON.-DALLAS, American Minister,
No. 24 Portland place.'
'LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES,
LONDON, Dec. 14, 1859
MISS SARAH P. REMOND: I am directed by the
<c06>
Minister to acknowledge the receipt of your note of 12th inst and to say, in reply, he must, of course, be sorry if any of his country women, irrespective of color or extraction, should think him frivolously disposed to withhold from them facilities in his power to grant for traveling on the continent of Europe; but when the indispensable qualification for an American passport, that of "United States citizenship, " does not exist—when, indeed, it is manifestly, an impossibility by law that it should exist-a just sense of his official obligations, under instructions received from his Government as long ago as the 8th of July, 1856, and since then strictly conformed to, constrains him to say that the demand of Miss Sarah P. Remond cannot be complied with.
'Respectfully, your obedient servant,
"BENJM. MORAN,
'Assistant Secretary of Legation.'
SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of yesterday's date.
'The purport of your communication is most extraordinary. You now lay down the rule that persons free-born in the United States, and who have been subjected all their lives to the taxation and other burdens imposed upon American citizens, are to be deprived of their rights as such, merely because their complexions happen to be dark, and that they are to be refused the aid of Ministers of their country, whose salaries they contribute to pay.
"I remain, Sir, your obedient servant,
'SARAH P. REMOND
‘PASSPORT. I, the undersigned Secretary of State of the United States of America, hereby request all whom it may concern, to permit safely and freely to pass Sarah P. Remind, a citizen of the United States, and in case of need to give her all lawful aid and protection.
"Given under my hand, and the impression of my seal of the Department of State at the City of Washington, the 10th day of September, 1859, in the 83d year of the independence of these United States. LEWIS CASS. Department of State.'

THE POLICY OF COERCION.
Week before last, the Charleston Mercury gazette the firm of Calling, Millen & Co. , New York, as Beecher abolitionists, and especially unworthy of Southern patronage. It has since been furnished' with the names of such retail merchants in Charleston as trade almost exclusively with the unfriendly firm, and the names of such firms as never trade with them; and it is’ surprised to find how few are in the latter category.’ The charge against the firm is, that they all attend Beecher's Church, in Brooklyn, and one of them has subscribed $6000 towards the new Pilgrim Church. It seems that Charleston merchants will not be allowed to trade with them. Any more, however. The edict has gone forth. The Mercury says:
‘We are pleased to announce that a card is suggested in King Street, which shall pledge its signers not to contribute towards the prosperity of such open and manifest enemies, by purchasing supplies at their store. The King Street merchants will not hesitate to speak out.'
We doubt whether Boston merchants would submit to such espionage and dictation in their business as the Mercury assumes, even if there was a paper here base enough to enter upon the dirty work.
This system of coercion and insolent bullying on the part of Southern politicians is no new thing. It has been repeatedly resorted to, not only to manufacture pro-slavery men at the North, but for other political objects.
The game of coercion, by which Southern politicians have to some extent heretofore controlled the political affairs of the North, is about played out. It has been overacted. There may be some few traders here who now crouch like whipped spaniels at the threats of the pro-slavery Democratic presses, but there is a feeling of manliness and independence among the great majority of our people which has been thoroughly aroused. The arrogant bluster of these politicians, and their reckless and disorganizing attempts in Congress to intimidate the North, are doing more to strengthen the Republican Party, than was accomplished even by the aggressions in Kansas. The Democratic music of the Presidential campaign has been set to too high a key, and is too: discordant to entice new recruits, and. it is driving off in disgust some of their tried soldiers.
THE 'IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT’A TWO-EDGED’SWORD. The South is lying about with its ant abolition weapons with such blind fury that friends as well as foes are struck down. An incident illustrative of this recently occurred at Columbus, Miss. The agent of a northern mercantile house visiting the city was suspected of being an abolitionist in disguise, and having left town far a day or two, Mr. James Blair searched his trunk for proof of his treasonable character. He found on opening the '' trunk a copy of a letter to a friend, which commenced by saying that it was’ all right with him and the Brown family;’ then Mr. Blair's excitement was reported to have been very great, and he threw down the letter, confident that he had detected treason.
A bystander picked up the letter, and upon a further perusal discovered that the’ Brown family’ in question was not that of Osawatomie, but was the family of old Mr. and Mrs. Brown, who had a certain daughter that had captivated the unfortunate drummer; then followed an overhauling of the correspondence of the unfortunate swain, which resulted in some very interesting developments in the way of soft sentiments. At this juncture of affairs. Dr. Shepherd came up and pronounced the procedure an outrage; Mr. Blair replied with a curse, saying that if he took sides with the northern agents, he was no better than one of them. Shepherd then told him that he would have to answer for his remarks or something to that effect, and arming himself with a walking stick, for a day or two was on the watch for Blair to show himself in the streets. That individual, however, kept out of the way until the second sight alter the words ware passed, when they met, and Shepherd commenced caning Blair, whereupon Blair drew a pistol, and shot him until be fell dead. These were the Debtor’s life Shepherd formerly resided in Texas, and position of Secretary of the Navy under Gen. Houston, in the time of the Texan Republic. He was the special friend of Commodore Moore of the Texan Navy.
Another MECHANIC DRIVEN FROM THE SOUTH—Mr. Parley Saver, of Oxford, a year ago last May, went to South Carolina to superintend a steam saw mill, his employer also being an oxford man. By industry and economy, he accumulated sufficient finds to purchase a house, and he thought himself settled for life. Mr. Soave, says the Worcester Transcript, was a quiet, relies man, and as there was no preaching or other religious excurses in the place, he was wont call his neighbors together on

NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United states Constitution is a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell'
The Free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. . There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they expose the cause of the oppressed in other States, by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other states in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, our FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free states are tending.'
—WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
the Sabbath to read the Bible and hear a sermon. A rumor got round the village that 'Seaver preached abolition <illegible>,' but nothing was done about it until Saturday night, Christmas Eve. At 1 o'clock in the morning, he was waited upon by a large delegation, who, after <illegible> his papers and books, and obtaining from him an admission that five negroes had attended his meetingsï¿½how many whites attended is not statedï¿½ordered him to leave within twenty days. Seaver offered to go at once if they would buy his place, but this they refused, and he came away within the specified time, finding it impossible to dispose of his property.
EXCITEMENT AT ABBEVILLE, MISS. The Oxford Mercury of Thursday, 24th, says:
Considerable excitement was produced in our neighboring town of Abbeville, last Sunday and Monday, by a gang of ten peddlers. Some stories represent them to us as having been Irish or German, and others that they were Abolitionists, endeavoring to stir up an insurrection. The neighborhood became greatly alarmed when they appeared, as so many of that kind of traders do not often travel together. They were, the whole ten, arrested on Monday, and taken to Abbeville and examined, but no proof was elicited against them, except that several were operating without license. They were ordered to leave the State within a given time. 
The Norristown (Pa.) Republican says:ï¿½ ' Christian Stout, a good Democrat, long a resident of Upper Dublin, and for a year or two of Plymouth township, removed to Maryland a few years ago to work a farm for Wm. Earnest, Hon. John McNair, and others, and has resided there ever since. About two weeks ago, he appeared amongst us again, and informed us that he was a fugitive from his home. He says that a short time after the opening of Congress, and the introduction of Clark's resolution, a wealthy Englishman, his neighbor, handed him Helper's book to road. He read it, and then seeing his neighbor, he told him that he was done with it, and desired him to take it; but he said, " No, never mind giving it to me, hand it to one of your neighbores." He did so, and shortly afterwards the Englishman was arrested, as were some others. He was then informed that the slaveholders had sixty-two names on their paper of persons who were to be arrested for circulating Helper's book, uttering abolition sentiments, and sympathizing with Brown. As his name was among the proscribed, he suddenly left for Pennsylvania. The Englishman was bailed in the sum of $2,500, and immediately left for New York, intending to forfeit the bail, and abandon the State. Before Stout left he consulted a lawyer, who told him that although they might perhaps not convict him, they would probably keep him in jail a year or two, and put him to much cost, so he concluded he had better leave. He is now waiting the result of the trial of others.' 
A young man named Baker, formerly an organist and daguerreotypist at Rome, New York, and son of Rev. Mr. Baker, of Utica, was lately driven from Augusta, Georgia, by a slaveholding mob. Mr. Baker went to Augusta to take the position of organist in an Episcopal church, and had played but one Sabbath when he was warned to leave, or submit to a coat of tar and feathers. 
THE APPEAL OF ONE IN BONDS. The Rev. Daniel Worth writes from Greensboro' Prison, N. C, that he is held to answer in two counties in that State on a charge of circulating Helper's Book, and he asks all persons wishing to write to him to abstain from allusions to slavery, and all else which can excite the South, as his letters undergo a close scrutiny, and all inflammatory matter will greatly prejudice him. He adds:ï¿½'Lines of Christian condolence and sympathy gladly received, and the prayers of all Christians earnestly solicited.' 

MR. ANDREW BEFORE THE HARPER'S FERRY COMMITTEE.
John A. Andrew., Esq., of Boston, seems to have given the Harper's Ferry Investigating Committee the benefit of his views in a plain and unreserved manner, which we trust was satisfactory to his questioners. We take the following from the N. Y. Tribune's report: 
'John A. Andrew, of Boston, also appeared before the Committee. He was summoned because the Committee had learned through Mr. Chilton of this city, that he had been retained as counsel for the defence of John Brown, through Mr. Andrew. The Committee desired to know from what source funds were derived, what interest he represented, and what motives influenced his intervention. Mr. Andrew stated, that when intelligence reached Boston that John Brown had been urged to trial without time for preparation, without opportunity of being reached by his friends, and have his case properly examined, and while prostrated on his bed, and unable to sit up and instruct counsel, if he had any, the whole proceeding struck his mind, and that of most people whom he met, as a judicial outrageï¿½certainly without any parallel in the history of Massachusetts. He supposed Virginia was strong enough to conduct such a case with justice and propriety, and without being excited by unfounded apprehension. He confessed, too, sympathy for a man whom he believed the victim of an idea, and whose misfortune had probably been precipitated by what his family and friends had seen and suffered at the hands of the Slave Power in Kansas. He had entertained a good opinion of him as a brave and conscientious defender of the Free State cause, which he considered the cause of liberty and good government, in which all free settlers of Kansas, whether from North or South, had a common interest. In consequence of his own reflections, and the suggestions of others representing all shades of opinion, and as there was no time to lose, he assumed the responsibility of engaging Southern counsel in Washington and Richmond, whose business it should be to secure John Brown the fullest and fairest trial of which the circumstances would admit. He accordingly guarantied and paid $1300 in fees, of which Mr. Chilton of Washington received one thousand, and Mr. Green of Richmond three hundred dollars. This money was refunded by the voluntary contributions of various gentlemen, when they became informed of his interference, and who approved its purpose and accomplishment. Many contributed who were less anti-slavery than himself, but who thought the excitement would be quieted by a proper defence. No concealment was observed or desired, in the whole matter. 
The Committee inquired Mr. Andrew's opinion concerning John Brown's conduct in Kansas, and the transactions attributed to him, particularly horse-stealing, and the Potawatomie homicides. Mr. Andrew answered, he had always understood that in the conflicts between the Free and Slave State parties, the horses were regarded as the spoils of war, and he was not aware that Brown formed any exception. He had no belief, from information which had reached him, that Brown was present at the Potawatomie homicides; but he had long since heard that Brown and many other people were convinced that the Potawatomie affair was one of imperative necessity, as a measure of self-defence. Having never been in Kansas, he could not speak of personal knowledge. 
The Committee inquired if Mr. Andrew would have felt a sympathy for Brown on account of his services to the Free State cause, if he had known that Brown went to Kansas to train himself and others, and organize a settled plan of violence to invade the slave States. Mr. Andrew replied, certainly not. His convictions were anti-slavery, but he was opposed to their propagation by violence and arms. Reason and intelligence were the only weapons he desired to employ. As a Republican, he felt great cause to complain of the Harper's Ferry affair as most unfortunate and unjustifiable, from any point of view in which he could regard it. But, since his opinions were asked, he would give them frankly. Intending no disrespect to anybody, he considered John Brown and Harper's Ferry as the fruit native to the tree which the slave power had planted; that in view of the aggressions upon Free State men in the Territories, organized in the slave States, and approved by leading Southern men, and the sufferings and disasters to those settlers which flowed therefrom, he did not think it remarkable that a few men should have been educated thereby up to the point of armed retaliation. However much this transaction was to be condemned or deplored, it was not comparable, in point of public danger, to the assault made upon a Senator of Massachusetts on the very floor of the Senate, and for no other reason than an honest discharge of his duty and a fearless expression of his opinions, which was generally applauded throughout the South. That was a direct and deadly blow aimed at civil liberty and representative government in America. Among other facts, Mr. Andrew stated that he had never seen Brown but ones, and that accidentally. That while he impressed him as a man of decided character, he then <illegible> his mind was strangely disturbed; and in writing here to Judge Blair to provide counsel for his defence, he had expressed the opinion that evidence of his insanity could be procured from Boston to Kansas, which was afterward literally verified. After answering these and other questions, Mr. Andrew desired to record his protest against this assumption of undelegated power. 
<c02>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, FEBRUARY 17, 1860.
SPEECH OF WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
AT THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY,
In the Tremont Temple, Boston, Jan. 27, 1860. 
MR. CHAIRMANï¿½I hardly know what to say, in addition to the resolves which I have submitted to the Society, from time to time. They constitute my abolitionism; and though I might multiply words in illustration and enforcement of the propositions therein set forth, I could add nothing at all to their manifest truthfulness. 
Let me make a passing reference to our general bereavement. At the last New England Convention, in the course of some remarks which fell from my lips in regard to the removal of our lamented friend, CHARLES F. HOVEY, I think I observed that every such gathering as this is, in the nature of things, a farewell meeting to some of us. The early and tried Abolitionists have been wonderfully preserved, during the fiery trials through which they have been called to pass, for thirty years. But now, in the course of nature, they must be summoned, ere long, to their eternal home; and so, one by one, they are dropping off-though we will thank God that the new recruits are outnumbering those who are called hence, and we are therefore stronger, numerically, than before. 
The last year has been the most remarkable in the weight of these bereavements. We have lost our faithful and long-tried Treasurer, SAMUEL PHILBRICK; we have lost him to whom I have just alluded-our generous associate, CHARLES F. HOVEY; we have lost our venerated friend, EFFINGHAM L. CAPRON, who was as early in the field as it was possible for any man to be, after the first sounding of the Anti-Slavery trumpet; and now, while we are in session, the sad tidings come to us that our dear, faithful, early, loving coadjutor, ELIZA LEE FOLLEN, is no more! The blow has come so suddenly that I have no words to express the feelings of my heart in view of the event. I am reminded by it of the glorious spirit of her martyr-companion, the widely lamented Professor CHARLES FOLLEN. I remember who and what he was,-an exile from his own native land to ours, because he was not willing to submit to the rod of the tyrant. I remember his early support to this unpopular enterprise, which cost him, for the time being, his reputation, his position at Harvard, and almost everything that men usually regard as worth having. It is praise enough to say that he was as true here, on American soil, to those in bondage, as he was true in his own land to the cause of his own countrymen. He was a rare instance of a universal love of liberty, based upon principle, and proof against every temptation and trial. For, alas! of the great mass of those who come over to us from the Old World, who have been in some measure faithful to the cause of free dom there, in their own behalf, nearly every one of them has proved traitorous to the cause of struggling humanity here, about as soon as he has touched our soil. 
Mrs. Follen was of a spirit kindred to that of her heroic husband. She was of high social rank, as we count rank in this country, and most respectably connected here in Boston, though she had no countenance or support in her anti-slavery efforts in that direction. But she did not count anything dear to her, in comparison with that beneficent cause to which she gave her fine endowments, her literary talents, and her philanthropic labors, with a never-tiring zeal. Hers was, indeed, a world-embracing, Christ-like spirit. I never looked into a human face where I saw more of divine love and benevolence than in that of hers. She did not need any translation to become an angel, for she was an angel here.
Turning to the subject, for the consideration of which we are here assembled, it seems to me that all of us need to understand, thoroughly, what Slavery is, in its spirit, in its claims, in its purposes; that, having obtained this knowledge, we may be prepared for whatever Slavery must inevitably and necessarily do, or attempt to do, to preserve its own existence and supremacy. We want not merely intelligence, but a heart. Abolitionism does not mean any holiday recreation-absence of the cross-something that will lead on to fame and popularity, to office and power: but it means self-sacrifice-opposition to a corrupt public opinion-a willingness to bear the cross as Jesus himself bore it-the most entire faith in the overruling wisdom and goodness of God, and the certainty that, in due time, the right will triumph, and the wrong be put down. And how many have we of that stamp? On the right hand and on the left, there is any amount of Anti-Slavery profession; but how much Anti-Slavery consistency of conduct? I see but very few who are disposed to carry out what is demanded by the exigencies of the times, and the principles to which they have given their subscription. What do you expect of a Christian in an idolatrous country? That he will stand up, as Paul did, and say, ' I glory in the cross of Christ.' But what if you see him compromising with those who are bowing down to stocks and stones-allowing Christianity to be disparaged, insulted, and proscribed? Why, a man who would thus play fast and loose with Christianity, in the midst of idols, you would say, is not a Christian. Of course he is not: the moment he undertakes to join hands with idolators, to any extent, he is treacherous to the cause of Christ, and cannot be a Christian. So, any man who says he is on the side of liberty, and then strikes hands with slaveholders, whether in the State or in the Church,-does it intelligently, does it deliberately, does it because he thereby hopes to promote his own ends,-is he not a hypocrite? 
Where does all this lead? It leads to our seeing things as they are, if we will let the Spirit of Truth anoint our eyes, and purge our vision. The Abolitionists are simply carrying out their own heaven-attested principles, and, in so doing, they have won for themselves the hatred of the tyrants, and the blessings of the oppressed. A pro-slavery Church trembles at their approach, and a blood-stained State is uneasy in their presence; for they cannot be put down, nor turned back by any device. 
Let no man talk about the day of moral power being over, nor say that, henceforth, the work to be done must be after the manner of John Brown at Harper's Ferry; for we greatly mistake if we think that tragedy has wrought any great moral change in the sentiments of the people. What if John Brown had fired his gun twenty years ago? It would have been the judgment of the nation, generally, that he died as a fool and a madman. But the sympathy and admiration now so widely felt for him prove how marvellous has been the change effected in public opinion during thirty years of moral agitation,-a change so great, indeed, that whereas, ten years since, there were thousands who could not endure my lightest word of rebuke of the South, they can now easily swallow John Brown whole, and his rifle into the bargain. (Laughter and applause.) In firing his gun, he has merely told us what time of day it is. It is high noon, thank God! (Renewed applause.) 
What compromise shall we enter into, and with whom? Liberty is not to be compromised. The slaveholders are for maintaining slavery intact: they are consistent. They are for sacrificing whatever stands in the way of their slave system: they are consistent. They boldly call for the suppression of free speech, even at the North, and deny the right of the people to assemble to discuss the subject of slavery: they are consistent. In whatever they do, and in whatever they say, in support of slavery, they are 
<c03>
acting with logical consistency, from beginning to end. 
Now, what we want on our side of the line is, just that uncompromising spirit on behalf of Liberty. Whatever stands in the way of this sacred cause, put it down. If it is a party, let the party be abandoned; if it is the Church, let the Church be anathematized; if it is the Government, let the Government be repudiated. Let us, at least, have Liberty to begin with, and we will achieve everything worth having, afterward; with Liberty. (Applause.) 
But where are our natural, inalienable, CONSTITUTIONAL rights? What protection of them in any portion of the South, where the 'reign of terror' is in full operation? It is a matter of daily occurrence for Northern citizens to be tarred and feathered, or otherwise brutally outraged, and driven out from that section of our common country, under the pressure of Lynch law, without any proof or imputation of crime. It is enough that they are from the North, and suspected of preferring Liberty to Slavery-what business have they south of Mason and Dixon's line? They are Northern teachers-what business have they to teach in a slaveholding State? They are engaged in trade and other laudable pursuits-it is not for them to expect either protection or toleration! And for such atrocities there is no remedy; at least, none is looked for, none ever attempted. The submission to them is as absolute as that exacted of the scourged and cowering slaves on the plantation! 
But suppose the tables were turned; suppose there existed here a little of the spirit of '76, such as our fathers manifested in their treatment of the tories at that time, and we should catch, and tar and feather, every slaveholder coming into this Common wealth, by way of retaliation, and to show our jealous appreciation of the sacred cause of freedom-how long do you think '' our glorious Union' would hold together? How many victims would be subjected to Northern Lynch law, before the South would bring this matter to a head? And yet, there are scores of Northern men so treated at the South,-not one of them an Abolitionist, or in sympathy with their movement,-and the intelligence excites no popular indignation among us. and scarcely elicits a comment from the press. In one half of the country, there is, practically, no Constitution or Union now; there, all constitutional rights are ruthlessly violated in the persons of those who believe in the Declaration of Independence and the Golden Rule; there, a bloody usurpation holds undisputed sway. Go to the South, ye Republicans, who are 'no abolitionists'ï¿½who vociferously insist that ' the Union must and shall be preserved'-who are ready to fulfil all the pro-slavery compromises of the Constitution-go to the South, if you dare, and, taking the Union, the Constitution, and the star-spangled banner along with you, in vindication of your citizenship, proclaim your hostility to the further extension of slavery! A long farewell to you, if you go! Be sure and make your wills before leaving, for you will in all probability never come back again! (Laughter and applause.) 
Do I exaggerate? Is there any justice, any personal security at the South for Northern freemen, unwilling to wear a padlock upon their lips? No. However widely we may differ in sentiment from each other, if we do not recognize slavery as an institution too sacred to be assailed or circumscribed, we are all equally doomed the moment we step over the Southern border. O, was there ever a party so lacking in self-respect, true courage, and moral consistency, as the Republican party!-knowing, as it does, that, at the last Presidential election, no man could express his preference at the South for Mr. Fremont, without being outraged in his person, and compelled to flee to the North to save his life-yet still shouting, ' Our glorious Union forever!' Was ever fatuity like this? 
What do you expect, Republicans, in regard to the coming Presidential election? Are you going to exercise your constitutional rights at the South? When the campaign shall be fairly open, the Democratic gatherings at the North will be addressed by such men as Senator Mason, Senator Toombs, and Gov. Wise, who, whether standing upon Plymouth Rock, or in Faneuil Hall, or on Bunker Hill, will not hesitate to preach absolute loyalty to the Slave Power, and cheerful obedience to the Fugitive Slave Bill, and to insist upon new safeguards for their horrible slave system. They will spit their contempt upon the Republican party, brand it as factious and treasonable, and denounce free society and free institutions generally; and they will do it, not only without personal danger, but with all possible impunity. Well, ye Union-loving Republicans, will Mr. Seward go to Virginia, Mr. Sumner to Carolina, Mr. Wilson to Georgia, Mr. Hale to Alabama, Mr. Fessenden to Louisiana, Mr. Wade to Florida, Mr. Sherman to Mississippi,-will anybody, conspicuous in the ranks of the Republican party, volunteer to go to the South, and there advocate the election of the Republican candidate for the Presidency? Why, to ask the question is to answer it. Nothing of the kind is even dreamed of! All constitutional freedom is annihilated at the South, and the right of free speech in all parts of the country is to be exercised only by 'the lords of the lash' and their servile Democratic minions! 
Yes-nothing is more certain in the future than that there is to be no CONSTITUTIONAL Presidential election, so far as the entire South is concerned, in the approaching campaign, as there was none at the last; for when, in one half of the Union, all freedom of expression and choice is destroyed by brute force, and independent electors are kept from the polls by armed ruffians, it is not an election-it is a mockery, a bloody usurpation; and such we are all now living under, in the person of James Buchanan. And yet, the very party that is ostracised and outlawed in all the South, and is not allowed to present its own candidate for the Presidency in that section, is at this very time throwing up its cap heaven high in praise of ' the glorious Union,' and making fresh professions of unabated loyalty to it! O, the meanness, the cowardice, the fatuity of such conduct! A 'glorious Union,' forsooth, in one half of which they dare not say their souls are their own, and will surely be lynched if they shall venture to make the attempt! 
Now I maintain, that, if any men deserve the treatment meted out to them at the South, it is those who behave in this truckling manner; and I do not think this a harsh expression. 
O, this American Union, falsely so called!-what a sham, what a snare, what a curse it has been from the beginning, and how entirely one-sided and sectional! 'There is no North,' said Mr. Webster, and the declaration still remains true. Tell me not that the Constitution of the United States is an Anti-Slavery instrument-that it was made to subserve the purposes of liberty, as against all injustice. I know the history of this country; I know the American people; and I know that they never did make, nor intend to make, a Constitution whereby they rendered slavery unlawful in our country. I know that they, agreed in veiled phraseology which all understood, that the piratical foreign slave-trade should be prosecuted under our national flag for a score of years, which agreement was fulfilled to the letter. I know that, in veiled phraseology, they provided for a slave representation in Congress; and it is enjoyed to this hour. I know that, in veiled phraseology, they provided for the hunting and seizure of runaway slaves in every part of our broad domains; and this is still conceded to the South. And I know that, in very plain phraseology, they pledged the whole strength of the country to put down every insurrection in the land; and it was this strength that put John Brown and his associates into the murderous hands of Virginia. Now, if this is not 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell,' what is it? Make yourselves the victims of it. Is there a man here who would stand by this Government, if it should turn
<c04>
him into a chattel, or take from him his wife or his children? No! never! 
Our fathers were verily guilty in trying to assimilate elements essentially and eternally antagonistical. But I have a thousand more reasons for denouncing those who uphold the Constitution at this hour, than I have for denouncing the framers of it; for while the litter were without excuse, they did not clearly see the end from the beginning, as we now see it. They had not the terrible experiment fairly wrought out, so that they could understand exactly the consequences that would inevitably grow out of it. But, to us, all is 'open, palpable as a mountain'; and we are left without defence or apology. The people are rendered powerless in the presence of slavery, by the compromises of the Constitution. If it had not been for these compromises, neither Thomas Simms nor Anthony Burns would have been carried from Boston, back to chains and stripes. In the presence of those dreadful scenes man stood paralysed, because of their admitted constitutional obligations. Hence, I say,ï¿½ACCURSED BY THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES! (Loud applause.) If, however, any man can make out the Constitution to be anti-slavery, honestly and conscientiously to himself, let him do so; but let him take care that he votes for no party that does not agree with him in regard to the instrument. (Renewed applause.) Let him take care that he does not, in one breath, say it is anti-slavery, and in the next acknowledge it to be pro-slavery, by voting for a man who does not believe a word that he says on that point. If any man can scare up an Anti-Slavery party in this country, under the Constitution, I have no objection to it; but tell him, beforehand, he has got to begin by converting the people of the United States to his opinion, (laughter and applause,) which is tantamount to an entire revolution of sentiment and feeling throughout the nation.
But I will not continue these remarks; for I want to hear my friend Mr. Phillips, and I know that you do. I want to hear him, because what is unpleasant to the ear of the tyrant, is very pleasant to mine, (cheers,) because I know that his are words of great power, as well as of great beauty and eloquence, and because he has a statesmanship of mind, and a grasp of philosophy, comprehensive, enlightening, and inspiring; and under his magnificent leadership we all of us may march on, hopefully and exultingly, to the goal that is before us,ï¿½UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION.(Warm applause.) 

SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ. MR. PHILLIPS, on rising, was greeted with cordial applause. He said:
LADIES AND GENTLEMENï¿½I have been requested to bring to your notice a picture executed, in this city, by two of the first artists in their line of art, Messrs. Black & Bachelder, from a recently finished bust of John Brown by Mr. Brackett, who, you will recollect, visited Charlestown during the imprisonment of Captain Brown, and enjoyed what little opportunity the fear of Virginia would allow him, to see the living head of the martyr. From measurements, this glimpse, and the pictures in existence, he has executed what every one who knew Captain Brown regards as an excellent likeness, and what those who did not know him, but only look upon it as a work of art, have found themselves compelled, as it were, to acknowledge one of the most impressive and masterly heads known to sculpture since Michael Angelo blocked out his Moses for the admiration of three hundred years. This print, the inspiration of your houses, the monitor of your daily life, the model of one whose memory is to be kept ever before you, more freshly by this living remembrance, is just finished. It is hoped that every Abolitionist will begin the education, and will continue his daily and public protest, by that best of all provocatives of discussion, the sentiments or the lineaments of those who have been identified with this irrepressible conflict. Hang this picture up in your rooms, that every comer may know on which side you are. Nail your colors to the mast, by letting this be your daily monitor. And every one that stands beneath your roof, if he has the disposition to ask you why, will lead to a debate that shall be the best Anti-Slavery lecture, the first lesson of an Anti-Slavery education, the best banner under which you can sail. There are some for sale! here at the platform; and those who have not the leisure to attend to it this evening, will find, at the studio of Mr. Brackett, 24 Tremont Row, not only these, but even the better sight of the original bust. I exhort them to avail themselves of the privilege. 
Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know what I can add to the discussion of these six sessions. Almost everything appears to have been said, and I can only come to glean a little, after such efficient reapers. I hardly know were to begin. Mr. Garrison has said a little in regard to what he calls an Anti-Slavery or a Pro-Slavery character of the Constitution. Well, after all, friends, where do you go to learn the character of the Constitution? Do you go to the parchment, laid up at Washington? Suppose we take it out, and, as the Roman Catholic used to carry his saint's image in days of pestilence or storm, in order to bring back health or peace, suppose you carry it up and down the streets of Charleston, South Carolina, when they are about to tar and feather a Northern merchant who has been guilty of the sin of passing a Massachusetts bank bill-do you think it will save him? Suppose you take it, sacred and covered with the hoar of seventy years, and bearing the name of Washington-take it to Syracuse, on the evening when Gerrit Smith-God bless him! (applause)-and some dozen others are met, debating the question of the rescue of Jerry, and one anxious inquirer into the means of salvation says, 'Mr. Smith, what do you think of muskets?' ' I don't think the time has come for that,' said Gerrit. 'Well, what do you think of axes?' 'The more of them the better.' And so they walked out with axes, and Jerry walked to Canada. (Applause.) Do you think the parchment of the United States Constitution would have held back Gerrit Smith, and the immortal jury of twelve that followed him, armed with axes, although they couldn't quite stomach rifles in that early period, in the twilight of the chapter of violence? I trow not. I do not learn the Constitution of the United States in the parchment at Washington. I learn it in Wall Street and State Street. For Constitutions are not made; they grow. Our fathers made, probably, the best Constitution they could make; for they were the mere scribes to write out the prevalent will of the American people. And as long as slavery exists, and controls thirty States, there is no question whether the Constitution-properly speaking, the government of this country-is a Pro-Slavery or an Anti-Slavery instrument. For that government of which slavery takes the control, must be a Pro-Slavery government. But this is a mere dispute about words. I went down, recently, to lecture in Bristol, Rhode Island. As I passed out of the town, I rode through a very fine farm, and was told that the man who owned it was very much disturbed by a question which had risen up between Warren and Bristol, whether that farm, which had hitherto belonged to Bristol, should be set off to Warren; and the old farmer objected, and went up to town-meeting, very much agitated, and said: 'I don't want to be set off to Warren; for Bristol has always been a healthier town than Warren'! (Laughter.) Just as idle is the discussion as to what the parchment says at Washington. Constitutions grow; they are not made; and while the Constitution of this country sanctions slavery, to the extent that slavery rules the country, the government is a Pro-Slavery one, and we need not concern ourselves about the precise wording of the instrument that represents it. I said, to an audience somewhat larger than this, last Sunday,-and probably most of you heard it,-that it reminded me only of the anecdote of the savage that Bayard Taylor, I think, met, who had painted upon 
<c05>
himself a blue coat and brass buttons-he was still a naked savage. And if the American people, in 1789, had painted upon themselves an Anti-Slavery Constitution, they would still have been a Pro-Slavery people, because State Street, and Harvard College, and Princeton, and every one of the advance guards of what are called the Free States, are Pro-Slavery; they are made out of a public opinion that is willing to support slavery for certain ends. I maintain that there is no irrepressible conflict, and has not been, for sixty years, between the governing influences of these Northern States and those of the South. If there had been, there could not have been peace between the two sections of the Government-which there has been. The money of the North and the money of the South were identical. The religion of the North and the religion of the South were identical. The literature of the North and that of the South were identical. And they framed the Government. But we were like a family of children, all in loving harmony; we couldn't live separated, while we were boys, and girls. Our dispositions lie cradled and folded, and character does not come out, strong and broadly marked. We are beginning to grow; we have got to be twenty-one, and thirty, and forty, and fifty-married, and have children; we have entered into business. The keen competitions of active manhood have begun among thirty States; and with them has commenced the irrepressible conflict to 
which Mr. Seward alludes. 
It will necessarily be a very slow progress, as it has been. The only thing that I know like it, is the introduction of Christianity into the Roman Empire. But it took three centuries to put Constantine on the throne of that Roman Empire. Meantime, Christianity had been doing exactly what we have been doing-remodelling literature, undermining the army, changing domestic life; it left law inoperative, authority powerless, an altar deserted; and the irrepressible conflict between the two ideas went on, without the sword, by the undermining and converting influence of thought, until, at last, Christianity ascended the throne, and took her place as the controlling element of the future, and Paganism died away. Just so will it be with slavery. For sixty years she has held the empire. There has been no irrepressible conflict, because the whole nation was a slave government. No freedom in Massachusetts, any more than in the South,-that is, no freedom against anything that South Carolina wished to oppose. From the very first moment, there has been no such freedom. Sam Dexter, of this State, merely launched a taunt in the first Congress, at the slave system. The oath of naturalization, you know, requires, if a stray noble comes, that he must renounce his titles. Dexter merely proposed to add, that if a slaveholder comes, he should renounce his slaves; and he was a bankrupt politician, thenceforward, in Massachusetts. Nobody knew what killed the Federal Party. The difficulty was, they had found out the secret which no American dared utter, that in the Presidential chair sat the slave whip; and they were foolish enough to attack it. The party died of the mistake; and there has been none since, that has not taken a lesson by that fatal mistake, and avoided the revelation of that Mokanna, the veiled President of thirty masquerading States. (Applause.) 
But now the irrepressible conflict has begun. The only difficulty is, that men are so half-and-half awake that they do not know themselves, and are trying to resist the very in fluences of their own creation. Now begin the free press, the individual conscience, the interests of trade, the natural independence and the awakened conscience of the Northern people, to interfere with the South. It began, first, in this matter of fugitive slaves. We were unwilling to return them. Our Christianity rose to that level. It was the first symptom of life in the Northern conscience. You could not return the fugitive slave. A law safely defied touches its downfall. The moment that, even in a dozen or a score of towns, the Fugitive Slave Law of '93 was safely defied, it touched its downfall. The moment that, in the towns of the South, that provision of the Constitution, which gives you and me a right to go there, is safely defied, it has touched its downfall. That is the reason it does not cease to exist. But, to-day, within twenty years, in this generation, we have launched a new issue. You know when the Great Eastern was launched, she had two ponderous engines, of immense power, splendidly finished, the product of two rival machine shops; and the head of each shop claimed the right to go to sea with his own machine, one, of course, hating the other, and each meaning to prove, within twenty-four hours, that the other's engine was a failure. The consequence was, that while one went forward, the other backed water; and the Great Eastern stood still. (Laughter.) Just so stand the thirty States at this moment,-William H. Seward, representing the average of Northern intelligence and commerce and thrift,-feeling that, for once, the shield he has hung out to the nation has been touched, and the challenge made; and, of course, the nation rocks in the trough of the sea, and can make no headway. One after another commence the evidences of this irrepressible conflict. An honest clergyman, who thinks he lives in a Free State, preaches a sermon, somewhere in the country, against the system, of slavery; they turn him out, and he comes to Boston to beg bread; and he is one of the evidences. The Tribune puts in competition the merciless satire of Congdon; and he puts eighteen millions of people, twice a week, on a broad grin-another evidence of the conflict. The wit of the North, that irrepressible love of fun which marks it, and in which the South, in her phantom-house of horrors, seems to have no share-her conscience is too much disturbed to love frolic-the freehearted, jovial North, from the Atlantic back to the river, who has no concealed skeleton at her feasts; it is that really creates American humor; and the high priest of it stands in the Tribune, with his pitiless arrows assailing the system of slavery, in the face of the world. And, better than all, Puritan conscience awakes, and flings its spear down into the centre of Virginia, in the revolt of John Brown; and the world says, Do I approve of him? Well, he is your eldest born, you ought to know him; he bears your lineaments, you ought to acknowledge him. He is the natural product of the thought of the North, seeking vent somewhere. The irrepressible conflict has begun-not between State street and Charleston-there is none. As Vespasian said, when they brought him the tax from a foul source, non olet, it does not smell; so State street touches the gold that comes from the coinage of New Orleans, and says, It weighs as much as that which comes from the free State of Californin; it doesn't matter to me, so long as it is gold, and rings on the counter of the bank vault. No, the irrepressible conflict has not begun there; it will be a long time before it begins. It has begun in different quarters. 
Mr. Garrison has told us that we cannot go to the South, and talk anti-slavery, yet we will allow a slaveholder, in Massachusetts', to talk slavery forever. Aye, to be sure; but the case is different. If you were walking down Washington street, to-night, and saw a match, even burning, you would not care, you wouldn't step aside and tread it out. No, you must have a whole house in conflagration before you will cry fire, and send for an engine. A Southerner here is nothing but a dead match-what do we care? There is nothing for him to set on fire. (Applause and laughter.) But every man who walks Oliver Whipple's powder manufactory, if he sees even a dead match, stoops down and throws it out of the window. South Carolina has a keen scent for a Northern matchï¿½-it may be even a dead one-she doesn't like the look of it. (Renewed laughter and applause.) When the Spaniards and English took a town from the French, in the Peninsular war, if there was a manufactory or a mill of powder, they always went searching among the stones, to see whether the treacherous
<c06>
French had put a flint there, so that the first motion of the revolving wheels would strike fire, and blow the whole to pieces. Now you might send down Nehemiah Adams, dead as a flintï¿½but he had a mother, and a grandmother-and if you should put even him between the upper and nether millstone of a Southern persecution, I am not sure but he would strike a little of his grandmother's sparks out. (Great merriment.) It is the single man, therefore like the single match, that is too dangerous in a powder factory like the whole South; she doesn't wait for a conflagration, she doesn't want all Massachusetts; a sample brick is as perilous.
This irrepressible conflict, then, has begun in just that shape. What we are doing is to acknowledge, to recognize, to confess, to bid it God speed, to see it wherever it starts up, to keep the public informed of how far it has travelled. Men say there will be insurrections at the South. Well, you can buy drunken marines to put them down; you can gather the refuse of New York and Boston, and pay ten dollars a month, and it will do anything. Put out its eyes, and it will be just as good; it has no need that it should see; only let it hear the order, and it will act. But I doubt much whether if Virginia should rise-I mean the only Virginia that has a right to come to an honest man's imagination when he pronounces the words-the Virginians that live on the bread the earn, and that make the soil blossom and bear something, in the providence of God-not the tyrants that live by selling, and keep safe by shedding, the blood of honest men,-if Virginia and Carolina should rise to-morrow, I doubt, much, whether you could recruit an army in New York and New England to go down and put out an insurrection in these States, as the Constitution calls it. The irrepressible conflict has gone that far. The people of the North are very willing that South Carolina should keep her slaves if she can; they never will help her. They are willing she should enlist militia, at our expense, if she can get them; but I doubt, very much, if she can get Northern men to go down and put out insurrections. We have reached a very distinct and unequivocal point. 'We will do nothing to help slavery'-I am speaking now in the name of the massesï¿½'We will do nothing to help, and we will do nothing to harm; let them fight it out.' I think-and it is a very important point-that the Yankee says, 'I have no time to help you abolish slavery; I am making needles and pins, cotton and woollen, money and bread; I have no time to help you put down slavery, nor to help you put down insurrection; settle your own muse.' I think that is the mood of the public mind; it is a great gain. In 1826, Edward Everett said, on the floor of the United States House of Representives, 'I will buckle on my musket, readily, to aid you to put down an insurrection of slaves.' Twenty years later, Robert C. Winthrop said in this city, to a friend of mine, 'Do you know that Mr. Everett never meant to be reported? He said that, it is true, and then they made him print it!' (Laughter.) Poor man! He meant, like any other weed, to drift on, and always be found on the crest of the wave; but they nailed him down in the trough, and there he is to-day. (Fresh laughter and applause.) But, meantime, the sorry apology shows where the public mind around him had travelled. They were not ready for such a sentiment. The Northern mind has got beyond it; the South feels that this is so. She knows that only so long as she clasps the Government does she clasp safety. The moment it goes out of her hands, the moment the latent public sentiment can get itself organized, that Government itself will be on the other side.
Now, what have we to do? It seems to me that we are simply to go about warming into life these little spots on the surface of the dead body of the State, that show where the blood begins to circulate. We are to take, for instance, the text of John Brown's movement in Virginia-not merely to elevate the man,-he needs no eulogy of ours,-history has gathered him into her bosom, and marches proudly down to posterity with her immortal trust-(applause)- what we need is, to take the ethics which he has started, the collision of principles which he has made evident before the American people. May a slave rise? May and ought a man to help him? Has this nation any fulcrum upon which to criticise revolts? All these questions we are to carry out into the Church and State, fearlessly. There will be a dreadful shaking of the dry bones. It is one of those dividing periods when men shrink back from the issue. It is a fresh movement of the upper and under stones of the mill of public retribution; and Ward Beecher has been ground to fine powder in the crisis. (Applause and laughter.) He has not stood the conflict to which one man's gallant moment of life has summoned him. Tried, and found wanting, will be written on many a man who calls himself an Abolitionist. He never believed that the black man was, in reality, the same as the white. Charles Remond touched the very kernel of the question-he thought he did, but that man ran out the inference to its logical result, and he started back from it. What is to be our twelve or twenty-four months of labor? That argument. It does not need another revolt; it does not need another bullet. They will come, beyond all doubt; the echoes in those Virginia mountains will be repeated, further South and further West, till the great organ-hymn of insurrection ascends to the presence of God. (Applause.) You will not live twelve months, nor six months, without hearing them; it is not possible that the North and Northwest, as excited as ourselves, such a torch should have been lighted, and no other conflagration be seen except that at Harper's Ferry. But, whether you see that conflagration or not, like the touch which genius gives us, and all else is imitation, the first blow struck at the slave system, with the public mind in such readiness to interpret and respond to it, is, as Mr. Garrison said, to show us the hour of the day,-and is striking a new hour-a mark of the time-a new epoch. We have turned over a leaf-we see a new side of American character.
I know Northern men have hardly dared, hitherto, to pronounce the veto on national conduct. It was not possible for a man to do it. We blame Henry Wilson, we have blamed Daniel Webster. What are they? Creatures, only, of their times, as good as the times called for-the results of things about them. They stood up as much as we held them. I think it is the saddest logic-the very saddest of all logic-to stand in front of that bronze statue before the State-house, and argue for an Anti-Slavery Constitution. It is only for me to look up at the great slavecatcher, idolized, and a monument erected for him, by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the model of thirty States-it is enough to show me the character of the Constitution. He was not born to eat dirt. He didn't inherit from his New Hampshire hills any proclivity to creep upon his belly, like the first accursed brute. No; he was born a man; God gave him a brain, and his mother gave him a heart. But he went down to grind in the mill of the Egyptians, because, as in too many cases in history, man is not iron enough to stand up against the temptations of his time and his country. He is proof enough of the character of the Government, for it crushed him, and it must have taken all the momentous force of the collected Government of thirty States to crush the iron energy and will that God put into that magnificent body, and still more magnificent brain. I believe in the wickedness of the American Government, as I should believe in the passage of a caravan over the desert; because, as I trace its path, it is marked with the skeletone of honest men: and such is the history of sixty years. The Constitutions of the Polish Diet secured to every knight the right of giving a veto upon the act of the majority; but the man who dared to cry ï¿½Veto!' bought the fleetest horse in the kingdom, got to the edge of the assembly, mounted, with spurs sharpened, and, the moment he shouted the word, put spurs
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
<illegible> his horse, and fled. So the American who dared, <illegible> sixty years to say in politics,' Veto!' to the pro-slavery demands of the south, if he did not put <illegible> to his horse, sunk, at once, into the grave of a political suicide.
We have created the possibility of a man's doing something else. It is possible Wm. H. Seward, who has said it, may yet live to stand in the Presidency. I hope to God that he will. Not that I believe <illegible> anything remarkable as an Abolitionist-not that I believe he would carry there the purpose to <illegible> Slavery. I believe, and South Carolina knows, today, that she could not have a safer man in the President's chair than William H. Seward. But she trends in an unfortunate position. The South has said-' Elect Seward, and I will leave the Union.' I should like to try her. (Laughter.) If Seward Herald be elected, and she did not leave the Union, the gas is out of the balloon. (Great laughter and cheering.) And if we elect Seward, and she does go out of the Union, the devil has gone out of Paradise. (Renewed merriment.) It is worth trying. I would like to have the Republican party get that amount of victory, if it were only to try the experiment-if it were only to see whether the Carolinas mean what they say. If they did have a few heroic politicians who dare to call a Convention of States the initiate measures for a dissolution, and that Convention should flatten out, as all previous Southern Conventions for such a purpose have, we should hear the last of disunion. That cuckoo cry would be done with; we should, at least, have another turn on the fevered bed, and hear something else. The organ-grinder would have gone to the next house, and we would have a new tune. (Laughter.) Better still than that, I think, if the Slave States saw, on one side, looming up like the veto of Fate, the popularity of John Brown for his attack, with muskets, on the slave system, and, on the other, the political threatening of the election of the very man they had denounced, and the man that dared to fling his spear so far into the very thickest of the enemy as to pronounce the words 'irrepressible conflict'-to take the term up from the kennel where the Abolitionists had carried it, and place it in a clean spot in the United States Senate-if they were to see that man elected, I think they would begin to believe that the beginning of the end had come, I think they would be almost ready to say,' Let us negotiate, let us bargain, while we may; let us sell the system as dearly as we run; let us see how much can be saved out of the wreck; for the shrouds and the masts and the rigging are all gone, and unless we float now, we are lost forever.' I think they will come to that <illegible> I hail, therefore, such a step of progress. Not that I fully approve of Republicanism. No; but it is the twilight dawn of the irrepressible political conflict. (Applause.) Wilson is an uncertain twinkle on the Eastern mountains, (laughter,) and Sumner is a broader sunlight spreading over the are of the Eastern heavens, (cheers,) and by and by we shall see the sun himself start to view in the face of the nations,-some radical Abolitionist, with a heart in the right place, with unfettered lips, after the model of john Randolph, an Arab in the United States Senate, butting on either side, carrying his principles with no burden of a President on his back, sure to win all the public opinion which our Pioneer will give him, and which the pulpit of America, with Cheever for its forlorn hope, will yet baptize into the Christianity of America. (Cheers.)
NEW SERIES OF ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS. 
We announce, with much pleasure, the issue of three new and valuable Anti-Slavery Tracts. They consist of the freshest and most interesting matter, and we invite to them the attention of all our readers. As they are to be sold at the simple cost, (or <illegible>,) we hope that orders for them will be numerous. The series is to be continued, from time to time. The three already published are as follows;
No.1. CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN LYDIA MARIA
CHILD AND GOVERNOR WISE AND MRS.MASON, OF VIRGINIA. 28pp.
No.2. VICTOR HUGO ON AMERICAN SLAVERY, With Letters of other distinguished Europeans, viz: DE. TOCQUEVILLE, MAZZINI, HUMBOLDT, LAFAYETTE, &c. 24pp.
No.3. AN ACCOUNT OF SOME OF THE PRINCIPAL SLAVE INSURRECTIONS DURING THE LAST TWO CENTURIES. BY JOSHUA COFFIN. 36pp.
Price of the first two of the above, five cents single; 60 cents the dozen; $ 3.50 the hundred. Of No. 3, six cents single; 60 cents the dozen; $4.00 the hundred.
To be had at the Anti-Slavery Offices, 5 Beekman street, New York; 107 North Fifth street, Philadelphia; and No. 21 Cornhill, Boston.
The AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY has also just published, in a neat pamphlet form, the able and eloquent speech of THEODORE TILTON, Esq., in reply to Rev. Henry ward Beecher, on the American Board of Foreign Missions. Orders for these should be sent to the society's Office, No.5 Beekman street, New York. Price, three cents single; $2.50 per hundred. 
A VIRGINIA TESTIMONY, 1845. In August, 1845, Judge TUCKER of Virginia was on board a steamboat near Old Point Comfort, Virginia; and as the boat passed the fort there, a company of soldiers were seen to some forth, preceded by a wretched-looking man, who was undergoing the punishment of being drummed out of his regiment for desertion. The man was taken in a boat to an unoccupied island in the vicinity, and left there. Seeing these things, Judge Tucker remarked to a lady, (who is our authority for the story, and who is now residing in this immediate vicinity,) that' The Army System, Duelling and Slavery were the three greatest curses of the country, sad he hoped to see them all pass away.'
NEW BEDFORD Friends. and all in that vicinity, will see that FRED ERICK BROWN, brother of Capt. John Brown, with DANIEL BONSALL of Ohio, and CHARLES LENOX REMOND, Will hold a meeting in their city on Sunday next, 19th inst., afternoon and evening.
Mr. Brown is a true man, and a worthy brother of the great Martyr of Liberty. Let all see and hear him.
The Atlantic Monthly for February is received. The following are the contents;
Counting and Measuring; My Last Love; A shetland Shawl; Roba di Roma; The Amber Gods; The Poet's Friends; The Memorial of A. B. or Matilda Muffin; Some Account of a Visionary; The Truce of <illegible> (a poem by Whittier); The Maroons of Jamaica; The Professor's Story; Mexico; Reviews and Literary Notices; Recent American Publications.
Published by Ticknor & Co., Boston, at $3 per annum.
NO MORE SLAVE-HUSTING. Another hearing was granted by the joint Committee of the Massachusetts Legislature, on Tuesday forenoon, in the Hall of the House of Representatives, to the petitioners for a law, forever abolishing slave-hunting in this Commonwealth. The Committee were addressed by Rev. John Pierpont, Samuel E. Sewall, Esq., Francis W. Bird, Esq., and William Lloyd Garrison. Mr. Pierpont made a very able and elaborate argument in defence of the 'Higher Law,' as against and paramount to all wicked laws and covenants of men. Mr. Sewall submitted the form of such a statute as he thought would meet the wishes of the petitioners. A favourable response is expected from the Committee, who have exhibited every wish to give the petitioners the fullest hearing. Upwards of a hundred petitions have been sent to the Legislature, containing 14,000 names.
<c02>
CHARLES O'CONOE AND THE ISSUE.
Thanks to Charles O'Conor, Esq., for the clearness and boldness with which he has stated the real question involved in the matter of American Slavery which question he understands to be,-Is slavery a sin, or is it innocent? Is it a curse, or is it beneficent? Admit, says Mr. O'Conor, the premises of the Abolitionists, that slavery is a sin and a curse, and you cannot escape their conclusions; it is your duty, even, to accept them, promptly and fearlessly. The government that upholds it, the Union that supports it, (slavery.) does not deserve to live. 
Now, clearly enough, this is the question. Mr. O'Conor takes his position-he goes for slavery-he calls it good and wholesome, both for the matter and the slave. No matter how many, having tasted the draught, pronounce it more bitter than gall, he persists in declaring it sweet. Very well for Mr. O'Conor. Most of us happen to be of a very different opinion, however. Nevertheless, if circumstances should, in the future, so strangely conspire as to place Charles O'Conor, Esq., of New York, in the hands of some new race of Barbary Corsairs, claiming him as property, backing the claim with the plausible argument, that the two races could not possibly inhabit the same country except as masters and slaves, we might feel it to be our duty to permit the gentleman to imbibe, as deeply as possible, of the' sweet, delicious draught,' and not attempt to coerce the happy fellow into the acceptance of our standard of bliss for his own, well remembering how' tastes differ.' 
Very likely, the ungrateful recipient of so much happiness would cry out, in the agony of excessive joy, 'It was not white, but negro slavery which I defended. O, give me liberty, or give me death, for I belong to the superior race!' The plea is inadmissible. Mr. O'Conors negro slavery does lay its iron yoke on white, as well as black. Not only in that it degrades and makes wretched the poor whites, which may possibly be denied by men without eyes, but that many of the so called negroes are nearer white than black, and so present us our own race in bondage-a fact which will not be denied by men having eyes.No, Mr. O'Conor, we can't release you on that plea. Your detestable ethics, practically illustrated, enslaves both white and black; and why should you not wear the chain, as well as many others white as yourself? And what is the amount of the argument of superiority of race? The sublime complaisance with which some persons consign others to eternal bondage would be exceedingly refreshing, were it not so intensely diabolical. Standing in New York, exclusively surrounded by the dominant race, with thousands to applaud, Mr. O'Conor may possibly have satisfied himself of the soundness and strength of his logic. But he forgets that the heart has its logic, as well as the head; and in every great epoch, in every great revolution, the bounding pulse of a rising people has proved an overmatch for the icy, glittering fetters of rhetoric and intellect. Then do the realizing, hearing masses of humanity let loose the imprisoned forces of the human breast, and seizing upon first principles, with a precision which the head cannot excel, and a power which it cannot equal, rush on, like a resistless avalanche, crashing through States and sweeping away thrones, kingdoms and constitutions, to the consummation of the great desire;-and all with a mighty, iron-linked chain of sequence which the heart only knows, and it alone can execute. 
Yes; there is a logic of Instinct, as well as of Reason. One is the earthquake and the volcano; the elemental forces of Nature, that toss in the seas, slumber in the ground, smile in the blossoms, and laugh in the fruit;-the other is a moon-beam-a ray, of light without heat. To Charles O'Conor, and all like him, we say, the first of the powers, the terrible logic of Instinct, you have got to encounter! You announce yourself ready for the conflict. So are we. You seem to be confident of victory, and perhaps really are so; but we must say, your chances do not appear half so good as Satan's, before the awful encounter with the embattled hosts of Heaven; or the moment before that little' brush' with faithful Abdiel, which is thus chronicled by the poet:
'Reign thou in hell, thy kingdom; let me serene 
In heaven, God ever bless'd, and his divine 
Behests obey, worthiest to be obeyed; 
Yet chains in hell, not realms expect; meanwhile 
From me returned, as erst thou saidst, from flight,
This greeting on thy impious crest receive.
So saying, a noble stroke he lifted high, 
Which hung not, but so swift with tempest fell 
On the proud crest of Satan, that no sight, 
Nor motion of swift thought, less could his shield, 
Such ruin intercept. Ten paces huge 
He back recoiled; the tenth on bended knee 
His massy spear upstayed; as if on earth 
Winds under ground, or waters forcing way, 
Sidelong had pushed a mountain from his seat, 
Half sunk with all his pines. Amazement seized 
The rebel thrones, but greater rage to see 
Thus foiled their mightiest; ours, joy filled, and shout, 
Presage of victory and fierce desire 
Of battle!'
Gentlemen! are you quite sure you have figured up all the forces that will be inevitably marshaled against you? When a Webster mustered in your ranks, when an Everett volunteered, armed and equipt, in your service, when a Choate rolled along your lines his' rattling ordnance of rhetoric,' and when a Southside Adams came sweating under the weight of an old Queen's arm-with all these accessions to your army, you felt yourselves mighty, if not invincible. We, too, have those of whose intellects we might boast-but we forbear. In kindness, in mercy to your souls, we give you this parting admonition: listen, ponder and beware.
The most calamitous defeats with which parties or armies have ever met, are those where the instincts of ranged on the aide of the victors. Those errors of humanity and justice, common to our race, have theology and morals, and those crimes of governments, that fly in the face of the deeper and humane impulses of the heart, are the surest to be displaced overthrown and avenged! 
E. R.PLACE.
D' ye mind that now, ye O'Conors?
ANTI-SLAVERY MEETING AT SOUTH DANVERS.
FRIEND GARRISON:
Lest you should have no report of the meeting at the Town Hall, Feb. 5, I will send you a few words, giving merely my impressions of the same. For me, there was a mingling of pleasure and pain through the entire meeting. It gave me pleasure to see an unusually large number, for the place, at an Anti- Slavery meeting. It gave me pain to know that among them was more of curiosity to see and hear the brother of John Brown, than strong and heartfelt sympathy with the slaves we hold. It gave me pain to feel that the brother of the martyr could come before us, and justly accuse us of standing cool and careless on his bowed and fettered form. But I was glad to perceive that, in the midst of this apathy or unhallowed selfishness, the hearts of many seemed thrilled with a new sensation, as if they caught glimpses of a higher and better life from the living words of the man before them. All hope of arousing the consciences of men need not be given up, until the last dim perceptions of truth are wanting; and they who san best lead men to any work of high moral reform are those who are uncompromisingly faithful and unmistakably sincere. It gave me pleasure to see even <illegible> man who could, with zeal and appreciative earnestness, urge us to be true to our highest and holiest perceptions of right, and, without fear or favor of man, be guided by the light within.
It was pleasant to see these four or five members of that Society of peaceful men, whose early standard bearers were Fox, and Barclay, and Pennington, and Penn; but It was painful to know that they, in their human and Christian sympathy, were there without
<c03>
the approbation of the Society to which they are joined. The men who, by unwearied efforts, founded a church upon the principle of individual responsibility to the inward Light, have passed away. The active, loving, earnest, working men, who made place on earth for such a church to stand, are gone. The favored ones on whom their mantles have fallen, half forgetting that they too should be governed and guided by the Light Divine, look backward for their duties to ancient men, and records, and forms. They seem now to think that they perform the most sacred duties by standing carefully, though uselessly, in the worn garments of those worthies of olden time. 
I understood, from some remarks of his, that FREDRICK BROWN has still some faith in war as a last means of defence, and a last resort against despotism. REMOND cannot yet give up all his earthly rights and hopes without resistance unto blood and death. BUFFUM has some faith yet in the higher and more Christian principles of peace. An honest man must be respected, though in error. A spirit which I cannot respect is that which would honor Washington and Lafayette, and dishonor the still more generous and unselfish Brown. He won the crown of a martyr, by carrying in his bosom too many of the virtues and principles of peace to succeed in war.
I ought to say that there was one man at the meeting, in the garb of a Friend, who dared to stand on the platform with even a Buffum, a Brown, and a Remond, and boldly lift up his voice to proclaim a truth, and to blast an error. Of course, he was not of New England, but from Ohio. Doubtless, he felt that, in performing that duty, he no more endangered his distinctive principles than if he were seeking moneyed profits in constant intercourse with more unprincipled and mammon-worshipping men of the world. Truth-loving people must some time learn that neither benevolence, nor kindness, nor truth, nor love, nor light, can be chained in forms and creeds. Always new needs brings new duties. Whatever of any creed crumbles at the touch of an honest man had better fall. It were well to remember that, where truth is, there is God; and that, where evil is, God's foremost messengers should be. The unfaithful messengers of Christ do hold their peace until the very stone cry aloud. 
Respectfully, N.PAGE, JR. 
Danversport, Feb.6, 1860.
EQUAL PRIVILEGES FOR WOMAN.' Mrs. J. Elizabeth Jones, of Ohio, lectured in Music Hall on Sunday last, on the above subject, by invitation of Rev. Theodore Parker's society. In commencing, she referred to the American Revolution, and the independence which followed it, and which had made white male citizens of the United States the freest people in the world. Then she alluded to other evidences of our sympathy with the oppressed in other countries who are struggling for freedom. She would confess to a weakness in regard to her country. But it was her duty, on that occasion, to show the faults as well as the advantages of our government. And one of its principal objectionable features was, its degradation of woman, socially, morally, and in every way; and until this heathenish oppression ceased, woman could never fill the sphere God designed for her to occupy. 
She set forth in plain words the absurdity of allowing a half-witted drunkard to vote, while an intelligent woman, though endowed with all the ability of a statesman, is forbidden to appear at the polls, and bow with submission to decrees effected by this tyrannical abuse of the franchise. Woman was restricted in all the pursuits of life, and a pittance was allowed to her where a male would receive good wages for the same work. She then alluded to the many women who chose to shut themselves up in garrets, plying the needle and clothed in unwomanly rags. What wonder that they fall? 
If they do not go astray, they are patronizingly complimented as the 'virtuous poor;' if they do, they are looked upon with horror, white the man who is equally a participant in the crime, and who effected her disgrace, is welcomed back to society with open arms. If woman aspired to intellectual pursuits, she was barked at by theological students, joked about by lawyers, jeered by doctors, while editors devoted squibs to her, and her own sex tossed their heads as she passed. If she aspired to the pulpit, she found St. Paul had been placed there with a cudgel to keep her back. These were only a few of the points the lecturer made, and she was listened to with close attention.-Traveller. 
NEW YORK, Feb.11. (Herald Washington correspondence.)The Harper's Ferry Investigating Committee continues its session from day to day, and are examining witnesses. They are making but little progress. No new developments have been made. The committee are considering the propriety of subpoenaing Governor Wise, with a view of getting at the fact, in his possession in regard to the matter, and also the documents and evidence in his possession, going to show that various schemes were started for the rescue of John Brown. If the committee determine to bring the Governor before them, the evidence will undoubtedly take a wide range, and there is no telling when and where it will end. 
The committee have not decided to subpoena Gerrit Smith. They are informed that his mind is not entirely restored, but he is gradually recovering. Gov. Robinson, of Kansas, testified to-day before the committee, to the effect that Brown did not go to Kansas to settie, but on account of the difficulties which he expected would extend until the country generally should become involved, and slavery be abolished. His object was not peace, but revolution, and differed in this respect from the free State men generally. The only other person who avowed to the witness a similar object was James Redpath. 
After he had lost all hope of accomplishing his object, he related to the witness the designs of himself and some others, who were operating with him. He said but few were in their secret, although many were operating with them. The reason of his opposition to taking possession of the Territorial and Lecompton State government at the ballot box, was because he saw in such a policy an end to the disturbances, and consequently to his hopes of a revolution. 
Hence he, and those with him, who were chiefly reporters of the press, made war upon all who were likely to aid in securing quiet, in order to destroy their influence with the people. He said they acted on the principle that the end justified the means, and they hesitated at no falsehood or libel against any man who stood in their way, provided it promised to further their object. This, he said, accounted for the slanders of the reporters, who were in the scheme, against those who opposed them. 
Witness knew of but one attempt to set on foot a revolution. This was led by Col. Lane, who, Mr. Redpath said, was under a strong pledge to act as their leader in fighting. Soon after the creation of the Military Board, witness heard Gen. Lane say that he had given orders to the Brigadier-Generals to strike at several points in the Territory, with a view, as he understood, to effect a general slaughter of Pro-Slavery men. His orders were never obeyed, if given, and soon after he went into Southern Kansas, with the purpose, as Mr. Leonhart, one of his officers, afterwards told witness, to march upon Fort Scott. Some United States troops were in that vicinity at the time, and Mr. L. said Gen. Lane showed the white feather, and backed down. 
Witness supposed, until the conversation with Redpath, that this was an insane movement of Lane's alone, but he now understands that it was a concerted plan of the revolutionists. This was the end of that class of operations, so far as witness was cognizant. 
 The New York Tribune was used by these men, Phillips and Redpath, as well as many other papers, and they claimed that by means of the press, to which they had access as correspondents, they could make or destroy any man. 
It came out in the evidence that Realf, Hinton, and Kagi, were also correspondents, and that all of them, including Phillips and Redpath, are foreigners.
Mr. Con way, elected to Congress from Kansas, will testify to-morrow. 
THE ACCIDENT TO MRS. H.W.BEECHER. The New York Commercial Advertiser of Thursday evening, says: 'Her head is much bruised, but the skull is not fractured. Her face is bruised also; but it is feared that, in addition to this, she has received internal injuries of a very serious nature. She vomited blood last evening, and this, with other symptoms, has led her medical attendants to suppose, that the injuries are such that serious consequences may be apprehended. The child Herbert, aged about ten years, and the servant girl, are comparatively slightly injured. Mr. Beecher was immediately sent for, and arrived at home during the afternoon. 
Mrs. Beecher was somewhat better this morning, and did not complain of so much pain. The precise nature of her injuries is not stated by her physicians, but they express no doubt of her recovery.'
The last accounts from Mrs. Beecher are favorable to her convalescence.
<c04>
FUGITIVE SLAVE CASE AT CENTRALIA.- We take the following from the Chicago Press.
A gentleman, who was an eye-witness of the affair, informs us that at Centralia on Friday of last week, as the noon train was about starting for Chicago, a, negro apparently about twenty-five years of age stepped up to the ticket office, and called for a through ticket. As he did so, several persons who were probably on the watch for him, sprang upon him, claiming that he was a fugitive slave. Several of the bystanders came to the negro's assistance, but were repelled. One of them was instantly knocked to the floor, two of his teeth being driven out by the blow. His son, who saw the fellow strike, drew his dagger and forced him to the wall, but the presentation of a revolver caused him to lower it and retreat. A border-ruffian in the crowd was prevented from shooting the 'd d Abolitionist,' as he called him, by persons seizing his arm. During the scuffle the negro managed to elude their grasp, and started on a run up the track, followed by several of the crowd. One of them discharged his pistol, but missed him; the discharge, however, frightened the poor negro so that he stopped, and was overtaken by his pursuers. H was handed over to a constable, who promised to produce him when called for. The negro suffered materially in wardrobe and person during the fray. The man who fired at him was afterwards arrested, and held to bail in the enormous sum of four hundred dollars.
A letter to the N. Y. Journal of Commerce, dated St. Helena, Nov. 30, says-' H. M. S. Viper, steaming round our island, quietly dropped anchor under 'Ladder Hill' on the 21stult., just from the coast, having on board 94 negroes, being a portion of 519 poor souls stowed away on board the brig' Tavernier, of New York' (so reads her sternboard), which vessel was captured on the morning of the 4th of November, off Bahai Fonds. She is a French built vessel, but evidently fitted out in New York, and arrived here with the balance of her cargo two days after the steamer, having lost 74 of the wretched souls in the space of eighteen days, and the commander assures me that not more than too hundred of the whole could possibly have been landed in Cuba. I learn that the trade was never more thriving than now. The American fleet were hourly looked for on the South Coast, and can make a rich harvest if actively employed. The beautiful bark' Rebecca,' which took out some of the emigrants of the McDonough estate to Monrovia, and consequently had every preparation legally manifested for such a voyage, has lately gone from the Congo with a cargo of 900 negroes; and among other successful escapes have been the 'Lameus' (fitted as a whaler), the' Star of the East,' the' Ottawa,' and the 'Asa Fitch,' all with full cargoes. I am also informed that the famous 'Orion,' recently seat home by the' Marion,' and escaped condemnation, has just arrived out in the Congo again, with the same captain, the same kind of fittings, and as bold as such an escape and daring can make her; and what is more, these captains make no secrets of their intentions.
NEW YORK, Feb. 11. (Tribune Washington correspondence.) A personal difficulty happened after the adjournment of the House. As Mr. Hickman was returning home though the Capitol grounds, he was overtaken by Mr. Edmuncdson of Virginia, who, upon approaching him, called out and drew his hand to strike. Mr. Clingman, who was accidentally passing, hastened up and seized his arm, when Mr. Edmundson struck at Hickman with his left hand, knocking off his hat, but doing him no injury. 
The whole affair was instantaneous, and seemed to surprise Mr. Hickman. Mr. Breckenridge who came up, took him away, and the scene ended. The alleged provocation for this attack was an insulting reflection upon Virginia, contained in a recent speech of Mr. Hickman's, in which he charged that seventeen men and a cow had frightened the State.
A BUSINESS OPERATION.-The Cincinnati Gazette of the 6th, says that a Dr. Handy, of that city, persuaded a likely negro boy that both could make a good operation by the boy allowing the Doctor to sell him into slavery at Louisville, and then taking the underground road again to liberty. The Doctor took the ooy to Louisville, sold him for $1100, and pocketed the money. The boy, however, found himself in a tight fix, and could not so easily find the' track,' and therefore divulged the fraud. Louisville officers have arrested the Doctor at Cincinnati, and he will probably land in the Penitentiary.
THE SLAVER AT CHARLESTON. The two mates who were brought into the port of Charleston on board the brig Delicia, have been discharged from custody. The Delicia being a Spanish vessel, her crew all Spaniards, and the Spanish government being no party to the Tripartite Treaty of England, France, and the United States, for the suppression of the slave trade, there is no act of Congress under which these parties can be prosecuted for the charge brought against them. The first mate confessed to the Commissioner that they were on the coast of Guinea for the purpose of taking a cargo of slaves, when they were captured, the captain and supercargo being on shore making the preliminary negotiations. In regard to the deposition of the vessel itself, the 
U. S. District Attorney has referred the matter to the authorities at Washington.
MISSISSIPPI AND THE SLAVE TRADE. It will be remembered that at the Southern Convention held in Vicksburgh last May, the vote of Mississippi was cast in favor of opening the African slave trade. The Legislature, however, has set the State right on that subject. The bill to repeal the State law against the introduction of Africans into that State, was rejected on the 26th ultimo, by a vote of three to one. On a motion to indefinitely postpone the whole subject, the yeas were 66, nays 22. 
JOHN BROWN EXCITEMENT IS HAYTI. Capt. Haskins, of the schooner Sarah Burton, from Aux Cayes, 23d ult arrived here this morning, reports that the people of Hayti were making great preparations to show in a suitable manner, on the 26th, their respect for the memory of John Brown,' the illustrious victim of Harper's Ferry.' 
By the brig Echo, at New York, files of Hayti paper, are received, from which the New York Post learns that the John Brown affair is creating a great excitement in Hayti, and is much commented on by the journals. Le Progres is in mourning for the late hero of Harper's Ferry. On the 20th of January, a mass was chanted in commemoration' of the frightful martyrdom of the abolitionist, John Brown, by the infamous ruffians of the Southern portion of the American Union.' The papers give the full details of the execution of Brown, and devote several columns to editorial comments which are far from complimentary to 'le juge Parker' and the slaveholding jury of Charlestown.
On Friday night, the 27th ult., the house of Mr. Luther Briggs, of Davenport, Del., was consumed by fire, and five of his children perished in the flames. Mr. Briggs and his wife were away from home at the time. A sixth child, a lad of fifteen, saved himself by jumping out of the window. The fire broke out after the children retired to bed, and is supposed to have caught from the stove.
The Governor of Florida has recently vetoed a bill excluding free negroes from that State. After commenting on the occurrence, the Pensacola Observer says: The news of its failure was received by a large number of the good citizens of this place, with the most lively manifestations of satisfaction, who entertain for this class of our population sentiments of respect and feelings of the warmest personal attachment.'
An Escape.- While the U. S. Marshal at Harper's Ferry was at Auburn, N. Y., a few days ago, he accidentally came across a fugitive slave from Harper's Ferry, who lived only a few doors from him. He was the slave who showed John Brown the Armory. The negro made his escape before the Marshal could take him.
The Kansas Territorial Legislature passed the bill prohibiting slavery in Kansas on the third day of this month. If the Governor should veto the bill, it will be passed, nevertheless, as all but six members of the House voted for it.
The new American Cyclopedia has been burned in Mississippi as an abolition publication; also a book entitled,' Cotton is King.'
P. W. Cregar, a nurseryman from Rochester, N. J., was recently expelled from Knoxville, Tenn., despite the efforts of some substantial citizens to protect him. The slaveholders were afraid, probably, that he would sell' liberty trees.' 
William S. Bailey, proprietor and publisher of the Free South, at Newport, Ky. has commenced suit against the parties engaged in the destruction of his newspaper press and printing apparatus, on the 29th of October last, laying his damages at $15,000.
KX-Governor Salmon P. Chase has been elected U. S. Senator by the Ohio Legislature. His principal competitor was Mr. Pugh. Chase had 75 votes; Pugh 54; Curwin 5.
Steamship Northerner, bound to Panama, was wrecked Jan. 16. Eleven passengers and twenty-two of the crew were lost. The vessel and cargo were a total loss; also the mails and treasure.
<c05>
COLLECTIONS.
By Finance Committee, for Expenses of Annual Meeting, January, 1860.
D. Ricketson, 1 00 S. Dodge. Jr., 1 00 
M. W. Chapman, 1 00 Caroline Wellington, 1 00
D. Weston, 1 00 Ed ward B. Perkins, 25
Perley King, 1 00 Cero. White, 1 00
Warren Low, 1 00 Rebecca Howland, 1 00
E. F. Burnham, 1 00 Mary Osborn, 1 00
J. Russell.1 00 Eliza A. Lawton, 50
Joseph Merrill. 1 00 John T. Sargent, 1 00
Jacob Leonard, 50 R. R. Crosby, 1 00
A. K. Foster, 1 00 Bourne Spooner, 1 00
Mary May, 2 00 William Jenkins, 1 00
J. M. Aldrich, 1 00 C. Lenox Remond, 1 00
George Miles, 1 00 George W. Simonds 1 00
E Y. Perry, 1 00 E.L Hammond,1 00
C. C McLauthlin, 1 00 Wm. H. Hammond, 1 00
Lewis McLauthlin, 1 00 John T. Page, 1 00 
Mary P. Clough, 50 A. Stanwood, 1 00
Adeline Hardy, 50 Samuel Barrett, 1 00
Charles E. Hodges, 1 00 C Pitts, 1 00
Dr. J. H. York, 1 00 J. K. Melntire, 1 00
E. Richards, 1 00 Alvan Howes, 1 00
A. F. Tilton, 25 G. C. Hickok, 1 00
J. Buffum, 1 00 Abby S. Stephenson, 1 00
A. H. Harlow, 1 00 C B. Melntire, 25
Charles W. Warren, 1 00 Nelson W. Cook, 50
S. H. Cowing, 1 00 L. D. Gray, 50
E. P. Ayres, 1 00 D. J. Griffin, 25
G. H. Smith, 25 J. T. Hilton, 1 00
D. Kimball.1 00 Ambrose Merrill, 1 00
E. H. Merrill, 1 00 M.S. Jenkins, 1 00
Otis G. Cheever, 1 00 L. M. Child, 50
E. P. Perkins, 1 00 Wm. Sparrell, 1 00
George W. Gilmore, 50 Greene, 50
Samuel G. Gilmore, 50 Catharine L. Barba-
D. B. Bartlett, 1 00does, 25
E. I. Smith, 50 D. Whitney, 25
S. May, Jr., 1 00 George Draper, 1 00
William Ashby 1 00 Mary M. Brooks, 1 00
W. Lloyd Garrison, 1 00 L. S. Thaxter, 00
E. Qainey, 1 00 L. A. Allen, 1 00
C. K. Whipple, 1 00 Miss L. Simes, 1 00
Elbridge Sprague, 1 00 Anna E. Gray, 1 00
Josiah Hayward, 1 00 Mrs. R. W. Hen-
David Merritt, 1 00 shaw, 1 00
Joshua Perry, 1 00 Brigham, 1 00
George W. Stacy, 50 R. Locke, Jr., 1 00
P. B. Southwick, 1 00 P. Shaw, 1 00
Stephen Albee, 1 00 C. Cowing. 1 00
Nancy L. Howes, 1 00 Mrs. J. K. Lawrence, 1 00
Thomas P. Knox, 1 00 T. Bicknell, 1 00
H. G. Jackson, 1 00 W. H. Logan, 1 00
Lydia G. Jarvis, 50 L. S. Pease, 1 00
E. D. Draper, 1 00 W. I. Bowditch, 1 00
Anna T. Draper, 1 00 Mrs. A. Kent, 1 00
Hannah B. Draper1 00 Paulina Gerry, 1 00
Warren W. Dutcher. 1 00 Mrs. Richardson, 25
A. Keith, 50 Richard Clap, 1 00
Mrs. N. White, 1 00 L. S. Richards, 75
Lima. H. Ober, 1 00 J. C. Lindsley, 1 00
R. H. Ober. 1 00 Georgina Otis, 1 00
Harriette M. Carlton, 50 Mrs. E. A. Lawton, 1 00
F. Hinckley, 50 Mrs. Emerson, 50
G. M. Rogers, 1 00 M. B. Richards, 50
Lucy M. Rogers, 1 00 Melzar Sprague, 1 00
Helen E. Garrison, 1 00 Robert Hassall, 50
Mary Willey, 1 00 Frederick Frothing-
A. Stmonds, 2 00ham, 1 00
Martha B. Goodrich, 1 00 Mrs. J. M. Robbins, 1 00
Francis Jackson, 5 00 Mrs. Eliza F. Eddy, 1 00
Catherine Clap, 1 00 Friends, and Cash in
Mrs. W. B. Trask, 1 00 various amounts, 18 85
D0NATI0NS.
To Mass. Anti- Slavery Society; Annual Meeting, 1860. 
Francis W. Bird, Walpole, $50 00
A. M. Chase, Canton, 20 00
J. M. Aldrich, Fall River, 20 00
Samuel Barrett, Concord, 15 00
Mercy P. Osborn, Dover, N. H., 10 00
Abner Sanger, Danvers, 10 00
Joshua Coolidge, Jr., Watertown.10 00
An Absent Friend, 10 00
Martha B. Goodrich, 10 00
James N. Buffum, 5 00
Rev. Edward C. Town, Braintree, 5 00
Miss Anne Alley, Lynn, 5 00
Mrs. Dr. Fifield, Weymouth, 5 00
Mrs. C. F. Hovey, 5 00
Mary G. Chapman, 5 00
Henrietta Sargent, 5 00
Ezekiel and Alice H. E. Thacher,
Barnstable, 5 00
Nancy L. Howes, Barnstable, 5 00
U. Ritchie, Boston, 5 00
William Jenkins, Andover, 5 00
N. White, 5 00
Sylvester C. Fay, 5 00
Wellington, 4 00
George Miles, Westminster, 3 00
N. J. Holden, Lynn, 3 00
Mrs. J. P. Mendum, 2 00
Lucy G. Ives, Salem, 2 00
D. L. and L. M. Child, 2 00
Mrs. S. A. Barnard, 2 00
J. Sawyer, 2 00
Mrs-Jackson, 2 00
E. G. Lucas, 2 00
Helen E. Garrison, 1 00
E. F. Burnham, Danvers, 2 00
S. A. E. Ford.2 00
Thomas Garrett, Wilmington, Del., 2 50
One of the Finance Committee's papers, having upon it sundry Pledges, and cash payments to the amount of $37 50, is missing; the payments cannot, therefore, be now acknowledged; but any corrections will be made, which are made known to SAMUEL MAY, Jr.
PLEDGES.
To the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, Annual Meeting, January, 1860.
Francis Jackson, $200 00 
Wendell Phillips, 200 00 
William I. Bowditch, 100 00 
James N. Buffum, 50 00 
Samuel May, Jr., 50 00 
Weymouth Female A.-S. Society, 25 00 
Mary M. Brooks, Concord, 20 00
Sarah J. Nowell, Cambridge, 20 00 
T. C. Severance, Roxbury, 10 00
L. M. & C. L. Remond, Salem, 10 00 
Mrs. L. A. Reed, 10 00 
N. H. Whiting, 5 00 
J. G. Dodge, 3 00 
C. B. Mclntire, 2 00 
H. G. Brockway, 1 00
RECEIPTS.
Into the Treasury of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, from Jan. 1, 1859, to Jan. 1, 1860.
Balance in Treasury, Jan. 1, 1859, as rendered, $605 33 
Rec'd for donations and collections at annual meeting in Boston, 443 94 
Rec'd from Treasurer of National Anti-Slavery Subscription, for donations 
Of friends, 5795 00 
Rec'd from donations and collections at New England A. S. Convention, 590 31 
Rec'd from contributions at Framingham, 97 50 
Rec'd from Abington celebration, 76 78 
Rec'd from proceeds A. S. Fair at Worcester, 200 00 
Rec'd from pledges, subscriptions and donations from individuals, as published in Liberator, from month to month, 2065 92
$9863 78

EXPENDITURES
Of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, from Jan. 1, 1859 to 1860. 
Office rent, five quarters. $437 50 
R. F. Wallent, for services, thirteen months, 460 46 
S. May, Jr., for services one year, and expenses, 644 17 
J. M. W. Yerrinton, reporting, 93 00 
J. S. Cloutman, for sign for office, 22 62 
Francis Jackson, Treasurer American Anti-Slavery Society, 6395 00 
Expenses New England Anti-Slavery Convention, 110 53
Towards expenses of John Brown meeting, 35 50
R. F. Walleut, for 50 copies Liberator, sent to 
members of Congress, 30 00 
Sallie Holley, for services as Lecturing Agent, 365 00 
C C. Burleigh, 20 00
E. H. Heywood, 316 13 
A. T. Foss, 263 79 
Henry C. Wright, 5 00 
Charles L. Remond, 73 17 
Balance to new account, 591 31
$9863 78
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.
Jan. 24, 1860. I have examined the original accounts from which the foregoing abstract is taken, and find them properly vouched and correctly east; and the whole amounts received and paid, and the balance in the Treasurer's, hands, as stated in the foregoing abstract, are correct.
WM. I BOWDITCH, Auditor.
<c06>
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT.
MR.GARRISON:
DEAR SIR-I hasten to acknowledge the following sums, just received from Mr. CHARLES FOLLEN, for the National Anti-Slavery-Subscription:-
Fulfilment of the intention of 
Mrs. ELIEA LEX FOLLEN, $50 00 
Miss Susan C Cabot, 25 00
Mr. Charles Follen, 50 00
Mr. Russell Scott, 40 00
Mrs. George Lee, 20 00
$185 00
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN.
RECEIPTS
Into the Treasury of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, from Jan. 1 to Feb. 1, 1860.
Rec'd of Wendell Ohillips, to redeem pledges, $400 00
Rec'd from estate of Samuel Philbrick, to redeem pledge, 100 00
Rec'd of Wiltard Comey, East Foxboro', donation, 0 50
Rec'd from estate of Charles F. Hovey, toredeem pledges, 400 00
Rec'd of Varnum Lincoln, to redeem pledge, 1 00
Rec'd of Edmund Quiney, to redeem pledge, 50 00
Rec'd of Edward S. Cushing, to redeem pledge, 5 00
Rec'd of Georgina Otis, to redeem pledge, 5 00
Rec'd of Abigail Newhall, to redeem pledge, 3 00
Collections at annual meeting Mass. A. S. Society. 524 14
Joseph Merrill, Danversport, to redeem pledge, 3 00
Lydia H. Chase, Salem, donation, 10 00
Nathaniel H. Whiting, to redeem pledge, 5 00
John B. Pierce, Lynn, 10 00
Maria W.Chapman, 30 00
Mary R. Stickney, 1 00
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.
Boston, Feb. 1. 1860.
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Masachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture as follows:-
Taunton, in Universalist Church,} Sunday A.M., Feb. 19.
Raynham, evening,
West Bridgewater, Monday 20.
East Bridgewater, Tuesday, 21.
Hanson,Wednesday, 22.
Pembroke, Thursday, 23.
hanover, Friday, 24.
FREDERICK BROWN. 
Brother of the late Captain JOHN BROWN, accompanied by CHARLES LENOX REMOND, will visit the following places, and address audiences therein on the subject of Slavery:-
Abington, Friday eve'g, Feb. 17.
New Bedford, Sunday after'n and eve'g, 19. 
Fall River, Monday eve'g 20.
Providence, Wednesday eve' g, 22. 
Pawtucket, Thursday 23.
Woonsocket, Friday 24.
Worcester, Sunday 26.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will lecture in MILFORD, (Mass.) on SUNDAY afternoon next, Feb. 19, on' The Plenary Inspiration of the Bible,' and in the evening on' The Relations of the Anti-Slavery Movement to the Harper's Ferry Tragedy.
CARD-SUSAN R. CAPEN. M. D., Physician and Accoucheur, 57 Bartlett street, Charlestown, (for several years a successful practitioner in Sharon,) offers her services to treat the diseases of Women and Children; and is ready to attend Midwifery cases.
A PRINTER WANTED! 
ONE well acquainted with Book, Job, and Letter Press Printing, will hear of a good situation on an Anti-Slavery paper in the country, at fair wages, with chance of becoming a partner. Subscription list of said paper exceeds 600,-job work abundant. Applicant for said situation must be a man of sobriety, and good business habits. For particulars, inquire at the office of the Liberator, of WM. LLOYD GARRISON or R. F. WALLCUT. Jan. 27.
30, 000 COPIES
SOLD IN ADVANCE OF PUBLICATION.
The only Genuine and Reliable Biography, authorized by, and for the Benefit of the Family.
THE LIFE OF CAPT. JOHN BROW?
BY JAMES REDPATH
With an Auto-Biography of his Childhood and Youth.
In one elegant volume of 408 pages, printed on superb paper, and handsomely bound in gilt cloth, fully illustrated, and embellished with a
MAGNIFICENT STEEL ENGRAVED PORTRAIT
OF THE GLORIOUS OLD MAN. 
A large per centage on every copy sold is secured by contract to the family of John Brown, and this work is published under their sanction and approval, as may be seen by the following letters:-
Extract from a letter of Mary A. Browns, widow of Capt. John Brown.
NORTH ELBA, December, 1859. 
MESSRS. THAYER & ELDRIDGE: 
DEAR FRIENDS-I am satisfied that Mr. Redpath is THE man to write the life of my beloved husband, as he was personally acquainted with him, and I think will do him justice. I think that the Portrait is a very good one. 
Yours, respectfully,
 MARY A. BROWN.
Letter from Salmon Brown, son of Capt. John Brown.
NORTH ELBA, December, 1850. 
MESSRS. THAYER & ELDRIDGE: 
DEAR SIRS-I was somewhat acquainted with James Redpath in Kansas. I am also familiar with his writings, and I consider him as able biographer, and THE MAN ABOVE ALL OTHERS to write the life of my beloved father. I believe him to be a man of undoubted veracity, and fully believe he will do justice to the work he has undertaken. 
Yours, respectfully,
SALMON BROWN.
Copies of this book will be furnished to any address, postage paid, on the remittance of $1, and 31 cents in stamps. 
THAYER & ELDRIDGE. PUBLISHERS, 114 and 116, Washington street, Boston.
 Jan.20. 
CHARLES HAZELLTINE
PIANO-FORTE TUNER 
AND
REPAIRER.
Orders may be left at Russell & Tollman's, 291 Washington street, and at the Neponset Post-Office.
Mr. H. has permission to refer to Thomas Ryan, Wulf Fries and their fellow-members of the Mendelssohn Quintette Club: also, to Woodward & Brown, and Wm. Bourne. Piano-Forte makers; Br F. Baker, and W. R. Babeock.
Nov. 4.
Resistance to Slaveholders
This day published, a pamphlet of 36 pages, entitled-
THE NATICK RESOLUTION;
On,
Resistance to the slaveholders the right and Duty of the Southern Slave and Northern Freeman.
BY HENRY C. WRIGHT.
"RESISTANCE TO TYRANTS IS OBED/EXCR TO GOD."
Price, 10 cents. To be had at Bela Marah's, 14 Bromfield street, Boston, and at the Liberator office, 21 Cornbill.
Boston, Jan. 11.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
TO NEW ENGLAND.
New England, quickly ground thine arms,
Heed not the wild alarms;
Speak never more the Adams name,
A nation's deep reproach and shame;
Let hunters trail upon thy soil
The bleeding fugitive from toil;
Give tryant lords thy worthless rights
In Bunker Hill and Heights,
That they may revel, burn and kill,
Insult and ravish at their will,
Until within thy borders none
Their right to rule shall scorn to own;
Then shall the Union be secure,
And Congress agitation's fewer,
While Yankees all may safely go
Where pitch-pine trees and cotton grow.
Ashaway, R. I., 

From the Woman's Journal.
LOSS AND GAIN.
Thou hast done well to kneel and say:
Since He who gave can take away,
And bid me suffer-I obey.
And also well to tell thy heart
That good lies in the bitterest part,
And thou wilt profit by her smart.
But bitter hours come to all,
When even truths like these will pall:
Sick hearts for humbler comfort call.
Then I would have thee strive to see
That good and evil come to thee
As one of a great family.
And as material life is planned,
That even the loneliest one must stand,
Dependent on his brother's hand;
So links more subtle and more fine
Bind every other soul to thine,
In one great brotherhood divine.
Nor with thy share of work be vext;
Though incomplete, and even perplext,
It fits exactly to the next.
What seems so dark to thy dim sight
May be a shadow, seen aright,
Making some brightness doubly bright.
The flash that struck thy tree-no more 
To shelter thee-lets Heaven's blue floor
Shine where it never shone before.
Thy life, that has been dropped aside
Into Time's stream, may stir the tide
In rippled circles spreading wide.
The cry wrung from thy spirit's pain
May echo on some far off plain,
And guide a wanderer home again.
Fail-yet rejoice Because no less
The failure that makes thy distress
May teach another full success.
It may be that, in some great need,
Thy life's poor fragments are decreed
To help build up a lofty deed.
Thy heart might throb in vast content,
Thus knowing that it was but meant
As chord in one great instrument;
That even the discord in thy soul
May make completer music roll
From out the great harmonious whole.
It may be that, when all is light,
Deep set within that deep delight
Will be to know why all was right;
To hear life's perfect music rise,
And, while it floods the happy skies,
Thy feeble voice to recognize.
The strive more gladly to fulfil
Thy little part. This darkness still
Is light to every loving will.
And trust-as if already plain
How just thy share of loss and pain
Is for another fuller gain.
I dare not limit time or place
Touched by thy life; nor dare I trace
Its far vibrations into space.
ONE only knows. Yet if the fret
Of thy weak heart, in weak regret,
Needs a more tender comfort yet,
Then thou may'st take thy loneliest fears,
The bittest drops of all thy tears,
The dreariest hours of all thy years,
And, through thy anguish there outspread,
May ask that God's great love would shed 
Blessings on one beloved head.
And thus thy soul shall learn to draw
Sweetness from out that loving law
That sees no failure and no flaw
Where all is good. And life is good,
Were the one lesson understood
Of its most sacred brotherhood.
ADELAIDE A. PROCTOR.

From the New York Tribune.
AN INVOCATION FOR THE TIMES.
God of the Free! is not thine awful brow
Girt with the lightning of Sinai now?
Spreadest Thou not sackcloth darkly o'er the sky
Of this, the fabled Land of Liberty?
Where sleeps thy sword of vengeance? Thou art just!
Bow down thy heavens, and smite us to the dust!
Marshal against us air and earth and sea,
And scourge us back to righteousness and Thee!
Thine elder Israel dared provoke thy rod
And, in leader, found a jealous God.
We, too, wandered; bring us back, we pray,
E'en though with blood we mark the toilsome way.
A perjured nation, we thy wrath invoke!
Bind once again the chains our fathers broke;
Humble our pride, and let our shame be seen;
'Purge us with hyssop, and we shall be clean';
From fiery trials we shall purchase gain,
And strength renewed from Freedom's cause obtain.
Yet, if thine anger slumber, oh, must we
Fill up our measure of iniquity,
Our sun go down at noon, and Freedom's shrine
Be but the landmark of 
Rise! God of nations! for our succor come!
Bid the foul tongue of Anarchy be dumb;
Let Justice triumph; give to Right success;
Crush out the Wrong, and send the wronged redress;
Cleanse the dark fountain whence Corruption flows,
And banish Vice with all her brood of woes;
In dust and ashes we our sins confess;
Sow in our borders seeds of holiness;
Purge the high places of the land of shame;
Let Honor boast a more than empty name;
Bind ermined Infamy to Freedom's car,
A fettered captive, in this bloodless war;
And overturn, until, from sea to sea,
We hail a just, a good like Liberty! S. P. D.

REMEMBER.
'Tis well to walk with a cheerful heart,
Wherever our fortunes call,
With a friendly glance and an open hand,
And a gentle word for all.
Since life is a thorny and difficult path,
Where toil is the portion of man
We all should endeavor, while passing along,
To make it as smooth as we can.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
ATTITUDE OF TOWARDS SLAVERY AND ANTI-SLAVERY.
Will Mr. Garrison please insert in the Liberator the following article, which has been refused admission into the Congregationalist? Though a month has since the publication of the intensely pro-slavery article to which this is intended as a reply, no editorial or other answer to it has appeared in the Congregationalist; a fact the more noteworthy, as the clerical editor of that paper is exceedingly prompt to expose refute any divegrency from technical orthodoxy in the articles of correspondents. I know that this exclusion of matter really anti-slavery, is the customary policy of the papers that call (!) but the Congregationalist has obtained, among church-members, the reputation of being anti-slavery!-C. X. W.

REPLY TO A PRO-SLAVERY ARGUMENT.
To the Editor of the Congregationalist:
DEAR SIR-Your correspondent J. S. R. (Jan. 13) gives us an article, entitled 'Rights of the Slaves to Forcible Resistance.' The scope of the article is to deny the existence of such a right, to assume the utter absurdity of that theory of the slave's relation to the slaveholder upon which that alleged right is founded, and to ask certain questions which he assumes 'the most sanguine Abolitionist' must answer in his favor.
In my judgment, truth and justice require these questions to be answered in the very opposite manner. In my judgment, the things which your correspondent pronounces absurd are perfectly accordant with reason and the nature of things, I will therefore, with your permission, answer his questions, and reply to the more important of his positions, taking for granted, throughout, that both you and your correspondent approve of the American Revolutionary War, and reject the doctrines of the Non-Resistants.
Your correspondent lays great stress upon the declaration of Scripture, that 'The powers that be are ordained of God' and upon the duty of submitting peaceably to existing authority, not only for wrath, but also for conscience sake. I have no complaint to make of these quotations, nor of any meaning which shall be found legitimately to belong to them. But it is certain that our most pious clergymen and our most learned commentators on the Bible explain these passages (and those other quotations from Scripture by which the Non-Resistants try to defend their theory) in a manner to allow the correctness of our Revolutionary War, and the right of an people generally to throw off the yoke of their oppressors by an armed revolution. These representations of the clergy the commentators have been accepted and admitted by the churches, almost without exception; this portion of the community share, in common with the rest of our citizens, a perfect confidence in the rectitude, both of the act by which we first declared our independence, and of the use of arms, both defensively and offensively, to maintain that independence until its acknowledgment was extorted from our opponents; and they honor, as patriots, our fathers who joined in this armed resistance, and stigmatize those who refused to join in it, maintaining that all this constitutes no violation of the intent and meaning of those much-quoted passages-'The powers that be are ordained of God'-and 'Be subject, not only for wrath, but also for conscience sake.'
Why does J. S. R. now attempt to lead us away from the settled and accepted meaning of these passages, and represent them as having, in regard to the slaves, just that meaning and force which the Tories pretended in 1776, and which the Non-Resistants pretend now? Is the real meaning of the Bible thus variable? Does he not thus give countenance to the saying of irreverent triflers, that the Bible is a fiddle on which any tune can be played?
If we assume that the true meaning of these passages does not impugn the right of revolution, and the overthrow of a government which inflicts even the moderate amount of oppression against which our Revolutionary fathers rose, still less would it prohibit the rising of the men and women whom we call slaves against the ten-fold worse oppressions which they suffer. It appears, then, that the Scripture quotations of J. S. R. do not in the slightest degree help his argument, unless they go the further length (entirely undesired by him) of stamping Washington and Warren as traitors, rebels and murderers.
What else has he to stand upon? After stating the argument of the Abolitionist, namely-that the slave has been stolen from himself, and has at all times the right to resume possession of the stolen property, whenever and wherever he can come by it-J. S. R. proceeds to controvert the doctrine thus:-
'However true such assertions may be of an African just stolen from his native country, they are utterly absurd when applied to classes of men whose mutual relations have been established for many generations, and have become incorporated with all their modes of life and habits of thought, and interwoven with the whole frame-work of society.'
What makes the above assertion of the Abolitionist 'utterly absurd'? When a system of robbery (J. S. R. admits that such was its origin) has been established for many generations, and become incorporated with all the modes of life and habits of thought of the robbers, and interwoven with the whole framework of the 'society' established by them, is the vicious character of the robbery thereby destroyed, or in the least degree diminished? Has not the last person robbed the same right to regain possession of his plundered property as if several generations had not been robbed before him? Our Declaration of Independence asserts for human being an inalienable right to liberty and the pursuit of happiness. The 'utter absurdity' is in J. S. R's assumption that time and custom sanctify the invasion of rights, finally turn wrong into right.
We have seen J S. R's perversion of Scripture and recklessness in false assertion. His attempts at reasoning are not less amazing-and amusing. See him attempting a argument with the Abolitionist, as follows:-
Suppose, now, that the whole South should become suddenly convinced of the evils of slavery, and should in earnest set about its abolition. Suppose that all buying and selling of slaves, all legal recognition of them as chattels, should cease at once-that their testimony should be cautiously admitted in courts of justice, and that other prerogatives of freedom should be conceded as fast as it could prudently be done.'
This is the very state of things that Mr. Garrison and his associates have always been trying to bring about. And, moreover, it is the very state of things that brought about, in a single day, in British colonies of Antigua and Bermuda-to the unspeakable advantage both of the black white population. As to J. S. R's reservations, testimony is always 'cautiously' admitted in court of justice, (not to mention the fact that lying is a vice of slaveholders quite as much as of slaves,) and prudence, in an emancipation of slaves, would dictate the giving of all the prerogatives of freedom at once, leaving no oppression to be resisted, and no arrears of rights the attainment of which to make insurrection; but, instead, establishing gratitude and good feeling in the minds of the freed towards their voluntary benefactors. This would immediately place the two classes in their right relation to each other. And it is precisely for want of such action by the masters that the Good Samaritan, John Brown, of the black race in this country, as Nathaniel Turner of Virginia was their felt called of God to interfere for their help.
I repeat it. If that which J. S. R. Above 'supposes' were done, the whole work op abolition of slavery would be accomplished, and a foundation laid for the 
<C03>
commencement of civilization and Christianity in the Southern States. But see what unspeakable folly he proceeds to deduce from this proposition:- 
'Would the most sanguine Abolitionist venture at once to do away with compulsory labor, or to propose political equality with the whites, involving universal suffrage? If not, we must infer that at least some elements of the present system are not only lawful, but even desirable, in the present condition of the blacks.'
Your correspondent actually does not see that his own proposition has already done away with compulsory labor; with the legal authority (there was never any rightful authority) to extort it, and with the pretended necessity for trying to extort it. Now the natural state of demand and supply has taken the place of violent injustice. The planters, merchants, mechanics, manufacturers, want work done; the liberated slaves want wages, wherewith to support themselves and their families. Those who want work go to the laborers and hire them, as the custom is in civilized and Christian countries; and the end of the matter is, that the relation between employer and laborer becomes just instead of unjust, and the work is better done than it ever was before, because now, for the first time, the laborer has an interest in doing it promptly and faithfully. 
So much for the work. But J. S. R. fears, and imagines, in his igaerance, that the Abolitionists also fear, the giving of political rights, including suffrage, to the freedmen. Let me call to his mind a few of the self-evident truths of his political catechism, the Declaration of Independence:-
'We hold these truths to be self-evident-that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. That, to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed; whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it the right of the people to alter or abolish it, and to institute a new government, laying its foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness.'
There can be no doubt that the slates are 'governed,' very much governed! Their 'consent' to the government, then, and their voice in making it, are matters of justice. J. S. R. perhaps supposes himself to be a Christian. Has not his Christianity taught him so much as that old heathen knew, who said-'Let justice be done, though the heavens fall!' Let him take with him also this crumb of comfort: how much soever ignorance may interfere with the best use of the elective franchise, intelligent wickedness will abuse it yet worse; and the adult male freedmen cannot possibly vote to ill, either for themselves or the country at large, as the slaveholders have done! 
But, with headlong recklessness, J. S. R. goes on to say of the present government of this country, with its frightful tyranny over the blocks, both South and North, and with its suppression in Southern States of freedom of speech, of the press, of the mail, of the preaching of the Gospel, and of the free residence and locomotion of Northern citizens, (not to speak of brutal assaults, maimings and lynchings inflicted on white people from the North who have committed no crime,)-of this, he proceeds to say-
'Such a government, with all its faults, is not only much better than anarchy, but better, probably, than any government which the blacks, if set free tomorrow, would be likely to establish for themselves.'
J. S. R. is enormously in error in both particulars of this statement. To take his latter assertion first: if the slaves should receive their liberty and their franchise to-morrow, and should vote with perfect unanimity (an absurd supposition,) they could only modify, not control, the next election, since they are far inferior to the whites in numbers. But the delusion that any government is better than anarchy, has been so often repeated, and so quietly accepted without examination, that it needs a more careful refutation. 
I affirm that a government so unjust, so despotic, and so enormously depraved as ours has shown itself to be since the passage of the Fugitive Slave Law, is much verse than anarchy.
Certainly, anarchy has very great evils attending it. But it is what physicians call a self-limited disease; it always tends, and very strongly tends, to the reestablishment of government; its present evils are so acutely felt, and its possibilities to intensely feared, that the community feel very strongly urged to adopt any sort of government that will rid them of those evils; to do this as speedily as possible; and to leave all other business until this is accomplished. Anarchy, then, is constantly tending to bring itself to an end. Its evils, having plenty of rope, immediately hang themselves. As a matter of fact, anarchy has never lasted long among any people. 
What are the particular evils which make anarchy so dreaded? and against which, government, any sort of government, is instinctively and immediately sought as the natural remedy?
They are the irresponsible exercise of power by every stronger person in the community against every weaker one. This is an enormous and intolerable group of evils; and even if the remedial government established be a despotism, it is so framed as to be a remedy for the existing evils, and the great tyrant actually protects the weak against the numerous small tyrants.
But, under our government, those very evils which constitute the fear and the danger of anarchy, namely, the irresponsible power of rich and strong individuals over poor and weak individuals, is permitted, established and perpetuated by law. The slaves and their friends suffer already, in a form tending to be chronic and permanent, those very evils which are so much feared in anarchy, but which anarchy so strongly tends to bring to an end. Our United States government, then, is worse than anarchy; just so much worse as the existence of a certain evil, surrounded with ramparts, defenses and allies, is worse than the same evil in a temporary and fugitive form.' So government,' spontaneously tending to an emendation of its evils, is vastly less dreadful and dangerous than a strongly established government, so constituted as to protect, perpetuate and extend those same evils. 
I say, therefore, confidently, that even a temporary anarchy the overthrew of our present atrociously wicked government by any means whatever, would probably leave us in a better and more hopeful condition than at present. But the measure proposed by the Abolitionists, a peaceful separation of the Free States from the Slave States, and the adoption, by the former, of a Constitution, a code of laws, a Judiciary and an Executive which should really secure liberty to every human being within their boundaries and also to every immigrant who, without crime, should seek their protection-this would be a state of things not only unspeakably better than our present position, but positively good, great and glorious; a state adapted to secure, not only the blessings of liberty, but the blessing and favor of God.-C. X. W.

'WOMAN'S RIGHT TO LABOR.' We volunteer, with great pleasure, the publication, in subsequent columns of the Liberator, such notices of this valuable and admirable work, by Mrs. C. H. DALL, of Boston, as have fallen under our observation, trusting they will help the sale and circulation of it, and thereby promote the noble cause it advocates.
We have heard, from a reliable source, that a highly distinguished chemist has already intimated to Mrs. Dall, that he will thoroughly train three or four young girls to the practice of his own profession. This would open to woman, at once, the mysteries of the drug-shops, and the chance of a scientific career, and is a most valuable offer. We feel quite sure that Mrs. Dall must feel deeply grateful for the attempts already being made to consider and carry out her suggestions.
<C04>
WOMENAND WORK.
A subject which has excited a great deal of discussions, and which the laws of the various States an constantly recognizing more and more, has just received most thoughtful treatment, and therefore a treatment full of practical good sense, in small handsome volume of only 184 pages, by Mrs. Dall, published by Walker, Wise & Co., in Boston.
The question is not treated by her in the manner of the Woman's Rights, Conventions, that is, by declamation and appeals; but by a calm presentation of copious facts, based upon very careful study and observation. She invokes no other charity than that of thought. She is willing to allow for the pressure of habit and adverse taste. But starting from the fact, which is beyond denial, that most women in the world have to support themselves, and that at least half of the hard work is done by them, she insists that what is wanting is not so much money to help the needy, (whether men or women,) bat thought, to enable them to help themselves. She shows from Dr. Sanger's terrible book of New York misery, and Mayhew's Statistics in London, and Duchatelet, and other competent authorities, that the few avenues of employment open to woman form upon her the awful problem of Death or Dishonor; and then, meeting the question boldly whether women are not poorly paid because they are poor workers, she shows quite clearly that the difficulty lies in a want of respect for women as workers, based upon other considerations than their industrial ability; and then a jealousy of them on the port of other laborers. 
By showing what women hare done, and what they are now doing, she reminds us how many spheres might yet be opened to them, and goe bravely into enumeration and detail. Nor does she forget to allude to the moral amelioration of affairs that would ensue upon a more general participation of women in the higher work of the world. The book concludes with some practical plans by which the young women of a happier fortune in life, and who are constantly asking what they can do in the matter, may find something to do. The whole work is prepared in the most earnest, practical, intelligent spirit. She does not forget that, in the order of nature, there are peculiar cares that fall upon women. But she does not also forget-what so universally forgotten-that upon most women, whether mothers or not, the necessity of labor is heavily laid. 'Plenty of employments are open to them, she says, 'but all are underpaid.' And she believes that they will always be underpaid until women of the higher classes, by engaging in some kind of work, create a respect for women's labor: and women of the higher classes never will do this until 'American men feel what all American men profess-a proper respect for labor as God's own demand upon every human soul.'
The spirit of this little book is so candid, its tone is so earnest, and it is so interesting with curious facts and comparisons, that it properly challenges the consideration of all thoughtful men and women. Whether you agree, or whether you differ, you will hardly deny, when you have read it, that this is the way in which the question is to be discussed.-Harper's Weekly.

Mrs. Dall has done in this book what has not been done before, and what was wanted. She has given us the reasons, sad and stern, why woman's opportunities for work should be enlarged. She has shown what women are already doing, and have done, in a great variety of occupations. She suggests what other pursuits, hitherto untrodden, may be opened to them. The work is timely. To how many young women, longing for some sphere of usefulness, it may bring the hint of that which God meant them to do in the world. Mrs. Dall undervalues her book in calling it, in her motto, 'A song for the women,' and in 'L'envoi,' at the close, 'beautiful.' It is better than a song; better for the time-being than beauty. It is solid, wholesome use. It is a practical treatise on an important social question. The good, however, of it is in the fact that a resume of it cannot be given it in a book-notice. It is crammed with facts. Its merit is in its being a collection of numerous details concerning all that women have succeeded in doing, and in regard to all wherein they may succeed. For this reason it is a book to be bought, kept, referred to, and lent. Its suggestions will be tried and become actual methods. They will lead to other suggestions. The first lecture shows the low rate of wages paid to women for work equal to that for which men are paid much more; shows that many are driven into the grave, and many into lives of sin, by starvation: shows the hardships, sufferings, coarse and degrading labor, into which women are sent by the want of occupations suited to their nature and varied to their nature and varied to their demand for it. We do not see how any practical man, any man of common sense, can read these statements, and not feel their force. If he will, he may abate one half for exaggeration, (though we see no need of it,) and there will remain enough for full conviction. The second lecture shows that women have already succeeded, under special circumstances, as inventors, agriculturists, masons, translators, teachers of languages, &c, sea-captains, watch-makers, physicians, painters of china, type-setters, newspaper editors, post-mistresses, cashiers and tellers in banks, book-keepers, fisherwomen, ticket-sellers on railways, pen-makers, wood-engravers, steel-engravers, druggists, calculators for the Coast Survey and the Nautical Almanac, astronomers, dentists, school-committee women, (in the town of Ashfield,) registers of deeds, painters, sculptors, librarian, lecturers, actresses, &c. The third lecture suggests that they be educated and employed as inspectors of hospitals, prisons, factories, &c.; as box-openers, check-takers, &c.; as barbers and hair-dressers, especially for the sick; as wood-carvers, makers of preserves, &c.; assistants in jails, insane asylums, hospitals; parish ministers or deaconesses, as distinguished from preachers; teachers of schools for servants, and of industrial schools, &c. It also contains some suggestions, which we can only refer to, in regard to offices of intelligence on an improved plan, and some other improvements. This book, we repeat, is one to be bought and kept and read.-Christian Examiner.

This book comes to as just as we are sending oar last sheets to the press; but we cannot forbear seconding its benevolent aim by a few earnest words. Of the many controverted questions under the head of 'Woman's Rights,' Mrs. Dall says nothing. She pleads only for the undoubted right of the multitudes of her sex, who must work, suffer, or worse than suffer, to remunerative employment. In her first lecture, she brings forward a formidable army of facto to prove that the alternative of starvation is the most frequent cause of female infamy and ruin,-a statement amply confirmed by May-hew of London, and Dr. Sanger's History of Prostitution. The second lecture is devoted to the credentials of female competency to various employments, furnished by their actual success; and the third, to practical suggestions as to avenues which might, to the advantage of all parties, be opened for female industry and enterprise. There is-we are surprised to find it so-no ultraism in the book, not a word which could alarm the sense of propriety in the most inveterate conservative; but it is full of considerations which need only to be placed before the public to insure the thoughtful heed of every philanthropist, and gradually to lead to a social condition, in which the women who need employment shall be able to find it, and with it that equality of compensation with their brethren which, in the same or similar callings, has hitherto been denied them. Mrs. Dall's explicitness, directness, and earnestness, in so worthy a cause, claim our hearty commendation.-North American Review.
We are glad to see that this book is attracting the attention the subject deserves. The vigorous editors of the North American Review and the Christian Examiner have given in their hearty Godspeed, and we hope soon to see able articles in both periodical on the matter involved. The Examiner says: 'Mrs. Dall undervalues her book, in calling it "A song for the women," and in L'Envoi at the close, "beautiful." It is better than a song, better for the time than beauty. It is solid, wholesome use. It is crammed with facts-cannot be summed up in a book-notice-is a book to be bought, kept, referred to, and lent. Its suggestions will be tried, and become actual methods.' We cannot help thinking that Mrs. Dall had some hope of this last result. If it were otherwise, would she not have extended farther her remarks on the introduction of women to the charge of female prisons, houses of reformation and the like? Here it a point where the whole world most be ready to help her. The experiment has been tried with success in the Tombs at New York. There, the daughters of Isaac T. Hopper, and other virtuous and noble women, can go unattended, and help the helpless. Here, no lady can get at the female prisoner in time 
<C05>
to provide for the hour of release. Sad stories are on record and can be told, concerning the present state of things. Our ministers at large are on hand to bear witness. The earnestness of the treatment seems to have taken hold of the critics; no one says anything about its literary ability or the beautiful mechanical execution of the work.-Transcript.

We envy not the moral characteristics of the man whose heart this little work does not set throbbing with sympathy for the class whose wrongs it depicts, or who can rise from its perusal without a fixed resolve, God helping him, to do all that he can to right those wrongs. We have read much upon the 'woman question,' but nothing more convincing or more powerful than this. The questions at issue are fairly stated, and the argument for the equal rights of women is set in a light so clear that we see not how any candid reader can fail to be convinced. The first chapter, in which 'Death or Dishonor' is shown to be the dread alternative forced upon thousands of women by social environments which they are powerless to shake off, is full of startling facts and heart-moving experiences. It is an appeal to all that it most Divine in human nature, in behalf of those whose rights and wrongs involve every interest of society. We earnestly commend the whole work to the thoughtful attention of all our readers. We wish it might be read aloud at every fireside in the land.-Anti-Slavery Standard. 

If any one desires to read a work of the deepest interest and of unanswerable reasoning upon which is commonly called the 'Woman question,' presented by a woman, let him obtain and carefully peruse these lectures by Mrs. Dall. She has spoken a word both bold and kind, and deserves the gratitude of women and the approbation of men.-S. School Gazette.

I have just read, with much interest, a book called 'Woman's Right to Labor, or Low Wages and Hard Work:' three lectures delivered in Boston, Nov. 1859, by Caroline H. Dall, and now published by Walker, Wise k Co. In the first lecture-'Death or Dishonor'-the author brings startling facts, to show that, from the present wages paid for woman's work, there is, oftener than is supposed, the alternative of starvation or a life of shame. The poor pittance which barely enables her to eke out existence, is quite too small if a helpless parent, invalid sister or children are to be eared for. She clearly shows us the truth contained in the girl's remark, when she said,' A whole day's work brings only a few pennies, a smile will but me a dinner.' The sisterly, sensible and just views which the author takes of her subject, must meet the approbation of every well-wisher to woman, to man also, for she falls not alone. In the second, 'Verify your credentials,' she brings reliable statistics, the result of much care and labor, to show what practical opposition man offers to her advance; what faults lies in herself; and presents much interesting information at to what woman has accomplished and is able to do. She maintains that there are evils which can be remedied only by an increased respect for woman and for labor; that all women an occupation, since there is no greater enemy to body and soul than idleness, unless it be the absurd public sentiment which compels to idleness. Much that is wrong in society may be ascribed to the prevalent opinion, that the chief aim of woman should be to get a husband; and too many are fitted for nothing else. It is to be hoped that all who read the work, (and every one should.) will see the necessity of fitting girls, as well as boys, for some useful occupation. In the third lecture, 'The opening of the Gates,' she makes many excellent and practical suggestions whereby the laboring class of women may be benefitted; she shows how much more numerous are the occupations open than is; generally supposed. The work has much valuable, interesting, and sometimes saddening information, gathered from all quarters, and pertinent to the subject, which has been carefully studied by the author. The evidences of a kind heart, close observation, faithful labor, and clear, strong reasoning faculties, are visible in the work, which is multum in parvo, and deserves a place in every family.-Montreal Pilot.

It is not always the best and most needed book that gets at once the widest circulation. Therefore, we are not sure that Mrs. Doll's book, on 'Woman and Her Right to Labor,' has yet found a circulation equal to its merits. It has quietly found its way into the hands of many persons, who either sympathize earnestly with the author's purpose, or have been attracted to her topic by such notices of it as have appeared in the public journals. But this book should be read carefully in every family, and by all who are capable of feeling the obligations imposed by their human relationships; for Mrs. Dall's topic is of the first importance to society, and there needs to be a truer and more generous public sentiment in regard to it.
Mrs. Dall has not manufactured the book to which we refer. It was an irrepressible growth from her thought and feeling. She has given the subject much earnest attention, and she has the ability and intelligence to treat the subject properly. Her views are illustrated and enforced by an array of facts which will surprise those who have not been led to pursue the subject carefully. The first part, of her book, which she entitles 'Death or Dishonor,' treats of the circumstances under which some women are led to lives of shame through want and friendlessness She introduces the topic by saying,-'Already the chemist furnishes the attar of Cashmere from heaps of offal that lie rotting by the way.' Then follow explanations and statements of fact which will awaken wholesome emotions in those to whom they may be new. Mrs. Dall maintains that, in most eases, the wages of working women are inadequate, and that such women are often exposed, by want and friendless circumstances, to temptations for which society is, in a measure, responsible. In the second and third parts of the book are shown the great varieties of employments for which women are adapted, and some of the obstructions in the way of such just and generous arrangements in regard to working women as are demanded, not only in justice to them, but also to protect the well-being of society.
It is not possible to contradict her facts; and we do not see how it is possible to confute her argument. Why should a woman be paid lens than a man, for doing the same work? If there he a valid reason for it, in one case, there must be in all others. But, in some departments of work, there is unquestioned equality in the matter of wages. When a paper of first rate excellence is offered for publication in the North American Review, or the Atlantic Monthly, the publishers do not wait to know whether it comes from a man or woman, before determining the rate of pay. In such cases, there is no confident assumption that a woman must work for half or quarter pay. And there should be none in any case where the work is precisely the same. In all cases, pay should be regulated by the character and quality of the work, not by the sex of the worker. Yet it is necessary to understand that the injustice here attacked is not the work of any single individual, nor of any special class of individuals. It is organic. It is more or less intertwined with the very framework of society, and, therefore, cannot be removed in a day, perhaps not in a half century.
The views urged by Mrs. Dall are nowhere so much needed as in this country. Our women are generally much better educated than women in Europe; and, at the same time, we believe, they are more rigidly excluded from many kinds of work to which women seem especially adapted. No person can spend a week in Paris, it is said, without seeing the difference. Most of our young women have no opportunity to develop habits of profitable industry and skilful self-reliance. Custom has no career for them, beyond a few limited opportunities for employment. They must wait at home, living to little or no purpose, until they are given to somebody in marriage. The custom and encouragement of society should afford them much more than this. There should be open to them such ways to varied and profitable employment at win give them that independent and self-relying existence in the world, without which they cannot be well fitted for any human relationship or work that life may have for them. It seems to us that but little observation and thought are necessary to show that this is too true to be contradicted.
We repeat the expression of oar hope, that Mrs. Dall's book will have a very vide and general circulation. What she says should have careful attention. She speaks earnestly from strong conviction; she is prompted by elevated motives; and she writes with clearness and force. Her subject needs attention at the present time, more, perhaps, than at say previous period in our history. To study it
<C06>
carefully cannot be without profit.-<illegible> Spy.

This volume is made up of three lectures delivered by Mrs. Dall, in Boston, during the last month. The author appears to have given much thought to her subject, and to have consulted the best <illegible> who have written upon it. She sets forth the disadvantages of the present position of woman, and suggests such remedies as she thinks would meet the evils of women's position. The book contain much that is suggestive to thoughtful persons, who would gladly do something to remedy the great social evils of the day.-Boston Advertiser.

Mrs. Dall makes a noble and eloquent appeal in woman, and vindicates her claim to all the right and dignities of honorable and suitable labor. She considers the disabilities and difficulties under which woman suffers,-her capacities too often unjustly estimated and overlooked, and the means by which she may be elevated to her proper rank in the scale of honorable industry. Mrs. Dall is an earnest and clear-headed woman, and her book contains facts and arguments which every philanthropist should ponder with grave consideration.-Providence <illegible> Journal.

It is made up of three Lectures delivered in Boston, last month, by Caroline H. Dall, a lady well known for the ability and zeal with which she advocate the cause of her sex; in other and more proper words, the cause of universal humanity. She is one of your 'terribly in earnest' women, and these is reason that she should be in earnest. Social evils are the sources of immense suffering, and they best portion of the human family who are least able <illegible> meet such pressure. More employment for women and therefore higher wages for them, is what is needed. By more employment, we mean that <illegible> men should be hired to perform several kinds of labor that are now nearly monopolized by men, but <illegible> which the other sex are better adapted than all men; and the men should take to farming, and similarly manly callings, which, under proper direction would be found far more lucrative, as under say circumstances they would be far more heathful, then some pursuits in which men now engage, to their own loss, and that of the other sex. Our author gives many facts, in straight-forward language, this are calculated to enable people to labor intelligently in the cause of social reform; and the vigor with which she discusses matters must please even those who doubt the soundness of her opinions.-Boston Traveller.

'Thank God! a song for the women as well as the men,' exclaims Charles Auehester. This best contains three lectures upon opening the <illegible> of productive and profitable industry to the female sex. The Reasoning is cogent, unanswerable. The examples to illustrate the author's position are well chosen and applicable; and so far as we car judge, she has made out a plain case. She proposes plans to open the departments of labor and afford opportunity to women to perform honorable, <illegible> labor, and escape a life of shame and dependence.-N. Y. Evening Post.
The question of death or dishonor, which at this moment stares thousands of wretched women in the face in every country under heaven, is in those lectures brought earnestly, affectionately, tearfully, to the consideration of the favored class, who may accomplish by their efforts a happier solution than now seems probable. Of the ability and necessity for women to labor, Mrs. Dall brings terrible instance from all parts of the world-even at our own <illegible>. To the consideration of 'the practical opposites man offers to her advance, what fault lies in herself, how much more numerous are the occupations open than is generally supposed, and what social obstructions have prevented her taking advantage of them!' she brings reliable statistics, much interesting, much painful information, extensive observation, great sense, and logical reasoning. The main cause of this deplorable state of things she traces, and we think rightly, to a want of respect for labor, and a want of respect for woman. Let American ladies train their daughters to regular employments, as they do their sons, and the whole class of working women is at once raised, both in regard to better wages and to their position in the communist. Many of the practical suggestions in this <illegible> seem feasible and valuable, and we hope they may be carried out.-Boston Journal.

This book is well calculated to do good. It is a book of many facts. It shows conclusively that the wages paid for female labor is far too low, compared with what is paid for man's. It shows also that the prejudice against woman engaging in those employments for which she is well fitted, keeps her from them, and not her sex. It is a book that is worth reading and pondering well.-Dover (N. H.) Morning Star.

The papers in this volume are timely, able, and philanthropic. The Women of America owe it to themselves to disseminate this work by tens of thousands.-Philadelphia City Item.

This little book comprises three lectures given for the benefit of the women of the present day. These lectures are well written, showing evidence of the earnest consideration given to the subject, and the author's sincere desire for the welfare of her sex. The first treats of the degradation of a large <illegible> of women, attributing much of this deplorable evil to the low wages which are offered for woman's labor, and bringing forward many facts drawn from reliable sources, in proof of the assertion. The second lecture shows the capacity of women for engaging in many of the professions and occupations from which they have generally been excluded, citing, in support of the proposition, noted examples of these who have achieved celebrity in literature and art, to say nothing of the thousands who, in the humble walks and more retired circles of life, have accomplished much outside of the commonly accepted sphere of the sex. In the concluding lecture, the author makes a feeling and forcible appeal to the women of the, so-called, higher classes, who complain of having 'nothing to do,' and at the same time are wearing away their lives in the pursuit of the fashionable follies of society, to open the gates to 'their suffering sisters,' and to devote a portion of their time and of their superfluous means in the establishment of schools and institutions in which the poor may find honorable employment.
The subject so ably and earnestly discussed by Mrs. Dall, is one of the most important, and, at the same time, one of the most difficult of treatment, of all the great questions of the nineteenth century. The duty of society to the 'perishing classes' is one that should engage the attention of every thoughtful mind, and we hail the appearance of this little book as an excellent stimulant in aid of a growing public sentiment, which shall regard all men and women as the children of a common Father, and the heirs of a common inheritance.-Dedham <illegible>

CARPETING
'All the Year Round.'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET.
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, <illegible> &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities). Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Cantor <illegible> Cocoa Mattings.
-ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT 
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept. 16
