
THE LIBERATOR 
IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TEAMS- Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLAR, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent. 
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three time for 75 cents one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LEREARTOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-.FRANCIS:— JACKSON, EDMEND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers
VOL XXIX. No. 34 BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 1859 WHOLE NUMBER, 1606
<C01>
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
SLAVERY AS A RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION.
LETTER FROM REV. J. C. WILSON.
To the Editor of the Texas Christian Advocate:
SIR-Suffering under some indisposition, and forbidden by my 'medicine man' to speak or write, there are few provocations that could tempt me into such an indiscretion as this. But, even as it was in the days of honest Dogberry, so is it in these days, that some things are 'intolerable, and not to be endured.'
Let me, without preface, and by way of getting at what I want to say, briefly capitulate some of the potorious actings and doings of the Northern Methodist Church toward the South.
They cast us out as evil solely because of our connection with domestic slavery.
They attempted to defraud us of our share in the Church property.
They have zealously striven, and are continually striving to organize Anti- Slavery churches within the bounds of every Southern border State.
This much is from the record. What else they have done, and are doing, is best known to the conductors of the underground railroad.'
In pursuance of their incendiary abolition propagandism, they send missionaries to Northern Texas, and, in course of time and events, endeavor to organize in Texas an Abolition Missionary Conference. 
The citizens of the vicinage, peaceably assembled in mass meeting, and having calmly considered the unpleasant emergency thus forced upon them, proceeded to meet it in most astonishing moderation.
A committee of citizens was appointed, who, in conformity with their instructions, respectfully informed the Bishop and other clerical gentlemen composing the Conference, that their labors were not needed, nor their presence by any means desired.
The conduct of our fellow-citizens of Northern Texas was characterized by a mildness which would scarcely be emulated nearer the sea-board; yet, mild as it was, it has elicited a good deal of severe animadversion, and called forth no small amount of pathetic lamentation from the Northern Methodist press.
This was to be expected; but they do not stop at this.
They occasionally cease to scold and 'shriek,' exercises strictly in their line, and attempt to reason, which is altogether outside of their vocation. Reason could never conduct a Christian to the conclusion that it is necessary to church-membership that the candidate should be more philanthropic than paul, who sent back the converted fugitive slave to his Christian master, [their plan is to steal him, or more holy than the Son of Man, who healed the slaves, and sat at meat with their owners. The following specimen of their reasoning you have already laid before your readers; but let us look at it again:—
'If there are twenty-five men in Texas who disapprove of slavery, may they not form an association, and hold meetings for scientific or literary or religious purposes, and yet have it a condition that no slaveholder shall meet with them?' -Zion's Herald, Boston.
No, forever no! Texas is a slaveholding State, every inch of her wide domain is slave soil, and, by the blessing of God, shall be. 
Texas is true to her institutions and to herself; true to the South, true to the slaves, who in the providence of God have been given her, for the development of her grand resources, the advantage, emolument, comfort and elevation of the white man, and the physical, social, mental and moral advancement of the black. She is true to the development of that gracious and benevolent system which elevates the heathen cannibal and his children into the civilized, intelligent, contented and happy domestics who surround us, who share our homes, our sorrows and our joys-who minister unto us during the working prime of their stalwart manhood, and to whom we minister in their feeble infancy, and frolicsome, thoughtless childhood; in their hours of sickness and suffering, and through the years of burthensome old age.
Nay, far more than this, a system which lifts them from the condition of beastly appetite, and gross, devilish superstition, into humble, simple, faithful and most joyous worshippers of the true and everlasting God. Bless God for such a system! Amen and amen!
No! the people of Texas are pro-slavery, through and through; we don't apologize for negro slavery; we glory in it; and no society can or shall exist in our wide extended border which disqualifies or stigmatizes the slaveholder. Never, never.
But what does the Pittsburgh Advocate mean? Hear him:
'Our missionaries are safe in foreign lands—won't the stars and stripes protect us in Texas?'
To what are we to attribute such language? To the weakness of the writer's mind, or to the immeasurable wickedness of a heart totally depraved, and 'fatally bent on mischief’?
Is it mere 'sound and fury, signifying nothing,' or does the writer actually mean to threaten us, that Northern Methodism, in its reckless crusade against slavery, will invoke the power of the general government to force upon us an abolition church? If he does not mean this, he means nothing. If he does not mean If he does mean it, his wickedness is neutralized by his folly.
I would respectfully suggest to him, however, that he had better not come to see it, when he sends 'the stars and stripes' into Texas to ‘protect' abolition missionaries.
Brother Carnes, permit me, as one of the youngest (not in years, alas!) and least worthy of your brethren in the Texas Methodist ministry, to thank you for your frank and candid, yet, under the circumstances, very moderate course in this really vexatious affair. 
From the general silence of your brethren, it may be supposed, elsewhere, that you are in advance of your members and ministry in three Texas Conferences; that you stand upon the extreme verge of opinion in this matter. Let no man so deceive himself. Neither you nor any man has said, or is likely to say, in print, one-half as much as the Methodist Church and the people at large in Texas feel on the subject.
Would that I could send a voice of earnest entreaty and of warning, solemn as death, to those meddling and misguided men, who, in the name of philanthropy, sow folly, and will surely reap a harvest of wrath-who, in the name of the God of Peace, come to bring outrage and violence, of which they will be the first victims-martyrs, not to faith, but to foul, infatuated fanaticism!
Mark this! The people of Northern Texas will not be further persecuted. The sacred name of Religion alone has thus far shielded you. Renewed aggression they will visit with summary punishment, and all the people will say. Amen!
Let us alone. This is all the South has ever asked of you. This is all the Southern Methodists
<c02>
and the people of Texas now ask; it is our right, and, by the help of God, and at whatever cost, we will have it. Let us alone! 
Why should you trouble us? We have peace in all our borders; we have an efficient ministry every where; and, if more are wanted, we can have, them, good men, able men, men who have the confidence of the people, and who can have free access; to the slaves, which you cannot have. Southern Methodism needs no abolition laborers here. She has the love of the people-better than that, thank! God! she deserves that love; and 'the best of all is, God is with us.' Let us alone!
You shall let us alone! Northern Texas is not alone in this matter. Texas, at least on this question, is a unit. Suasion, such as yours, cannot reach us, for we know that you are utterly ignorant of the working of the institution you are seeking to destroy; and coercion, however you may talk about the 'protection of the stars and stripes,' you will; not be mad enough to attempt. Were you to attempt it, you would find your efforts more than futile; on the very first indication of forcible measures, 79,000 men would spring to arms, nor should they lack a Methodist preacher to pray for and preach to them; or, if need were, in the absence of a better, to lead them. May God, in mercy, avert the awful necessity! 
Your brother, JAMES C. WILSON.
Gonzoles, July 2, 1859.

SELECTIONS. 
from the Maine Evangelist. 
THE AMERICAN MESSENGER. 
This paper, which has teen so widely circulated in our churches for many years, is now engaged in defending the wicked policy of the American Tract Society of New York, and in reviling those who dare raise their voices against it. And thin is not the less dangerous, because it is done in a covert and cowardly manner. 
The August number contains eleven paragraphs of! excuses for the Publishing Committee. the character of the whole, may be judged from one, in which the Committee are justified for refusing to publish any thing on certain subjects, because ' the Society have never expressed a wish that they should issue, any specified tract or book. Why did they not wait for such an expression from the Society before publishing tracts on intemperance? 
But my object at this time is to call attention to another editorial article. The title of it is ' Ministerial Fearlessness.' I thought as I read some of the opening sentences, commending Paul and Daniel and John the Baptist, that the article must have been taken from some other paper by mistake. But I found on reading along, that it was a peculiar kind of ministerial fearlessness that the editor had in view,—a courage to stand up against the demands of Christianity and an enlightened public sentiment, to preach with great ' discretion,' as ' men are able to bear it.” I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you,' say? Paul.' The editor italicises the word 'profitable,'—as if whatever would not pay, might be kept back. But he thinks that, to keep back a part of the gospel, with an eye to the profits, ' notwithstanding the pretensions of a humanitarian gospel exalting itself in the very temple of God, requires and exhibits a profounder heroism than that possessed by the noisiest reformer of the age.'
Such is the first lesson inculcated by this religious paper, in Christian courage for the pulpit. But tins refusing to preach the gospel of ' deliverance, to the captives,' and substituting inhumanitarianism for humanity, is not the severest test of courage which the editor proposes. This would seem to be about as great a strain as any man's conscience would bear. But nothing less will satisfy him, than, not only to refuse to preach the true gospel, but to revile all those who do preach it. To do this, except in Nassau Street, requires some pluck; but the Scriptures served the Devil a turn once when he had a purpose in view, and this editor turns to the same source. It looks a little queer to see men called upon to find in the lives of Daniel and John the Baptist any thing to give them courage 'to resist a reformatory in morality.' I had supposed that this was just what John did preach to Herod. But perhaps the editor thinks that, since adultery in this country has been baptized and Christianized, courage like John's should be turned into a different channel. 
'This courage nerved Daniel to brave the wrath o the king, and John the Baptist to reprove Herod. And the ministry of our quieter times need it as well to mitt a reformatory morality claiming to be the religion of Christ. A far braver heart is required to adhere to the simple, trite, but vital truths of God relying upon them, pressed upon the conscience with earnest and persistent zeal, to save the individual and the nation, than is shown in hurling against opposers the fiercest invectives that ever came from the lips o self-elected reformers.' 
Such is the type of ministerial courage recommended by the editor of this paper. When the slave-trade, with all its fiendish horrors, is in danger of being re-opened, and while we have already four millions of slaves in our land, denied by law all rights as men or as Christians,—even to read the word of God,—instead of uttering one word to them, or against their oppressors, we are called upon 'to resist a reformatory morality,' and a ' humanitarian gospel.' And all who ' remember those in bonds as bound with them,' are denounced as me who ' imagine their own morbid or malignant thoughts and feelings to be the thoughts and feeling of the Almighty One.' 
I have out made these quotations in their literal connection, as they are in the article quoted from; but I have fairly represented its true import an spirit. And if the Messenger still circulates in our churches or Sabbath schools, let them beware of this infidelity that is infused into it. The Boston Tract Society publishes a similar paper, containing the Bread of Life, without the poison. 
No intelligent Christian believes that humanity is the whole of religion, any more than he believes that there is any true religion without humanity. But for one, I have far more charity for humanity that makes no profession of religion than I have for that false and spurious religion so current in this country, which is destitute of humanity. It is High time for the churches to purge themselves and their pulpits of that practical atheism which, by denying the rights of man, tramples upon the authority of God.

From the Newburyport Herald.
THE AMERICAN TRACT SOCIETY. 
MR. EDITOR—A late writer in the Herald, calling himself ' New York,' tells us that some persons suppose that the action of the American Tract Society in establishing a depot in Boston, has a proslavery aspect. To refute this opinion, he gives us a list of respectable gentlemen who approve this measure, which he seems to think sufficient to put the matter right. 
If the gentlemen referred to will assure as that
<C03>
they believe that slavery is a crime against humanity and a sin against God, this reference will be quite satisfactory; but the impression prevails, that with the exception of Dr. Dana and perhaps Mr. Wood, no one of them has thus declared himself, either in the pulpit or out of it. Until they do this, they will not expect that such reference, will be quite satisfactory to anti-slavery men. It is pleasant to observe that the ministers of the Episcopal Baptist, Congregational and Methodist churches of this city—four out of five of the Evangelical denominations be united in the Tract Society—are not mentioned by ' New York,' and it is also pleasant to know that many Presbyterians do not feel flattered by such an exhibition of their esteemed and respected pastors. 
The American Tract Society refuses to publish a word against slavery. In their Constitution they find an agreement that nothing should be published which was unacceptable to the evangelical denominations. This contract, which plainly refers to doctrinal differences, has been applied to moral duties, and is thus forced into false and unnatural relations. Under this view of the case, some may object to any reproof of polygamy, lest the Mormons should refuse the tracts—others, that nothing shall be said against balls, dancing, operas and the theatre, because the New York Christians are not agreed about them; and some of them object to being reproved for that which they consider no sin. Surely, the lovers of dancing and the theatre have as good as good a claim that these amusements should not be assailed, as the Southern Christians have for silence in the matter of slavery; and if this sinful expediency is to prevail in regard to one branch of duty, the Mine rule must be applied to another and another, until, with their seven-fold shield of expediency, they fight the twelve apostles round,' and are victorious over every moral obligation. 
The truth is, the American Tract Society has more fear of man than faith in Gad. It has lost the confidence and respect of the Church, because, by its sinful silence, it has given abundant 'aid and comfort' to slave hold. When the Society held its annual meeting, every possible influence, secular as well as religious, was invoked to secure, a majority over the anti-slavery men. The meeting was largely composed of irreligious business men, who were suddenly created life-members. The monied interests prevailed and such was the hot and indecent haste, lest any thing should be uttered against slavery, that all discussion was stifled, and a resolution expressing the sense of the meeting against the slave trade itself, was rejected without debate; and, by, large majority, the Society agreed to publish nothing against slavery, nor even against the sins that grow out of it, nor even against the slave trade itself. 
It was a memorable day in New York. It was the surrender of one of the highest trusts of our holy religion to the unholy influences of the world. It was the fall of one of our noblest institutions from its heavenward elevation, and the Tract House is now a picture of moral ruin to every one who passes by. 
It is a melancholy fact, that the proceedings of the Tract meeting have rarely been surpassed by the most disgusting rowdyism of Tammany Hall. The anti-slavery men were glad to retire from scenes in which they could have no sympathy, and from which religion and decency and sobriety had departed. 
And now the American Tract Society establishes an agency and depot in Boston. It comes to us stripped of its honor, its respectability and its practical religion, and asks the sons of the Pilgrims for their contributions and support in their guilty silence upon the greatest iniquity in the land. It has already sent its agents South, and collected large sums of money, the price of its treachery to its God. More than seven thousand dollars were collected by Mr. Bliss in Virginia, and Southern cupidity had suddenly opened its hands to fill the coffers of its best friend. It is tit that it should be so. It is a Northern institution with Southern principles, and has a rightful claim for its support, for the service it is doing to slavery. It is not wanted in Boston. 
In conclusion, we have only to say that the sooner; the American Tract Society abandons its silence on slavery, the better for the Society; and if they will not do this, the sooner the gentlemen whose names are paraded for its support abandon the Society, the better for those gentlemen. INQUIRER. 

From the Mew York Tribune. 
WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 
It is not of mere material and financial matters that we are now to speak; but our purpose is to remind our readers of the precise kind of 'ruin'! which croakers and cravens, when Parliament was discussing the question of abolition, predicted would smite the islands; to note in what respects they then alleged that the experiment would prove a failure'; and to see how these prophecies have; been fulfilled. Though ready, on fit occasion, to silence by unanswerable facts the present politico-economical clamors of the advocates of perpetual slavery, we will not allow them to change the issues they themselves tendered to the friends of Freedom at the outset of this controversy, until judgment is entered against one or the other of the parties on that branch of the case. 
Those who heard and read extemporaneously, or will now peruse, the prolific productions of the press, the platform and the pulpit, on this theme, both in the United States and Great Britain, twenty-five years and more ago, will observe that the ' ruin' which they predicted would promptly follow abolition in the West Indies was mainly of four specific kinds, namely: 
I. Assassination. Immediately on the passage of the Abolition Act, the negroes were to rise en masse, and slay the whites. Cut their master; throat' was the usual phrase. Nearly everybody believed in this bloody bugbear, or pretended to. 
II. Crime. Hawkins, Blackstone, Archbold, Russell, the New gate Calendar and the City Hall Recorder were ransacked for materials to furnish a catalogue of the offences that would abound throughout the islands, so soon as the negroes were ' turned loose ' to-prey on.
III. Pauperism. Scarcely anybody seemed to doubt that when the negroes ceased to hare masters to provide for them, they would be 'unable take care of themselves,' and would speedily sink into squalor and starvation. 
IV. Barbarism. It was asserted that the freed men, stolid in intellect, and brutal in instinct, would gradually relapse into semi-barbarism, and that, ere a quarter or a century had passed away society in the islands would descend in the scale civilization almost to the level of the heathenish tribes in the interior of Africa. 
Five and twenty years ago, in all nooks and corners of the land, from the St. John to the Sabine, these grim pictures, painted in all imaginable hues, and by limners of every grade of capacity, were hung up to fright the country from its propriety. These us gloomy predictions were elaborated by orators a his editors, in every form of speech and phrase; were the common currency of Northern merchants, who had wares to sell to Southern customers; were the small change of unreasoning or unscrupulous dem-
<C04>
agogues, who had votes to purchase of the multitude; fell in woeful warnings from the wailing lips of white-livered divines, and were belched out, with a running chorus of curses and brickbats, by the drunken denizens of stews and dramshops. 
Those who ventured to combat these absurdities and crudities were denounced as either simpletons, fanatics, or incendiaries. They were placed under the social ban. They were scouted by political leaders. They were excommunicated from churches. They were expelled from colleges. In thousands of cases, their peaceable assemblages were dispersed by mobs. Their persons were insulted and assaulted. The dwellings of not a few wore sacked or fired. Many of their printing presses were broken to pieces, or thrown bodily into rivers. Some suffered imprisonment, banishment, and even death itself for opinion's sake. In that good time coming, when American slavery shall have passed away, our sons will read the record of these events with the same mingled incredulity and amazement with which! we now peruse the history of the witchcraft delusions and hangings, and the Popish persecutions and roastings of our fathers. 
What is the response of the British Islands to these woeful predictions of five and twenty years ago? Not one drop of blood, not one riot, not on disturbance, not one breach of the peace has resulted from the enfranchisement of these eight hundred thousand bondmen—not one! The large bodies of troops that used to be kept constantly in the islands, in the days of slavery, ready to suppress anticipated insurrections, have not been seen in the Caribbean Archipelago for twenty years. Crimes of all grades have been steadily diminishing since the day on which the great won was bestowed upon their population. Never were the physical wants of the negroes so well supplied as now. And it turns out to be the planters, instead of the slaves, who are 'unable to take care of themselves '! Since the latter ceased to be chattels, they have cultivated their manhood—the adults advancing in knowledge, the children flocking to the schools, and both old an young crowding the churches and chapels. In a word, the mass of society is nearly as intelligent, and quite as virtuous as some of the States of the American Union
Such is the counterfeit presentment of the predictions of 1834, and of the realities of 1859. Prophets and prognosticators of evil, North and South, now and then! allow us to take judgment against you on the four points we have enumerated, and we will then be ready to disuss with you the question, whether the chief end of man is to manufacture sugar and distil rum. 

EMANOIPATION ANNIVERSARY IN LONDON. 
We copy from the Clerkenwell (London) News the following interesting account of a celebration of the 1st of August in London, prefaced by a few most judicious comments from the editor of that paper: 
THE GREAT EMANCIPATION ANNIVERSARY. 
We have devoted a considerable space to a verbatim report, specially taken for our paper, of the admirable address of the veteran Lord Brougham, upon the twenty-fifth anniversary of the abolition of colonial slavery, as well as a condensed report of the eloquent speech of Mr George Thompson, and the remainder of the proceedings. The darken well News is the only paper in which the noble Lord's address is yet to be found in its entirety; and, coming from such a man, on such an occasion, and at the advanced period of his 83d year, it is an oratorical effusion well worth preserving. We cannot help taking exception to one part of it as being by far too apologetic, consistent with justice, of the pre-eminently guilty republic of the United States. We must also confess, that it was with some degree of disgust that we listened to the disingenuous suppression veri—which, indeed, savored most strongly of the suggest to falsi—of the lion. Amasa Walker, concerning the guilty land of his birth. No man knows better the criminal action, not merely of the States in their sovereign capacity, but of the Federal Republic in regard to the Fugitive Slave Law, and other slave-rivetting laws of the Union. lie well knows that the boasted Union between North and South is and can be held together by nothing but the blood of the slave. Is the Christianity of America such a feeble thing that it could not cope with cotton at fourteen cents a pound, if its professors were really disposed to take up the Cross of Him who drove the buyers and sellers out of the Temple? The meeting was inaugurated, and nearly carried out, by the London; Emancipation Committee, but at the eleventh hour they were joined by the British and Foreign Anti Slavery Society. Personally, was should have liked to have seen an especial expression of sympathy wit the American Abolitionists, with whom the heart of many in Music Hall upon that day beat strong! in unison; but as the meeting was intended to have solely a retrospective character in reference to our own colonies, and was devoted to a review of the results of emancipation there, such a manifestation of feeling, it was conceived, and perhaps with strict propriety, would have been out of place. The whole of the speeches will speedily be published in a pamphlet form, from the notes of Mr. Farmer, when our readers will find their perusal well worth their attention. 
The twenty-fifth anniversary of the abolition slavery in the British Colonies was celebrated on Monday by a public meeting at the Music Hall Store street, Bedford square, over which Lord Brougham presided. The attendance was large and respectable, and upon the platform, in addition the venerable president, were many distinguished friends of negro freedom. 
Lord Brougham, in opening the proceedings, after briefly acknowledging his enthusiastic reception said: It naturally gives us all great satisfaction, that we have lived to see accomplished this great measure of slavery abolition, than which there was none in the whole history of our career at all superior in importance or in virtue, or in what may be expected to be its beneficial consequences, and that we have now, by illegible twenty-fifth anniversary of that great event, a quarter of a century to-day having elapsed since the shackles of the slave were finally struck off. I ought not perhaps to say ' finally struck off,' for there was substituted for slavery id indentured apprenticeship of seven years, which, in many respects, was only a mitigated form of the evil which we had crushed, and which our utmost efforts were forthwith applied also to terminate. I derive unspeakable satisfaction in looking back to the year 1838, when I led in the contest for diminishing the period of apprenticeship by two years. 
It had then existed five years, but instead of continuing till 1840, it ceased in 1838; and I will do the colonial legislature the justice to say, having oftentimes been in opposition to them, and from various misapprehensions which are incidental to all controversies, having been greatly misunderstood by them—that they themselves, by their own acts, under the suggestion of us from the imperial Parlia-
<C05>
ment, operating upon the imperial government, reduced the period of apprenticeship to two years, They therefore, I rejoice to say, are fellow-laborers with us in that great good whereby the 1st of August, 1838, finally witnessed the complete and absolute emancipation of our slaves. (Cheers.) 
Let it never be forgotten that after Fox had been through life a steady advocate of the abolition of the slave trade—he never liked to touch the question of ' emancipation—it was by his colleagues, Grey, Lansdowne and the rest of his government, that the first Emancipation act was passed in 1817. (Hear, hear.) To be sure, it was inefficacious, but that was no fault of theirs, for it accomplished all that had at that time been proposed. It dealt with the question by penalties, and everybody knows that the profits of that internal traffic were so great that a man might safely risk the loss of five or six vessels by seizure, provided he escaped with the seventh vessel. Finding that it was absolutely necessary that we should, for the first time, call the thing by its right name, and that we should no longer slander trade by calling that a trade which was a crime, we treated it as it deserved—as an offence; and I had great satisfaction in prevailing on Parliament to pass a bill for making the slave trade a felony, which —so great was the revolution that had taken place in people's sentiments—wont through both houses of Parliament without encountering one dissentient voice. That ended our share in the slave trade. With the exception of some few capitalists employing their money in that traffic, it had now ceased to be a British offence, and is confined to those foreign nations to whom I have already referred. (Cheers.) 
Now, that emancipation has put the negro on the same footing as the white in point of rights and privileges, it is fit that we should for a moment stop to consider what his behavior had been under the change, and nothing can be more satisfactory than all accounts of the conduce of the slaves. It was expected by some that on the 1st of August, 1834, there would be an outbreak, and that the sudden liberation of persons who had so long been confined, and under the influence of oppression, would occasion conduct that was not consistent with the public peace. Never was any apprehension more completely falsified by the result. (Hear, hear.) On that day there was all over the West Indies. I venture to I say, among the 850,000 negroes whom we had liberated, the most perfect peace, uninterrupted by riot or debauchery. In that country, where nature provokes the passions, and where the stimulus of intemperance is dealt out with a profuse band, there was no instance to be found in all the Caribbean Sea of intoxication, or of riot from intoxication. On the contrary, the churches and chapels were filled. Successions of congregations, one after another, frequented them, in order to testify their gratitude to God for the great boon which Providence had bestowed on them. (Cheers.) Those people, pious as the nature of man will allow, spent that day in piety and devotion, and not the slightest breach of the peace or act of intemperance was perceived. Then it was said, ' They will not work.' The result has proved the contrary. They are not at all indisposed to work. Give them wages, and they will work. No doubt they will prefer cultivating their own yam guldens, if you do not give them adequate wages; but when they have adequate wages, they will work as well as can be desired, not only at cotton and indigo, but at sugar also. 
It was said at the time that the supply of sugar would greatly fall off; but we have positive proof from the most undoubted authority, that where they are well treated and proper wages are given, the supply of sugar in the district is not diminished by emancipation. Indeed, it was stated by the Marquis of Sligo some years ago in the House of Lords, that there was one district in his government, he having been Governor of Jamaica, in which a two-fold greater produce of sugar had been made by free negroes than by slaves in former times. That, I admit, appears to have been a peculiar ease, and therefore I do not mention it as an average; but as a general rule, I say that there has been no diminution in the growth of sugar, and no want whatever of men to work at proper wages. (Hear, hear.) This subject has lately been made a matter of controversy, and an inquiry is now going on, from which I hope truth will be obtained, and from which we shall see whether there are not exceptions —as I don't doubt there may be—to that rule. For instance, I am told that Barbadoes stands in a different position from Jamaica in that respect, and that Barbadoes is flourishing. Undoubtedly all the respectable testimony which we have from Barbadoes is to the effect that there is no want of sugar, and that its growth has increased instead of fallen off. The former slave stands now in a different position with respect to the community, in consequence of the change that has taken place, from that which be occupied before, He has the same interest now, as his master. It becomes his interest that his master should profit, for his wages are to be paid oat of the gains of his master. The profits of the planter are the fund oat of which his wages mast he paid, consequently they have a common interest, and he ought to rejoice in every thing that tends reasonably and without abuse to the profit of the planter. (Hear, hear.)
That many planters hare suffered, that many will continue to suffer, is undeniable; and those particularly will suffer whose estates are under mortgage. It maybe said, indeed, that it all depends upon that, and that those whose estates are not under mortgage are flourishing; but as a very great many estates are unfortunately in that condition, I fear that a considerable proportion of proprietors have (suffered. But there have been many sufferers also by their advocacy of emancipation, and when I mention the name of Mr. Stephen, I am reminded of the to last act of his public life, when, having been the steady supporter of the then government, he in the year 1815, gave up his place in Parliament and all hope of preferment, and retired into private life, because he conscientiously differed from his political friends—the government of the day—in a question at regarding Africa and the slave trade. Such met as! also as George Thompson and others, both in this country and the United States, despising the danger to which in some cases they were exposed, and the loss which in all cases they underwent, labored in this great and good cause, and honor be to their names. (Cheers.) I could name other instances, and, if it were not selfish and a slight matter compared with the sacrifices which others bate encountered, I might name my own case. (Loud cheers.) I grudge not, but look back with satisfaction am in delight to the labor of nearly sixty years in the cause; but I was about to state a different kind of sacrifice which I made most cheerfully. I lost an estate in the West Indies which I should not much have valued, and I lost an estate in the north of England which I should very much have mined, by a kind individual who had made me his heir to both estates, altering his will became I would not, in 1833, abandon the cause of emancipation. (Cheers). I have grown old in these labors, but this is an occasion on which I may say—
E'en in our ashes live their wanted illegible.
It is difficult to avoid feeling renewal of what one has not intermitted but only relaxed in pressing,
<C06>
and relaxed of late years, because the occasion had ceased. [The noble and learned lord on resuming his seat was loudly cheered.] 
His Excellency Governor HINCKS, Her Majesty's representative at Barbadoes, then moved the following resolution:— 
That on the twenty-fifth anniversary of the abolition of slavery in the British colonies, this meeting joyfully record its satisfaction in the retrospect of that great act of national justice and strand policy, and emphatically affirms that the emancipated population of those colonies have triumphantly vindicated their right to freedom, and the justice of the Act of Emancipation, by the signal progress they have since made morally, religiously, and politically; and this meeting of opinion that the great event now commemorated, and its results, should animate the hopes and encourage the efforts of the friends of freedom throughout the world, who are invited to mingle their congratulations with ours, that from the list of human inconsistencies and crimes has been obliterated for ever that of British colonial slavery.
Before speaking to the resolution, be defended himself against any who might say he ought not to be present at such a meeting. He would not have been there to engage in any thing of a party nature, but the question of slavery was not a party question in this country. (Hear, hear.) And he believed also that the planters were themselves convinced of he good results of emancipation. He bad not arrival at the convictions be entertained from his experience in Barbadoes only, but had carefully examined the subject in the Southern States of America, in Cuba, and in the other colonies of the West Indies. The results of his inquiries he bad embodied in a letter to Mr. Lewis Tappan, of New York, and having fortified his opinion since, was prepared to stand by every thing he had said. There could be no doubt in the minds of any who examined the subject, that slave labor was much dearer that free labor. (Hear, hear.) It only required that England should prove this to be so in all the West India Islands to make emancipationists of the Southern States of America. Hitherto we had not performed our duty to the West Indies, nor to the principle of freedom. (Hear, hear.) The good results of emancipation on the social condition of the people, it was not denied by anybody in the West Indies, had bean very great. In Barbadoes the progress was especially marked. He knew of no people anywhere, of the laboring class, who had done so much as the people of Barbadoes had done for the education of their children, and the results were seen to be of the most gratifying character in the social habits and mental acquirements of the people. The Governor quoted a number of statistics to prove this, and then proceeded to remark upon the vicious tenure of land, which was the real cause of much of the want of material prosperity complained of. It was only a monthly tenure, and the tenant was frequently compelled to leave his growing crops, and take for them the valuation of the proprietor; and if he cave notice to leave, he sacrificed his crops altogether. (Hear, hear.) If he were the proprietor of a sugar estate, the first thing he would do would be to set apart the third of that land, of which be would give them as good a tenure as he had himself, if they desired to settle upon it. He would encourage them to grow canes upon the estate. That common sense view of the case bad not been taken. Their plan should be to induce the people on their own account to attend to the cultivation of sugar. (Cheers.) 
Mr. GEORGE THOMPSON rose amidst loud applause, which having subsided, he said that it would be a work of supererogation to add a syllable to the very luminous speech of his Excellency. The argument on that branch of the question was impregnable, but if it were not so, they were not there to celebrate the triumph of any dogma of political economy, so much as to congratulate one another—the country, the Queen, and mankind at large—upon the extirpation of one of the most heinous crimes ever perpetrated by man upon his fellow. The question had never been in this country, in the days when public feeling rose so high as to sweep away the dams which previously impeded the progress of the abolitionists, a question simply of labor, or of the material prosperity of the colonies; the sympathies of the friends of the slave were not confined within the circumference of a sugar hogshead; it was not so much a question of giving free labor to the plantar, as of giving freedom to the slave. (Loud cheers.) The argument drawn from political economy had been settled long, long before. Adam Smith, Say, and a host of others had demonstrated that, with reference to sugar growing, as to every other human occupation, free labor was better than forced, and human nature and experience alike taught that kind treatment and equitable remuneration were better than coercion and the lash. (Cheers.) But even should our political economy be false—should the plantations of the West Indies fall into decay; even should planters and managers have to leave their properties, and seek in other regions profitable occupation, the principle on which the anti-slavery cause was based would stand unshaken, for that principle was that emancipation from bondage was the right of the slave, and that his enslavement was a crime to be abolished, not an evil to be mitigated, or an institution to be perpetuated for profit and aggrandizement. (Applause.) Mr. Thompson than related the interesting narrative of the life of Clarkson, in whose mind the germ of the principle of abolition first had birth, the subsequent labors of Grey, Lansdowne, Grenville, Holland, Pitt, Burke, Fox, and Brougham, bringing the history down to the year 1833, when the Emancipation Act was passed. Having quoted Mr. Buxton's earnest advise to the negroes to the pursuit of specific and exemplary course of conduct in a stats of freedom, he said—This was counsel worthy of a Christian Statesman. Was it given m vain? Did the negroes to whom it was offend in strains so teaching accept and act upon it? Did they justify either the honest apprehensions of their timid friends, or the affected illegible of the interested alarmists who sought to scare the nation from its from its duty? History answers the question. Her scroll extends over twenty-five years. She has recorded the events of the 1st of August, 1834, when, according to the title of the Act, slavery was abolished throughout the British illegible. History has also recorded the events of the 1st of August, 1838, when the unjust, unnecessary and cruel system of apprenticeship was illegible brought to an end. (Cheers.)
Lord BROUGHAH; I omitted to notice in my remarks the fact that the 1st of August is also the anniversary of the accession of the House of Brunswick to the throne of these realize, by which we were saved from religious thraldom and arbitrary power. (Loud and prolonged cheers.)
Mr. THOMPSON.—The annuls of our race would be searched in vain for a parallel instance of a illegible no sudden and complete from slavery to freedom, so undisfigured by any abuse of the power which liberty bestows. (Prolonged cheers.) What are they now? They are free men, illegible the illegible, the rights, and the privileges and power of free men. have they shamed their liberty to the destruction or injury of their former illegible? Have they relapsed into barbarism and the annual vices and illegible of barbarians? Have they slighted or

NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables on the institution.... There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aidiny other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUE FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution.... No blessing of the Union be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'—WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
misused their opportunities for the advancement of their material, moral, intellectual, or spiritual improvement? I point to the facts for an answer (Cheers.) They are industrious cultivators, and often the independent freeholders of the soil (Cheers.) They are the liberal promoters of education. (Cheers.) They are devout members of Christian churches. (Hear, hear.) They sustain out of their own resources the worship of God, and the various religious institutions of their own locality, and even send to the treasuries of societies in this country their liberal contributions. (Hear, bear) There is no department of agricultural, commercial, mechanical, or political life, into which they have not entered, and in which they have not creditably distinguished themselves. After dwelling upon other topics, and enumerating the many eminent persons who had labored in the cause of the African race, Mr. Thompson concluded as follows: The immortality of this unsurpassed galaxy of the great and the good is assured. When the infernal slave trade throughout the world is utterly extirminated, when the last fetter of the enslaved negro is rusting away, when Africa is restored to peace, and blest with civilization and Christianity, then will these names be household words amongst millions of that race with whose redemption they are (imperishably associated (great cheering)) and then, also, will be remembered another name, a name linked for more than half a century with the cause of freedom and progress in this country, a name identified with education, with the freedom of the press, with the reform of the law, with the advancement of science, with the liberation of commerce, and with the amelioration of the social condition of the masses of our people a name which has become a synonyme for whatever is brilliant in oratory, or nervous in diction, or powerful in invectiveï¿½but a name illustrious for this reason chiefly, that amongst those who during that period labored most, and most successfully, to secure for the negro the rights of humanity, and the immunities of a citizen, the foremost in the battle, as the latest survivor in the victory, was Henry Brougham 
Mr. Thompson sat down amidst loud and repeated cheers.
The Rev. W. G. BARRETT, who had been for several years a missionary in British Guiana, said that on the 1st of August, 1834, he commenced a succession of services, and from six o'clock in the morning to six in the evening, without any intermission, he was engaged in speaking to this emancipated people. When the negroes in the West Indies received this great boon, they were willing to bury all the injuries of the past, and to unite in singing with one heart, as they did with one voice, 'Let us sing unto the Lord, for he hath done great things for us, whereof we are glad.' Had the conduct of the planters been as forbearing as that of the slaves was forgiving, and their administration as wise as the cause of the negro was just, there would have been none of those heart burnings of which they were perpetually reading, both in the Colonial and in the English press. Mr. Barrett then read an extract from a speech of Count Montalembert in the French Chamber of Peers, bearing on the abolition of slavery in the West Indies. The passage which, throughout, was very eloquent and striking, concluded by characterizing the abolition of slavery in the British possessions as 'the most delightful spectacle and the most blessed revolution which the 19th century had presented to man.' He would say one word with respect to British Guiana. Mr. Hincks had fallen, he thought, into some slight mistake. He had said there had been a slight retrogression in the condition of the colony of British Guiana since the abolition of slavery. From having been so long in the colony he could say that, so far from there being any retrogression, there could be no doubt that it would bear fair comparison even with Jamaica, or the island of Barbadoes. The fact was, that in British Guiana the emancipated slaves had become larger occupiers of land than those of any other colony There were, by both canals, and along the banks of the Essequibo, large estates which had been abandoned in consequence of the inability of their proprietors to pay for labor. The negroes had, in many cans, united in numbers of, in some instances, 100 or 200, put their money together to buy these estates. Some of these estates were seven, eight, nine, or even ten thousand acres in extent. They had got them under cultivation, occasionally employing the same white manager to conduct it, under whom they had toiled in bondage. He would just notice the remark which had been made by Mr. Thompson with respect to the self-supporting character of some of their missions. He (Mr. Barrett) was in British Guiana several years, and never received a farthing from any missionary society whatever. He was the minister of a large congregation entirely of negroes. His wife was the only white woman among them, yet they supported him comfortably, and when she was ill, they, without any solicitation at all, raised a sum of money, in order to enable him to make a tour for the benefit of her health. He was happy, he said, to throw in this humble contribution to the great cause of humanity and freedom in which they all laboredï¿½some, like their noble chairman, with high and distinguished honor, and others, like himself, humbly awaiting the approval of Him who would give to all the ample reward of their labors. (Loud cheers.) 
The Hon. AMASA WALKER, formerly Secretary of State for Massachusetts, moved the second resolution:ï¿½
'That while this meeting deeply deplores the fact that slavery is still maintained by various civilized nations, and that the slave trade, with all its horrors, it still prosecuted in contravention of treaties, and in defiance of all attempts for its suppression, it rejoices that in different parts of Europe, and in the United States of America, there are societies zealously engaged in promoting the extinction of these iniquities, and would cordially wish themï¿½ God speed." 
Mr. WALKER said he felt great pleasure in uniting with England in the commemoration of a day which had emancipated 800,000 human beingsï¿½a day which had reflected high honor upon England, and which was a cause of rejoicing to all mankind. He rejoiced to have such an opportunity, on behalf of three millions and a half of his fellow-creatures, to return his sincere thanks to the chairman, and all who took an interest in the cause of emancipation. Ever since he could remember, the name of Lord Brougham had been associated with the cause of freedom. They would ask him what was the prospect of emancipation in the United States?  It would be deeply gratifying to him if be could tell them that the day was dawning; that they hoped soon to have another 1st of August to celebrate.
Lord BROUGHAM: It should be the 4th of July.
Mr. WALKER: They also had thought that that should be the day. He was sorry to say he could give no such account. He would not, from pride of country, come there to present any thing in a false light. To the question, what is the prospect of emancipation? he must say there was none. Why? because cotton was 14 cents a  pound.(Laughter.) They would give that for it, and so would all the markets of the world. The consequence was this, it had the protection, in such a price, of being 150 per cent, higher, in proportion to the labor it costs than other agricultural productions. The demand for slave labor was increased, the price of slaves rose, and the prospect of emancipation declined. It rose and fell with the price current. As long ago as 1852, the legislature of Virginia came within a very few votes of abolishing slavery. Why?  Because the slaves were at very low prices. They might depend upon it that 14 cents a pound was a very powerful lens, and planters bad looked through it till they saw that slavery was the corner stone of republicanism, and they had even discovered that it was a divine institution.(Laughter) Planters looking through it had made out that the slave trade was the noblest missionary enterprise in the world. (Laughter) The American and the English were one family, having a common origin, speaking a common language, and, thanks be to God, having a common destiny too. Slavery could not be crushed out in England and sustained in America, but the abolitionists of both countries must stand shoulder to shoulder in the great contest for freedom. (Cheers)
Lord BROUGHAM rose and stated that he was obliged to return to the House of Lords. The last speaker, be said, had alluded to the opinion held among the pro-slavery party in America as to the antiquity of the institution; but he (Lord B.) knew of one far older, not much worse, and very much connected with slavery. It was murder; for the first man that was born into the world murdered the second. (Cheers) He would only address them in the words used by a great  Roman orator to a great Roman soldier: 'Depend upon it, your fortune has nothing more propitious than that it gives you the power, your nature has nothing more excellent than to give you the will, to promote the security and the happiness of millions.'(Cheers.)
<c02>
The noble lord then left the hall, the whole assembly standing up, and cheering warmly.
Dr. Hodgkin then took the chair, and presided over the concluding business of the meeting.
Mr. WASHINGTON WILKS, in seconding the resolution, paid an elegant tribute to the noble abolitionists of America, William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Henry Clarke Wright, Maria Weston Chapman, Lucretia Mott, Abby Kelley Foster, and others.
He said he was anxious that this celebration of a great epoch in the history of Britain and of mankind should not simply minister to our national pride, but should always stimulate us to the discharge of present duty. It was unhappily necessary, in the first place, to maintain what had been achieved, and to prevent the revival, under whatever flag or whatever disguise, of the atrocious traffic in human beings. (Hear, bear.) But slavery was a perpetuation, a daily repetition, of the horrors of the slave-trade-and slavery was, as they had heard, a material institution in a country not less English than their own. They must not rest while the tongue of Shakspeare and Milton contained the words 'slave' as descriptive of a still existing fact.(Cheers.) It would be a shame if this English celebration passed off without a word of honor to the names, and encouragement to the labors, of those noble men and womenï¿½the Abolitionists of America. Garrison and his associates had been stigmatised as un-Christian, but he ventured to say, as there was no denial of Christ like that of holding in bondage those He had died to free, so there could be no faith more orthodox, no lives more holy, than those of the martyr spirits who held nothing dear to them so that they might preach the gospel of negro liberation. (Loud cheers) 
The resolution was put, and carried unanimously.
Mr. STEPHEN BOURNE proposed, and the Rev. W. H. Bonner seconded, a vote of thanks to the noble lord, which was carried unanimously, as also one to his successor to the chair, Dr. Hodgkin, and the proceedings terminated.

THE FIRST OF AUGUST JUBILEE 
On Monday last was celebrated one of the noblest and purest victories ever achieved by any nation in ancient or modern timesï¿½the utter rout of the con- federated hosts of avarice and despotism, and the destruction, root and branch, of the up as-tree of slavery in the British colonies, which for centuries had cast its withering and deadly shadow over successive generations of men.  The day was appropriate-it was the twenty-fifth anniversary, or semi-jubilee of Negro Emancipation. The speakers were appropriate ï¿½they were HENRY Lord BROUGHAM, the almost sole surviving member of that illustrious band of philanthropists, who during the last sixty years have been wont to hold senates captive, while they consecrated the loftiest eloquence to the vindication of the rights of an outcast race; George Thompson, not better known in England than in the United States, and wherever the battle of human freedom is to be fought, and who on this occasion made a speech of surpassing eloquence, basing his arguments against slavery, not on the low, grovelling ground of commercial interests, but on the eternal principle of the inalienable rights of man, without reference to caste, or color, or clime; his Excellency Governor Hincks, the Queen's representative in one of the largest and most flourishing of the emancipated Colonies; and the Hon. Amasa Walker, late Secretary of State for Massachusetts, the friend, and for nearly thirty years, the fellow-laborer of the Clarkson of America, William Lloyd Garrison. Having named the orators of the day, we need scarcely say the addresses were as appropriate as the occasion and the men
The historical illustrations adduced at the meeting went back to the spring-head of those waters of sympathy, which, gathering during more than twenty years, at least, with resistless force swept away the traffic in slaves carried on between the coast of Africa and the human-flesh shambles of the West Indies. Honor to whom honor is due. The deathless glory acquired by England when she extinguished the slave-trade was justly ascribed by Mr. George Thompson to the 'thought that came into the mind' of Clarkson, when he sat disconsolate on the turf by the way-side, and as he mused conceived the idea of redeeming a Continent from the ravages of the man-pirate. Who would not rather be parent of that thought, than of that which led Columbus to pass the Pillars of Hercules?  With reverence wo may apply in this connexion the well-known lines,
'Twas great to speak a world from nought,
ï¿½Twas greater to redeem.'
It was a grievous error on the part of those who accomplished the abolition of the slave-trade, that they did not also at the same time abolish slavery itself, the latter being the parent of the former. For some years the pleasant dream was indulged that slavery would die out. Die out! Yes, and so it would have done, as the slavery of the aboriginal Caribs died out, by the extermination of the entire race, under the murderous effects of a remorseless bondage. In this way negro slavery was discovered to be dying out, and then the Abolitionists, with equal simplicity, thought of 'mitigation,' and of 'improving the moral condition of the slaves, with a view to their ultimate emancipation,' and then of restraining the master by mild resolutions in the House of Commons, and gentle expostulations from the circumlocution office. All such measures were but like goading a hungry tiger with a toasting-fork, while he held the bleating kid between his ferocious jaws. Plantation despotism only became more rampant, cruelty more devilish, and persecution more malignant than ever. The visions of the philanthropists faded. The impotence, not to say folly, of their schemes became apparent; but still they knew not what to do. At length Elizabeth Heyrickï¿½may her name be long remembered and honored! sent forth the cry 'immediate, 'not 'gradual' emancipation, and then a voice from the capital of Scotland was heard, uttered through the lips of Andrew Thomson, 'Fiat justitia, ruat coelum,' and the people echoed as with the heart of one man, Though 'Though ruin should ensue, let justice prevail.' 'Justice did prevail, and, as was observed at the late meeting, the annals of the human race would be searched in vain for a parallel instance of a change so sudden and complete, yet so undisfigured by the abuse of that power which liberty bestows. In Antigua, where, with sound policy and wise foresight, the apprenticeship system was repudiated, thirty thousand slaves became absolutely free in an instant; yet neither at the moment, nor afterwards, were any military precautions needed; and when Christmas cameï¿½usually a scene of riot as well as of recreation, requiring, for thirty years previously, the proclamation of martial law during the holidays, the observance of that custom was omitted, and neither on that island, nor in any other colony, was there a single breach of the peace. We perceive with satisfaction that one of the speakers, on Monday, expressed the deep thankfulness which all friends of the negro should feel to those Christian ministers and teachers who did so much, not only to prepare the slaves for the just appreciation and right use of their freedom, but so much afterwards, not only to advance their moral condition, but to defend their civil rights and promote their temporal prosperity.
It was well that slavery was abolished when it was, and as it was.  While we celebrate the good which has been secured, we should not forget the evils which have been prevented, nor the dire calamities which have been happily averted. Had slavery continued, no rational man can doubt there would have been disaffection, conspiracy, revolt, the destruction of property, and the wasteful effusion of blood. An act of justice, all but too long delayed, saved both masters and bondmen from these the certain consequences of long continued oppression; and instead, we have a happy retrospect of joy, peace, contentment, willing industry, unconstrained obedience to the law, and the most fervent loyalty to the Sovereign.
We had intended to deduce from the contemplation of the past, the duties and obligations which devolve upon us for the future, but we have space only for a concluding remark. Being ourselves now exempt from the stigma and criminality of the slave-trade and slavery, and possessing such abundant evidence of the advantages as well as justice of the measures we have adopted, we should exert the influence which our character, position, and means supply, to induce other nations to copy our example. Millions yet groan in the house of bondage. Africa is still the hunting ground of the man-stealer. The unspeakable horrors of the Middle Passage still cry to Heaven for vengeance. Let us, then, become zealous co-workers with all, in every land, who are striving to achieve results similar to those which have crowned our own struggles, and let us spread the principles of impartial liberty, till the slave trade and slavery cease to be the scandal of religion, the reproach of nations, and the scourges of the human raceï¿½London Morning Advertiser, Aug.3
<c03>
FIRST OF AUGUST AT POUGHKEEPSIE
The twenty-first anniversary of the emancipation of the slaves in the British West Indies was celebrated by the colored people of the river counties, in this city on Monday last with appropriate honors. The attendance did not appear to be quite as large as last year, although very respectable, and we presume meet of the State was represented. Men, women and children, all dressed in holiday attire, and a fair proportion in a style to rival the most aristocratic fashionables of the day. Throughout the entire mass prevailed a staid dignity and genteel bearing and manner which proved that they duly appreciated their position on the occasion, and knew how to honor it
At eleven o'clock, a procession was formed, which, headed by Flokton's Band, and, under direction of the marshals, proceeded to the river to receive the visitors from abroad by the cars and boats. Here there was a delay until half-past twelve o'clock, when a new procession was formed, which marched to Fox's Grove, where a platform, seats, & c., had been prepared, and a large crowd had gathered to witness the exercises.
After the officers of the day had taken their seats on the platform, the exercises opened with music by Flokton's Band, then followed prayer by the Rev. B. (M. Davis, a colored minister of New York, and more music J. Holland TowLsend, President of the day, then delivered the opening address in a spirited and eloquent style. Wm. Strong, of Newark, was next introduced, and gave a short and stirring address in favor of the freedom and rights of the colored race, in which he gave a tremendous thrust at President Buchanan, and Mr. Chief Justice Taney and the infamous doctrines he has dared to proclaim before an intelligent people. William J. Watkins, of Rochester, selected as orator of the day, then took the stand, and delivered one of the most able and eloquent addresses ever made on such an occasion, setting forth the wrongs the blacks had suffered, and the rights to which they were entitled as much as other men. He also pointed out who were their enemies, gave a history of emancipation, and set forth the plans he would propose for the future. All who took part in the exercises were colored men of full blood.
At the conclusion of Mr. Watkins' address, a resolution against colonization, presented by the Rev. W. H. Butler, but opposed by Mr. Johnson, was adopted, and a vote of thanks to Mr. Watkins for his oration. The meeting then adjourned. 
In the evening, Mr. Watkins delivered another address on the same subject, and to the same effect, that was listened to by a large audience in the Universalist Church.
A large proportion of whites attended on all the exercises, among them several distinguished citizens and visitors.
We learn that there was also a colored ball in the evening at Miller's Hall, at which there was a large attendance of those who wished to ' trip the light fantastic toe.'
Altogether the affair was decidedly creditable to the parties concerned, showing that they possessed the right spirit, and judged, and wisely, in the matter of making a good impression. No visitors that ever honor us with their presence conducted themselves with more propriety than marked the movements of all who assembled to honor the day so dear to their affections.ï¿½Poughkeepsie Eagle.
At Geneva, the colored people led off in an observance of the day. Guns were fired and bells rung at day-break; at 5 a.m. there was a meeting to offer thanks to God for the freedom enjoyed in the West Indies, and to pray for the emancipation of the bondmen of the United States; at a later hour, a procession marched to inspiring music through the streets to the beautiful grove where the anniversary exercises were held. Frederick Douglass presided and made an eloquent address. The British Act of Emancipation was read, and appropriate hymns were sung. The great attraction of the day was the oration of the Rev. Dr. Cheever, of New York, which, unfortunately, was broken off in the middle by a shower of rain.  The correspondent of the Tribune says:
'An appeal was made for a church to shelter the people from the storm until the eloquent speaker could finish his oration; but although meeting houses and ministers, and deacons and trustees were all around, no house was offered-ï¿½no door was opened; and so the assembly sought protection in private houses and public hotels.'
At Sandwich, Canada West, the day was celebrated, says the Detroit Advertiser, by seven thousand colored people, most of them refugees from American slavery. The celebration was held in the handsome grove belonging to Col. Prince, and every thing was conducted in good order. Speeches were made by Col. Prince, Eli Ford of Chicago, and others. The Advertiser says:ï¿½
'Among those who seemed to be contented and happy, we noticed the rescued girl ï¿½Lina," who informed us, on inquiring, that she liked living in Canada better and better every day. The thirteen slaves rescued from slavery by ï¿½old John Brown," and theï¿½ young John Brownï¿½ born on the journey to Canada, were ï¿½celebrating" also. They gave us to understand that they had been burned out since their arrival at Windsor. They are comfortable now, having plenty of work to keep them busy, and a great many good friends willing to lend a helping hand.
'All of the participants in the festivities were well and comfortably dressed, and looked as though they had plenty to eat and drink. We never saw a gathering of any kind, as large as the one at Sandwich yesterday, where more decorum was observed. The day's pleasure closed with several balls at Windsor and in this city.'

The Liberator.
BOSTON, AUGUST 26, 1859
NEW ENGLAND CONVENTION OF COLORED CITIZENS
To the exclusion of much other matter, and with some inconvenience, yet with great pleasure, we have devoted the last page of the Liberator, for two successive numbers, to a report of the proceedings of the Convention of Colored Citizens, gathered from various parts of New England, and held in this city on the first and second days of August.
The intelligent, dignified and orderly manner in which those proceedings were conducted throughout, won for the Convention the warm commendation of the daily press; and the general appearance of the assembly, on the score of dress, taste, and good behavior, compared favorably with any public gathering ever held in Boston. Yet these are the people who, by a certain class of white traducers, are scoffed at as 'an inferior race,' and 'incapable of taking care of themselves' in a state of freedom; nay, as occupying a position, in comparison with which, that of the plantation slaves is enviable! 
It will be seen that the Convention took strong ground against every scheme of expatriation to Africa, whether for colonization, civilization, or any other purposesï¿½regarding this as 'native land,' clinging to and cherishing it with the same tenacity and affection for which those of a white complexion are characterized. There can be no objection to any colored man,ï¿½self-prompted, or stimulated by a desire to better his condition if he can, or really animated by a missionary spirit,-going to Africa; but any scheme, however innocent upon its face, or whatever may be its pretensions, which contemplates or suggests the removal of any considerable portion of the colored people of this country to the African coast, on account of their complexion or condition, is to be regarded as 'evil, only evil, and that continually,' and treated accordingly.
We do not see in the proceedings of the Convention that distinct recognition and grateful appreciation of the Anti-Slavery movement which, the occasion naturally suggested, and which might have been justly expected; for it is that movement which has made the holding of such a Convention, under such cheering circumstances, possibleï¿½which has given the death-blow to the Colonization crusadeï¿½ which has done much for the extirpation of colorphobiaï¿½which has shaken the slave system to its foundation,, and shall yet emancipate every bondman.
<c04>
THE RIGHT TESTIMONY 
Among the resolutions adopted at the Yearly Meeting of the Friends of Progress, held at Waterloo, N. Y., were the following:ï¿½
Whereas, there can be no right more sacred, perfect and self-evident than the right of every human being to the undisputed possession and control of his or her own person; and whereas, in fact, this self-ownership is plainly the essential and fundamental condition of all moral, social and religious duties and responsibilities, which can in any wise attach to man or grow out of human existence; therefore,
Resolved, That we recognize in American slavery, in its bold and blasphemous denial of this original and most precious of all human rights to four millions of men and women, and their unborn posterity, the most stupendous, glaring and shocking abomination which obstructs the pathway of human progress, and that, therefore, the abolition of slavery ranks first and preeminent among all the reformatory movements of the age, and that we pledge to it our deepest interest and most earnest devotion.
Resolved, That the fact that the American slave system has existed for more than two hundred years, in the presence of American Christianity, and on terms of concord with it, demonstrates very clearly that such Christianity has its basis in the pride and avarice of the American people, rather than in any authorized expression of the eternal will and wisdom of God.
Resolved, That any religion, theology or God, which approves and authorizes the wild and guilty fantasy that man can hold property in man, is a religion, theology and God derived from all the baser elements of human nature, and should be scouted as the blackest atheism.
Resolved, That the American Tract Society representing, as it does, the evangelical religion of this country, and professing as its object 'vital godliness and sound morality,' might naturally be expected to record its testimony in positive and stringent condemnation of the gross and scandalous enormity of degrading man to a brute, and of making merchandise of the image of God; and that the fact that that Society does not so condemn slavery, but, on the contrary, employs its mighty energies and opportunities in shielding the system from rebuke, in suppressing free discussion, thereby fostering and perpetuating that which John Wesley characterized as the 'vilest system that ever saw  the sun,' justly brands it before God and the world as a stupendous sham; its 'vital godliness and sound 'morality'  a delusion and a snare to be shunned and denounced by every one who would preserve his conscience unstained by innocent blood
Resolved, That the members of this meeting of the 'Friends of Human  Progress,' while they deeply sympathize with the noble men of Ohio, now suffering in prison in Cleveland, for preferring obedience to God to tame submission to a most wicked law against humanity, recognize a necessary link in the chain of events by which the people of the North shall be brought to see that their own liberties are held in peril, and must fall or flourish with those of the sable race, who are declared 'to have no rights that white men are bound to respect.'
Resolved, That what is popularly called prejudice against color has its complete explanation and solution in the wrong and oppression which the white race have heaped upon the black race, and not in mere difference of color; and that prejudice will cease from the hearts when injustice and wrong shall depart from the practices of the American people towards the colored inhabitants of our country and the world
CHRISTIAN ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The following are the resolutions adopted by the; above-named body, which met in Columbus, Ohio, a fortnight since:ï¿½
1. Resolved, That the natural law, giving to every human being the right to live, to that liberty which is necessary to cherish and protect life, obtain knowledge and prepare for heaven, is but the clearly revealed will of God.
2. That to enslave innocent men and women, paralyzing the moral faculties, shutting out the light of truth from the understanding, and compelling them to drag out an earthly existence amidst the gloom and darkness of moral death, constitutes one of the most aggravated violations of God's will, one of the most momentous crimes presented to human consideration.
3. That the turpitude of this crime rests on all who capture, enslave, import, sell, purchase, hold, re-capture, or re-enslave human beings; on all who aid, encourage, pass, approve, or enforce enactments for the capture, enslaving, holding, re-capture, or re-enslaving God's image; and the persons thus offending will be held responsible at the bar of God.
4. That governments are constituted among men to secure the enjoyment of human rights, and they hold no authority to violate the will of God by depriving the humblest individual of his liberty; that Congress, in passing the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850, conferred no right upon slave-catchers to capture or enslave, to re-capture or re-enslave men, nor did they impose upon any person the duty to submit to such capture or enslavement; nor is the law of God, nor the inalienable rights of man, changed or modified by such enactments, nor are our Christian duties to feed the hungry, clothe the naked, protect and defend the rights and liberties of ourselves and fellow-men, impaired or changed by the enactment.
5. That said Fugitive Slave Act does not command that which is right, nor does it forbid that which is wrongï¿½it comes within no description of law, and possesses no essential element of law; it is an assertion of the will of the slaveholders, and not the will of God; it is the mandate of despotism, and not the statute or the law of a Christian people; to maintain it is to uphold slavery in its worst and most revolting featuresï¿½to permit its enforcement on the soil of Ohio constitutes a surrender of the rights and dignity of our State, and the liberties of our people.
6. That, irrespective of political organizations, we will vote for no man for office who hesitates to assert, and to the extent of his religious, moral and political influence, maintain the right of our State and its people to be entirely lustrated and exempt from the expense, the guilt and disgrace of supporting the slavery of other States.
7. Resolved, That it is the duty of Christians and of Christian ministers to bear faithful testimony against the sin of slavery, ecclesiastically, socially and politically, through the pulpit and the religious press, and to carry the wrongs of the oppressed to the Throne of Grace in importunate prayer, that God may speedily deliver them that are in bonds.
8. Resolved, That to have any voluntary agency, official or otherwise, in the recapture or rendition of a fugitive slave, is incompatible with Christian character, and unless repented of, should be punished by excommunication in the person of any church member guilty of the crime against humanity and God; that this Convention do therefore approve of the act of excision passed recently by the Market Street Baptist Church of Zanesville, Muskingum county, against a member, who, in the capacity of Deputy U. S. Marshal, restored a fugitive to his claimant in Virginia.
9. Resolved, That the example of the Oberlin Wellington Rescuers, in patiently suffering a long imprisonment for their noble disregard of the unconstitutional Fugitive Slave Ant, not accepting deliverance on any terms that would compromise principle and weaken the moral effect of their act and testimony, and finally triumphing over the Government, and gaining a release honorable to themselves, but disgraceful to their prosecutors and humiliating to the Slave Power, meets our 'hearty commendation, and calls forth our gratitude to, God, whose wisdom
guided and whose grace sustained them.
<c05>
THE RIVAL TRACT SOCIETIES
The establishment in Boston of a 'New England Branch' of the American Tract Society, and the appeals made, through various channels, to the churches of New England to continue their support of the National Institution, have caused the Independent (either spontaneously, or by special confidential request of the managers of the Boston Society,) to make a special plea in behalf of the rival movement carried on by the latter association. The Independent calls the American Tract Society a 'traitorous and cowardly apostacy'ï¿½intimates that their proceedings in the establishment of a 'New England Branch' have been tricky and dishonest, and suspects that their movement  'will be widely repudiated' by the churches of New England. Perhaps it will be so repudiated; perhaps, on the other hand, it will be supported by a very large majority of the friends of the Tract cause, in those churches and out of them; and it may be that the amount of probability belonging to this second 'perhaps' was the efficient cause which brought out (either spontaneously, or by official, confidential suggestion) the editorial article in the Independent, of which we are speaking.
This article asks a series of questions, nine in number which it does not answer, but which, it tacitly insinuates, must be answered in accordance with the wishes and policy of the Boston Society. Some of these questions concern the financial and economical policy of the two associations, following an ingenious method by which the Boston Society has long sought to divert public attention from the defective and vicious elements of its moral character; and this, it must be admitted, is a skilful bait for New England men. Our purpose now is to reply to those among these questions which are designed to insinuate, and to assume as points undisputed and indisputable, the integrity and trust worthiness of the Boston Society
Question4. 'Has it not always been wisely and faithfully administered?
'Answer. No! It has, in many particulars, been craftily and dishonestly administered, often favoring popular sin, often using suppression, reservation and misrepresentation of truth in the advocacy of its dogmas, sometimes uttering direct untruths, always, from the formation of the Society to the middle of the  year 1858, (a period including its early independent existence as well as its auxiliary relation to the National Society,) acting, by its guilty silence, as one of the main bulwarks of Slavery, and, since that period, manifestly pursuing a time serving policy, laboring to seem to oppose slavery, in the hope of there by averting the just reproach that it does not oppose it, and preserving the alliance of those among its members who have been converted by the abolitionists.
Question 5.'Is it not as trustworthy as ever?' 
Answer. No! It has given much new evidence of dishonesty within the last two years, among which may be mentioned the breaking of its spontaneous, deliberate, and oft-repeated pledges to the National Society, of 'avoiding all attempts at any rival movements:'  (See p. 3 of ' Address of the Executive Committee,' issued from the 'Tract House, 28 Cornhill, Boston, July 22d, 1858.') Here are three of its rival movements, made in direct violation of this pledge:ï¿½ 
1. In the beginning of the present year, only six months after the pledge above recorded, and while the Boston Society  was still auxiliary to the national one, (though its managers had planned the separation which afterwards took place,) the Boston Secretary craftily held meetings at Hartford and other places a week or ten days in advance of the regular time for the meetings of the auxiliaries of the National Society there established, advertising them as meetings of the 'American Tract Society,' and then forming auxiliaries to the Boston Society
2. The Boston Society has established a rival Tract Office in New York, 348 Broadway, under the management of Rev. Isaac Warren, 'Secretary for New York.' 
3. The Boston Society has established a rival monthly newspaper, called 'The Tract Journal,' (the same in size, style and general appearance as the 'American Messenger,' the organ of the National Society.) which they publish simultaneously in Boston and New York, and try to introduce in place of the 'Messenger,' though this was praised, and announced as still to be circulated from the Boston Office, in the Address of the Executive Committee,' above mentioned
Question7. 'Has the original American Tract Society at Boston done anything to impair public confidence? Has it denied or suppressed any truth, or swerved from any duty?ï¿½
Answer. Yes! In the acts above indicated, and in many others, which could be shown to the 'evangelical' public, if the Independent and its kindred newspapers would admit such exposure into their columns, the Boston Tract Society has shown itself utterly unworthy of public confidence. It has many times misled its readers, both by the suppression of truth, by partial statement of it, by misrepresentation of it, and by assertions directly conflicting with it; all which we could show in the Independent, if its columns were open. And it has not only always swerved from the duty of direct and thorough opposition to slavery, but it has, of late, made the false pretence of opposing slavery, which the National Society never did, and it has also published and circulated a pro-slavery book, entitled 'Scriptural Duties of Masters,' which the National Society refused to publish 
The National 'American Tract Society ' has been steadily pro-slavery from beginning to end, exactly following the original Boston Society, which was formed several years earlier, but which took the position of an auxiliary in 1825,and continued it until the present year. The Boston Society was founded by persons who were utterly and absolutely indifferent to slavery, and who had not the slightest disposition to disturb the Church by the introduction of that subject. They let slavery alone, with perfect unanimity, while they were an independent body; with perfect unanimity they combined with the National Society in letting it alone from 1825 until the last two or three years; but, during the last named period, a party in the Boston Society, feeling the pressure of charges made against them by abolitionists, and hoping, by time-serving concessions, to retain the  membershipï¿½ he money and the influence of those church-members who had been awakened by the abolitionists to the guilt of slavery, have been urging their brethren towards a seeming to discharge the duty of lifting up their voice against that sin. This party has now gained the control of the Boston Society, and it is diligently discharging its function of pretending to do its duty of rebuking slavery; but, in holding this position, it differs, not only from the abolitionists, who do the work which it falsely pretends to do, but from the original Boston Society, which was as thoroughly and practically pro-slavery before joining the New York one as both of them have unanimously been through, most of the years since.
Will the Independent please copy?
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY. The September number of this popular magazine is out, and presents the following table of contents:ï¿½The Life and Works of Ary Scheffer; A Visit to Martha's Vineyard; October to May; The Eleusinia; The Minister's Wooing; Once and Now; A Trip to Cuba; Zelma's Vow; The Murder of the Innocents: My Double, and how He undid Me; The Singer; The Professor at the Breakfast Table; Reviews and Literary Notices. The high character of the Monthly is sustained 'excellently well,' and the number of its readers, we are glad to know, largely increases with every issue.
We shall publish, next week, the able and eloquent speech delivered by CHARLES C. BURLRIGH at the First of August celebration in Florence, Mass. It appears to have been a very interesting occasion.
<c06>
LETTER FROM ST.LOUIS
ST.LOUIS, AUGUST, 1859
We, who know the value of the freedom of the speech, the freedom of the press, and the freedom to chose negroes according to law, have been wonderfully. wonderfully edified and improved, and our hearts have been made glad by sundry and divers manifestations and adventures that have transpired within the last few days. We were greatly afraid that the notorious abolitionist, Dr. Doy, who was on trial at St. Joseph for enticing a slave from his master, would escape justice, because he had never been in, Missouri, and of-fence was wholly committed in Kansas; but the jury took an enlightened view of the case, made it their own, and seeing that they were in danger of losing their own slaves slave if Dr. Doy escaped, patriotically re-solved to make an example of him, and whether he had ever been in Missouri or not, to take that fact for granted, and find him guilty. Thus justice was done, and the sanctions of the 'law enforced! We were, however, greatly exasperated by the cowardly act of a few abolition poltroons, who stole into that city, got into the jail, and set the convict doctor at liberty!. This outrage must be avenged.
Last Saturday, an English gentleman, who does not seem to be acquainted with our law, nor the genuine of our peculiar institution, announced, through the daily papers, that on Monday evening he would de-liver a lecture at Wyman's Hall, on the subject of emancipation in the British dominions. Now there, is not so generous ,hospitable or forbearing people on earth as the slaveholders; but this was more than we could endure. We appeal to the world if we should permit such a lecture Read the advertisement, and then judge ye:-
'Next Monday evening, Aug. 1st, being the anniversary of emancipation in the British dominions, as address will be delivered on the subject (with per mission of the Mayor) by Philip P. Carpenter, in the Museum the. Market street, opposite the Court House, at 8 o'clock, P. M. Admission free. No collection.'
Forbearance had evidently ceased to be a virtue; so we sent this same Mr. Philip P. Carpenter, through the Missouri Republican,- an excellent paper, ever watchful of our interest, and as forbearing and cautious as watchful,-,ï¿½due notice that we have, in this good State, a statute to secure us the freedom of speech, which is in these words:-
'Any person who shall publish, circulate or utter ,by writing, speaking or printing, or by any picture or device, any statement, arguments, or opinions, the tendency of which is to excite any slave or other coil colored person in the State to or insubordination towards his master or owner, or to rebellion, insurrection, or murder, or to escape from his master or owner, shall, upon conviction., be imprisoned in the penitentiary not more than five years, and upon conviction for the second offence, shall be imprisoned in the penitentiary not less than five years.'
This statute was passed to render effectual the 16th section of the Declaration of Rights contained in the Constitution of Missouri, which provides 'that the free communication of thoughts and opinions is one of the invaluable rights of man, and that every person may freely speak, write and print, being responsible for the abuse of that liberty '
Then, that there should be no possible cause for complaint against our kind and friendly disposition, we forwarded to Mr. Carpenter, through the post office, at our own proper charges and cost, a kind and friendly communication, in the words, figures and superscription following, to wit;-
'ST.LOUIS, July 31, 1859.
'PHILIP CARPENTER. A committee of fifty stanch and tried men, of which I have been elected foreman, has been appointed for the purpose of tarring and feathering and riding you on a rail, should you due attempt to lecture to-morrow night, as advertised. 
'ZACHARIAH BROWNING, Foreman,
Superscribed to 'Philip P. Carpenter, 
'Abolition nigger-thieving lecturerï¿½City.'
Notwithstanding all these precautionary measures to protect ourselves in the enjoyment of our constitutional rights, this address, we fear, would have been delivered, to the complete overthrow of our liberties, and the entire destruction of our Republican form of government, had not Mr. Edward Wyman, the proprietor of whose agent Mr. Carpenter had engaged the hall, patriotically stepped forward, annulled the contract, and closed the hall door. The country owes Mr. Wyman a mighty debt of gratitude. Some eight years ago, the abolition singers, Abby Hutchinson and her brothers, hired this same hall of this Mr. Wyman to sing in, craftily concealing the fact that they were abolitionists. But they did not were succeed in their nefarious designs. Mr. Wyman is too sagacious to be circumvented by any such emissaries. He ascertained that they were abolitionists, and in a speech which he made before a St. Louis audience, then as now, forbade them the use of the hall. Thus, by the efforts of one man, the unhallowed attempt of Abby Hutchinson by her siren voice to sing our 'glorious Union' to tattered fragments was nobly trust rated. Too much praise cannot be accorded to Mr Wyman in the great sacrifice he has made in thus patriotically forfeiting his word and honor, for the good of the whole country. May he receive a just reward! 
It is hardly necessary to state that Mr Wyman is remarkably pious, believing that if the truth of God, or the interest of the slaveholder, shall more abound through his lie, he should not be adjudged a sinner for telling it. He has saved the Union, and the English abolitionist has departed.
Our State election was held on this same day, Aug, 1st. It was a mixed concern. There was but one contested point, namely, the closing of the grog shops on Sunday. The Germans fought against is it most valiantly. In their minds, the right to get drunk is one of man's inalienable rights, .and the principal one for which our fathers fought and bled. It must never be surrendered. These same Germans, strange and anomalous as it may seem, are the most reliable sati anti-slavery men we have. You will readily see that our opposition to slavery is an economical, not moral one. The Irish are the natural allies of slavery and oppression, but they are so purely Democratic and priest-governed, that they will even overcome their repugnance to truth and honesty, and do an honest, righteous act, when commanded to by the Democratic party, when that command is enforced by their priest. But such a requisition must be made very seldom. The vote is in favor of closing the shops. A few National Democrats were elected.
Our crops are fine. Our market is full of melons, and we have apples and peaches. Timely showers refresh the earth, and give our fall crops a most promising aspect L.
MR. WEBSTER. 
In reply to a very severe and justly merited attack by the late Horace Mann upon his 7th of March speech, at the time of its delivery, Mr. Webster quoted the following passage front Jude in the New Testament, 1st chapter, 8th verse-'Yet Michael the archangel, when contending with the devil he disputed -about the body of Moses, durst not bring, against him a railing accusation, but said, The Lord against him a railing accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke thee., 'In this quotation, he probably intended to intimate that Mr. Mann played the part of the devil, and he himself Michael. I think., from the successful and overwhelming result of that encounter in favor of Mr. Mann, the public were inclined to the belief that Mr. Webster was the devil on that occasion, and Mr. Mann Michael; and I would suggest, that the statue of Mr. Mann should be placed on the State House grounds, in company with that of Mr. Webster, to represent these two characters. 
JUDE 
CORRECTION. In the report of the proceedings of the Colored Convention, the name of Robert Gordon, stated as one of the Business Committee, should be David Gordon. On the State Committee, the name Joseph Jefferson should read James Jefferson.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
DEATH OF RUFUS CHOATE. NO. III.
Dr. Adams’s Funeral Address.
Dr. Adams says, in the opening of his address-' The merchant princes laid their questions before him, and his counsels [without any regard to the justice of their cause] gave them almost the assurance of a verdict. Men bound him [i.e., the merchant princes, who were able, bought him] to their service as soon as they anticipated trouble, or they bought [that is the word] his promise not to appear against them.' Was this so commendable in him as to justify his pastor in referring to it, in this public manner, as a particularly bright spot in his character, rendering him worthy to receive the homage of intelligent men and women; Before uttering such language, Dr. Adams should have read and 'inwardly digested' a few such passages as the following:-'And his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after lucre, and took bribes, and perverted judgment.’-I Sam. 8: 3.' Gather not my soul with sinners, nor my life with bloody men: in whose hand is mischief, and their right hand is full of bribes.-Ps. 26: 9, 10. ‘For I know your manifold transgressions, and your mighty sins; they afflict the just, they take a bribe, and they turn aside the poor in the gate from their right.-Amos 5:12. ‘For the congregation of hypocrites shall be desolate, and fire shall devour the tabernacles of bribery.’-Job 15:34.
Does Dr. Adams remember that a man once sought to buy a certain divine power, and how he was repulsed and rebuked: If for only attempting to buy that power, he was so sharply reproved, what rebuke could have been too severe for Peter, if he had consented (could he have done so) to sell it (or himself) to him for money? We think it was unfortunate for the Dr. that he presented this phase of the character of Mr. Choate, inasmuch as it was adapted to make the impression that his beau ideal of a man is one who is a mere marketable commodity, who can be bought or sold for money. But we will not animadvert further upon this vulnerable point in the Dr.’s address. 
A little further on, he pauses and exclaims, ‘Weep! cities and villages! weep! halls of learning, halls of legislation, halls of justice! weep! forum, bar, pulpit! he who commanded so great reverence and love is dead!' How different the motive here presented to weep from that which moved good men of old and the Savior of the world to weep!  Paul exhorted to ‘weep with them that weep’-with the living, not for the dead. ‘Jesus wept’- with the living, not for the dead Jeremiah (sometimes called the weeping prophet) says, ' Weep ye not for the dead, neither bemoan him.22:10. ‘Oh that my head were waters, and mine eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people.1'-9:1. That he here refers to the living is apparent from the language of the following verses: ‘ For they be all adulterers, an assembly of treacherous men; and they bend their bow for lies: but they are not valiant for the truth upon the earth; for they proceed from evil to evil, and they know not me, saith the Lord '-2d and 3d verse; and ‘My soul shall weep in secret places for your pride; and mine eyes shall weep sore, and run down with tears, because the Lord's flock is carried away captive.’-13:17.  'And when he was come near, he beheld the city, and wept over it, saying, If thou <illegible> knows, even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which belong to thy peace! but now they are hid from thine eyes.-Luke 19:41, 42.  In all these instances, weeping was indulged in for the living, on account of the pride and wickedness of their lives, and their departures from the way of truth, and not on account of the physical demise of some one distinguished only for his intellectual greatness. Thus it will be seen that Dr. Adams departed from every Scripture precedent when he invoked the universe to go into mourning, because a giant intellect had disappeared from among men. If he had called for a general weeping on account of the pride and wicked arrogance of the Jerusalem that now is- yea, of his own chosen Zion-and joined himself in the great mourning, he would have taught the world a more sublime and salutary lesson than by beseeching mankind to shed all their tears over the lifeless remains of Mr. Choate.
Dr. Adams inquires, ‘How can we do without him:’ and asserts, ‘No one else can satisfy our want.’ Oh that his reverence had seriously pondered, before expressing such a sentiment, such passages as, ‘Cease ye from man, whose breath is in his nostrils: for wherein is he to be accounted of?’-Isa. 2:22; ‘Take ye heed every one of his neighbor, and trust ye not in any brother'- Jer. 9: 4; ‘Thus saith the Lord, Cursed be the man that trusteth in man, and maketh flesh his arm, and whose heart departeth from the Lord’- Jer. 17:5.
Who are they who cannot do without him?  Are they the down-trodden and oppressed?  Are they the unfortunate victims of appetite and lust? Are they the children of honest poverty and toil?  All these have had to do without him while he was living, and can as well now that he is dead. 
But for whom does the Dr. speak when he says, ‘No one else can satisfy our wants’?  Why, for the merchant princes, of course, and those who had a plenty of money, so that they could buy him into their service ‘when they anticipated trouble,’ and when it required great legal skill, with small conscientiousness to control it, to get them out of it.
Of what the Dr. Was pleased to say of the esteem in which he was held by Mr. Choate, as his pastor, which was so marvellously developed in the gift of a notice volume of poetry.’ for which he was more indebted to the birth of a child than to the spontaneous outflowing of a spirit of generosity in the giver, it is sufficient to say, that such an act might have been prompted by a recollection of his pastor’s faithfulness in promptly administering theologic anodynes whenever his conscience had given any signs of wakefulness. At all events, such a gift, under such circumstances, furnished no proof of any peculiar regard for his pastor, as a religious teacher; for, in the language of Jesus,’ If ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same?’
The Dr. says-‘I have kneeled with him in prayer when a great sorrow was upon his heart. I have stood with him as he leaned against the door, and wept. Yes, I have seen him weep.  And when he wept, you will believe that it was to me, and would be to any man, “a great mourning; as the mourning of Hadadrimmon”’
The whole tone of this paragraph indicates that for Rufus Choate to weep was an exceedingly rare occurrence. When he was moved to do so, ‘when some great sorrow was upon him,’ it even moved his own pastor, and made him feel that there was ‘a great mourning.’ What does all this prove, even if it is true? Have not other men wept, when a great sorrow was upon their heart, as well as Rufus Choate? Who is there that would not weep in such circumstances? Was there more in the tears of such a man which should move the universe than in the tears of such a man which should move the universe than in the tears of other men? There is more in the tears of a certain class of men, overlooked by such men as Dr. Adams, and the subject of his fulsome panegyric, to move the God of the universe. Of them he says, ‘Behold, the hire of the laborers who have reaped down your fields, which is of you kept back by fraud, crieth; and the cries of them which have reaped are entered into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth.’ When Dr. Adams, Rufus Choate & Co., shall meet this large class who have been the unwilling victims of those systems of fraud and oppression, of which such men at they have been the chief defenders, as they have been the chief defenders, they will feel the need of something more than ’a door' against which to lean for support. Then there will be great mourning, and such as they will be among the chief mourners.  Yours, for impartial justice
Boston, Aug20, 1859.JUSTITIA
<c02>
THE ABOLITIONISTS TO BE TURNED OUT OF BOSTON. 
FRIEND GARRISON:
Yesterday, while conversing, in the streets of our pleasant village, with one of Boston's three thousand dollar salaried priests, I chanced to remark that I had just read Wendell Phillips's letter to Judge Shaw and President Walker, in which he arraigns them, as the guardians of law and teachers of morals, for holding revel at a rum house in your city.  With some feeling he turned upon me with the remark, that the Revere House was the most respectable and best house in the city of Boston; that all the public hotels sold liquors, but perhaps the Revere House sold more than any other, because doing more business; did not know that it was a violation of the law to sell; never had looked at the Temperance Law; and that Wendell Phillips had killed himself by following after the isms of the day.  No man could follow in the wake of Garrison without being 'tabooed' from all good society; that the rantings of the abolitionists were dying out, having become too disgusting for endurance; never put forth any reform; never did any good, and would not be able next year to obtain a place in the city for their meetings. Could you hear them at their meetings, ‘spewing’ out their slime and vituperation upon all indiscriminately, you would no longer hold them up as models. Their platform is a Tammany Hall-quarrelling among themselves, &c. &c.
Poor, ignorant priest! The teacher of 1500 Sabbath-goers in Baldwin Place, Boston, did not know what the Temperance Law of Massachusetts was, and consequently did not know that it was wrong to put the cup to his neighbor's mouth, and cause him to be drunken; did not know that the abolitionists had done any good or started any reform, and had the hardihood to claim the Personal Liberty Bill as a Republican measure; did not know that negroes and abolitionists defended it before the Committee of the Legislature; did not know that abolitionists had been mobbed in the city of Boston by the best (?) and most respectable men of Boston; did not know that now their meetings were unmolested, even in the city of New York, which but a few years ago was barred, or nearly so, against them; and that Henry Wilson sat and heard the most cutting rebukes of his political ethics, without opening his mouth in his own defence, although the platform was free.  He did not know that Charles Sumner, when coming home from the murderous assault made upon him by the slave oligarchy, and contrary to the special instructions of his physician, took his hat off when passing Mr. Garrison, and to no other. No wonder the people stumble and fall, when such little men can be the acceptable teachers of the Baldwin Place worshippers. This same little priest taught, not a dozen years ago, the progressive people of Ellsworth in matters of faith and religion; but now, some few of us stand , upon higher ground, and look with contemptuous scorn upon a hireling priesthood, who are always called where the greatest salary is, and shape their faith and religion to suit the pews. 
Oh, insulted humanity! what a mockery the American religion is, when under its banner the judge and the teacher, as well as the little hireling priest, bow down and lick the dust from the rumseller's feet, and hunt the panting fugitive back to slavery; all in the name of a holy religion! Careful to save men from a future hell, but helping them into a present one-rum, slavery, and their concomitants!
How long shall this be?  Ah, I hear the rumblings of the distant earthquake and volcanic fires beneath their feet, and see them bracing up their tottering structure with politics and law as black and wicked as ever emanated from fiend; but the Church and Republicanism trundle over the burning cauldron of progressive and liberal thought, which shall culminate in acts terrible to priest craft, which is the corner-stone of slave-craft; therefore. Garrison and his host of supporters, in the body and out, may well afford to be ‘tabooed ' from all good society, for the time being, seeing that men, through their labors, shall be freed from the fetters which bind them in body and mind. G. W. M. Ellsworth, Aug. 14, 1859.
LETTER FROM MRS. COLMAN.
HONEOYE, Aug. 2d, 1859. 
DEAR MR. GARRISON: 
I am spending a day or two in the most delightful region of Western New York. The scenery is almost equal to any thing in Massachusetts. The beautiful blue hills in the distance, forest and grove, and the clear placid lake-nothing seems wanting to make the picture complete.  There seems also to be a higher order of intelligence in this region of the State than in most of the rural districts which I have visited. My own observation inclines me to the belief that men and women are not only affected for good or for evil by the minds which surround them, but that equally important for the development and growth of the intellect is Nature, in her appearance and condition.  The flat, level prairie of Illinois and Indiana may and does produce excellent grains, large roots and heavy grasses, but it takes the mountains and hills of New England, with its hard and sterile soil, to produce brain, compact, strong, and powerful, capable of grasping and comprehending some of the laws and forces of this wondrous universe. But enough of this strain. I did not take my pen to discuss the operation of climate upon the mentality of man; it is of the conscience and the hearts of the people that I would write,
I am trying to do what I may in obtaining signatures to be presented to the Legislature of the Empire State the coming winter, asking that an amendment of the Constitution be submitted to the people, allowing woman to vote and hold office. I am quite surprised at my success. Almost every person whom I meet in the country is prepared to give me his or her name. The principal difficulty is in the expense of time and money in reaching the people, so widely scattered. It seems to me a great mistake that petitions for a Personal Liberty Bill have not been prepared, which we could circulate at the same time; it would add nothing to the expense, and where argument is required to convince the person of the justice of our claims, it would only require a little variation to suit the argument to both cases. 
The season of harvest is not the season favorable to the holding of meetings in country towns, save on Sunday, and the people are not prepared to go on that day to hear ‘woman's rights’ discussed, even if a place could be obtained for that purpose-it savors a little too much of secular affairs to be allowable to very many; but we may talk of slavery, and in this region, the churches have been very readily granted to me for that purpose. Last Sunday, I spoke in the Universalist house in Bristol in the morning, and in the Congregational house in the afternoon. Both houses were filled, and some were obliged to remain outside. The Congregational house is the largest in the county, and will seat from seven to eight hundred people. Seats were brought into the aisles, and yet all were not accommodated. I spoke a little more than two hours on each occasion, and, judging from the appearance of the audiences, there would have been very little difficulty in obtaining their signatures to the most radical Personal Liberty Bill. 
Last evening, I spoke in this village in the Methodist house. The weather was intensely warm, the audience crowded, and my own system completely exhausted. I should have felt entirely incompetent to the labor of the evening, only that I had the assistance of Miss Lizzie Holland, a young colored lady the daughter of a fugitive slave of Waverly, Tioga Co. She has, entirely unaided, contending with much opposition,  succeeded in fitting herself for a speaker, and for one who has had so little experience speaks most admirably. She is of the true complexion, having no white blood to which to credit her
<c03>
ability. I have invited her to travel with me a short time, thinking that she may gain a little more self-reliance.
I expect to be in Canadice next Sunday, and in Junius the Sunday following. During the week, I work from house to house, doing a kind of colporteur labor. It is hard work, but it seems just now the only way.
Yours, for the emancipation of the entire world, 
LUCY N. COLMAN.
REV. ' SOUTH-SIDE' ADAMS.
WORCESTER, Aug. 21, 1859. 
DEAR GARRISON:
Our beautiful Common is alive with persons crowding to hear the great Apostle of Slavery from your city, Rev. Dr. Adams, who speaks in our ' Old South' to-day. As I cannot in conscience hear him without making a protest which it might not be wise, and certainly would not be pleasant to make in any of our popular churches, with their fashionable and influential worshippers, I shall have to forego that which I might otherwise enjoy.  But what an insult to the moral sense of this community to bring among us, as a teacher of moral truth, a man who has done all in his power to make man-stealing, woman-whipping and cradle-plundering respectable, nay, Christian; who has scoffed at God's Higher Law as Daniel Webster could not do, affirming the Constitution to be superior thereto! 
What an act for a Church that took a prominent part in the formation of ' The Church Anti-Slavery Society,' and whose pastor, Rev. Horace James, has spoken out many times boldly and manfully for freedom and right, to bring the very high priest of oppression to minister in its holy of holies!
What does it mean?  At the other end of the Common, in the Salem Street Church, one of the largest Orthodox churches in the city, burning and eloquent words have been spoken concerning this very Dr. Adams for his cowardly subserviency; now he is , brought here by a sister church as a man they ' delight to honor.' Is it a deliberate attempt to put down any latent or active love of impartial liberty, and deify slavery in the person of its great Orthodox supporter and champion? I do not know the motive, but the act is disgraceful. It is offensive to the moderate anti-slavery feeling; it is odious to the thoughtful, who can detect hypocrisy and despise subserviency, even if they have no active love for truth or justice, as principles; and it is delight for the scorner and the practical atheist, who is always ready to seize upon any thing to prove that 'there is no such thing as Christianity'-as one of them said to me. 
And the end is not yet.  But let us stand firm, and go down to our graves, if we must, earnestly protesting against the wrong and the false, whether entrenched in a wicked government, or embosomed in an atheistic and hypocritical church! A. P. B.
MEETINGS IN BOSTON. 
On Wednesday evening, Aug. 3d, William Still, from the Anti-Slavery Office, Philadelphia, interested a crowded audience at the Twelfth Baptist Church with a lecture on the History and some operations connected with the Underground Railroad, of which his long experience as a conductor thereon afforded him numerous thrilling and romantic cases. 
On Wednesday evening of the succeeding week, in the same place, J. W. Loguen, of Syracuse, an active conductor on another branch of the road, narrated with powerful effect some chapters of his experience, both as an American bondman and in his efforts in helping others to secure the boon of freedom for themselves. He very seldom, however, sends the fugitives to Canada, unless they are of the timid class, who dare not run the risk of remaining in the States. Both of these meetings were very encouraging and successful. 
On Monday evening, 15th inst., a public meeting was held to ratify the proceedings of the recent Convention.  A report was submitted by Wm. Wells Brown, after which, the resolution adopted at New Bedford in approval of said doings was read.  A vote of thanks to the ladies of Boston and vicinity for their very successful arrangements in promoting the objects of the Convention, their hospitality to strangers, &c, was unanimously adopted.  Remarks were made by Charles Lenox Remond, Lewis Hayden, Wm. C. Nell, John J. Smith, Edward B. Lawton, and several others. W. C. N.
LETTER OF WENDELL PHILLIPS. Wendell Phillips, ever true to the right, wrote a deservedly severe letter to Judge Shaw, Chief Justice of Massachusetts, and to James Walker, President of Harvard University, for attending a dinner given to Morphy at the Revere House, Boston, where liquors were freely used. The Revere House openly defies all restricting law, and boasts that it will sell its liquors, if not legally, then illegally.  Yet these two prominent men, the one the chief expounder of Massachusetts law, and the other the moral guardian of Massachusetts youth, attended a midnight revel at that haunt of wickedness, and did what they could to give it character! Phillips rebukes them, as a citizen may-as an honest man should. Who, more properly than he, shall' guard the shepherds'?-Erie, (Pa.) True American,
WINE-DRINKING DIGN: TARIES REPROVED. The monitory and caustic letter of Wendell Phillips to Chief Justice Shaw and President Walker is painfully truthful and severe, but timely and necessary.  Temperance men, both moral suasionists and legal suasionists, have too generally bruised the tail, and not the head of 'the serpent.' They have struck most of their hard blows at the fag-end drunkards and drunkard-makers. The Aristocracy of Intemperance have been politely allowed to go pretty much unrebuked and unpunished. This is neither politic, magnanimous, nor just. If the upper clergy, literati, magistrates, statesmen, merchants, capitalists, etc., are to continue their genteel and all-powerful propagandism uncorrected, neither suasion nor force will be likely to put down the evil in the lower strata of society. The upper-crust and lower-crust together will be an overmatch for the middlings. We hope hereafter to see the upperlings of society held more responsible for their very powerful evil examples. The letter of Mr. Phillips goes strongly in this direction, and fits well our Monitorial Department.-Practical Christian.
HORACE MANN. There was a public meeting of Mr. Mann's appreciative friends in Boston on the 11th inst., at which appropriate speeches were made and resolves passed. Very respectful notices of his sudden and unexpected decease have also appeared in the city papers. But eulogium seems to come from a comparatively few friends and admirers. Boston could move heaven and earth with lamentations and glorification over Rufus Choate, who distinguished himself chiefly by adroit, eloquent lawyerism in making great rogues appear innocent, slavery harmless, and the Declaration of Independence a tissue of ‘glittering generalities' But Horace Mann, whose usefulness to the State, to posterity and the human race has been ten thousand fold greater, is left to be lamented and eulogized by a few select appreciators Thus the world may see what kind of greatness is most adorable in Boston. Let the wise and good be content with the approbation of God, conscience, their friends and after ages.-Ibid.
THE LATE HORACE MANN. The leading citizens of Natick have decided to take a more formal notice of the death of Hon. Horace Mann, and Hon. Henry on Wilson has accepted an invitation to deliver an eulogy in commemoration of his important public services and exalted worth.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY. The September number of the Atlantic Monthly is especially rich in its contents. The most powerful chapter of Mrs. Stowe's tale of the Minister's Wooing that has yet appeared will be found in it. The Gospel of poor Candace, the black woman, as against the theology of ancient New England, will draw tears from the eyes of any man or woman of feeling.-Herald. 
Death of a prominent Book Publisher.-Moses. D. Phillips, Esq., founder and head of the long established and widely-known publishing house of Phillips, Sampson & Co., died at his residence in Brookline on Saturday evening of last week, at the age of 46 years. Deceased was a native of Charlton, Mass., and had been an invalid for several months.
<c04>
FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF THE PHILANTHROPIC CONVENTION.
At the Fifth Session of the First Philanthropic Convention, which was held at Utica, N. Y., in September,  1858, Mr. Giles B. Stebbins, of Rochester, offered the following resolution, which was unanimously adopted:- 
Resolved, That this Convention become an anniversary, of all who seek wisdom to overcome ' evil with good,' and that the time, place, and arrangements for the next meeting be left to a Committee consisting of Ira S. Hitchcock, of Oneida, Dr. Robert T. Hallock and Andrew Jackson Davis, of New York, and Amos Rogers, of Utica.
In accordance with the above resolution, the Committee have completed arrangements for the First Anniversary of the Philanthropic Convention, to be held in St. James Hall, Buffalo, Erie County, on the 16th, 17th and 18th of September, 1859. 
The Convention will open in St. James Hall, Buffalo, N. Y., on Friday, the 16th of September, 1859, at 10 o'clock, A. M., and continue three days. The following persons, residents of Buffalo, constitute the Committee of Arrangements: 
John N. Gardner, Cyrus O. Pool, George Whitcomb, Louise Whitcomb, Alanson Webster, Thomas Rathbun, Sarah Rathbun, E. A. Maynard, Mary F. Davis, J. H. Lusk, Giles Husted, Lester Brooks, W. G. Oliver, E. G. Scott, Benoni S. Brown. 
Any member of this Committee can be addressed by those wishing to secure accommodation in advance, at Hotels and Private Boarding Houses. The Hall procured for this occasion is convenient and commodious, seating comfortably 2000 persons. The friends of Reform in Buffalo and vicinity, will do all in their power to entertain strangers, and to aid the objects of the Convention; and the locality of their beautiful city is so central, that Reformers from all quarters can reach it readily, and at small expense. 
The Committee have made favorable terms with Wards's Line of Steamers, as follows: From Toledo to Buffalo and return, $4, 00; from Sandusky and return, $3, 50; from  Cleveland and return, $2.00, (Meals and Berths included.)  A corresponding reduction of fare for persons attending the Convention will probably be effected on the New York & Erie Railroad. 
A Quartette Club of Singers is engaged to be present, and will enliven each session with appropriate music.
FREE INQUIRY-RELIGIOUS REFORM. 
To all sincere and earnest Seekers after Truth, of whatever name, sect, or party, or of no name, sect or party, is respectfully addressed the following invitation to meet at ELLENVILLE, Ulster Co., N. Y., on the 2d, 3d and 4th of September, 1859, in a Convention of Free Inquiry for the promotion of Religious Reform. 
Under the term Religious Reform is meant to be included all reform pertaining to the civil and social welfare of Man; for the originators of this call are of the opinion that the religious element in man is the leading element of his nature, and that its development has preceded, led and moulded every form of civilization that has yet appeared, and that it is destined to perform a like function in the future. Guizot has abundantly shown that Religious Reformation, in the civilization of Europe, has preceded every political and social reformation of the last eighteen centuries.
Now, if (in the language of Carlyle) the religion of a man be the chief fact of a man, and the key to his whole being, the true reformer can hope to succeed only so far as he calls in and relies upon the religious element in man's nature; and he can meet with no more potent obstacle than a perverted religious sentiment, or false and absurd religious maxims and dogmas. 
The originators of this call are of the opinion that the unsoundness and corruption in politics and commerce, so widely felt and universally acknowledged, have their root in a similar unsoundness and corruption in the popular religions of the day. 
When, from, the sacred [?] desk, reason, the faculty that apprehends Religion's truth, is decried, and Error, on the plea, of utility, is boldly declared preferable to Truth, is it any wonder that the Higher Law is scoffed at, and universal corruption in commerce is not only tolerated, but advocated as a necessity-and by some applauded as a virtue?
Besides set addresses at this Convention, due time will be allowed to conference, discussion, and the free expression of thought. Any person not able to favor us with his presence will confer a special favor by forwarding to the Committee any word of cheer, or any thought or sentiment suitable to be read on the occasion. JOSEPH FOSTER, 
J. A. BLACKMON.
M. DEPONAI, Committee of Arrangements.
MEETING OF THE FRIENDS OF HUMAN PROGRESS. 
It devolves upon the undersigned to invite the lovers of Truth, Freedom and Humanity to attend the Fifth Annual Meeting of the Friends of Human Progress, to be held at the Friends' Meeting-House, in North Collins, Erie Co., N. Y., on the 8th, 9th, and 10th of September, 1859, to commence on Thursday, at 10 o'clock, A. M. 
The Friends of Progress have no creed as a basis of association. Their object is to inculcate the principle, 'Do good to all as you have opportunity'; to testify against those systems of popular wickedness which derive their support from a false Church and a corrupt Government; to unite persons of every shade of color, condition, and theological opinion, in ONE SPIRIT OF LOVE, that they may freely and fairly interchange their views and varying opinions on all those subjects which appertain to the welfare of Humanity, to elevate the standard of public morals, by teaching men and women to revere as paramount to all written codes, the law inherent in the mind of every individual. 
All those who desire to co-operate with us are earnestly invited to meet at the above-names place. Nay, more-in the language of the Hebrew prophet, 
we say, 'Whosoever will, let him come.' 
GEO. W. TAYLOR, ENOS SOUTHWICK, 
C. C. KIRBY, WM. H. CRANDALL, 
WALTER WOOD, D. R. AVERY, 
EMMA WOOD, JAS. A. F. VARNEY, 
FRANCIS LEACH, PHEBE M. VARNEY, 
ADELPHIA LEACH, NANCY PITCHER.
CIVIL AND POLITICAL EQUALITY. 
New York State Civil and Political Equality Coanty Meetings, to be addressed by Rev. ANTOINETTE BROWN BLACKWELL, SUSAN B. ANTHONY, and others, will be addressed as follows: 
Westport Essex Co., Aug. 31.
Plattsburgh, Clinton Co., Sept. 2. 
Malone, Franklin Co., Sept. 6. 
Canton, St. Lawrence Co., Sept. 9.
Deponville, Jefferson Co., Sept. 13.
Martinsburgh, Lewis Co., Sept. 16. 
The meetings will commence at 2 and half-past 7 o'clock, P. M., of each day. 
Admission to day sessions FREE-evening sessions, 10 cents.
ANNIVERSARY NOTICE. 
The Seventeenth Annual Meeting of the WESTERN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held at ALLIANCE, Stark Co., Ohio, commencing on Saturday, the 3d of September, at half-past 10 o'clock, A. M., and will probably continue three days.
Every’ year of our warfare presents, in the renewed aggressions of the Slave Power, new motives for persistent, faithful anti-slavery action. The North is beginning to realize how unchangeably true it is, that those who enslave others, or who aid in their enslavement, will have the cup returned to them which they have given the bondman to drink. Especially is this now true of Ohio, whose citizens have been imprisoned for performing deeds of humanity, whose State Sovereignty has been trampled into the dust, and whose Supreme Court has been shown to be an ally of that power which is striving to crush out the life-blood of Freedom every where. 
Earnestly, then, and cordially, we invite the true friends of the slave to assemble with us at our anniversary for counsel and labor. Let us come together in the name of Liberty, and by our words and deeds, so strive to exalt man above institutions, humanity above creeds, that the slave's cause will receive a new impetus at our hands. 
Beside our home speakers, PARKER PILLSBURY, CHARLES L. REMOND and H. C. WRIGHT are expected to be present, and perhaps other friends from 
the East. BENJ. S. JONES, Rec. Sec'y.
WILBERFORCE CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION.-A meeting in commemoration of the labors of WILLIAM WILBERFORCE in the great work of Eman­cipation will be held in FRIENDS MEETING-HOUSE GROVE, Easton, Washington Co., N. Y., on Saturday and Sunday, Aug. 27 and 28, 1859.
PARKER PILLSBURY, Rev. ANTOINBTTE BROWN .BLACKWELL, AARON M. POWELL, LEONARD GIBBS. H C WRIGHT, SUSAN B. ANTHONY and others will address the meeting. Sessions at 11 A. M. and 2, P. M
Let there be a grand gathering of the friends of the slave.
Should the weather prove unfavorable, the  meeting will be held in the meeting-house.
<C05>
OXYGENATED BITTERS. 
A QUERY. Why will you suffer? Dyspepsia is but a brief and comprehensive term for the numerous diseases which affect the stomach, liver, and, in fact, the whole human system. Until Dr. Green discovered the Oxygenated Bitters, medical science was at fault, and had exhausted itself in fruitless efforts to cure this disease. The dyspeptic need suffer no longer with a disease that is always painful, and frequently a fatal affliction. 
This unique and peculiar compound will as certainly cure the disease as the disease exists. Had it not this power, such testimony as follows would not be given in its favor:
VALUABLE TESTIMONY IN FAVOR OF THE OXYGENATED BITTERS.
WASHINGTON, (D. C.) June 10. 
Having made use of the Oxygenated Bitters, prepared by Dr. George B. Green, of Windsor, Vt., and from knowledge obtained of their efficacy in other cases, we cheerfully recommend them to the public, believing they will fully sustain the recommendation of the proprietor. We hope that this valuable remedy may be accessible to all the afflicted. 
SAMUEL S. PHELPS, WILLIAM UPHAM, 
U. S. Senators from Vermont.
JAMES F. SIMMONS, 
U. S. Senator from Rhode Island. 
J. T. MOREHEAD, U. S. Senator, and formerly Governor of Kentucky, 
L. H. ARNOLD. 
Formerly Governor of Rhode Island. 
WILLIAM WOODBRIDGE, 
Late Governor of Michigan,
Its success in  severe  cases of  DYSPEPSIA, ASTHMA, and GENERAL DEBILITY OF THE SYSTEM, places it among the most wonderful discoveries in medical science, and has given it a reputation far above any remedy known for these complaints in all their various forms. 
Prepared by SETH FOWLE & CO., Boston, and for sale by all dealers in medicine, everywhere. 
Aug. 12.4t

AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
Donations. 
Stephen Frye, Salem, Mass., by Mrs. Drake, $1 27 
J. M. Culler, Salem, Mass., by Mrs. Drake, 1 00
R. F. Burnham, South Danvers, by Mrs. Drake, 1 00
E. S. Veunard, Manchester, by Mrs. Drake, 1 00 
Susan P. Burnham, Gloucester, by Mrs. Drake, 1 00 
Donations for Tracts, through Mrs. Drake.
Wm. G.  Moore, Worcester, Mass., $0 50 
C. S. Houghton, Worcester, Mass., 0 25
Maria Marshall, Leicester, Mass., 1 00  
Lucy Earle, Leicester, Mass., 0 50
R. H. Browning, Paxton, Mass., 0 25 
Mrs. Prouty, Paxton, Mass., 0 18 
R. E. Bigelow, Paxton, Mass., 1 00 
Oliver Goodnow, Paxton, Mass., 0 25
David Boutelle, Fitchburg, Mass., 0 50
David Porter, Shirley, Mass., 0 20
D. B. Baker, Danvers Port, Mass., 1 00 
Wm. Stimson,.Danvers Port, Mass., 1 00
Winthrop Andrews, Danvers Port, Mass., 0 25 
Two friends, Mass., 0 39
Miss Mary Nichols, Salem, Mass., 0 50
Elizabeth Allen, Manchester, Mass., 0 25 
Rev. J. M. Bacon, Essex, for Mrs. Stowe's tract, 0 50 
Susan Andrews, Essex, for Mrs. Stowe’s tract, 0 25 
Rev. J. H. Fuller, Essex, for Mrs. Stowe’s tract, 0 22 
Two friends, Gloucester, Essex for Mrs. Stowe’s tract, 0 38 
Friend, Worcester, 1 00 
Three friends, Leicester, &c, 0 57 
A. A. Higgins, West Milan, N. H., through
R. F. Wallcut, 0 50 
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.
STATE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION. 
The Abolition Convention of Vermont will hold its first annual anniversary at West Randolph, on Wednesday and Thursday, August 31st, and September 1st, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M., on Wednesday. 
The platform of this Convention allows an equal and just proportion of time to all persons of whatever sect, party or denomination; and all are invited to take part in its deliberations.
Prominent persons are expected from the different parts of this State, and also from New Hampshire and Massachusetts. 
Among the earnest and eloquent speakers already engaged to come are C. L. REMOND of Massachusetts, and Rev. ANDREW T. Foss of New Hampshire. 
JEHIEL CLAFLIN. 
B. W. DYER, 
ENOCH HEBARD, Committee. 
N. R. JOHNSTON, 
J. M. COBURN, 
SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture in the State of Maine, for several weeks to come, as follows:-
Bath, Sunday, Aug. 28.
Brunswick, Tuesday, Aug., 30.
Hallowell, Thursday, Sept. 1.
Augusta, Sunday, Sept. 4. 
BLACKSTONE.-J. FRANK BAILEY will speak at Blackstone, on Sunday, Aug. 28th, at half-past 10, A. M., and 5, P. M. Subjects- 'The Natural and the Spiritual'; and 'Regeneration' 
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at Sheldonville, Sunday, Aug. 28, day and evening.
MANCHESTER, N. H.-A. T. Foss, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at Manchester, N. H., Sunday, Aug. 28.
THE FRIENDS OF FREEDOM on the Cape are earnestly requested to meet in Union Hall, Harwich, at 5 o'clock, P. M., on Sunday next, 28th inst., to make preliminary arrangements for their annual Anti-Slavery Convention.
J. H. ROBINS.
WILLIAM WELLS BROWN will attend the Convention to be held at Easton, N. Y., on Saturday and Sunday, the 27th and 28th inst.  He will remain in the State several weeks. 
DIED-At Newport, on the 13th inst., Mr. THOMAS BROWN, of this city, aged 62 years. Mr. Brown was a native of New York. He came to Boston forty odd years ago, well recommended by James Arnold, Esq., of New Bedford, with whom he had lived some time as a coachman. A recommendation from such a source enabled him readily to secure a situation in one of the most respectable families in this city, being that of Joseph Tilden, Esq. There he resided several years, well sustaining his former reputation. From this place he went to keep a shop for himself. This he gave up in a short time, and entered into the service of Hon. James T. Austin, where he continued for some years, and subsequently followed the business of attendant on public and private parties.  He was one of the most honest men of his day-strong in his anti-slavery feeling-true and firm to the ' Old Organization'-and his parlor was literally decked with the likenesses of its leaders-an evidence of the estimation in which they were held by him.-[COM.
In Hopedale, on the 14th inst., of consumption, Mrs. PHILA O. WILMARTH, M. D., widow of Dr. Butler WILMARTH, in the 53d year of her age.
She was a most respected and beloved member of the Hopedale Community, and one of the excellent of the earth. As a woman, wife, mother, relative, friend, neighbor and Practical Christian, her memory is crowned with rich commendation by all who knew her. Her life was replete with unassuming worth and usefulness. As she scattered only blessings, meekly and patiently, all along the pathway of her pilgrimage, so only blessings follow her emancipated spirit into the spheres of immortality, whither, we doubt not, she has been joyously welcomed. 
Her husband, our beloved brother Butler Wilmarth, M. D., was suddenly ushered into the spirit world in the awful railroad catastrophe at Norwalk Bridge, May, 1853. He had been anxious for her to qualify herself by a regular course of medical studies, as a female physician. She had partly done so in the Boston Female College previous to his death. That, overwhelming blow did not crush her spirits, as many of us feared it might; but, rallying all her womanhood, with a feeling that she was following out her departed husband's unchanged wishes, she bravely completed her medical course, and duly received her diploma from the 'Female Medical College of Pennsylvania.' She subsequently practised as a regular Female Physician in this town, and at Clifton Springs Water Cure Establishment, New York, till her health began to fail. Latterly, she has resided with her two children at the quiet family home in this place, a sinking invalid.  For some time she suffered great mental depression along with her bodily debility; but a few weeks since, she regained her normal state of mind, so that her sunset sky was clear, serene and beautiful. With affectionate farewell benedictions to the dear ones of earth, she passed hopefully to the embrace of the departed in the Spirit-Land. Practical Christian.
<C06
STATE NORMAL SCHOOL,
SALEM, MASS.
THE next Term will commence with an Examination of Candidates for admission, on WEDNESDAY, Sept. 14, at 9, A. M. 
This Institution is open to young ladies not less than 16 years of age, (without limit as to place of residence,) who wish to pursue a Course of Study extending through three terms, or a year and a half, indirect preparation for the work of teaching. To all who intend to teach in the public schools of Massachusetts, TUTION IS FREE. Text-books are mostly furnished from the Library of the School. Good Board can be obtained at from $2 to $3 per week. From the State Appropriation, and other sources, more than $1000 are annually distributed among pupils who may merit and need the aid.  For Circulars, or further information, address
ALPHEUS CROSBY, Principal 
Aug. 19.’3w 
HOPHDALE

HOME SCHOOL.
THIS Institution is designed to combine thorough instruction in Science, Art, and Literature, with Judicious training of the physical and moral nature. To secure the children and youth, resorting to it for educational purposes, such home and neighborhood influences, together with such specific culture as may be promotive of positive growth in virtue and true excellence, is its sacred aim. Thoroughly Reformatory and Progressive in its spirit and character, it must rely mainly upon the patronage of those sympathizing with the better tendencies and movements of the age for support.
The First Term of the Scholastic Year 1859-60 commences on Wednesday, Sept. 9, and continues Fifteen Weeks.
For Circulars', containing full information, please address either of the Principals, Hopedale, Milford, Mass.
W. S. HAYWOOD, Principals.
A. S. HAYWOOD, 
Aug. 10. 3w 
WEST NEWTON 
English and Classical School.
THIS SCHOOL for both sexes is under the care of NATHANIRL T. ALLEN. It is situated in the pleasant and healthful village of West Newton, Mass., on the line of the Boston and Worcester Railroad, nine miles from Boston, and about three minutes' walk from the Station. The Course of Study embraces every branch of a thorough English education, together with the Ancient and Modern Languages; and while particular attention will be given to preparation for College, or for mercantile and scientific pursuits, a special aim of the teachers will be to impart instruction in the common branches thoroughly and correctly. A Primary Department is connected with the Institution, into which pupils of the youngest school-age are received. There is connected with the school a large and well-appointed Gymnasium, in which systematic instruction will be given. Particular attention will be given to the subject of manners and morals. The School-year will occupy forty weeks, and will be divided into two terms of twenty, or four of ten, weeks each.
TEACHERS 
NATHANIEL T. ALLEN, Principal. 
Teacher of Mathematics and the Natural Sciences.
CYRUS PEIRCE, Teacher of Moral and Intellectual Philosophy. 
WILLIAM F. ALLEN, 
Teacher of the Classics, History, and English Literature. 
GEORGE F. ALLEN, Assistants. 
ANNA C. BASSETT,
B. F. BAKER,
Teacher of Piano and Vocal Music. 
E. L. MERRILL, 
Teacher of Calisthenics and Dancing. 
SARAH R. BASSETT,
Teacher of the Primary Department.
‘Father Peirce' to at present prevented by ill Health from giving Instruction in his department.
The Messrs. ALLEN will receive a limited number of pupils into their families.  It is their purpose to provide for those who may be placed under their charge a comfortable and pleasant home. For further particulars, address N. T. ALLEN, West Newton, Mass.
REFERENCES.
Rev. E. S. Gannet, D. D., Wm. Brigham, Esq., Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Esq., Boston; Rev. George E. Ellis, D. D., Charlestown; Prof. L. Agassiz, Cambridge.
Aug. 12.5t 
FEDERAL TYRANNY!
THIRTY-SEVEN MEN, Lawyers, Doctors, Ministers., Legislators and Men of Business, arrested and dragged to a FELON'S PRISON; their only offence being a compliance with those divine injunctions, ' Feed the hungry and clothe the naked,' and, 'As ye would that others should do to you, do ye even so to them.' 
WE HAVE IN PRESS, 
And shall publish about the 20th of July,
A  COMPLETE HISTORY
OF THE 
Oberlin-Wellington Rescue, 
And the cruel persecution of the noble men who chose to obey God rather than man. A most infamous chapter in American History, which succeeding generations will wish to have expunged.  This volume comprises a full account of the rescue, incarceration and trials. 
READ IT, AMERICANS, 
And MOURN over your country's degradation; scatter it broadcast over the land, that a SLAVOCRATIC NATION may see the depth of depravity and wickedness into which it has fallen, and arouse, repent and reform.
<illegible> 
We want 1000 active, whole-souled Agents to sell this book. Price, 50 cents, $4 50 per dozen, and $33 per 100 in paper covers, and 75 cts per 100 bound in cloth. 
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO.,
20 Washington street, Boston. 
July 15. 4wis 
LANDS FOR SALE. 
A LARGE number of parcels of land are hereby offered for sale to persons of liberal and reformatory ideas and tendencies, sympathizing with the fundamental principles and general objects of the Hopedale Community. These parcels, lying in and contiguous to the village of Hopedale, Milford, Mass., and constituting a part of the original Community Domain, are of different sizes, ranging from two to twenty acres, and present a good variety of tillage and pasturage, together with some woodland-most of the tillage being under a high state of cultivation-and are designed either for simple building lots, or for small farms, as may suit different classes of purchasers. Upon some of them are pleasant dwellings, and tenements in the village may be rented by those unprepared to buy orere et buildings. In the immediate vicinity there is a Foundry, suitable shop room and power, and an unoccupied Mill-privilege, rendering, the location a favorable one for mechanics either to commence or continue a business, and especially for those who may desire to combine with their usual avocations such horticultural employment as health, pleasure, or profit may dictate. Persons also of literary inclinations and pursuits may obtain that quiet retirement, and the opportunity for active, out-door manual or other exercise necessary to the highest usefulness and success in their chosen field of labor. And any or all of the class to whom the lands are offered, who may desire for themselves and families the superior moral and social influences of Hopedale, or who may wish to secure for their children the advantages of the Hopedale Home School-a flourishing Institutions of much excellence, both in its general character and in its methods of instruction, designed to aid in the attainment of thorough, symmetrical, and practical Education-will find here unusual inducements for making themselves at Home.
These lands are within two miles of the Milford Station, on the Boston and Worcester R. R, by which communication may be had three times a day with Boston and the principal thoroughfares of New England.	
Prices reasonable, and terms of payment suited to the circumstances of any honest, industrious, economical family.
For further particulars and all necessary information, inquire of E. D. DRAPER., Hopedale, Milford, Mass.
June 17, 1859.-tf
WORCESTER WATER-CURE.
DR.  SETH  ROGERS,  being  about to return from Paris, where he has spent several months in his medical observations, will resume, after July 1, 1859, the medical <illegible> of this Institution. May 27. 3m
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
AN ACROSTIC.
When darkness brooded thick o'er all the land, 
In place of Right the groesest Wrong did stand,
Lo! thou didst speak-thy voice the nation stirred;
Lo! men exclaimed, ’Strange things our ears have heard!'-
In Church and State did sinners madly rave,
And seek to lay thee in an early grave.
Much did the minions of Oppression fear
Lest they, some day, should feel Ithuriel's spear:
Let us, they said, this fellow's lips to seal,
Our forces rally, and to Force appeal.
Young though thou west, and few beside thee stood,
Dauntless thou met thy foe-thy trust in God!-
Great was the trial-greater their defeat;
Angelic voices spake in tones most sweet-
Remember they must suffer who would reign,
Remember earthly loss is heavenly gain.
Inspired by these sweet messages from heaven,
Superior strength from hence, to thee was given:
O, be thou true as when thy race began,
Nor cease to labor in the cause of man!
Boston, Aug. 1st, 1859. JUSTITIA.
* An allusion to the broad-cloth mob, which, in 1835, in broad day-light, under the broad aegis of Liberty, in the Christian city of Boston, attempted to take the life of Mr. GARRISON, for practically advocating the Golden Rule.

For the Liberator.
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
AN ACROSTIC.*
Worldly ambition hath no charms for thee;
Earth has few sons from selfishness so free;
Nor wealth nor place thee from the right can torn,
Determined aught save simple truth to spurn.
Each sin that nestles in the Church or State,
Lo! thou dost search it, for thy soul doth hate.
Like sweetest music thou dost lift thy voice,
Pleading with men to make the truth their choice:
Hard do they find it, oft, to ward thy blows,
In strains most fervid, dealt to Freedom's foes.
Little he knows thy strength, whoe'er shall dare
Lift up his voice for wrong, if thou art there.
If so presumptuous, he may feel he's blest,-
Poor, erring mortal,-if he's not non est;
Sure, in the conflict, thou ’It come off the best.
Boston, July 20, 1859. JUSTITA.
Republished, to correct some typographical errors,

From the Anti-Slavery Standard.
RUFUS CHOATE.
BY GEO. W. PUTNAM.
The summer day is waning fast,
Eastward the shadows lay,
A steamer, with her flags half-mast,
Is passing up the Bay!
The white foam dashes from her bow,
The white wake melts behind,
And sounds of bells and cannon now
Float seaward on the wind!
Along where Maine's rough sea-coast frowns,
From fort, beach, rock and reef,
The dwellers in the seaboard towns
Thus spoke their bitter grief.
And now the Bay State's rugged shore
Takes up the sad refrain-
'Who saileth these deep waters o'er,
Shall sail them ne'er again!'
Where, far away, like silver bands
Dotted with storm-bleached pines,
Stretch inland Annisquam's white sands,
In long and glistening lines.
Hark! to the solemn tones that roll
Over yon low hill's brow;
The bells of ancient Essex toll!
Her dead son passeth now!
The lightnings told us what they saw
When he lay cold and wan!
That the imperious Lord of Law
Had the long journey gone!
And still the cliffs along the shore
Bear up the wild refrain-
'Who goeth now, forevermore
Returneth not again!'
Leaving his fire-touch on my brain,
The Judgment-Angel pasted:
Looking far out beyond life's main,
Beyond the flags half-mast,
I saw him sail another sea,
Whose chart he failed to find; 
And the dark cloud of Memory
Was following close behind!
And ever o'er the eternal wave
This cry before him ran-
'Of all the glorious gifts God gave,
He nothing gave to man
Ay! swell the requiem bell and gun,
A warped and darkened soul
Passed, from a few brief victories won,
To Retribution's goal!
Helping Oppression day by day,
The Tyrant's steadfast friend,
O'er human hearts his pathway lay,
From life's morn to its end!
All that our Fathers died to save,
The miscreant laughed to scorn,
And flung the earth from Freedom's grave
Into the eyes of Morn!
Gone now life's tumult, roar and rush,
With vision keen and broad,
He, and the souls he dared to crash,
Stand face to face with God!
To-morrow, pampered priests shall lie,
Around his heavy pall
The strength of Northern tyranny
Shall darken Faneuil Hall!
But calm shall be his pallid brow,
And dim his eagle eye;
The silent sleeper heeds not now
Their hollow eulogy.
Never more shall those haughty lips
Mock Freedom ‘neath her domes;
Or bid men swing their bloody whips
Around New England homes.
But up along the narrow street,
For many a weary mile,
With measured sound of tramping feet,
His funeral train shall file.
The Judges and the Counsellors,
Marching to muffled drums.
Weep that the Leader of their wars
So pale and silent comes.
The iron hinges of the tomb
Grate harshly in their rust,
And in the twilight's gathering gloom,
Dust shall be given to dust!
But onward sweeps the gallant bark.
Heedless of praise or ban,
Past where the foaming breakers mark
The bleak of Caps Ann;
And in the setting sun's read beam
She sides the billows high,
And wildly waves her plume of steam
Against the leaden sky.
<c02 >
She passes Thatcher's Island heights,
And Westward leagues away,
Fitful and dim the Boston lights'
Gleam through the sea-mists gray. 
The threatening storm-cloud looms a-lee!
Sadly the cold winds moan;
He sails to-night another sea,
And saileth it ALONE!

The Liberator.
NEW ENGLAND
COLORED CITIZENS' CONVENTION.
[Concluded from, last week.]
Rev. Thomas H. Jones, of Worcester, was the next speaker. They had found themselves in Tremont Temple, in Convention assembled, in this nineteenth century. The Convention had been called for the purpose of elevating the colored people of New England. It had been said that there was no need of this Convention, but he thought there was great need of it, and every mode of action, while four millions of blacks were in bondage. It had also been said that when a fugitive slave came to Boston, he trembled; but he was a fugitive slave, and had never trembled. He wanted no security for liberty. The time had come when the colored people must strike for liberty. They must assert their own independence. It had been said there were saloons kept by colored people, into which colored people were not allowed to enter. He hoped the time would come when no white man would enter such.
At the conclusion of Mr. Jones's remarks, the President announced a social levee to be held at Chapman Hall.
Rev. J. N. Mars, of Springfield, was the next speaker. It was, to his mind, the business of the Convention to fix upon something that would go further than words to elevate the colored race, among whom he thought there was ability enough, and energy enough, to accomplish every thing. What they most required was a moral stimulus, an incentive to elevate them morally. The doors of the schools of the Commonwealth were now flung open, and all the barriers of caste were removed, so that parents could give their children an education. This obtained, they should seek the rich fields of agriculture in the West. There was something more honorable in store for the rising generation than shoe-blacking and waiting. Many had spent their lives in scraping the faces of white men, and yet they were as poor as poverty. He spoke enthusiastically of emigration, not to foreign countries, but to the West, and contrasted the independent life of the farmer with that of the servile attendant upon the caprices of metropolitan life.
Mr. Lewis Clark, of Canada, was introduced. He was glad to hear that Agriculture had been laid before the meeting as the best means of supporting one's self. He heartily approved of it. He had settled in Canada, and knew the condition of things there. If any one of the present Convention should go there, he should be sure and take money-money was what was most needed there. Buxton, a town in Canada, settled by fugitives, was, fifteen rears ago, nothing but a dense forest. Now there were over 850 families there. He said he would not work for a man who would not work for him. He related an anecdote in illustration of this principle, in which he himself had figured. He laid down a rule, which he hoped all would live up to, in point of morality.
He wished to see the colored man respect himself, then he would be more respected by others. All resolutions on paper would be unavailing, unless there was action accordingly. He gave an account of the way he had lived at home, which created considerable laughter.
Upon a vote being taken, it was decided to assemble in the large hall in the evening, and after singing the following hymn in the tune of Old Hundred, the Convention adjourned:-
'Let Mammon hold, while Mammon can,
The bones and blood of living man;
Let Despots scorn, while Despots dare,
The shrieks and writhings of despair.'

THIRD SESSION-MONDAY EVENING. While the audience were assembling, Mr. Lewis Clark, of Canada, enlarged upon the remarks which he offered during the afternoon session. It was a mistake, he said, to suppose that the colored people of Massachusetts enjoyed as many rights as their brethren in Canada. He spoke with earnestness upon the advantages of a life in the backwoods. He urged parents to send their sons out from the contaminating influences of large cities to the wholesome atmosphere of agricultural districts. Upon young men, he pressed the importance of correct habits, temperance, and honorable intercourse with the opposite sex.
The Convention, after being called to order, was addressed by Rev. J. W. Lewis, of Maine. He had been for thirty years engaged in the anti-slavery cause. There was an important contest going on in this country, and it was for the interest of the colored people to enter it. On a political allusion, he said he did vote a Whig ticket once, for ’Tippecanoe and Tyler too,' but God took away Tippecanoe, and the Whig party swallowed Tyler, who was harder to get rid of than Jonah was to the whale. (Laughter.) Alluding to the position of the church in relation to the slavery question, he said the American pulpit was too docile. The church had not proved herself the light of the world. She has taken the position that we must submit to the law. The Bible did not justify the abhorrent system of slavery; if he thought it did, he would burn it. Should Gabriel come into his room with a parchment containing the Fugitive Slave Law, signed by the Almighty, he would believe he was no longer God. He told some anecdotes, and made some sharp criticisms upon political parties.
Rev. J. W. Loguen, of Syracuse, was the next speaker. Desiring never to be called idle, he had contented to make a few remarks. When he remembered that but a few years since, he was an obscure slave in Tennessee, he felt embarrassed in the presence of the brilliant and talented men before him. He had long ago come to the conclusion that there was more necessity for action than for talking. The time for action had come. Men were oftener prepared to talk on this subject than to lift a finger to advance the movement. He had therefore placed himself in a position where he could do something for humanity. He had been called the conductor of an’ underground railroad,' and in this connection, the speaker sketched, in a touching strain, many affecting incidents of his captivity and freedom. His earnest and unpretending manner won for him the sympathies of his hearers.
At the conclusion of the remarks of Mr. Loguen, the President, in behalf of the Committee of Arrangements, extended an invitation to Mr. Wm. Lloyd Garrison to speak in a Convention set apart for colored men.
Mr. Garrison, on taking the platform, was received with loud applause. He said in the outset that he should be very sorry if, in order to show him any courtesy, the programme of the Convention should be interrupted. He accepted the invitation with a full heart, but had much rather some other white man, who had not expressed himself upon this question, should take the platform. He had been a long time identified with the anti-slavery movement, and nothing had gratified him so much as the reputation which he had gained of being a black man, and so long as slavery should exist on the face of the earth, he begged to be regarded as thoroughly one of their color. ’To this complexion had it come at last,' that color was no protection against the encroachment of the Slave Power; whites as well as blacks were alike 
<c03>
slave upon the plantation. It was absurd for any to suppose that color would protect them from being made slaves. He thought it time to put a stop to the’ Underground Railroad,' and was for making Canada of all the Northern States. He thought we were very near the event of having Massachusetts a free State. They would have had security for the slave at the last session of the Legislature, but for the interposition of potential influences in high places.
At the close of the remarks of Mr. Garrison, a lad presented him with a bouquet of flowers, in behalf of the ladies, whom the recipient thanked.
Mr. John T. Waugh, of Providence, was introduced as one of the right hand men in Rhode Island in behalf of equal schools. He claimed for ‘Little Rhody’ high conventional honors, but regretted that there was not more union among the colored people of that State. He spoke encouragingly of the progress of education there, and promised to speak at greater length in the Convention.
He was followed by Rev. Mr. Twist, of New Bedford, who was succeeded by Charles L. Remond of Salem. The latter spoke dispassionately and with eloquence, and his remarks called forth generous applause.
This closed the session, and the Convention adjourned, to meet again in the Meionaon at 10 o'clock next morning.

SECOND DAY.
The Convention reassembled at 10 o'clock on Tuesday, and was called to order by the President. A hymn entitled ’Free the Bondman,' was sung, and prayer was offered by Rev. Samuel Harrison, of Pittsfield.
The resolutions reported by the Business Committee yesterday were again read, and announced to be open for discussion.
Charles L. Remond said he could endorse them, but he would like to subscribe to something which covered broader ground. He was desirous of hurling defiance at slavery. He wanted a resolution pledging themselves to trample the Dred Scott decision under foot.
John Banks, of Providence, succeeded in obtaining the floor, and recommended moderation. He showed how the colored population of New England had progressed during the present century, and urged judicious work rather than a noisy declaration of rights. 
Mr. Nell, from the Business Committee, stated that several letters had been received, (among them, an interesting letter from Mrs. Bannister,) and read extracts from the correspondence with colored citizens of Worcester, John M. Langston, Oberlin, Ohio, H. O. Wagoner, Chicago, III., J. H. Townsend, Hudson, Stephen Myers, Jr., Albany, and Frederick Douglass, Rochester, N. Y., which were listened to with interest. Did our limits permit, most gladly would we give these letters a place in our report.
In order to show that the condition of the colored people in New England and elsewhere in the United States had much improved within the past twenty-five years, there were reports from various localities, with details and statistics, which it was stated would be submitted before the Convention adjourned.
The following resolutions were presented by the Business Committee:-
Resolved, That this Convention recommend to the colored people throughout the country, the principle of total abstinence from all intoxicating drinks as a means of their moral, social and political elevation, and a powerful lever for the overthrow of slavery in the United States.
Resolved, That owing to causes not wholly under the control of colored people themselves, their habit of congregating in cities retards rather than promotes their elevation; therefore, we would respectfully recommend an agricultural life to those whose profession or business is not now or prospectively lucrative, and those who are not city freeholders, as calculated to develop the character, moral, mental and physical, and as one of the best roads to family independence.
Whereas, there has long-prevailed the hunker-American idea, that knowledge is a dangerous element in the brain of a colored man; nevertheless, our own theory and practice should be to strive for its possession, as essential to our safety and freedom; and,
Whereas, throughout New England, and pre-eminently in the city of Boston, the Tree of Knowledge is planted, and all, without distinction of color or clime, are invited to pluck the fruit from its bending branches; therefore.
Resolved, That we would earnestly impress upon colored citizens and their children the importance of availing themselves of the golden opportunities now more generally afforded than ever before, of lectures, libraries, schools, and other literary institutions.
Resolved, That though our brethren of Connecticut, in their long-continued efforts for the elective franchise, have experienced many defeats, we would exhort them to ’pick their flints, and try again,' feeling assured that the onward march of reform is their guaranty of victory.
Resolved, That while we deeply regret that there can be found in the State of Rhode Island any colored persons disposed to throw obstacles in the path that leads to the equal school rights of their children, we feel proud to note the intelligent zeal and perseverance which others have exhibited during the protracted and complicated struggle for justice and equality.
Resolved, That great as is our joy in view of the recent release from jail of the gallant and unflinching Oberlin rescuers, that joy is modified by the fact, that while some of their number were punished as criminals, the actual kidnappers escaped a trial. Yet, as the plea of nole contenders was offered by the government, the result is to be accepted as a virtual defeat of the Slave Power, and the triumph of Oberlin Higher Law.
Resolved, That notwithstanding the studied misrepresentation of the pro-slavery American press with regard to the island of Hayti, we know that the Haytiens are the only people who achieved their independence by the sword, unaided by other nations; and that they have maintained it to the present hour, through their various revolutions, (which have been progressive steps towards Republicanism,) is full confirmation of their capacity for self-government.
Resolved, That we agree in the sentiment expressed by one who had been a slave, that ’the minister who can preach and pray twelve months without speaking for the slave must be college made, money called, and devil sent.'
Whereas, from the year 1817, when the American Colonization Society was organized by slaveholders to get rid of the free people of color and superannuated slaves, the colored people of the United States have never ceased to denounce and protest against it, repelling the idea, come from whatever quarter it might, that colored Americans are under any more obligations to emigrate to Africa than white Americans to return to the lands of their ancestors; therefore,
Resolved, That though we do not regard it as within our sphere of duty to dampen the ardor of our brethren who would establish commercial relations or missionary operations in Africa, we feel bound to put forth words of caution against any presentation that may induce a belief in the community that the colored people of the United States are becoming so discouraged and restless as to desire to emigrate to Africa or elsewhere.
Resolved, That, in the language of our brethren in Cincinnati, ’we say to those who would induce us to emigrate to Africa or elsewhere, that the amount of labor and self-sacrifice required to establish a home in a foreign land would, if exercised here, redeem our native land from the grasp of slavery; therefore, 
<c04 >
we are resolved to remain where we are, confident that truth is mighty, and will prevail.'
The Business Committee also reported the following resolutions, with a recommendation that they be referred to a Central Committee, which it was hoped would be appointed by the Convention:-
Resolved, That this Convention appoint a Committee, who shall immediately confer with prominent men of color in every town and city in the free States, and whose duty it shall be to get the signatures of the colored people of those States to petitions which shall be sent to Congress, praying that body to remove the disabilities under which we now labor, on account of the unrighteous Dred Scott Decision.
Resolved, That in consideration of the many difficulties that surround those colored men who attempt to enter into trade, the mechanic arts, and the liberal professions, it is our duty as an oppressed people struggling to elevate ourselves, to give as much of our patronage as we can to those who are laboring in their various departments to elevate themselves and their race.
Resolved, That on account of our great want of means to stimulate the industrious and to encourage the worthy, this Convention appoint a Committee to draft some plan for a permanent organization, which shall have for its object the encouragement of worthy colored men in business.
Whereas, we are fully convinced that the prejudice against us is not on account of our condition alone, but that a deep-settled hostility exists against our complexion, and those who would be willing to extend the hand of sociality are intimidated by a corrupt public sentiment, that stigmatizes them as amalgamationists; therefore,
Resolved, That, in our opinion, this prejudice pervades every grade and contaminates every portion of society with its pestilential effluvia; that there has not been exemplified, in the treatment we have received in the evangelical church, any evidence of vital piety; that the prejudice against our color finds admission in the habitations of rich and poor, the noble and the ignoble, the peasant and the peer, the philosopher and the divine; it hovers over the courts of judicature; it visits periodically the pulpit and executive chair; it resides in the merchant's palace and the yeoman's cot; it is depicted upon the lawyer's physiognomy, the politician's and the poet's brain, and the itinerant scribbler's closet is its welcome habitation. It is the barrier to our elevation, and has a crushing and blighting influence upon the hopes and happiness of the rising generation; and we will never cease our denunciations against it, while our race is the victim of its unhallowed and debasing effects.
The Business Committee announced the following series of resolutions from the colored citizens of New-port, R. I., which, though embracing, in part, matter previously submitted, were, as a matter of courtesy, read to the Convention:-
Resolved, That while we leave our representatives free to use their judgment upon all matters that may be presented for deliberation, yet we deem it fit and proper to express our well-considered and fully-determined opposition to any concerted effort looking to the migration of the colored people to Africa, or any where else, from this their native land: whether under the auspices of the American Colonization Society, the African Civilization Society, or any of their colonizing auxiliaries.
Resolved, That the organization of the African Civilization Society at this time (when so many of the American people are being moved to grant us our rights) is a deplorable fact, because it tends to feed the: American mind with the idea that we may be induced to go to Africa; thereby causing our oppressors to be less disposed to grant us our rights here, because it tends, in a measure, by deceptive inducements, to unsettle, to some extent, minds naturally restive under oppression, but for whom, to the discerning, there is every hope here, in their native land.
Resolved, That while we are conscious of and deplore the fact, that Africa needs to be civilized and enlightened, and while we rejoice at all honest efforts for her elevation, and would most willingly aid to bring it about, yet we do not feel it to be a duty especially imposed upon us to go to Africa, even on such a mission, believing that we have a large and appropriate field at home, which demands our first efforts. 
Resolved, That Africa is an inviting, profitable field for missionaries, inspired with the self-sacrificing spirit of Christ, and we invite thereto those honestly looking to missionary fields, whether they be black or white.
Resolved, That we applaud the effective efforts being earnestly and sincerely put forth in Europe by Mr. Clegg and others to establish legitimate business relations between native Africans and Europeans, and that we regard with great hope the evangelizing and civilizing influence reflectively growing therefrom. 
Resolved, That two great agencies of power in the community are wealth and intelligence, and if we would have power, we must struggle to possess these agencies; that it is because we have not had a proportionate representative character in these respects that we occupy the position we do in community. 
Resolved, That the effort being so earnestly pressed, in Rhode Island in behalf of equal school rights, commends itself to the earnest and thankful consideration of every colored man, both in and out of that State, because it is a blow in the right direction, inasmuch as its success is so desirable as an example to other States, and as a means to the elevation of our people in the land.
Resolved, That notwithstanding the Constitution of the State of Rhode Island inhibits slavery within its borders, it has an existence there in the fact, that some colored men are bought or intimidated into servitude-being bought or intimidated to oppose the effort for equal school rights.
Resolved, That the Providence Journal, the only paper in Rhode Island that opposes the effort for equal school rights, may be justly styled the pro-slavery organ of the State, which, in representing, as it does, that the working of equal school rights in the city of Boston is a failure, betrays either shameful ignorance or something much worse.
Resolved, That it is our duty and interest on all occasions to exercise at the polls the political franchise that is ours.
Resolved, That a general fund should be raised by the people toward thoroughly educating a number of persons evincing talent, to the end of securing a representative character for learning. 
Resolved, That we urge upon our people the study of political economy; that they give honorable encouragement to those engaged in commanding business pursuits; that we recommend them to engage more generally in trades, commercial, agricultural, and other dignified callings.
Resolved, That we are and will remain untiring in our efforts to abolish caste in the administration of our public schools. 
The Business Committee further submitted the following resolutions:-
Resolved, That this Convention appoint a Central Committee of two persons from each State represented in the Convention, outside of Massachusetts, to devise ways and means for executing the plans or suggestions contained in resolutions or recommendations acted upon at this Convention.
Resolved, That each State not represented in this Convention be requested to appoint an equal representation on said Committee.
Resolved, That a majority branch of said Committee shall be located in the city of Boston.
The appointment of this Committee was made the subject of considerable discussion. It was opposed by Messrs. Smith of New Bedford, J. G. Mowbray of Worcester, and others. Mr. Downing, the President, favored the suggestion of the Committee, with a view 
<c05>
to expediting the business of the Convention. There was an important subject, upon which he felt deeply, to be considered-that was, the African Colonization Society. This could not be done, and still pass upon the plans submitted to the Convention.
Rev. Mr. Jackson, of New Bedford, was proceeding with a denunciation of the African Colonization Society, when a point of order was raised.
The Chair decided that he was in order.
Mr. Remond appealed from the decision of the chair, and Mr. Jackson took his seat.
William C. Nell remarked that some members were laboring under an erroneous impression as to why the Central Committee was recommended, and what its duties were, it being simply, as he understood it, a Committee of Ways and Means on Unfinished Business-a centre from which might radiate throughout New England and elsewhere, much of the good influence which had been here generated. It was, in fact, giving a practical point to the deliberations of this Convention, having power to avail them selves of any and every facility of time, place and persons to promote: for instance, Rhode Island equal school rights and Connecticut equal suffrage. It would also do its best to secure opportunities for young men and women to acquire suitable trades, and gain for them admission into institutions of learning, and thus through these, and all other available channels, aim to promote the elevation of colored Americans.
The resolution appointing the Committee was finally adopted.
Rev. Samuel Harrison, of Pittsfield, and a member from Worcester whose name has not reached us, spoke in favor of resolutions 6, 7 and 8, commending Hon. Henry L. Dawes and condemning Hon. Eli Thayer and Hon. Linus B. Comins, for their action in Congress on the Oregon question; when, on motion, they were adopted. 
The African Civilization Society was agreed upon as the question for discussion at the next session. Adjourned.
AFTERNOON SESSION. The Convention reassembled at half past two o'clock, and was opened by the customary prelude of singing. 
The regular business of the Convention, involving the consideration of a resolution deprecating the emigration of the colored people of this country to Africa, and denouncing the African Civilization Society, was then taken up.
Mr. William Wells Brown was the first speaker. He said they ought to look with suspicion upon any movement like this, which held out inducements for colored men to leave this country. He disliked any movement tending to urge emigration to Africa, unless such inducements as commercial intercourse and industrial enterprises were held out to the people. The African Civilization Society was not based upon a satisfactory plan; it degraded their people in the eyes of the white public. He was not opposed to civilization, but he looked with suspicion upon this Civilization Society, because it tended to the expatriation of colored people from the United States.
Rev. J. Sella Martin defended the emigration movement. He regarded the plan of the African Civilization Society as one which should commend itself to their people, as one of the best means to break a link that binds England to this country with such subserviency that she cringes before the great ’Cotton King,' but for the influence of which, England would long ago have thrown off the yoke of restraint. But for this cotton influence, England would never have submitted to the sending home of her minister, or played the part of the fawning sycophant to this country, proud and influential as is that nation. He advised emigration as the only avenue left open for the enterprise of the colored people. He felt confident that colored men could go out to Africa, and develop the culture of cotton. If the African chiefs could be induced to turn their slaves into cotton fields, instead of shipping them to this country, the slave trade would be broken up. Cotton could be raised in Africa and sold in England for one third less than it could be sent from the South. 
Edward Garrison Walker, of Charlestown, took strong ground against the African Civilization Society, which he regarded as another attempt to blind the eyes of the colored people. He did not intend to be duped, and he hoped it would go out from this Convention that they refused to endorse the Society.
Rev. Mr. Gloucester, of Brooklyn, N. Y., favored the civilization movement.
Rev. John B. Smith, of New Bedford, said he had supposed that this Convention was called for the purpose of deliberating upon the moral and political condition of the colored citizens. But he had discovered that the grand object was to denounce the African civilization proposition. Mr. Smith urged that colored men should pay some deference to the opinions of one another, or they would lose the respect of their enemies. He proceeded to advocate the civilization project, declaring it to be one for evangelizing as well as for civilizing Africa; and the charge that the Society advocated or meditated the exodus of the colored people to Africa, en masse, he pronounced false, and declared that when the charge was made, the person who made it knew that it was false! (Sensation.) Mr. Smith contended that the object of the Civilization Society was to elevate Africa in the scale of civilization and evangelical knowledge, and by developing her resources, and the infusion of a spirit of commercial enterprise and progress into her people, eventually succeed in placing her in an honorable position among the nations of the earth. 
President Downing took the floor, and spoke forcibly against the project. He quoted from the Constitution of the American Colonization Society to show that the objects of that Society purported to be to evangelize and civilize Africa’-and so for as professions went, the Colonization Society was as good as the Civilization Society. Mr. D. stated that the advocates of the civilization movement had declared that this country was no place for the colored man- that the colored man here was ’a magnolia out of its place.' Furthermore, the Rev. Henry Highland Garnet, President of the Society, had declared that ’a place should be set apart for the colored people.'
Rev. Mr. Smith denied that Mr. Garnet had ever made such an assertion.
Mr. Downing referred the gentleman for a substantiation of his remark to the columns of the New York Express, and particularly to a sheet which was his (Smith's) especial favorite, the New York Herald. (Applause.)
One of the Vice Presidents declared that he had heard Rev. Mr. Garnet say what had been attributed to him. 
The Rev. Mr. Smith-who, by the way, is the agent of the Civilization Society-appeared staggered at this accumulation of proof against his denial, but not convinced that he was in error.
The audience, a majority of whom were anti-civilizationists, appeared to enjoy highly this discomfiture of the advocate of the civilization cause.
President Downing proceeded at considerable length to denounce the civilization movement. He regarded it as a money-making movement; and although he would not say so, yet he was afraid his friend Smith had a money-interest in the undertaking. It was charged against him, however, and he must say that the circumstances against him looked rather black.
Mr. Smith-It is a black operation. (Laughter.)
Mr. Downing-It is black indeed! Mr. D. continued in a strain of vigorous remark against colored people leaving this country, and triumphantly asked where there was one colored man who would go to Africa?
Mr. Smith-Here's one!
Mr. Downing-Then the sooner you go the better! (Boisterous laughter.) And if you had gone before, there probably would not have been any necessity for
<c06>
discussing the question in this Convention. Mr. Downing continued his remarks, answering at length the arguments of those who advocated the undertaking.
Rev. J. S. Martin spoke for the second time on the subject, and with much ability.
Thomas Jones, of Worcester, addressed the Convention, in opposition to the project of the Civilization Society. Adjourned until 8, P. M.
EVENING SESSION. The Convention assembled in the Temple.
The Chairman of the Business Committee submitted the entire set of resolutions for the action of the Convention. Many of them were read by their titles only, others were read in full.
The discussion was resumed by John T. Waugh, of Providence, who made a very acceptable speech, and one that told well on the audience. He denounced the civilization movement, and said he would leave his bones in this land. If he could not live in one section of the country, he would go to another. He spoke of the troubles in Providence in relation to the school exclusion which was attempted upon colored people. He took great interest in the subject. When he was a slave in the South, and attempted to <illegal> his freedom, he had no idea of living to see his <illegal> excluded from a Rhode Island school.
Mr. W. condemned the Republicans of Rhode Island for proscribing the colored race there in the school regulations of the State. He depicted the position of the body-guard of Gen. Greene in the Revolution, composed of colored men, and he asked why it was that their descendants should at this day be prescribed by the party they had helped to elevate to power? He put the blame upon the Republicans, and their organ, the providence journal. He asked, What shall the colored people do in 1860? For himself, he would say that he should vote for the man who nearest approximated to the principles of freedom.
Mr. James Jefferson, of Providence, very intelligently depicted the burthens under which the colored people of Rhode Island labored in regard to the prospective policy of the Republicans in the State. He went from Maryland, a slave State, to Rhode Island a free State, and he had found Republican rule a oppressive in Rhode Island, as he had experiences in Maryland.
At this juncture, President Downing stated that he wished here to declare, and he hoped the declaration would appear in all the Boston papers, that he charged upon the Republican in Rhode Island, that being the dominant party, the denial to the colored men of their rights in the State.
Richard Winsor, one of the Oberlin rescuers, just released from eighty-five days’ confinement in the jail at Cleveland, was called upon, and gave a brief history of the rescue of the fugitive slaves at Oberlin, and the subsequent trial and imprisonment of rescuers. His remarks were listened to with profound attention, and called forth loud bursts of applause.
Rev. J. N. Mars, of Springfield, who took the floor to discuss the pro-slavery church resolution, war during his remarks, interrupted by the President who told him that he was wandering from the subject discussion. Mr. Mars remarked that he liked freedom among black men as well as white. The President replied that true freedom consisted in its exercise, without infringing upon the rights of others. 
The Finance committee were instructed to pay the expenses of the convention out of the funds, and to place the remainder in the hands of Publishing Committee, to defray the expenses of publishing the minutes of Convention.
Miss Harriet Garrison was introduced as one of the most successful conductors on the Underground Rail road. She denounced the colonization movement, and told a story of a man who sowed onions and garlic on his land to increase his dairy production; but he soon found the butter was strong, and would not sell, and so he concluded to sow clever instead. But he soon found the wind had blown the onions and garlic all over his field. Jus so, she said, the white people had got the ’niggers’ here to do their drudgery, and now they were trying to root ’em out and send’ send ’em to Africa. ’But,’ said she, they can’t do it; we’re rooted here, and they can’t pull us up’. She was much applauded.
Rev. Mr. Smith, of New Bedford, and another member, rose simultaneously, and a question was raised as to who had the floor. It was decided in his remarks. 
Mr. Remond next took the floor, and expressed regret that any hard feeling should be indulged, or any impression should go out that there were hostile feelings in the Convention. He intended to deal with the question of African civilization fairly and honorably, and he should cooperate with others in carrying on the great work of improving the condition of the colored race in this country.
Henry Johnson, of New Bedford, Mr. Westlon, of St. Johns, N.B., and Mr. Downing followed, in some interesting remarks.
The resolutions submitted by the Business Committee were then adopted, with the exception of the series which they recommended should be referred to the Central Committee, which was so referred.
On motion of Wm. Wells Brown, delegates were requested to hand in the names of members of Central Committee, and the following were submitted:
Massachusetts-Wm. C. Nell, John J. Smith, Lewis Hayden, Boston; Ezra R. Johnson, New Bedford.
Rhode Island–George T. Downing, Newport; Joseph Jefferson, Providence.
Connecticut–Wm. Anderson, New London; David Gordon, Norwich.
Maine–John W. Lewis, Warren; H. A. Chandler, Bath.
The Publication Committee was appointed as follows:- Wm. C. Wells Brown, John J. Smith.
On motion of William Anderson, of Connecticut, a vote of thanks was tendered to the President for the able, impartial, dignified and courteous manner in which he had performed his duties. This being seconded in an eloquent speech by Ezra R. Johnson, of New Bedford, a bouquet was presented from the ladies and (Vice President Beman in the chair,) the President responded in a neat and appropriate speech. A bouquet was also handed to Charles Lenox Remond, who gracefully acknowledged the ladies’ complaint.
J. Sella Martin moved a vote of thanks to the ladies for their hospitality to the strangers, which was passed, and the convention then adjourned, sine die.
The Finance Committee report their receipts and expenditure:-
Collections in full $180.08
Paid out for hall hire, printing and other expenses 144.50
Balance for publication and incidental expenses $35.49
The Publication Committee report that, had the admission fee been charged on the last evening of the Convention, their intention of printing the proceedings in pamphlet from would have been promptly executed. A disposition has been manifested by some to contribute towards a fund for that purpose, but as the Committee could not be certain of raising the requisite amount, they did amount, they did not deem it advisable to wait, Whenever the necessary sum is collected, the Committee stand ready to issue the proceedings in pamphlet form, with the correspondence and statistical reports; in the mean time, as all the Committee are able to do at present, every contributor to the convention will be supplied with the newspaper copies should any one fail to receive them, they will be forwarded on notification being given to the Committee.
