THE LIBERATOR 
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS- Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment in made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentleman constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 49. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1713.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
WENDELL PHILLIPS'S SPEECHES.
A writer in the Christian Examiner has an ingenious theory to account for what to mere mortals seems a pretty strong infusion of malignity in Mr. Wendell Phillips's speeches. That we may not seem to do him any injustice by a restatement of our own, we copy his words exactly: 
"If he be accused of native bitterness or acridity, we think the accusation misses its mark most notably. In truth, it is the absence of acrid elements in his composition, the total and singular want of malign feeling, which has enabled him to use such severity without becoming suspicious of himself. A little base hatred in his bosom would have checked his tongue, for it would have given his invective a reactive sting, and brought it into collision with conscience."
We profess to have some acquaintance with Mr. Phillips's speeches, and are certainly not insensible to their rhetorical merit. But looking at them simply as literary performances,-judging them by the same rules as those we should apply to the speeches of Cicero, Mirabeau, or Curran,-it seems to us that their highest merit is their invective. Herein he has no rival among the living, and few equals among the dead. Junius had not his variety, and Cobbett had not his grace. We know of no volume from which a writer of a text-book on rhetoric could draw so many examples of splendid vituperation and blistering sarcasm. A very considerable proportion of his speeches is made up of personal abuse. Indeed, it is curious to see how languid and cold, comparatively, is the flow of Mr. Phillips's eloquence when he is not punishing somebody. In these brief intervals he moves with compulsion and laborious flight, like an aquatic bird upon dry land; but as soon as his knuckles whiten round the handle of the tomahawk, he is full of grace, movement and animation. The man whom he splits down the back and lays upon the gridiron ought to feel a certain satisfaction is a process which adds so much to the triumphs of the rhetorical art; just as a rabbit that dies under the knife of John Hunter or Bichat should hold the pang of death as nothing in comparison with the advancement of science to which it contributes.
A speech of Mr. Phillips may be likened to a bowl of well concocted punch. Fanaticism furnishes the rum; the sugar is the praise he lavishes upon the few who agree with him; the lemon juice is the denunciation of those who do not agree with him; and the water finds its type in the want of real substance, of sound thinking, by which his brilliant rhetorical effusion are marked. Punch is not a bad thing to take in moderate quantities; but it is not a nutritious beverage, and excess in it is bad alike for the head and the stomach. And we should say the same of that passionate sentimental rhetoric in which Mr. Phillips is so great a master. It intoxicates but does not invigorate, and those who indulge in it too freely are apt to be unreasonable in conduct and uncharitable in judgment.
We have just spoken of the extent to which Mr. Phillips indulges in severe personal attacks, and we desire to substantiate our statement by decisive evidence. We have run over his recently published volume of speeches, and set down the names of those who have fallen under his rhetorical lash. Among the dead are Mr. Webster, Mr. Clay, Mr. Choate, Chief Justice Shaw, Mr. William Appleton, and Mr. B. F. Hallett; and among the living, Dr. Dewey, Mr. Winthrop, Mr. G. T. Curtis, Mr. Hubbard Winslow, President Walker, Mr. R. S. Fay, Mr. J. M. Howard, Mr. Seward, Mr. Charles Francis Adams, Mr. Cushing, Prest. Lord, Mr. R. H. Dana, Jr., Gen. Banks, Gen. McClellan, Prest. Lincoln, Mayor Smith, Mayor Bigelow, and Mayor Wightman. Many of these are let off with a biting sarcasm, a contemptuous fling, a savage jibe, a venomous taunt, but many others are made the subjects of the most carefully elaborated and long protracted vituperation, in which the waters of bitterness are made to fall, drop by drop, upon the victim's head.
Now we in our innocence, judging of writers and speakers by their writings and speeches, did suppose that Mr. Phillips's unrivalled skill in vivisection was the combined result of native genius and assiduous cultivation. We did suppose that in him naturally fine carnivorous instincts were improved by a long course of practice. But we were all wrong. It seems it is the total absence of "acrid elements" in Mr. Phillips's composition which makes his speeches so intensely acrid. He is the best-natured man with the worst natured tongue.
"My wound is great, because it is so small-
Then 'twould be greater, if 'twere none at all."
His venom is all in his mouth. It is his "singular want of malign feeling" which puts so much of what seems malignity into his utterances. "A little base hatred in his bosom would have checked his tongue, for it would have given his invective a reactive sting, and brought it into collision with conscience." This is a very exquisite sentence, and none the less so for being a little unintelligible. We have been endeavoring to shape to ourselves a distinct image of invective with a reactive sting in its tail, having a brush with conscience, but our imagination is too gross and dull for the enterprise. If this explanation be true, we cannot but regret that Mr. Phillips is so singularly amiable, personally, and so incapable of harboring or even comprehending "malign feeling," and we think that this regret will be keenly felt by the victims who stand impaled in his pages, like so many butterflies in an entomological cabinet. We think they would have preferred the hatred without the invective, to the invective without the hatred.
We wish that this explanation had come a little earlier, for the sake of some who are no longer upon earth to have the benefit of it. For instance, Mr. Phillips likens Mr. Choate to "a monkey in convulsions." It is a pity that Mr. Choate went to his grave without knowing that it was only Mr. Phillips's singular sweetness of nature, and his ignorance of what hatred and malignity mean, that permitted him to make such a remark, and that his conscience would have told him to suppress the words if he had been aware of their seeming purport. He spoke them as one of Milton's daughters-who were taught to read the learned tongues without understanding them -might have read aloud a strong epigram of Martial.
The above comparison of Mr. Choate to a "monkey in convulsions" seems to us a little coarse-we say it with due deference and submission. We cannot understand how a man with the instincts of a gentleman could print, much less retain in a solid backed volume, any thing so offensive to good manners and good taste. And there are many other expressions in his volume open to the same objection. But this may be explained on the theory of the writer in the Examiner. It is Mr. Phillips's singular refinement of mind which enables him to use coarse language "without becoming suspicious of himself." A little coarsenes in his own nature would have hecked his tongue, for it would have given his inde-
<c02>
corums a reactive sting, and brought them into collision with good taste.
But if the acrimony of Mr. Phillips's speeches flows from the absence of acrimony in the man-if the occasional coarseness is an expression of essential refinement-there is a busy devil within us that whispers and asks whether the philanthropy may not also be just as unreal, and just as little the representative of genuine feeling. As we have before said, Mr. Phillips's invective is by far the most vital and genuine quality in his speeches, and yet this, it seems, is all sham, all make-believe. There is no real heart of hatred in what he says when he denounces and vituperates. Is there any real heart of love in what he says when he is on the opposite rhetorical tack? Is it not all rhetoric? Is not this fine bird all fine feathers?
We will pursue the subject no further, but only quote a few sentences from a great writer and thinker, which we think pertinent to the occasion:
"Do you want a man not to practise what he believes, then encourage him to keep often speaking it in words. Every time he speaks it, the tendency to do it will grow less. His empty speech of what he believes will be a weariness and an affliction to the wise man. But do you wish his empty speech of what he believes to become farther an insincere speech of what he does not believe? Celebrate to him his gift of speech; assure him that he shall rise in parliament by means of it, and achieve great things without any performance; that eloquent speech, whether performed or not, is admirable. My friends, eloquent, unperformed speech, in parliament, or elsewhere, is horrible. The eloquent man that delivers, in parliament or elsewhere, a beautiful speech, and will perform nothing of it, but leaves it as if already performed-what can you make of that man? He has enrolled himself among the Ignes Fatui and Children of the Wind; means to serve, as a beautifully illuminated Chinese Lantern, in that corps henceforth. I think the serviceable thing you can do that man, if permissible, would be a severe one: To clip off a bit of his eloquent tongue, by way of penance and warning; another bit, if he again spoke without performing; and so again, till you had clipt the whole tongue away from him, and were delivered, you and he, from at least one miserable mockery: 'There, eloquent friend, see now in silence if there be any redeeming deed in thee; of blasphemous wind-eloquence, at least, we shall have no more."
At this moment, there is not upon this earth a more beautifully illuminated Chinese Lantern than Mr. Wendell Phillips, and a Chinese Lantern is a very pretty thing to look at, and if his admirers would claim no more than this, and not insist that it is also a lamp to read by, and a fire to warm one's self by, we should have no controversy with them.-Boston Courier.

SELECTIONS.
WENDELL PHILLIPS AS AN ORATOR.*
[From the Christian Examiner.]
Were there to be an Oration for the Crown of an international character, England and America putting forth rival claimants, probably few men in our country would fail to name as the representative of our land Wendell Phillips. It is but recently that his most cherished opinions were shared only by a handful of men, while the vast majority were intensely imbittered against him; even now the majority look back upon him with doubtful, even though with admiring eyes, while a large minority, to say the least, deem him utterly pestiferous, and would be quite as glad to abolish him as be to abolish slavery. Yet those who hate and denounce him most would hold up both hands to secure his election, were the palm of oratory to be disputed as we have supposed that is, if they wished America to triumph. By common consent, by the equal acknowledgment of those who rejoice in, and of those who deplore the fact, he is the first forensic orator of our land at the present day; nec viget quidquam simile out secundum. Or if there be one who possesses rival powers, he is a man of that race in whose behalf Mr. Phillips has labored, the slave-born Frederick Douglass.
We do not forget others. Mr. Sumner is learned, exhaustive, ponderously eloquent. Mr. Beecher is a discourser of incomparable vividness, fertility, and picturesqueness. Mr. Everett is a master in what one may call literary oratory, graceful, lucid, classic, elegant, impressive; but for the forum, orator parum vehemens, dulcis tamen, ut Theophrasti discipulum possis agnoscere. Many others might be named with high praise, especially were pulpit eloquence, strictly speaking, to be brought into account; for our country is fertile far beyond all others in modern times in oratorical gifts. But when all others are accredited with their proper excellence, Mr. Phillips, in a candid estimation, must, we think, be named as preeminent in forensic power. 
The degree to which he is a native oratorical force may be suggested by the fact that, notwithstanding his preeminence, no one thinks of comparing him to any preceding orator. Almost every other man of literary eminence in America has been referred to some original in other lands and times. Irving was complimented by being named "the American Addison," Cooper "the American Scott," Dana " the American Coleridge" (sic) nay, it is incredibly affirmed by some that Nature has amused herself with the production of critics who could style Emerson an imitator of Carlyle; but the sportive Dame, we think, has never hatched a goose to cackle discovery of a foreign original for Wendell Phillips.
His speeches suggest no other speeches. We forget to ask what orator is his favorite, what one he has chiefly studied, whether Demosthenes, Cicero, Mirabeau, or Burke. Highly cultivated as be is, no man's eloquence, not that of Patrick Henry, nor of Jefferson's Indian chief Logan, ever sprang more from his bosom, less from books. And this, we think, chiefly because it is no part of his aim to achieve eloquence for his own sake. He is saturated with unselfish purpose. He is intent on beneficent effects. He is eloquent partly because he does not try to be eloquent. He opens his heart to you as the Spring buds do theirs; and you never think of asking from whom he learned how to do so.
It is the function of the orator, as such, distinctively to persuade men to honorable action, or enkindle them to noble sentiment, on the basis of their national life. This element of nationality must always be more or less, directly or indirectly, present, and is of the very gist and essence of the orator's inspiration. Eloquence there may be in books, in parlors, wherever men speak or write; but oratory belongs above all to the forum; it stands in close connection with patriotism; its principal purpose is to induce national truth, justice, courage, discretion, or honorable pride, to connect political or judicial action with the reason and heart of man.
The aim of the preacher is to induce depth and rectitude of personal life. He appeals to the sense of personal responsibility; he aims to upbuild per-

*SPEECHES, LECTURES, AND LETTERS. By WENDELL PHILLIPS. Boston: James Redpath. Seventh Edition. 1863.
<c03>
sonal character; he enters to the privacies of the soul; he takes up each individual auditor to the summit of Sinai, and stands with him in the sole presence of the Highest; he strives to enhance those forces by which spiritual architectures are carried on, and to diminish those by which these are threatened. If the individual has duties toward the state, the preacher not only may, but in the just discharge of his own duty must, counsel their faithful and righteous fulfilment. He cannot urge all highest fidelities on the man, and countenance all infidelities in the citizen. He must follow the man into every stated department of his action, domestic, economical, political, social, and seek that in each he may acquit himself as a precious and immortal nature. It may happen, therefore, that the preacher and the forensic crator agree in the quality of their counsels; yet there will always be a difference in tone, because there is a difference in point of view. The orator is looking primarily to national justice and welfare; the preacher is looking primarily to private rectitude, to the spiritual prosperity of persons as such. 
We may discriminate the position of a third speaker, namely, the lecturer. His chief aim is to induce intellectual and moral enlargement. Before all things else, he labors for the expansion of the human spirit-to place things in broader and more subtile relations, to enkindle new and widening sympathies, to awaken elevating interests, to confer upon the common life of man the dignity of knowledge, of appreciation, and of thought. 
The lecturer, therefore, addresses man as a mind; the preacher addresses him as a soul; the orator addresses him as a definite and corporal social reality. The first would make him universal by thought; the second would give his being infinitude by placing it in purest vital connection with the Divine; the third would have him connect the higher contents of his being with his corporate social life.
Great orators belong more particularly to periods of change or of crisis in the destiny of nations, as the instances of Mirabeau, Cicero, and Demosthenes suggest. Properly, too, the orator is conservative. He appeals to men in behalf of old and established principles. This position is requisite for the highest oratorical effect; for if the speaker must establish principles, he at once falls into the attitude of the lecturer, and assumes it as his task rather to elucidate than to warn and persuade. Just in proportion, therefore, as the orator must propound anything new, he is cut off from the highest effects of his art. His position accordingly supposes in his audience a pre-existing community of faith, a preexisting wealth of affection for certain ideas and institutions.
Hence, there is no eloquence among a degenerate, degraded, and spiritually impoverished people. They do not supply the conditions under which oratory can flourish. Demosthenes, in later times, would not have been Demosthenes, but would have gone to his grave with the stammer of his youth. Scepticism slays eloquence. The soul of all powerful oratory is belief. Without intense and able believing, the orator can only bewitch, not inspire. Without genuine, hearty believing among the people, he can only smoulder, not blaze.
Therefore the substratum of all great forensic eloquence must be certain assumptions common to speaker and hearer. Assumption rules the world. Nothing else possesses the utmost power. And just in proportion to the depth, breadth, and richness of this body or soul of assumed principle in the bosom of the people, are they in a condition to vitalize the orator by their presence. And when, still further, against this deep-grounded, unquestioning faith there has come in some alien, insidious, invading element, persuasive by its appeal to fear, to avarice, to the love of indolent pleasures, just then is supplied to the orator that foothold and that occasion which he requires.
Let us see, now, to what degree these conditions have been supplied in the case of Mr. Phillips. 
Our nation had assumed as its basis a doctrine of rights inhering in human beings simply as human. We built our national edifice on assumed principles of universal justice. We baptized these principles in the blood of battle; and having been victorious, we came forth from the crimson consecration to represent these principles before the world, and to perfect their application in our interior politics. And the nation was at the outset warm, hearty, intrepid in the faith it professed.
On the other hand, here was the alien element, slavery, foreign from our faith, antagonistic to our principles, odious to our feeling, but well nested among our institutions and traditions, having that possession which is "nine points of the law"; having the prestige of wealth, of power, of proud manners; having means to bribe commerce, to bribe place-hunting ambition, to bribe partizanship; having means equally to overawe timidity, to win the lovers of peace and ease, and to war against assault. Greedy, encroaching, insidious, and utterly subversive of the whole spirit and significance of our national life lured by the prospect of a virgin continent upon which to spread itself, and a power that should overtop the world, and dazzle the eye or silence the tongue of criticism-it furnished occasion for patriotic alarm, such as history never has surpassed, and perhaps may never surpass. 
Here, then, were both the substratum and the occasion for the orator's action and influence. On the one hand, we have the warm national faith-the faith, too, of a resolute, energetic, brave people, potentialized by a quick flow of social sympathy; on the other hand, here is the innovating, unsettling element, apparently sure of victory, nay, seeming to be alreading victorious.
Into the arena thus prepared our orator steps forth, with room and verge for whatever patriotic devotion may glow in his bosom, and whatever persuasion may dwell in his tongue.
And here we call attention to the fact that his position is strictly conservative. That of Demosthenes was not more so. Terms have got strangely misapplied in our country; so that even the most enlightened of those who stood by the fundamental ideas of our policy have conceded to their opponents the title of conservative, while the opponents, though the partizans of a radical and subversive innovation, have appropriated the title without a moment's question of its fitness. But it was slavery that was alien and innovating; and its supporters in our country are radicals, in the odious and illegitimate sense of that word, that is, they are eradicators of central faiths in behalf of superficial interests. Mr. Phillips has himself tossed the word conservatism from his lips with scorn; but if those are not conservative who sustain the ground ideas of the national life, pray, to whom can the term apply? 
He occupies, then, so far, the typical position of the orator. He holds to those faiths which give the nation a distinctive character, and he holds them as against innovation of the most sweeping and destructive kind. 
But now come in certain peculiarities of his position, some favoring and some disputing his influence.
In the first place, he has one conspicuous advantage. The fundamental principles of our nationality, so far as he is concerned with them, coincide
<c04>
with the principles of universal justice, and with the instinctive sentiments of all human hearts. Never had forensic eloquence a broader or more open appeal to the souls of men. "No pent-up Utica contracts his powers"; he is universal in being national, he is a philanthropist in being a patriot; and he makes his plea, not to any partial sentiment, but to the totality of man's spiritual nature. So far he stands, perhaps, in a more advantageous position than any one of the classic names in oratory.
On the other hand, he has in one respect a position peculiarly unfavorable to those effects for which he labors. Our nation is young: the principles of our national life have had small time to take historical root, to become traditions and customs of thought; one may almost say that they are still in dispute. Many have been attracted by their breadth and boldness; many have given them a thoughtless or half-thinking verbal enunciation; few have meditated upon them profoundly, weighed their worth, found their rightful limits, and pledged to them a considerate and resolute fealty. But there are never many who adopt broad principles from thought. That is the special distinction of philosophical intellect. The greater number, much the greater number, must come to them by instinctive attraction, which custom and tradition alone will fully and finally confirm. Any great national or social principle has still, in general, a loose and wavering hold on masses of men until it has been rocked in the cradles of several generations. The faith in principles of freedom and equal justice-of justice to all men and races of men-had not among us this depth of historical root; and when the winds of mercenary interest, of personal ambition, of partisan passion, began to blow fiercely upon it, the shallow hold it had upon many hearts proved insufficient, and their faith lay prostrate in their souls.
It were easy to wonder at and blame this over-much. It was doubtless disgraceful to us, but not unaccountably, nor perhaps inexcusably so. In truth, our great controversy represents, in some degree, a pure piece of historical advance. Hitherto there has been in the world little of international conscience. Nations have not charged themselves with the duty of justice toward each other. England, assuming to stand, and perhaps really standing, at the head of European civilization, robs Denmark, robs Spain, robs China, has robbed, indeed, right and left, whenever she could do so safely and to advantage. She may lift her hands in astonished reprobation of Napoleon's recent doings in Mexico; but the Emperor will hardly be able to better the instruction which her own example has afforded him. Peace in Europe has been maintained, not on any principle of international honor and justice, but confessedly on that of the balance of power. That is to say, England or France must forbear to "gobble up" the smaller and weaker States, not at all because nations owe justice to each other, but simply for the reason, that, having done so, she would be more able to devour some larger neighbor. Balance of power meant balance of selfishness. Peace was established, not on a basis of conscience, but of distrust.
But if this be so in civilized Europe, how could we suppose that civilized states and races would exhibit much conscience toward those, which are uncivilized? No, the very conception of applying the acknowledged principles of justice to the relations maintained with weaker and less cultivated races, the very conception of regarding them otherwise than as a prey, is new in the history of man-new, we mean, as an element of politics, and on a scale of national importance.
It must be added also, that, even in the minds of thoughtful men, the duties of civilization in this connection are not perfectly defined. It is easy to push the matter to a sentimental excess. We are not of those who think that the Pilgrim Fathers should have remained on board the Mayflower until a vote of the aborigines permitted them to land-or perhaps should not have decided to come hither at all, until they had sent a deputation to this continent, and bargained for the privilege of becoming a portion of its inhabitants. That they might have considered the Indians more, that they might have managed to live more amicably, may be, and doubtless is, true; but that they were bound to regard the savages as lawful possessors and owners of this continent, we by no means consider true. The final title to possession is use. In God's court of claims, he is the owner of a piece of property who can make it most serviceable to the being of man. We have, we must have, and therefore it is every way proper that we should have our conventional arrangements with regard to private property. There can be no civilization without such, nor without a due respect for them. Yet property is forever stealing away, and by the law of the universe must steal away, from the hands of those who abridge, to the hands of those who enlarge its uses. 
But while we will not concede to savages, above all to inveterate and incurable savages, the right of monopolizing a continent, if they choose to do so, yet it remains true, that this idea of a duty on the part of civilized toward uncivilized peoples is one as noble and necessary as it is new. No excess of application can be little, or in the end endanger it History is about to make this piece of progress; and whoever opposes her will go under her advancing feet, and be crushed to powder. 
History is not nice and delicate in her discriminations, nor in her procedure. She is rude and wholesale. The Himalayas and Andes were not weighed out in an apothecary's balance, and heaped up with a teaspoon; the heart of the planet has not been raised to a "comfortable" heat, like a warm bath, by thermometer; nevertheless here is, at last, the green and serviceable earth, with motherly hospitalities for her inhabitants. History, like the planet on which it appears, has its own fiery, uncontrollable impulse and evolution, not observing precisely the boundaries we prescribe in our studies, yet surely reaching good ends. Mohammedanism sweeps over idolatrous lands amid a multitudinous trampling of hoofs and flashing of scymitars; Protestantism foams into temples, and breaks over art, and decorum, and ancient remembrance, like the waves of an ocean storm over a stranded ship; Puritanism banishes beauty and hilarity and sport, and a thousand sweet amenities, from England; and Democracy in like manner goes surging irresistibly, rudely, over the face of the modern world, sure to have its course, though Carlyle rage and Napoleon imagine a vain thing. Crude, partial, extravagant, putting suffrages into the hands of imps and idiots, taking sides with irredeemable savagery against Puritan civilization, ill-disciplined, noisy, self-asserting, expectorating, it nevertheless carries with it the present significance of human history; and its claim of justice for all men,-its claim that the doors of civilization shall remain forever open to the feet of aspiration, that all who come shall enter, not to be pillaged, but to be protected, and that even those who remain without shall be honorably considered this grand claim has got to be fairly answered before the present.turmoil of transition shall subside, and Peace unfold her white banner to the airs of a new morning in the world. 
These opening purposes it is that our orator would
<c05>
advance by his personal effort. A child of the epoch, he is among the noblest and ablest of its servants. An orator, not a philosopher, born rather for the forum than for the school, he does not always make the discrimination we should desiderate, but he always does meet, in an admirable degree, the demands of his native position and chosen service.
"Hail to the chief who in triumph advances!"
The youth of those principles which are fundamental in our nationality has made our national faith in them unstable and shallow. Hence one great difficulty with which our orator has had to contend. If he attempted the great leaps of persuasion, the ground grew soft, and gave way under his feet. He must needs, therefore, begin laboring at foundations. Hemust indoctrinate the people at the same time that he would lead them to action. He must stand with one foot in the forum and the other in the lecture-room. Now it is ill standing in a door, and speaking to audiences on both sides-above all, if the audiences represent different modes of thought and feeling. But this is the position with which, Mr. Phillips has been compelled to occupy. It was not so with Demosthenes. The faith and wishes of the Athenians were all assured, congruous, and unquestionable; the difference was only on questions of daring and expediency. Every one must see at a glance how favorable to eloquence were the simplicity and singleness of an orator's attitude then, compared with that of one addressing a people whose faith and wishes are ill-assured, inconstant, many doubting and some affirming that the fundamental principles of the national life are but "glittering generalities," not solid truth. The former is like a man who stands firmly on the earth, and has free use of both hands; the latter, like one who must use one hand to support his weight, while he labors with the other. 
The result of this position has been the development of a new type of forensic eloquence-an eloquence more laden with doctrine, more intellectual, than has been heard in the open air before. At the same time, we affirm that no great orator of former times came into the forum for so majestic an advocacy, none represented an historical movement of equal grandeur. The orators of classic antiquity were seeking preservation of the national form; he has been aiming to preserve the soul of our nation, and that, too, not merely because it is ours, but from absolute devotion to justice and truth. A position of more dignity has seldom been held by man. 
It must be conceded, also, that he has proved himself worthy of his vocation. More of intrepidity and persistency, a devotion more entire and unflinching, cannot be demanded. Bold, chivalrous, straightforward, unhesitating, unequivocal, he has feared no danger, he has spared no cost; he has put his whole heart into a work to which only the nobility of his own spirit called him; he has lavished his life in an heroic labor, for which his immediate outward reward was to be only the same that from time immemorial has awaited those who have proffered themselves to be champions of the weak against the strong, and of the despised few against the reputable many. His spirit has been equal alike to his gifts and his position: what need to say more? We are not required to praise him: history will do that sufficiently. 
But has he made no mistakes? In our judgment, he has sometimes been in error, both as to the special object of his advocacy, and as to the mode of his working. We shall name two instances of what we deem such error, one of which has already become obsolete.
His proper position, as we have shown, was that of a patriot, a friend and preserver of his country. Slavery was foreign, intrusive, destructive. Nothing can be more deadly to any government than that which subverts its fundamental ideas. It is superfluous to argue this point now, for the fact itself is blazing before every man's eyes and thundering at every man's ears. By the flames of war, and in the red letters of its carnage, even the blind must see that slavery was poisonous to the republic, and that the only hope of public safety lay in purging away this venom. Whoever, therefore, labored for these medicinal effects was a true friend and physician of the republic, and should have assumed that position openly, and held it persistently.
By making his position and purpose clear in this respect, he might hope to enlist in the labors of reform that sentiment of instinctive, half-blind patriotism, which in a people that has power and promise of continuance is sure to be a force of immense importance. Few men are reasoners to any predominating extent; few have rational conscience in such degree as to sway and control their natures. The action of multitudes must be in great part instinctive, and if free reason and conscience come in at all, they must enter as the allies of instinct, not as its enemies. The national orator, therefore, who would nobly and usefully persuade the people, will act on a vantage-ground of incalculable value, if he appears so distinctly under the banners, and as the exponent, of patriotism, as to draw the instinctive love of country to his side.
Mr. Phillips did otherwise. He threw away this vast advantage. He chose to assault the fortress from without, rather than to defend it from within. He appeared as the foe of national institutions. Because the alien and innovating element of slavery had obtained some dubious foothold in the organic law of the land, and because it had stained the statute- book and usurped administration, this bold and chivalrous spirit, in company with a few others equally intrepid and devoted, declared enmity against the very institutions which had been thus wronged. 
It was, we deem, an act of impatience-the impatience, indeed, of brave and self-forgetful souls, an impatience lustrous with all noble feeling and energy, but nevertheless, by comparison with those highest possibilities of action which these men themselves suggest, an infirmity. It was the assumption of a greater task, instead of a less; for the men of the North could have been persuaded to extinguish slavery far more easily than to break up the Union. It was an attempt to conquer a kingdom with an army of officers only-that is, of those in whom intellectual and moral conviction can be the controlling element, leaving out the rank and file-those, namely, who are governed chiefly by honorable instinct, though in obedience to this they can equal any devotion or valor of which the chief of men are capable.
Perhaps it will be said that this was with him and his compeers no matter of choice. Most surely not of wilful choice. Undoubtedly they were impelled to it by the sincerest conviction. But that is the misfortune we are speaking of. The conviction itself is the calamity. In our judgment, it was due to a vehemence of recoil from the things they abhorred, not purely to a necessity in the case itself. So far, indeed, as it operated to keep them out of party politics, and hold them to the merits of the case, it was undoubtedly beneficial; nevertheless, in identifying the disease with the body affected by it, and in assuming, by consequence, the attitude, not of reform, but of revolution, we judge that they enhanced their difficulties, weakened their forces, led thousands of honest men to mistake their fundamental purposes, and hindered the cause for which they were
<c06>
sacrificing ease, fortune, repute, place, all that selfishness can covet, and much that social feeling may honorably desire, and in comparison with whose prosperity they counted their heart's blood but as water.
But this is past. Tested by events, they prove themselves candid as they had ever been courageous; and the clarion note of our orator rang out in behalf of Union for the sake of justice and freedom.
But it may also be alleged against Mr. Phillips, that he uses personal criticism and invective in excess. We think the charge not wholly without foundation. Let us be understood. If he be accused of native bitterness or acridity, we think the accusation misses its mark most notably. In truth, it is the absence of acrid elements in his composition, the total and singular want of malign feeling, which has enabled him to use such severity without becoming suspicions of himself. A little base hatred in his bosom would have checked his tongue, for it would have given his invective a reactive sting, and brought it into collision with conscience. In truth, he is one of the most genial and friendly of human beings, strictly incapable of a malign emotion.
His severities of censure are partly the product of pure moral indignation, and so far belonged to the legitimate resources of the orator; and partly they are bred from a special theory of action, and so far we visit them with some blame. He has a theory that personal criticism is a more efficient agent in reform than any other; and though it brings upon himself hatred and opprobrium, yet for its efficiency he will use it, be the cost to himself what it may. His adoption of this instrumentality is part and parcel of his uncompromising, unselfish, chivalrous devotion to the grand objects of his life; yet we think it erroneous. But how did be arrive at his theory? 
When the Abolitionists began their great enterprise, the multitude of men who esteemed them pernicious sought at first to crush and extinguish them, by means of mobs, halters, social exclusions, opprobriums-in fine, by a general chorus of hiss and menace. The attempt failed. One plain man, who had a genius for being sure of his own will, said, "I will speak; I will be heard." Something in the tone shook the confidence of assault. Then Respectability had a bright thought. It said, smiling, "Speak, then, if you will; but as for being heard, that is another matter; your tongue is your own, but our ears are ours." Anti-slavery was to be ignored. Its orators might orate to one another till their ears were deafened and their tongues outworn; who cared?
Then it was that anti-slavery oratory began experimenting at cures for deafness. We most admit that it experimented to purpose. It made the "greatest medical discovery of the age." It caused the ears of men to drag their unwilling owners within the sound of hated voices. It quickened their auditory powers till they could hear through walls of any thickness. And it did this by resorting to stinging personal criticism. Twang went the bow, the barbed arrow flew, and the callous ear suddenly awoke into astonishing powers of apprehension.
Audience was obtained. Now let there be a change of tone. Now let these people learn that we resorted to severities unwillingly; that our permanent purpose is not to wound, but to guide.
Alas! no, the temporary expedient had taken root and become a system of action. Honestly adopted, gallantly and unselfishly pursued, it is in our judgment mistaken, nevertheless. Give us the minimum of dennuciation. Necessary it is at times; let necessity alone call it forth. Be as brave and persistent to assume candor in men, as to pierce their uncandor or to encounter their wrath.
We think Mr. Phillips not sufficiently sparing and considerate in the use of personal invective. We think him sometimes blamably hasty in his judgments. We think him subject to the influence of moods and occasions to a degree that diminishes his authority. We do not believe it quite feasible for any man to become a platform Rhadamanthus. But we know that even his mistakes have a noble origin; and now that the action of our government is to be mainly coincident with his purposes, and there is opening for him a broad field of happy activity, we look to see him even more lustrous in alliance with the State than he has been in resisting it. And while we could wish the special manners of the opposition cast aside, we can, with respect to the purposes he shall cherish, and the powers he shall employ, wish him nothing better than that he may continue to be himself.

[From the London Morning Star.]
WENDELL PHILLIPS'S SPEECHES.
Here are the words of a man with whom speech is action. It might have been otherwise with him. If Wendell Phillips had followed the profession for which he was educated, his speeches would have resulted in nothing but verdicts for his clients and advancement for himself. If he had followed the example of the best men of his native New England States, he would have risen no higher than the Capitol-one of the leaders of party, rewarded for party labors with office at home or embassy abroad. In such capacity he would have been honored as a classic in political literature, and as a patriot at pure as party conditions would permit. But while yet a young man he was laid hold of by convictions that would not let him go. Like other Boston gentlemen he was in the streets of that city when a well-dressed mob broke up an anti-slavery meeting. That was in October, 1835.. It occurred to him that there must be something wrong when orderly men and honorable women could not be allowed to meet in quiet. Two years later he was inside Faneuil Hall, at the meeting called by the influence of Dr. Channing, to consider the murder of Lovejoy at Alton-the murder of a New England citizen in an Illinois town, by a Missouri mob, while defending his press from their lawless attack. The Attorney-General of Massachusetts, in that meeting, stigmatized Lovejoy as a presumptuous fool, and compared his murderers to "the orderly mob" who emptied into Boston Harbor the tea chest which had paid King George's tax. Mr. Phillips was moved by indignation to an impromptu reply-the first of the speeches in this volume. The publisher has wisely retained the records of the applause and displeasure which the orator excited. One short passage, so interpolated, will show the conflict of opinions in the meeting, and the persuasive power of the speaker:
Presumptuous to assert the freedom of the press on American ground! Is the assertion of such freedom before the age? So much before the age at to leave one no right to make it because it displeases the community? Who invents this libel on his country! It is the very thing which entitles Lovejoy to greater praise. The disputed Right which provoked the Revolution-taxation without representation-is far beneath that for which he died. [Here was a strong and general expression of disapprobation.] One word, gentlemen. As much as thought is better than money, so much is the cause in which Lovejoy died nobler than a mere question of taxes. James Otis thundered in this hall when the King did but touch his pocket. Imagine, if you can, his indignanteloquence, had England offered to put a gag upon his lips (great applause).

"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal instutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT of THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. . . . From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. . . . It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Such a man was sure to be heard again. Garrison might be unread, but his eloquent convert would never lack an audience. It is the peculiar power of the tongue that it wins the ear even of those whose heart it offends. A courageous and skilful orator can never be put down. He has no need to thunder, "I will be heard." Men are glad to hear him though they hate his doctrine. They may seek only amusement, but they are overtaken by conviction. So Wendell Phillips won his way to fame and power. Much detested, often mobbed, he has charmed a whole people into listening, and stirred them to action of which they did not dream. His enemies say he is the author of the war. He declines the ascription as too much honor. But he and Garriso tongether have certainly done it all. It is impoethes to read through these speeches without seeing ibat the two men have moved a nation. The Sumnrse and Greeleys have followed in their wake. Even the Beechers were later in the strife, and Theodore Parker was a preacher of many things besides emancipation. Garrison and Phillips have not been silent on other topics. They have even been reproached with hurting the anti-slavery cause by associating their names with other movements. But for the negro they were prepared to sacrifice the Union-the extremest devotion which an American can practise; and they support the Union now for the sake of the slave. Men who could hold this position for twenty years or more must be wonderfully single-hearted. 
It would be more wonderful if they had not made some mistakes in action, and indulged in some extravagance of language. But it is easier to say that they have done this than to point out where. Ten years ago Wendell Phillips, in one of the ablest speeches in this remarkable collection, made an elaborate reply to the friendly criticisms of an English writer. Censured for impolitic harshness and intractability, the Abolitionist orator made a triumphant defence. He recited the lists of converts made-he pointed to changes effected-he showed the absolute necessity and practical wisdom of using the severest words in rebuke not only of an atrocious sin but of gigantic sinners. The greatest of these was Daniel Webster. Honoring and almost loving the man, Phillips punishes with tremendous blows the crime of the statesman. He beat down the New England idol lest others should worship at the tainted shrine. He showed no mercy even to his memory, until it was clear that the people repented of their chieftain's sin. One salutary effect of such faithful iconoclasm is seen in Mr. Seward's career. The New York Senator has been sorely tempted to follow in his fall the Massachusetts statesman. The fear of Wendell Phillips's tongue must have been a great aid to his virtue. With a high and generous estimate of Seward's services and powers, Phillips seems to follow him with the watchful eye of one who fears that he may stumble into apostacy. The strength of the temptation is fairly measured by the censor, and the tempted is continually warned that the devil cheats his victims. Wendell Phillips often thanks God that Webster did not get the Presidential nomination, in the hope of which he bartered away the right of asylum; and in such passages as this a fervid Republican exposes an evil incident to elective monarchy:
"You know I am apt to say, among other impertinent things, that you can always get the truth from an American statesman after he has turned seventy, or given up all hope of the Presidency (applause). I should like a law that one-third of our able men should be ineligible to that office; then every third man would tell us the truth. The last ten years of John Quincy Adams were the frankest of his life. In them he poured out before the people the treason and indignation which formerly he had only written in his diary. And Josiah Quincy, the venerable, God bless him! has told us more truth since he was eighty, than he ever did before (applause). They tell us that until this year they have not been able to survey Mount Washington; its iron centre warped the compass. Just so with our statesmen; before they reach seventy their survey of the State is ever false. That great central magnet at Washington deranges all their instruments. 
It is a remarkable testimony to the character of Mr. Lincoln that he receives few admonitions. Even Wendell Phillips believes him to be thoroughly honest, though not thoroughly enlightened, and fears only that he may fall under the influence of self-seeking politicians. "I have always believed in the sincerity of Abraham Lincoln," he says; " I only doubted sometimes whether he was really the head of the government. To-day he is at any rate Commander-in-Chief." By that fact the former advocate of disunion justifies the war. In January and February, 1861, he pleaded earnestly for peaceful separation. But that was as the alternative to compromise, and in the belief that the slaves would emancipate themselves by insurrection. In April, when secession had become rebellion, he hung the stars and stripes over his rostrum, and broke into an exulting, passionate, but withal most cogent, plea for a war of liberation and reunion. We should like to see that discourse-"Under the Flag"-in universal circulation. It ought to be read wherever there is a doubt that the North did right in answering cannon shot by cannon shot. Only on the principle of absolute non-resistance can it be answered. And the believer in that principle can scarcely avoid the admission that the balance of suffering is not necessarily with the sword weighed against the shackles of the slave. We regret we have not space for the magnificent utterance of condensed fact and feeling in which, after an interval of ten years, the Abolitionist orator repeats his conviction that American slavery can be abolished only by civil war. As gladly would we quote his convincing array of evidence that the North exhausted the resources of honorable negotiation, even on the basis of separation, before firing a shot. But no extract can do justice to the argument. Let the whole be read and pondered by any Englishman who hesitates to believe that the cause of the Union is the cause of justice and freedom. 
We have treated of these speeches as a part of the history of the greatest of modern revolutions. But their rhetorical merit must not be slighted. They probably fail to convey, as all reports must, an adequate idea of their effect on an audience. They nevertheless contradict the notion that speeches which read well must sound badly. Evidently, they are printed almost as spoken. Like all popular harangues, they are redundant if judged by the tastes and needs of the reader. It is certain, however, that they never wearied their hearer. They are extremely pungent. They abound in strokes of humor. A capital collection of anecdotes and jests might be compiled from them. The speaker's terrible earnestness finds relief in wit as pleasant as his invective is fierce. Except that he never flatters, he resembles O'Connell rather than any living English orator. He never seems to speak for the sake of speaking, and shuns the verbiage of ornamental oratory as by instinct. Every sentence is made to tell upon the understanding or conscience of the hearer. It is the eloquence that makes a revolution in the thought and feeling of a people-and that does not fail them when arms are needed to complete the triumph of ideas.
SPEECHES, LECTURES AND LETTERS. BY WENDELL PHILLIPS. A collection of the speeches of the greatest of living orators has long been a desideratum with the hundreds of thousands who have listened to the utterances of this great magician of words, and here we have them in a style of printing, paper and binding which would satisfy even the most fastidious. It is a peculiarity of Phillips's Speeches that they read admirably; that though that impressive utterance in which he exceeds any orator of modern times is wanting, there remains a pungency of reasoning, a grace of diction and a rhetorical finish such as is seldom attained. Some of them are also remarkable for a power of invective (not coarse, but the more terrible for that) and an intensity of sarcasm almost if not quite unrivalled. We know nothing better calculated to send a thrill of patriotic fire like lightning through the heart than some of these eloquent speeches, and in behalf of our readers we tender to the publisher our hearty thanks, that he has brought them before the public in so elegant a form,-New York Home Evangelist.
Wendell Phillips's Speeches have just been issued from the press, by James Redpath. Phillips has led in the path of reform for a quarter of a century, and his voice has been that of one "crying in the wilderness." He was the foreteller of this day which we have lived to see; but whether he will be able to keep pace with the revolution he set in motion, is uncertain. There is a rush of new converts to whom words, fiery and fanatical but yesterday, are getting tame now. Phillips was never a nonresistant even in theory, and the blows from his flashing blade have often opened the flesh of hunkerism to the home. Few heard him once; but now many will read him, for his ideas are the popular ones of the day, and he holds the ear of the nation, and his audience embraces continents. Garrison
<c02>
and Phillips have been among the most successful reformers the world has ever known.-Newburyport Herald.

THE RUSSIAN REOEPTION AT NEW YORK.
The reception of the Russian officers in New York has been a fruitful source of surprise to some Englishmen, regret to many, and ill-natured comment to not a few. On the face of the thing it does indeed seem inconsistent, and even unnatural, that any class of persons in the Northern States of America should be found ready at the present moment to throw up their hats for the representatives of the Czar. It is almost superfluous for us to say that in our judgment no free man who desires to see others free could at this moment, without gross inconsistency or a still grosser departure from principle, become the panegyrist of the Power which oppresses and massacres the devoted patriots of Poland. We deeply regret that any one American should be found capable of playing such a part. Some of the speakers at the New York banquet (a banquet, be it remarked, given by a private individual) alluded to an imaginary affinity or alliance between Russians and Americans. One of them coupled the name of Washington with that of Peter the Great. Of course only the most innocent ignorance of the biography of the Russian autocrat could have excused the connection. But one would think that any American at such a moment must have remembered with a pang of remorse that Thaddeus Kosciusko was the companion in arms of George Washington; that the greatest Polish patriot spontaneously ventured the lifeblood of his generous heart in the cause of American independence. This, indeed, is but one, and one of the slightest, out of the many considerations which should have warned a free American to pause before he raised a glass to the health of the Czar of Russia. But while we regret that such a demonstration took place, it would be idle to say that we were surprised at it. The few men of official character who participated in it limited their utterance to the barest expressions of official courtesy. Most of those who took a more prominent part are men who have as little sympathy with the policy of President Lincoln as they have with the cause of Poland. They represent the public opinion of the Northern States about as effectively as Mr. Newdegate, when denouncing the Polish insurgents, represents the people of England. They belong to a party notoriously, almost confessedly, indifferent to human liberty in any part of the world. We must remember, too, that they and many others of a better stamp are burning with resentment for fancied injuries done by England, and for perhaps more substantial grievances threatened by France. These men welcome Russians not as the oppressors of Poland, but as the supposed enemies of England and France. We can hardly doubt what the motives were which stimulated General Thomas Francis Meagher, for instance, to take part in a public welcome to the Russian Admiral. All this is not to be justified, not to be excused, not to be spoken of without severe condemnation and regret. But it is hardly to be regarded as a matter of surprise. It is unfortunately only the universal quality of human nature to consider a fancied grievance to ourselves much more deeply than the hardest and most unmerited sufferings of others. The Democrat of New York who is furious against all liberation movements, the Republican who is furious against France, the Irish refugee who is furious against England, are no doubt acting selfishly and meanly when they gratify their own spleen by welcoming the representatives of the Power which is believed to hate the things they hate. But a man must be very innocent of knowledge regarding ordinary human nature who feels surprised that angry people should give way to such ebullitions of selfishness and spite.
Of course, there has been unsparing denunciation here of the New York enthusiasts. Strangely enough, the loudest censure has come from journals which have been engaged perseveringly for months in a base effort to disparage the Polish cause and to falsify in the eyes of Englishmen the character of the Polish insurrection. The journals which systematically calumniate Poland and the Poles are now the most indignant with certain New Yorkers for their lack of enthusiasm in the cause of Poland. While commenting on the vagaries of human inconsistency, we should not omit to direct attention to this little eccentricity among the rest. But we do not desire to defend the philo-Russians of New York against one word of the censure which they have deserved. We only desire that Englishman should discriminate between the philo-Russians and the American people. In the same spirit we should invite Americans to distinguish between Messrs. Beresford Hope, Lindsay, Spence, &c., &c., and the people of England. Even a philo-Russian, too, may happen to be not always as black as he is painted. One of the New York gentlemen whose speech came in for the sharpest criticism deserves to have it stated in mere justice to him that the only points of affinity which he claimed in his speech for Russia and America were the almost simultaneous introduction and almost simultaneous abolition of legalized serfdom in both countries. The fact that Russia has liberated her serfs ought not indeed to make men forget or condone her oppression of the Poles. But the speakers at the New York banquet probably do not profess to be greater moral philosophers than the Englishmen who are ready to forgive the Southern Confederate his slave-system and his slave-whip because he has proved himself brave, and is supposed to be a gentleman. We do not profess to explain the inconsistency of the New York worshippers of the Emperor Alexander. But we shall be ready to explain it when it is first explained to us how Lord Brougham can denounce Abolitionists; how the Southern can fight for his freedom to enslave the black; how the man who storms against the Papacy from an Exeter Hall platform can do his best to preserve the Papacy in Rome; how the Irish members of the House of Commons should be for the doctrine of nationalities as applied to Ireland and against it as applied to Italy; or any other of the thousand political and moral inconsistencies which the most superficial observation may detect in every society. We regret the New York demonstration, and are convinced that those who took part in it either made fools of themselves or worse. If the demonstration had been led by the prominent Republicans; if President Lincoln had taken the chair at the banquet; if Messrs. Seward, Sumner, Wendell Phillips, and Greeley, had delivered the pro-Russian speeches, we should have been surprised and shocked as well as grieved. But the fact that a man in New York gave a dinner to some Russian naval officers, and that the vinous enthusiasm bubbled over in frothy and silly speeches, is not an event over which to go into transports of amazement. Whatever our feelings of indignation or contempt towards the speakers themselves, we are utterly unable to understand by what mental process the American people are to be considered as morally responsible for the demonstration.-London Morning Star.
PALTRY EXHIBITION OF SPITE. We have seen nothing more contemptible than the attacks made upon Theodore Tilton, editor of the N. Y. Independent, for the course he pursued, after being drafted in New York State. Mr. Tilton is a man of literary pursuits, whose training does not fit him to serve in the army. He has had, besides, a responsible position left upon his hands by Mr. Beecher. He could not, consistently with his duties to himself and others, enter the service. He therefore did what any honorable man would have done, under like circumstances, engaged an acceptable substitute to go in his stead. Hundreds of our best men in this vicinity and elsewhere have done the same thing, and felt that their duty was fully discharged. Such undoubtedly was the case. Yet scores of malignant partisans, with Thurlow Weed at their head, and Matthew Hale Smith, of the Boston Journal, at their tail, have assailed him with vindictive malice. These mean libellers should be frowned upon indignantly by the community. Their course is an insult to thousands who are similarly circumstanced with Mr. Tilton. We venture to say that not one in ten of them but would have pleaded physical debility, and thus failed to meet their responsibility in any way. Roxbury Journal.
CONSERVATIVE TALK NO GO IN DELAWARE.
 Recently a prominent New York politician, who is quite tender-footed on the slavery-question, and a good deal addicted to what is called "Conservatism." made a speech in Delaware. In the course of his effort, he undertook to show that President Lincoln did not mean to abolish Slavery, but to save the Union. The honest and earnest Delawarians didn't like this sort of talk, and a sturdy voice rung out, somewhat to the discomfiture of the "conservative" orator, "But we in Delaware want slavery abolished!" That's the talk. The truly loyal men of the Border Slave States, are "Radical"; they cannot brook the "conservative" flunkeyism which would ignore Slavery in dealing with a Slavery-begotten Rebellion.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1863.
"PROCLAIM LIBERTY THROUGHOUT ALL THE LAND."
The Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society congratulate its members and friends that, through the madness, rebellion and secession of the South, avowedly in behalf of its Heaven-accursed and world-abhorred slave system,-involving the country in a civil war of the hugest proportions and the most sanguinary character, which still continues its desolating work,-the constitutional powers of the Federal Government are now ample to decree the immediate and the total abolition of slavery. They believe that, as a measure of national peace and unity, of humanity and justice, such a decree should be passed by the ensuing Congress at as early a period in the session as practicable,-thus not only sustaining the Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln of January 1st, 1863, but also effectually disposing of that remnant of the slave institution which was exempted by the Proclamation aforesaid, in such manner as may seem most equitable and expedient by Congress. 
The warrant for this procedure is to be found in the still greatly imperilled state of the republic, and in the legitimate functions of the Government that may be exercised in such an alarming crisis. By common law, an individual has the right of self-defence by al means recognized by that law. In view of international law, a nation is an individual, and has the right of self-defence by all means recognized by that law; one of those means being the destruction of any dynasty or institution that imperils national life. Slavery has struck at the life of the nation, and declared its own existence incompatible with that of the nation. Hence the nation, acting through its official organs, has the right to abolish slavery throughout its dominions; and past events demonstrate alike the necessity and duty of exercising this right without delay and without compromise. 
The Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society, therefore, deeply impressed with the importance of a general co-operation of the friends of impartial liberty at this time, in order to influence and secure the action of Congress in the manner de-scribed, hereby announce, that they have resolved to put forthwith into the lecturing field as many agents as the funds of the Society will warrant, whose sole work shall be to enlighten the public mind on this subject, stimulate to a wide-spread movement in favor of universal emancipation, and thus make the recurrence of another SLAVEHOLDERS' REBELLION an impossible event.
To sustain and increase the number of these agents, the Committee solicit the generous contributions and donations of all who desire to see the speedy suppression of the war, and in the fullest sense "LIBERTY AND UNION" made "ONE AND INSEPARABLE."
In furtherance of this patriotic and Christian object, the "Women's Loyal National League" at New York has taken the field, in advance, to procure to a petition to the next Congress, for the total abolition of slavery, A MILLION OF SIGNATURES on the part of the loyal women of the republic. It deserves all possible encouragement and success, and we shall ex-tend to it the heartiest co-operation. But let the loyal MEN be equally zealous and resolved to be as potentially heard in the same manner, by the same body Let such a petition be sent to Congress from every city, town, village and hamlet in all the loyal States. No time is to be lost. "One last, best effort now!"
The Treasurer of the American Anti-Slavery Society is WILLIAM I. BOWDITCH, Esq., 8 Railroad Exchange, Boston, Mass. Donations may also be sent to OLIVER JOHNSON, Esq., Anti-Slavery Office, 48 Beekman Street, New York, and to J. MILLER MCKIM, Anti-Slavery Office, 106 North Tenth Street Philadelphia, Pa.
In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, 
CHAS. C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries.

INDICATIONS OF PROGRESS. 
The Post and Courier of this city, and the N. Y. World and Journal of Commerce, have been accustomed to find in the Newburyport Herald matter in exact accordance with their own ideas, and to quote therefrom, constantly repeating the assertion that the Herald is "a Republican paper." It is to be hoped that they will copy the following recent utterance of the same paper, which looks as if its editor had really become a Republican, and more. 
"The Frankfort Commonwealth, Governor Bramlette's organ, says: 
'We may as well tell Mr. Stanton that he cannot recruit negroes in Kentucky; the people and the authorities will not permit it. The unconditional Union men and the authorities will never submit to the outrage.' 
Nonsense! Mr. Commonwealth, Gov. Bramlette, and all the rest of you; if necessary, the Government will do it, and laugh at your talk about outrages. We have to remark again, that our Kentucky Unionists forget in what age they live, and are blind to the progress of events. At the commencement of the revolution there was some anxiety about Kentucky, and some doubt upon the national policy in regard to slavery; but these are past. Kentucky can not secede now without she wants a rebellion on her own hook, for there is no confederacy for her to secede to. The treason is so far crushed as to make it only a question of time when it shall end. The South can obtain no sympathy from abroad; the Border States, from which it hoped much, have all been carried by the emancipationists, except Kentucky; and so united are the people of the North that only one State, and that the small state of New Jersey, has declared against the administration policy. Deserted by all the world, overwhelmed by superior numbers, and defeated in every battle, the rebels must therefore succumb; and the only door open for their escape now is into Mexico, where Jeff. Davis, Lee, Breckinridge, and the rest of them, would have a hearty reception from the representatives of Louis Napoleon, and might become the nobility of the new empire Maximilian. Kentucky is too late, therefore, for her threats to have influence.
The rebellion is settled; and just as much is the policy of the government on slavery. Two years ago one half the Republicans said they would never go for emancipation; but now all the Republicans adopt that, and half the Democrats are enthusiastic for it. The idea of restoring the old order of things is obsolete. The war is to end slavery so that its very name will perish from the earth; nor will the revolution cease till men, black and white, shall be equal before the law, in every state, territory, district and county of the land. Democrats and Border State men and all others may as well throw off the old body of death that attaches to them, when they talk like the "Commonwealth" about what they will or will not submit to. There is one thing they will be forced to submit to, and that is the death, burial and extinction of the slave system." 
Another mark of the Herald's change of position is the cold water which it throws upon its friend, the deacon of the first Presbyterian Church in Newburyport, who took umbrage and left the church in the middle of the exercises of Thanksgiving Day, on account of the singing of "the President's Hymn." Of this demonstration the Herald says-"We think in this he showed a want of good taste, to say the least of it. Nobody is obliged to go to church; but if they do so they should conform to the rules, and make no complaint."
"For a year past, prominent leaders of the Democracy have discerned the approaching downfall of slavery and ranged themselves with its opponents. Every week or two, some additional member of the Hunker press turns against it. The sight of slavery is fast converting the army, the war is fast converting the people, to abolitionism. How much longer is the President to hold back from active and vigorous opposition to slavery? He struck one good blow at it on the 1st of January, 1863. But one blow no more wins a battle than one swallow makes a summer. Does he think the war is finished, or does he require a whole year to take breath before striking another blow?-C. K. W. 
<c04>
FRATERNITY FESTIVAL.
On Monday evening last, the Parker Fraternity called their friends and neighbors together to rejoice with them, the occasion being the inauguration of the new rooms which they have leased in Lawrence Block, 554 Washington street. This suite of rooms has been fitted up in a commodious and elegant manner, expressly for their occupancy. Its arrangements are so excellent, and its situation so nearly central, that its accommodations must frequently be sought by other parties on the evenings not required by the Fraternity. The chief room is a beautiful hall, sufficient for the accommodation of four hundred persons, well lighted from above, and well ventilated. It is admirably fitted for dancing, and there are commodious settees in abundance when the audience require to be seated. A little gallery accommodates a band, or orchestra. A large and beautiful ante-room, with a robing room for ladies, is connected with this hall, and above are a gentleman's dressing-room and a supper-room,-the latter equal in floor dimensions to the hall below, and admirably arranged for the convenience and satisfaction of the guests.
On this pleasant occasion a large audience was assembled. After music from the band, an Address of Welcome was given by the President of the Fraternity, Mr. Thomas H M. Hathaway. This was followed by the singing of an Ode, written for the occasion by Mr. John McDuffie. The Report of the Hall Committee was then read by Mr. Charles W. Slaek, and brief remarks followed from Hon. N. H. Whiting and Wendell Phillips. Both these gentlemen referred, in fitting terms, to the high privilege and benefit the members of the Fraternity had enjoyed in the friendship and guidance of their late honored and beloved minister, Theodore Parker; and Mr. Phillips, as is his wont, endeavored to enforce upon his audience a due appreciation of the responsibilities, and an energetic effort to discharge the special public duties, of the present time. The words of both gentlemen were heard with the deepest attention and interest.
An original Ode, by F. B. Sanborn, Esq., was then sung by the assembly, to the tune of "Auld Lang Syne," and music and a promenade followed, during which some important business of the meeting was transacted.
This meeting was not only a Dedicatory Festival, but a Subscription Festival, designed to give opportunity to the friends of the Parker Fraternity to assist in the appropriate adornment of their new place of meeting, and to give material aid to their various enterprises. Mr. Slack, in his Report, had mentioned two valuable gifts, which were already before the eyes of the assembly, namely:-a handsome clock, presented by the owner of the building, A. A. Lawrence, Esq., and a medallion head of Mr. Parker, of somewhat less than life size, the gift of La Boy Sunderland. Mr. Phillips mentioned two other donations, yet more precious. Mrs. Parker has ordered from W. W. Story-the artist who made that last and best bust of Theodore Parker, now in her possession, but formerly, for some months, displayed in the great hall of the Public Library-marble copy of that beautiful work for the new Fraternity Hall. And Miss Hannah E. Stevenson has given a not less significant memento of our departed guide, philosopher, and friend, the pulpit Bible which he used in his first ministrations in the Melodeon, but which gave place to a more gorgeous one when the Sunday services were removed to the Music Hall.
While the music and conversation were proceeding, a Committee, previously appointed, made the rounds of the hall, and collected such funds as the members and friends of the Fraternity had brought for its benefit. Apparently, they met with gratifying success, but we have not heard the amount received. After this, the audience took a thorough survey of the various apartments, then partook of an abundant and admirably arranged collation in the supper-room, and then returned to the great hall, which they found cleared for a dance. Thus a delightful and profitable evening was pleasantly concluded.
We trust that the Parker Fraternity may long and happily occupy their new habitation. We believe that they will continue to combine the useful with the agreeable, and make even their recreations, as in this instance, reminders of the great business of life, and the serious duties of the present time. May they be a worthy and enduring monument of the noble man, the earnest reformer, the faithful Christian minister from whom they take their name.-C. K. W. 
MRS. MADELINE LESLIE'S PET JUVENILES.-Lee and Shepard, 149 Washington street, Boston, have just published a series of beautifully printed and pictorially illustrated little volumes, (half a dozen in a compact case,) entitled "MINNIE AND HER PETS," by Mrs. Madeline Leslie,-as follows: 1. PARROT. 2. CAT. 3. DOG. 4. LAMB. 5. PONY. 6. MONKEY. A large and handsome-faced type is used, so as greatly to enhance the ease and pleasure of reading the various stories, which are admirably descriptive, full of incident and anecdote, and adapted equally to delight and instruct the juvenile mind. In selecting your Christmas and New Year's gifts for children, remember Mrs. Leslie's 'Pet Juveniles." The volumes are affectionately inscribed to a young friend by the author, "in the earnest hope that they may increase in him that love of nature and of rural life which has ever exerted so salutary an influence in the formation of the characters of the wise and good." 
PHILLIS WHEATLEY'S MEMOIR AND POEMS.-About twenty-five years ago Mr. G. W. Light published a memoir of this remarkable slave girl, together with her poems, taken from the English edition. The memoir was written by Miss Odell, a descendant of Mr. John Wheatley, a citizen of high standing in Boston at the time of the Revolution, and who was the kind master of Phillis. The publication excited considerable attention at the time it was issued, and three editions of it were readily sold. Many who, since it has been out of print, have regretted their inability to obtain a copy, will be glad to learn that Mr. Light, by reprinting a portion of the work, has been able to issue about two hundred copies, part of which were engaged in advance. It contains the interesting likeness of Phillis, and the letter Gen. Washington addressed to her while encamped at Cambridge. The publisher will send a copy to any address through the post-office, free of postage, on receipt of the price, 50 cents. Colesworthy, 66 Cornhill, will also furnish copies while they last, which will not be long. [Selections from the work comprise our poetic department this week.] 
ONE MILLION SIGNATURES! 
CIRCULATE THE PETITION!
The Loyal Women of the Republic, through their National Association, resolved in May last to attempt to procure a MILLION signatures of loyal women to the following petition:-
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:
The undersigned, Women of the United States above the age of eighteen years, earnestly pray that your honorable body will pass, at the earliest practicable day, an Act emancipating all persons of African descent held to involuntary service or labor in the United States. 
Let the loyal women of Massachusetts see to it that they are not outdone by their sisters in any other State in the number of names appended by them to this petition-a petition which goes to the very root of the rebellion and all our national troubles, by asking Congress to terminate what remains of slavery outside of the President's 1st of January Proclamation in such manner as to that body may seem advisable.
To accomplish the Herculean task contemplated, INDIVIDUAL EFFORT AND CONSECRATION are needed in every city, town, and village. Time is pressing-the object is godlike-the opportunity to give the death-blow to slavery must not be allowed to pass unimproved.
Congress convenes at Washington on Monday, Dec. 7th. It will be, perhaps, the most important session ever held. Send in the petitions! 
<c05>
TRIBUTES TO GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
At a Soiree given in honor of Mr. Thompson by the Whittington Club, in London.
Erancis W. Newman, Esq., Professor of Latin in the London University, rose and said:-My Lord, Ladies, and Gentlemen,-Anything that I could possibly say will appear tame and cold after the speech you have just heard. Mr. Sella Martin has, indeed, a cause to advocate which warms him, and his feeling in reference to it differs as much from the secondary interest which we can feel in it, as his warm native climate differs from our own chilly one. My knowledge of Mr. George Thompson, however, has always been a distant one. I have respected him for so many years that I seem now to be entitled to look upon him as a friend, although I never met him until two or three days ago, up to which time I had no personal knowledge of him whatever. Yet, as I was asked to meet the company on this occasion, I felt that it was impossible to refuse the request, because of my very warm and hearty respect, and my earnest admiration of him.
My lord, I think you will assent to a remark which I venture to make, namely, that all political principles are changing, and I trust are doing so happily. I think that that which has been called, by some writers, the fundamental principle of Christianity, the brotherhood of man, is more and more making its way in the world in spite of the resistance of old habits, even to Parliament. It is quite distressing-I may say humiliating-to read the history of the past position of statesmen in this country. I think that it was the great Adam Smith who called an ambassador " that crafty animal of an ambassador." Now Adam Smith certainly was anything but sarcastic or cynical. He would not use spiteful words. He was a very good, simple, warm-hearted man, I believe; but he spoke from an unhappy observance of facts. In the past it would appear that the objects of politics were two fold-first, the conflict of party within the nation, and next conquests, generally of a dynastic kind, struggles between nation and nation, though certainly not for the benefit of the nation on either side, but for certain ostensible notions of advantage which a variety of persons could get from the contests. Now I see, my lord, two totally different principles coming up in modern days, both arising out of the great law of human brotherhood: the first is the conviction that in governmental policy the welfare of the millions of the country, the welfare of the lowest part of the nation, ought to be the chief object of legislation; for many reasons, first, because they are the most numerous portion of society; secondly, because they are the weakest; and, thirdly, because every form of misgovernment falls back upon them. The second great principle coming up is, that between nation and nation brotherhood ought to be the binding principle. Now it is a very difficult thing to bring forward these principles directly into political life and practice. Yet I am happy to say-and I say it gratefully and thankfully to God-that within the last  three years the legislation of this country, whatever in other respects may have been its faults, has been more and more humane, more and more tending to the welfare of the lowest classes. Also, I perceive that the other principle is destined to prevail; amidst great strugglings and difficulties it is working its way forwards.
Now I give the principal credit of this improved state of things to men, who, like our friend, Mr. George Thompson, have spent their lives in advocating great moral objects. I give them the chief credit for the change which is gradually coming about in our nation. I believe that the same change is taking place in other nations, but arising, perhaps, from a different cause-from men inquiring what is right and just. I must say that there is great honor due Mr. Thompson on this account. Most political men adopt arguments of mere expediency, instead of following Mr. Thompson's example, and stating that which is right and just. Such men as he is, are called "cantankerous" or "bores." What does that mean? Why, that where a principle of justice or injustice is involved in any question, they cannot compromise it. For this reason, they are looked upon as troublesome men; and if they happen to be members of a ministry, their colleagues say they cannot work with them. Such men must give up their principles or go out of office. It is not that there is any peculiar wickedness in these public men; but such is their habit. If Mr. Thompson were to address Parliament in a similar strain of inflexible adherence to principle to that which he  has adopted out of it, no doubt he would find himself in the same unpopular position there. They say that comparisons are odious, and perhaps I am wrong in comparing Mr. Cobden with Mr. Thompson. Let it be distinctly understood, however, that I greatly honor Mr. Cobden. I look upon him and Mr. Thompson as fellow-workers in a most important sense. They have labored together most effectively in the anti-corn law and anti-war movements. In exerting himself to stop war Mr. Cobden has lately played a most important part. Therefore I earnestly hope that no one here will suppose that I am going to say anything in disparagement of his great and important labors. But it has been said, and not, I think, without justice, that-perhaps from his long and painful experience of a certain house which we are in the habit of calling "honorable"-he uses no arguments but what are based upon expediency; because he knows that no others have any weight in that assembly. As a natural consequence, be is prone to make appeals to men's sense of what is for their material interest, rather than to that which is morally right in principle, and which their consciences will approve. Now, Mr. Cobden, I believe, has a very sensitive conscience, yet he does not appeal to simple justice, but to what is vulgarly called "the breeches-pocket argument." Mr. Thompson, on the other hand, always appeals to men's consciousness of what is right and wrong. He has told us this evening, that in the great question of the anti-corn law movement, he very seldom dealt with arguments derived from the principles of political economy. I think that such arguments are most needful, and I do not mean to say by any means that they should be set aside; but still, they are secondary to that upon which Mr. Thompson has always relied-the great principles of justice, which it was his characteristic to throw his whole heart into. I believe that there is a notion among public men, that people will not be moved by what is fair and right, but by arguments which appeal to their own pecuniary interests; and hence such public men do not adopt a higher standard of feeling. The same impression respecting our public men prevails also abroad. Foreigners think that Englishmen never do anything, except from personal and private interest. My lord, I am sure that you will admit with me, that, in doing that which is right we are doing that which is best calculated to promote our own interest. This sentiment was long ago expressed in rather a disagreeable form in the common proverb that "Honesty is the best policy." I call it rather disagreeable, because it leads people to look at the wrong side of the argument. It induces men to be always thinging of their own; of what they may gain by being honest; whereas, men should be taught to do what is right because it is right, even when they cannot tell what will be the consequences of their action.
But the right or wrong of the system of slavery with which we have been dealing so prominently lately is not doubtful. A great many of our public men see what is right upon this question, but they are frightened at what they suppose will be the consequences of doing it. They say, "Oh, it will make so great a change! It is so dangerous!" I believe that this feeling was at the bottom of the invention of that mischievous system of apprenticeship in the West Indies, to which Mr. Thompson has referred. It was said that it would not be safe to let the slaves be free all at once. Mr. Thompson has admirably touched upon and gone to the core of that matter. Man was made by God with, a conscience, and, therefore, he must not be put under the absolute will of any other man. Man is to be subject to man collectively, or to the laws of his country; but to subject him to the arbitrary 
<c06>
will of any one man is abominable, because it prevents him having or exercising a conscience. How can persons suppose that men will be rendered fit for freedom by being kept in slavery! Mr. Gladstone spoke with indignation of the notion of certain gentlemen who profess to be desirous of gradually training our colonists in Australia for the reception of English freedom. They were frightened at the idea of our fellow subjects at the Antipodes having a constitution gives to them all at once. Mr. Gladstone's reply was,  "Let the Colonists take out a constitution with their agricultural instruments, and no difficulty whatever will be felt." The human being needs freedom in order that he may become a better man. It is a maxim so old as Homer, that a man loses half his value on the day he becomes a slave. Our friend, Mr. Thompson, has opposed slavery with no half measures, but he has gone straight forward to his end. There are a great many evils of a like kind, the abolition of which, I heartily desire to see some young man take up in the same spirit as that in which Mr. Thompson has sought the overthrow of slavery. I believe they will do so. War is one of the first evils which ought to be put an end to. Speaking of war, it is rather a curious fact that I once wrote a letter to Mr. Thompson about the Russian war. Unfortunately, I differed with him about its propriety. I thought the Russian war justifiable; but he differed with me upon that point. It is the only modern war, which I think England has been right in. I most entirely agree with him, however, in the propriety of using every means of putting down war, except such war as is absolutely necessary and unavoidable. It appears to me an enormous atrocity that, whereas we will not take away a shilling from a fellow man, without a fair trial, and having men sworn to do justice between the parties, yet we declare war without a single form of justice, or any proof that it is necessary. It appears to me that there is a fundamental immorality in the whole thing. I hope that ere long the system will be opposed with the same unflinching determination which Mr. Thompson has shown in attacking slavery. I believe that he has in many respects moved in the same direction as Mr. Cobden has done towards softening the horrors of war, and introducing various improvements in its conduct, if, indeed, it must continue to exist. But really, I feel myself so little acquainted with the details of Mr. Thompson's life, that I have no right to speak here any longer. I will therefore conclude with an expression of my admiration of his past conduct, and of my sympathy with all that has been said on that subject by previous speakers.
Rev. J. RYLANCE, A. K. C., of St Paul's Church, Westminster Road, said-I hope I have good sense enough to consider the late hour of the evening, and not to trouble you with any lengthened remarks. I know not to what I am indebted for the favor conferred upon me of being permitted to speak a word for George Thompson. I have only attended here to, night to do him honor; but I feel myself at the same time honored by being allowed to bear my testimony to his invaluable life and labors. I am under some embarrassment in speaking to you on this occasion, because there is in the outside world a prejudice against men of my cloth. We are supposed to work in a different sphere from those of other persons. I hold that no man can do full justice to the clerical profession, to which I belong, without considering, and promoting to the extent of his power, all that pertains to those best interests of man that cross and intermix with each other. He seems to me to fall immeasurably short of his duty, unless he takes an interest in the social and political, as well as in the religious, interests of the people. Especially do I desire to express the affection of my heart towards George Thompson, not only because of his relation to the great controversy which is now going on in this country on the subject of slavery, and upon which I have been brought in association with him, but also for his attachment to the cause of the working men, who have among them much that is noble, and which we ought to honor from the very depth of the affections of our souls. I know that you are all rejoiced to-night, as I am, to think that after performing so much service we find him standing erect before the world, strong in hope, comparatively young, and able to do much service yet for his fellow creatures. Let me say, Sir, that I can bear testimony to the fact which has been mentioned to-night, that this gathering is of a perfectly affectionate character, without that coldness and formality which too often characterize occasions like this; but there is gathered around George Thompson, as the central figure, much of true kindness and sympathy, and, I might say, of brotherly love.
The feeling which prevails in this meeting is but an indication of the love and esteem in which England itself holds him. The other evening, through affliction suddenly coming upon him, I was sent down to a large provincial town, very imperfectly, and unworthily, I know, to take his place. When I reached that locality, Nottingham, I found it placarded in such large type as the renowned eloquence of George Thompson might be expected to command; and I found his name upon the lips of all men. As a native of Manchester, I can bear witness to the feeling that exists towards him everywhere in the north of England wherever there is sincere right-heartedness, and a capacity of appreciating nobility of character, great intellectual power, and untiring devotion to the public service. I cannot speak of George Thompson as an historical character, because we are told that to be worthy of notice, we must have in our veins noble blood, which has been transmitted to us by our ancestors; that that belongs to certain families. For my own part, whatever qualities, according to these men, may proceed from that mysterious fluid, which is carried down from generation to generation, I deny that it can carry down moral worth. Noble fathers have often had unworthy sons. The moral progress of the world is not to stand still until all fathers have worthy sons. If any man has a true word to utter on any great question, let him say it. If a true, deep, strong feeling moves his heart, let him give expression to it, the Times to the contrary notwithstanding. I only hope that Mr. George Thompson may long be spared to continue among us; that his health, which has been latterly somewhat enfeebled, may be recruited, and that his last days may be, in service and in all other respects, his best days. If there be anything in the hereditary transmission of qualities, I hope he may be able to shed some of his own upon one who is standing very near to myself-the honorary Secretary of the Emancipation Society.
It is difficult to separate a man from the cause, or the cause from the man; and well may the words, "negro emancipation." stand prominently out upon this printed copy of the address which has been presented to Mr. Thompson. In alluding to that question, I trust that England will hear from one end to the other the voice of George Thompson; that if others can only speak the truth in comparative whispers, he may speak it as the tempest does, in sterner and stronger tones. Oh, if but a hundred George Thompsons could go forth upon the same mission-what good might be done! It is not given to all men in one generation to rise to the level of the hour. It often comes to pass that men of after generations have to gather up fully, and adequately, impressions of what, when living, it was only given to a few of that generation fully to comprehend and appreciate. I trust that, from the spread of education, men will be more ready to appreciate such questions, and that in England there will be no danger of the recognition of a slaveholding republic; but we shall demand that any country shall free itself from slavery before it can claim a place among the sisterhood of nations. Let me, as a clergyman, express my satisfaction at seeing some of the canons of the church taking their proper places upon this question of slavery. In the discussion-class at Oxford, too, a vote has been obtained in favor of the North. I hope that the religious power of this country will speak out as it ought to do, boldly and truly, for the rights of man and for the truth of God. 
JOHN NOBLE, Esq., Justice of the Peace, then rose,
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
and said: My Lord, Ladies, and Gentlemen,I feel myself between two agesthe age when George Thompose was a young man, when I listened to his eloquenceand the present age, when he, like myself, is getting old. Although he has worked so long, so successfully, and so ardently, he seems not to have been much shaken by his labors. There was a time when it appeared as though his labors for the slave had ceased; but circumstances are altered, and he has been called forward again to do battle against that abominable system. Perhaps we have a greater struggle before us, in reference to it, than that through which we have passed. There is, however, a voice of public opinion in this country against slavery. We have seen it increase in loudness, until it has made itself beard across the Atlantic. But there is another opinion that has been expressed,what is it! It is the opinion of the Bible. We find it recorded in the sacred volume, where the Psalmist says of such evil doers as slaveholders and their supporters: "He that eighth in the heavens shall laugh; the Lord shall have them in derision." Therefore, although the men of the South may think that they shall be able to perpetuate slavery, and carry it forth as a continuous system, yet they must remember that they are but men; and we would reccommend that even Lord Mayors should consider their ways, and bow the knee, not merely to the force of public opinion, but to the strong expression of the whole Scriptures. I am very glad that the gentleman who has just sat down gave us such a stirring speech. I think that it becomes the duty of ministers of religion, and of all Christian men and women, to speak out upon such questions. They should not fear to advocate political principles, and make them more fully known. I believe that if Christian people were to throw them selves more into the movements of the day, whether against the black slavery in America, or the white slavery in this country, a great part of the evils which afflict the earth would be done away. I was excessively gratified at hearing read the excellent address which has been presented to Mr. Thompson; but at the same time I thought, "Is this all that is to be done for such a man?" (Hear.) These are mere words; they should be accompanied by deeds. I hope that the friends of emancipation will meet together in some private room, and in a quiet way commence subscriptions, that we may have a testimony of another and more substantial kind to present to Mr. Thompson, in approval of his conduct, and his noble self-denying labors. I am persuaded, that if from such a meeting as this such an idea got abroad, it would be taken up universally. But I feel that it is not right to take up the time of the meeting further. I was also much pleased as I have no doubt you werewith the speech of the Rev. SELLA MARTIN. It so happens that we both come from towns of the same name; he on one side of the Atlantic, and I on the other. I came from Boston in Old England, and be from Boston in New England. I have had the satisfaction before of hearing his fervid eloquence. I trust that this great question of slavery will be brought before the public of this country again and again, until every man is free as God designed him to be.

TO WORKINGMEN.
After the corruption of Christianity during the first centuries, as probably many of you well know, the civilized world was pretty much divided between the Greek and Latin churches the headquarters of the first being at Constantinople, and the last at Rome.
Although the power of the Greek Church was not destroyed, yet it was greatly weakened, and fled for refuge at the introduction of Mahomedanism by Mahomet. Whilst the Latin church continued to increase, until it assumed to stand in the place of God, to administer the fiat of eternal happiness by absolution, or of damnation by Anathema maranatha, of put its feet upon the necks of kings, to rule the world, and finally going to seed, to deny the existence of God through one of its principal exponents the French nationof which at the present day Louis Napoleon is the chief, by means of the most deliberate assassination.
It has suited Divine Providence in latter days, to add a fourth power called Protestantism which has exhibited a nearer approach to primitive Christianity than the other three, although all are sufficiently far off to appear diminutive.
The political and territorial power of the three so called Christian Churches, may be understood by Russia and Greece, representing the Greek Church; Italy, France, Austria, Spain, Portugal, Spanish and Portuguese America, the Latin; and Great Britain, Prussia, Scandanavia, some of the small German States, Australia, and North America, the Protestant. By the Latin race of the present day is meant simply a people who are professed Catholics.
Although the wane of the Latin Church commenced at the time of Luther, yet its decay has been more rapidly apparent since the apostacy of France, and the revolution that followed, which, after burning up the iniquities of Europe, and turning to destroy, under the first Napoleon, the Greek Church, was frozen by the snows of Russia, and at last quenched by the united efforts of the Greeks and Protestants at Waterloo.
In vain does the Cosmopolitan, the man of no country, the citizen of the world, and whose countrymen are all mankind, search for the record of any great movement by the Latin race for human happiness. Over the bloody fields of their extensive territories, there are no landmarks not crimsoned by carnage, to obtain wealth and power, or blackened by the fires and faggots of religious persecution.
Rome was the aristocracy of aristocracies, and Romanism as a political power, whether represented by Dakedoms, Principalities, Kingdoms, or Empires, is the same yesterday and to-day, an enemy to the advancement of the people, and totally unscrupulous in the accomplishment of its designs. Even in our own hour we see its only efficient head its arbiter confessing before the assembled senators and deputies of France, that the French people would he far better off, if it were not for his schemes to extend, by the greed of his unholy ambition, the power of the Latin race,by the destruction of freedom among the people of Maxico, and the United States of America, and the enslavement of the Cochin Chinese.
Recollecting the power wielded by the Holy Alliance, to murder all efforts at progress, on the part of those who did the work, the fighting, and who paid the taxes, he proposes to assemble the aristocrats of Europe, those who would secure power and wealth to themselves, and leave the poor yet poorer to inaugurate a new and yet more Holy Alliance, that he may scatter broadcast throughout the countries a system of police and espionage, far more efficient than that used by Metternich, for it would comprise the whole Catholic priesthood, with all the laymen under their implicit control.
Who cannot see that the vaulting ambition of this had man would not free the Poles, but would erect a kingdom in Poland of the Latin race, or Romish Church, to be at his beck and call for the advancement and satisfaction of his own lust. As he has Mexico and Cochin China within his clutch, so would be also like to have crowned Catholic Poland.
As he has murdered French freedom, so will he murder the freedom of the people wherever his malise can approach near enough to secure a victim.
"A good understanding demands scrupulous care." In his speech Senators and Deputies, Louis Napoleon has taken care that most of his sentences shall convey a double meaning, one to meet the ear of the mudsills, and another to be understood by the aristocratic brain.
"You know," says he, "that intrigue remains for us. We need not fight or be silent. Every where we see the treaties of 1815, prepared with so much carefulness to exorcise this spirit of freedom which troubles us, have ceased to exist. The force of events, hat is, the upheaval of the underlying oppressed people, has overthrown them. Almost everywhere they
<c02>
have been violated. Look at Protestant self-educated Prussia, ready to lead regenerated Germany, and at hated Britain, whom I only court to rain, and whom I have done my best to embroil with her own kindred, how she has strengthened herself by alliances with Denmark and Prussia.
Then contrast the standing of our neighbors Sweden and Norway with mendicant Austria, the pal and concubine of my node the corporal. How, with such a state of affairs surrounding me, shall I ever be able to make the Rhine the frontier of France?
Alas! under all the aristocracy of these States, the natural enemies of the Latin race, I perceive a surging, struggling, convulsed, and agonized massfearful in power, which unless I can manage to smother and destroy it, will one day set such an example to the French nation, as will make it a certainty that there shall be no Napoleon the Fourth.
Then, what can be more legitimate and sensible for me, than to invite the aristocrats to band together without any other preconceived system than mine, and without exclusive ambition on their part; for by establishing an order of things securing the certainty of king-craft, I can take care of myself, if I don't of them.
You know now, gentlemen, the language I propose to hold towards you. I am poor, and have some leisure. My poverty makes me desperate, and my leisure gives me an opportunity to become a highwayman, and to seize the happy chances of that condition.
There are two roads, take which you pleaseif you come with me, we will be comrades, and rob the people together. If you take the other, I am your enemy, and I will take your money and your life.
O, ye people, do you not yet hear the rumbling of French cannon? Do you not see the condor who has plucked the eyes out of sick Mexico, and endeavored to beat down young America, now soaring for a plunge at defiant Russia? Do you not understand that this bird of prey hates the life of all the common herd of wild cattle, and working oxen, and that he likes their neighborhood only, as be can wet his beak in their blood, and gorge his appetite with their flesh?
We owe to the Greek Church the emancipation of nearly forty millions of human souls, with ample means for their subsistence and schoolingand Alexander of Russia is the head of that Church under the providence of Almighty God.
What do we owe to the Latin Church or race, but the establishment of monkeries, nunneries, the inquisition, and the order of the Jesuits, with attempts to openly and secretly assist the enemies of the workingmen, called mudsills by the aristocrats?
Look at the endeavors of France to interfere in favor of the Confederates of North America. Examine the manner in which, by repeated efforts, Louis Napoleon tried to persuade Great Britain to join him in his attempt to destroy the United States, and the defeat he suffered from the Commons of England. Make yourselves acquainted with the revolt, and wholesale murders committed by the copperhead Irish Catholics in these States, with the oppressive war against Cochin China, and the partial subjugation of Mexico, and then say with what consistency can Napoleon the Third, and last, put down freedom in Mexico, enslave the Chinese, and yet give freedom to Poland? There is no consistency in it, and none but aristocrats, or those politically blind, can fail to see that the Frenchman is a hypocrite, and the sole aim of his proceedings is self-aggrandizement, no matter whether it is by making the streets of Paris run with the blood of Frenchmen, or the murder of whole communities under pretence of giving freedom to the Poles, by erecting a French monarchy in Poland, which, under the rule and police of the Catholic Church, would invariably be used against the freedom of the people.
As far as the well-being of Protestants and freemen is concerned, it is better to have Poland, as a Catholic Romish power intimate with Popery, under the dominion of Russia and the Greek Church, than to have it an independent active enemy.
Russia is at present a natural ally to all freemen, because she has freed her own poor, and is in opposition to the exaltation of Romanism, which is their chief enemy; and it would be a sure policy, if all Protestant States should favor the extension of the Greek Church at the expense of the Latin, which the world has had abundant proof ought to be destroyed, as a political and temporal power, which has flooded the earth with mischief. CARBON.
THIRD DECADE MEETING. On Thursday and Friday of this week, a celebration of the Third Decade of the American Anti-Slavery Society will be held at Concert Hall in Philadelphia. We hope to present an extended account of the speeches and proceedings of this most interesting occasion in next week's Liberator.
FRATERNITY LECTURE. The fifth lecture before the Parker Fraternity was given on Tuesday evening, by Ralph Waldo Emerson. His theme was "The Future of the Republic," for which be augured a happy and glorious career. A very large audience came early, and listened with the attention which Mr. Emerson's lectures always command, but want of room forbids any attempt at a report. Next week's lecture is to be given by Rev. E. H. Chapin of New York.
Last Tuesday was the day of the municipal election in New York city. Mr. C. Godfrey Gunther, one of the Democratic candidates, has been chosen by a plurality of 7000. The Tribune, though striving for the election of Blunt, the Republican candidate, represents Gunther as greatly preferable to Boole, the other candidate of the opposition, and representative of the Mozart and Tammany factions. The Aldermen chosen were partly Unionists and partly Democrats.
The Tribune says there can no longer be any doubt of the death of Gen. Sam. Houston, of Texas.
FUGITIVE SLAVES. Catching negroes is still a flourishing business in Washington. A slave of a copperhead Marylander ran away to this city one day last week, and was captured under the forms of law and forcibly carried back to bondage. It is suggested by anti-slavery men here, that if the scene which was acted here last week could have been portrayed one month ago in the London newspapers, Mr. BeecheBeecher would hardly have ventured upon saying that the fugitive slave enactment is a dead lettera law which is trampled under foot. This statement would undoubtedly have been correct, so far as most of the free states are concerned, but in the national capital, after a contest of months upon this very point, it is decided that fugitive slaves shall be caught and returned to their masters, though at the same time it is a fact that the local laws of the district are violated every day in the year by the military authorities. The plea in the one case is military necessity, but it does not avail to save the fugitive negro from a possible return to bondage.
The colored refugees from the South are to be removed to the Virginia aide of the Potomac. They are not safe in Washington from the slave-catchers. Wash. Cor. Evening Post.
The arrival of Gen. Banks upon the coast of Texas and his occupation of Brownsville were most timely, nipping in the bud a plot of the rebels and French to take possession of the entire Mexican province of Tamaulipas, in behalf of the French government. If the plan had been successful, and France should have declared for the independence of the rebel confederacy, the Rio Grande would have been held on either side of its mouth by the enemies of the United States. As it now stands General Banks holds one shore of the river, while General Cortinaswho is favorable to our causeholds the other. One week later and perhaps all hopes of recovering this important port without embroiling ourselves in a foreign war, would have been entirely lost.Traveller.
THE REPORTED HANGING OF FEDERAL SOLDIERS IN LOUISIANA. In Tuesday evening's Traveller it was stated that Lieutenant Coleman and 20 privates, (colored), captured in Louisiana, were hung by the rebels. They belonged, we understand, to Gen. Ullmann's Brigade, and were captured on a reconnoissance to Jackson. La., by Col. Logan's rebel Cavalry. Lieut. Edwin Y. Brown, formerly of the Mass. First, also attached to this Brigade, was taken prisoner at the same time. He lived in East Boston, and was a caulker by trade.
<c03>
"PECULIAR." We have read with an interest such as we have seldom found in any publication, Mr. Epes Sargent's novel, of which the above is the title. It seems to us to be one of those literary inspirations with which authors are occasionally gifted for the good of their generation. As a picture of our own times, it is surpassingly vigorous, in its grasp, and graphic in its detail. Of all works of fiction written with a moral purpose, we scarcely know of one which excels it in these qualities. As a story it holds the reader as by a spell. As an argument, we can conceive of nothing more cogent than its vivid and picturesque pages.
This is strong praise, bat does not overstate the facts. We are not unaware that the book has defects. The plot is overcrowded with incident, probabilities are violated in bringing characters together, and there is matter in it which some readers will regard as extraneous, and wish had been excluded. These are blemishesbut they are spots upon a sunbeam. When regarded as a wholetaking into consideration the object the author had set before himselfthe grand purpose which he had in view in its compositionit seems to us to be a complete and marvellons success.
The story is intensely interesting. The fact that the canvas is crowded heightens, rather than detracts from this quality. If it leaves the author less room to delineate character minutely than we wish he might have allowed himself, it has taught him the necessity of condensation, and has given the story a rapid and vigorous movement which never allows the reader's interest to flag in any part. The plot, too, is constructed with ingenuity and artistic power. There is no incident in it which is improbableprobably not one for which a precedent may not be found in actual life. The single exceptionable feature in it here, as we have intimated, is that human experience never brings characters together so cleverly as our author has combined them.
But the great feature of the book is its presentment of the Slavery question. Its author has collated and condensed every fact and every argument pertinent to the complete elucidation of this topic, and has woven them into his narrative with a masterly skill. He has done this, too, in every instance, so as to heighten the interest of the novel, and strengthen its hold upon the reader. Here is his complete success. No man or woman can read it as a story without yielding to its interest, and none not utterly steeped in prejudice can be insensible to the lesson that it teaches. It is altogether the most powerful anti-slavery Instrumentality which our literature has furnished since the days of "Uncle Tom's Cabin"which book it supplements, without being in any sense an imitation.
We have purposely refrained from any analysis of the plot of this novel, and have left ourselves little room to speak of its characters. These last are many of them struck out with a felicitous power, which indicates unmistakably Mr. Sargent's ability in this class of composition. Col. Delancy Hyde, Mr. Pompilard, Vance, and the negro barber who appears in the opening chapters, are all decided individualities, and the two first peculiarly original creations. Peek is more like a reminiscence of the traditional slave hero, and other of the prominent characters have so much to do that there is little time to define their nicer shadings of character. Not one of them, however, but is skilfully and consistently portrayed.
The book is one which will be widely readits intensely interesting plot is a guaranty for this. Of the great good which it will accomplish there can be no question. We heartily congratulate Mr. Sargent upon his brilliant success, which secures him at once a high reputation in the new field of literature to which he has brought his talents.Roxbury Journal.
THE TRAITOR AT WORK. Vallandigham, the exiled 
Traitor and " Democratic martyr," is busy in trying to make trouble for his country in her life-and-death struggle with Rebellion. The Liverpool Mercury publishes a recent letter from him, in which he reiterates, with increased emphasis, his treasonable remarks made in Congress, last winter, in favor of accepting French mediation. Though Vallandigham thus descends to the very lowest depth of degradation in treason, in urging foreign interference in our struggle with rebellious traitors, yet the leading men and newspapers of the Copperhead Democracy still stick to Vallandigham. For instance, the Manchester Union, one of " Mausoleum" Pierce's special mouthpieces, says:
"No other man could have represented to exactly as he [Vallandigham] did the purpose for which the gallant Democracy of Ohio were contending. Mr. Vallandigham is an honest, truthful, thoughtful, and PATRIOTIC man."
WASHINGTON, NOV. 2710, A. MGeneral Grant telegraphs to the War Department as follows:
CHATTANOOGA, NOV. 27, 1 A.M.
I am just in from the front. The rout of the enemy is most complete. Abandoned wagons and occasionally pieces of artillery are everywhere to be found. I think Bragg's loss will fully reach sixty pieces of artillery. A large number of prisoners have fallen into our hands. The pursuit will continue to Red Clay in the morning, for which place I start in a few hours. U. S. GRANT.
NEW YORK, NOV. 28. The Times' Washington despatch to-day says the official statement of our losses at Chattanooga, on the 23d, 24th and 25th, in storming Lookout, were 3000, and at the assault on Mission Ridge about 200. Our wounded are all under cover, and well taken care of. Hospital and all other supplies are abundant.
A Nathez letter of the 15th ult. announces a fight between the 5th Mississippi colored regiment and Adams's rebel cavalry. At first, our forces fell back, but afterward the rebels had to retire. Our loss was four killed and seven wounded. The retreating enemy left several carbines and guns. They took several prisoners, all of whom escaped except one, whom they beat to death.
THE FIFTY-FOURTH REGIMENT. The following deaths are reported in the 54th regiment: Of wounds Sanford Jackson, Co. A, at Beaufort; Martin Gillmore, Co. D, at Morris Island; Wm. R. Lee, Co. F, at sea; George Jackson, Co. I, Oct. 9, at Morris Island; John E. Price, Co. I, at Beaufort. Of diseaseWilliam A. Jackson, Co. A, Oct. 16; Henry Parker, Co. D, Oct. 8; Ralph Johnson, Co. D, Sept. 15; George W. Dorsey, Co. F, Oct. 21; Wm. Fowlis, Co. G, Oct. 16; John Burns, Co. H, Oct. 28; Edward Parks, Co., I, Oct. 3.
MR. STEBBINS'S ADDRESS. Agreeably to previous notice, G. B. Stebbins, Esq., of Rochester, N. Y., addressed our peoplea large and enthusiastic audience at Luce's Hall, last evening, on " The Rebellion, the Duty and Destiny of the Republic." He spoke at considerable length upon the political differences of opinion between the people of the slave and non-slaves holding States, the causeslaveryof the great rebellion, its progress, and the final result; the destruction of that accursed institution, resulting in the complete triumph of free principles, and a united, happy and prosperous people. The address was listened to throughout with marked attention and apparent pleasure and satisfaction by that large audience. Daily Eagle, Grand Rapids, Mich.
Connecticut is a just State, as she gives the same bounty to colored recruits as to white ones. That's practical equality. "Affection [for money] dwells in black and white the same," showing the two colors to be one flesh and one blood, and alike competent to appreciate the vast virtues that there are in argent and or. There can be no good reason given why a colored man should be shot at for a lower price than a white man would ask for being converted into a target.Traveller.
Mr Seward's Auburn Speech is sharply criticised in the Boston Commonwealth, N. Y. Independent, and Anti-Slavery Standard. These papers demonstrate that its doctrines are directly in conflict with those that the President has laid down as his own. Like nearly everything Mr. Seward has done, of late, the speech seemed to have pleased no onenot even the copperheads,and to furnish a new example of his waning judgment.Roxbury Journal.
John Reardon, President of the New York " Dead Rabbits," was lately arrested for shooting at a man three times with a loaded pistol, and fined six cents for the crime. His Judge was the notorious McCunn.
The two Tacony pirates who escaped from Fort Warren last August have turned up in Liverpool, having been furnished with free passes by some of our neutral friends at St. Johns. They stole a yacht to get to St. Johns.
A pitiable scene occurred on the Platte County railroad a few days since. A lady was travelling from Atchison to Chicago with her child's remains in a coffin, and during the journey another child which she had in her arms died.
The Richmond Whig of the 18th announces the death of Brigadier General Posey, who died at Charlottesville on Sunday, from a wound received during the late fight at Bristoe Station. He was interred at Charlottesville with military honors.
The colored people of Little Rock had a supper and ball one evening to raise money for the benefit of sick and wounded soldiers. One hundred and sixty-five dollars were raised and handed over to the Provost Marshal General for the above-mentioned purpose The same parties propose repeating the entertainment for the same object. They are confident of doing equally as well as on the occasion just passed.
The Glasgow Emancipation Society has memorialized Earl Russell in regard to the suspicious chararcter of the recently launched steamer Pampero, insinuating that she is another Alabama. Earl Russell replied that the attention of the Government had already been directed to the matter.
<c04>
POSTMASTER GENERAL BLAIR'S MARYLAND SPEECH. Postmaster-General Blair's harangue at Rockville, Maryland, has been printed in a pamphlet, which declares on the title page that it is "on the revolutionary schemes of the ultra Abolitionists, and in defence of the policy of the President," and contains in its preface these note worthy words:
"The subjoined speech was delivered by the Hon. Montgomery Blair, Postmaster-General, in defence of the policy of the President of the United States, and in opposition to the efforts of the ultra Abolitionists to blot out the Southern States, and receive them back only as Territories of the Union."
The clerks in Mr. Blair's department have each been presented with a copy of this pamphlet.
STATISTICS OF THE BOMBARDMENT OF FORT SUMTER. The Richmond Enquirer of the 11th inst., arrays in statistical form the amount of shot and shell poured upon Fort Sumter. The following are its figures:
"Since the bombardment of Sumter commenced (on the 17th of August) up to Thursday last, 15,583 shots had been fired at it, of which 12,302 struck. Of the garrison twenty-seven have been killed and sixty-nine wounded. The flag, during the same time, has been cut down thirty-four times. The average weight of shot being 200 pounds, the weight of iron 3,116.000 pounds, or 115,439 pounds of iron to each man killed, 30, 370 pounds of iron to each casualty. If the charges of powder averaged fifteen pounds, we have 233,745 pounds of powder used, or 8657 pounds of powder to each man killed, and 2434 pounds of powder to each casualty. Sumter, in ruins, laughs at her enemy, who still fear to pass her battered walls. Charleston will have a valuable iron mine in the ruins of Sumter, and even now, when iron is scarce, and sells high, industry, at very little risk, might make a fortune.

HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
50, PLEASANT STREET.
The experiment of a Special Hospital for Lying-In Patients and the Diseases of Women has now been under trial, in Boston, for nearly two years. It has succeeded beyond the most sanguine expectations of those interested; the demand for admission having often exceeded the capacity of the building temporarily in use.
It has therefore been decided to establish the institution upon a permanent basis; and, as its benefits are for the community at large, to seek from that community cooperation and material aid, in the firm belief that the usefulness of the institution has now been fully proved, and the necessity for a building more appropriate to its purposes made evident.
The advantages of a separate hospital for the diseases of women are obvious. While these diseases are often of a character requiring the utmost skill in diagnosis and treatment, an essential element in the success of the treatment lies in the absence of all disturbing causes, mental and physical, foremost among which rank the varied enxieties and excitements of a large general Hospital, the necessary publicity attaching to its wards, and the inevitable diversity of cares and interests there obtaining.
It is the aim of this institution,exclusively for women,to obviate these and other objections, hitherto made by patients against entering a general Hospital, and thus to do more than a general Hospital possibly can towards lessening the present high rate of female mortality.
The Directors and Trustees therefore appeal to all benevolent persons for their aid in erecting a building especially adapted for the purposes required. Their call is made not upon women alone, who might seem more especially interested in the benefits to be conferred, but upon men, also, who cannot deny the claims upon them of mother, daughter, sister, and wife.
It is not intended or desired to erect a large and costly edifice, or to expend money upon outside show, but merely to provide safe and sufficient shelter for some fifty or one hundred beds, and to insure a purer and more favorable "hospital air" than has usually been obtained.
It is estimated that a building costing $35,000 will secure these ends. As much more will be necessary to establish thirty-five free beds upon a permanent foundation.
One lady has already paid three thousand dollars; another has paid one thousand; and several smaller sums.
MISS LUCY GODDARD, President.
MRS. EDNAH D. CHENEY, Secretary.
FRED. W. G. MAY, Treasurer. 
GEO. WM. BOND, Auditor.
Directors,
Mrs. Mary C. E. Barnard, Miss Sarah P. Beck,
Mrs. Louisa C. Bond, Miss Mary J. Ellis,
Mrs. Lucretia G. French, Miss Hannah E. Stevenson,
Miss Anna H. Clarke, James Freeman Clarke,
Mrs. Mary A. S. Palmer, Thomas Russell,
Mrs. Caroline M. Severance, Samuel E. Sewall,
Mrs. Penelope R. Walbach, James Tolman,
Mrs. Joanna L. Meriam, John H. Stephenson.
Dr. M. E. ZAKRZEWSKA, Attending Physician.
Dr. HORATIO R. STORER, Attending Surgeon.
Dr. LUCY E. SEW ALL, Resident Physician.
Dr. JOHN WARE, Consulting Physician.
Dr. JOHN CABOT, Consulting Surgeon.
New England Hospital for Women and Children, 60 Pleasant Street, Boston, Oct. 1, 1863.
BIBLICAL QUARTERLY of Religious and Moral Science, and the Reconstruction of Biblical Theories according to the principles of all Science. No. I. Daniel ith its Apocryphal additions, newly arranged and transated, with a critical introduction, in which its age, authorship, character and interpretation are considered, and the principal questions concerning the book attempted to be finally resolved. By LEICESTER A. SAWYER.
This Quarterly will endeavor to apply the principles of all science to the sciences of religion and morality, then of all history to sacred history, and then of all interpretation to Biblical interpretation. The second or third number will commence the critical examination of the New Testament. 
Terms, $2 a year; single numbers; 60 cents. The first number is in the press, and will appear shortly. Orders and subscriptions are respectfully solicited through all the United States and Canada, and may be addressed to Rev. L. A. SAWYER, Boston.
"LYCEUM LECTURES.Literary Associations and Lyceums, desiring lecture for the present winter, may be served on reasonable terms with any or all in the following list:
1. Eighteen Months at Port Royal, S. C., as Superintendent of abandoned Plantations; and the solution of the question, " What shall be done with the slaves freed?"
2. War and Peace.
3. The Progress of the Mechanic Arts, and its effect on Social Science,.
4. The Poet and his Art.
5. Shakspeare.
6. The Merchant of Venice, (a Critical Reading.)
7. Hamlet, (a Critical Reading.)
8. Macbeth, (a Critical Reading.)
9. Milton.
10. Burns.
11. Coleridge.
12. Wordsworth.
Testimonials of a high order, from eminent gentlemen connected with Lyceums in the West, where has been the lecturer's field hitherto, may be seen by any who desire it 
Address Prof. J. C. ZACHOS, Boston, Mass.

PARKER PILLSBURY will lecture in Bird's Hall, East Walpole, on Sunday evening, at 7 o'clock.

ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS.The invaluable Tract, by Mrs. Lydia Maria Child, entitled " The Right Way the Safe Way," can be had at the Liberator office, wholesale or retail. Price$6 per hundred; ten cents, single. The name of the writer is a sufficient guaranty of the book, both as to style and argument.

ANTI-SLAVERY ADVOCATE.Three complete sets of the (London) ANTI-SLAVERY ADVOCATE are for sale; application to be made to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston. Price,three dollars each. The work covers a period of more than ten years, ending with May, 1863. 

REV. ALEXANDER CLARK, Editor Clark's School Visitor, would make a few additional engagements to lecture the coming winter. His themes are popular and practical. He may be addressed at the Visitor Office, 1308 Chesnut street, Philadelphia.

MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street., Particular attention, paid to Diseases o Women and Children.
References.LutherClark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P.M.
<c05>
A CARD.The undersigned, in behalf of the Directors, would thank the noble and enerous patrons of the John Quincy Adams National Farm Home for Invalid Soldiers, for past favors. No one any longer asks if this Home is needed. It is the only Farm Home in the United States. Every merchant says it is just what is needed to resuscitate and recruit these who have gone out to protect our gold and silver, and our homes. Gentlemen of every shade of polities are becoming interested. This is no experimentit is a success. It is already in operation, feeding and employing all who go there. There are about 400 acres of land; and if those who feel interested in this movement will call at 19 Charlestown Street, upon Samuel Poor, Jr., Vice President, they will get full particulars.
We beg ladies and gentlemen to help as prepare to make those noble and brave men comfortable for the coming winter. Lieut. GEO. W. CALEFF is constantly laboring for them. While he was a prisoner in the hands of the rebels for more than a year, his mother was thrown into a decline, lingered along until the 16th ult., and died. It is supposed that her over-anxiety hastened her decease, while he was suffering hunger and nakedness, suffering for bread many a day for thirteen long months within the walls of Charleston jail and Libby prison.
True, others are sufferers; many a brave woman is ebbing out her life-blood in prayer, as she did, for only-sons in the army. Many a heart has been made sad, many there are whose cheeks have paled as they went out to meet returning regiments, welcomed by cheering thousands, and who were answered, " He died upon the field," or, "He died a prisoner." Let those of us who remain at home do all the good we can to our brave returned soldiers.
Sergeant NICHOLAS LAWLESS, minus a leg and some of his fingers shot off, is the gentlemanly Superintendent. The Farm is in Weston, three miles from Auburndale. JOHN MEADE, Jr., at the latter place, will direct all visitors to the Home.
SAMUEL POOR, JR., Vice President, 
19 Charlestown street.

SPECIAL NOTICE.Those who want an easy, pleasant and profitable business should send for
"FIFTY METHODS OF MAKING MONEY"; 
a book containing over fifty valuable secrets. Sent, post paid, to any address on the receipt of 25 cents.
Address, F. A. FOSTER, Troy, N. Y.
Nov. 13.-3t

The Atlantic Monthly,
A MAGAZINE OF LITERATURE, ART, AND POLITICS,
IS UNIVERSALLY RECOGNIZED AS
THE BEST AMERICAN MAGAZINE!
THE THIRTEENTH VOLUME
Of the ATLANTIC commences with January, 1864. Its commencement affords the Publishers an occasion to say that the ATLANTIC has attained a circulation and prosperity never equalled by any American magazine of its class.
The prosperity of the ATLANTIC enables its conductors to employ the thost eminent talent of the country in its columns. All the best known writers in American literature, contributing constantly to its pages, give it the sole right to be known as our national magazine. Its staff comprises the following names among its leading contributors:
James Russell Lowell, John G. Palfrey,
Henry W. Longfellow, George S. Hillard,
Louis Agassiz, Henry Giles,
Ralph Waldo Emerson, Walter Mitchell,
Nathaniel Hawthorne, Henry T. Tuckerman, 
Charles Sumner, John Weiss,
Robert Dale Owen, Francis Way land, Jr.,
George W. Curtis, William Cullen Bryant,
C. C. Hazewell, Mrs. H. B. Stowe.
T. W. Higginson, Harriet Martineau, 
Author "Margaret Howth," " Ik Marvel,"
Mrs. Julia W. Howe, David A. Wasson,
Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney, "The Country Parson,"
T. Buchanan Read, Rose Terry,
Oliver W. Holmes, Harriet K. Prescott, 
John G. Whittier, Robert T. S. Lowell,
Gail Hamilton, J. T. Trowbridge,
E. P. Whipple, Josiah P. Quincy, 
Bayard Taylor, Prof. A. D. White,
Charles E. Norton, Edward E. Hale,
Francis Parkman, F. Sheldon.

THE ATLANTIC FOR 1864
Will be in no wise inferior to previous volumes, but it will be the constant aim of the Publishers to advance the high standard already established for the magazine. In furtherance of this aim, they have secured for their new volume several
Features of Peculiar Interest!
Among these, they are now able to announce definitely that
ROBERT BROWNING will contribute several New Poems;
NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE will print his New Romance in the columns of the ATLANTIC, commencing, probably, with the February number;
HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW will publish in the ATLANTIC some Cantos of his Translation of Dante's " Divina Commedia;
MRS. HARRIET BEECHER STOWE begins, in the January number, a series of capital sketches, to be continued through several, months, with the title of " House and Home Papers, by Christopher Crow-field";
J. T. TROWBRIDGE has written a new Novel, which will be commenced in the ATLANTIC during the next volume; 
PROF. LOUIS AGASSIZ will continue those admirable articles upon different branches of natural science which have constituted so interesting and important a feature in the late volumes of the ATLANTIC.
TERMS.The ATLANTIC is for sale by all Book and Periodical Dealers. Price, 25 cents a number. Subscriptions for the year, $3, postage paid. CLUB PRICES. Two copies for one year, $5, and each additional subscription at the same rate; and an Extra Copy gratis for every club of Ten Subscribers; or Eleven Copies for $25.
In all Clubs, subscribers pay their own postage, 24 cents per year.
Specimen numbers sent GRATIS on the receipt of four cents for postage.
TICKNOR & FIELDS, PUBLISHERS,
135 Washington Street, Boston.
Dec. 4.

JUST PUBLISHED,
A HEART-THRUST AT SLAVERY.
"The Most Thrilling Book the War has Produced."
WONDERFUL REVELATIONS!

DARING AND SUFFERING:
A History of the Great Railroad Adventure.
BY LIEUT. WILLIAM PITTENGER,
One of the Adventurers.
With an Introduction by Rev. ALEXANDER CLARK,
Editor of the School Visitor. 
THE whole nation was excited, last Spring, by the revelations made before the Presdent and the Cabinet at Washington, by the survivors of General Mitchel's secret Railroad Expedition, sent into the heart of the Confederacy almost a year before. Of the twenty-two daring adventurers who penetrated the enemy's country, eight perished on the scaffold, and the others, after suffering untold hardships, finally succeeded in re crossing the lines and reaching the Union army. The survivors each received a medal of honor and other munificent rewards from the hands of the President.
The marvellous adventures of this band are recorded by one of their number, who is fully competent to the task. Their history, as narrated by him, possesses the connected interest of an epic poem. The scene is gradually developed, and the interest deepens from first to last. The reader will follow the adventurers, from their first midnight consultation, onward through their perilous journey, and will scarcely breathe during the progress of the terrible chasethe most exciting ever recorded in the anuals of any country. The death -scene will draw tears from the eye of the sympathizing reader, while his cheek will burn with indignation at the cruel ties practised by heartless rebels. The style is a simple, unaffected one, rising with the occasion to the loftiest eloquence, and abounding in the tenderest pathos.
The whole narrative of the long captivity, attempted escapes, sufferings and sorrows, of these heroic soldiers, is told with a graphic power that at once rivets the reader's attention. Nothing in history is more startling than this adventure, or more heart-touching, than its portraiture by the pen of the gifted author.
The book is illustrated by a fine steel portrait of the author, and several exquisite wood engravings, and printed in the highest style of typographical beauty.
Price $1, post-paid.
AGENTS wanted in all parts of the country, to whom extraordinary inducements are offered.
Address all orders to
J. W. DAUGHADAY. PUBLISHER,
1308 Chestant Street, Philadelphia.
For sale by A. WILLIAMS & CO, 100, Washington. St., and at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington St., Boston.
Dec. 42w.
<c06>
ANOTHER "HELPER."
LUNSFORD LANE;
OR,
Another Helper from North Carolina.
BY REV. WM. G. HAWKINS.
With a Portrait. Price $1.
The Worcester Daily Spy says: "It is the story of thirty years of slavery, and shows how dark are the shadows that lie on the very best and brightest side of the terrible system. Lunsford Lane was a slave in Raleigh, N. C. He was owned by a Mr. Haywood, who was a kind master to him, and of whom he purchased himself, his wife, and his seven children, paying thirty-five hundred dollars for the lot, twenty-one hundred of which he earned by his own labor besides supporting himself and his family, and paying his master a hundred dollars a year for his time. (Ah me! what shall we do with these lazy, shiftless slaves, after we have freed them?) Lane tells his own story simply and interestingly. The book is published for his benefit."
Just published by
CROSBY & NICHOLS,
117 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON.
Sent by mail, post-paid, on receipt of price.
CROSBY & NICHOLS will soon publish:
PAPERS FOR THOUGHTFUL GIRLS: With Illustrative Sketches of some Girls' Lives. By Sarah Tytler, author of "The Leila Books." Illustrated by J. E. Millais. 16mo.
"One of the most charming books of its class that we have ever read. It is even superior to Miss Muloch's well known work, 'A Woman's Thoughts about Women.' It is just such a book as we should select to place in the hands of a sister or a daughter upon her entrance into life, to guide her in danger, and counsel her in difficulty, to lead her upward and onward, and to show her what her duty is here and her happiness hereafter.London Morning Herald.
I WILL BE A SAILOR. By Mrs. L. C. Tuthill. 16mo. Illustrated.
THE WILD MAN OF THE WEST. By R. M. Ballantine. Illustrated. 16mo.
THE RED ERIC: or The Whaler's Last Cruise. By R. M. Ballantine. Illustrated, 16mo.
DICK RODNEY: or Adventures of an Eton Boy. By the author of "Jack Manly," &c. Illustrated. 16mo.
SOLDIERS OF THE BIBLE. By Rev. William M. Thayer, author of the "Pioneer Boy," "Tales from Genesis," &c,
MARMADUKE MERRY, THE MIDSHIPMAN: or My Eariy Days at Sea. By W. H. G. Kingston, author of "Salt Water, "Peter the Whaler," Illustrated.
THE SISTERS ABROAD. By Miss Channing. Illustrated. 16mo.
Catalogues of our Publications sent free if applied for.
CROSBY & NICHOLS,
117 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON.
JUST PUBLISHED:
TOUSSAINT L'OUVERTURE:
A Biography and Autobiography.
1 Vol. 12mo. pp. 372, illustrated with an authentic portrait and autograph of Toussaint, and a colored outline map of Colonial St Domingo. Price $1,25.
This volume contains two distinct worksa Biography and an Autography. The Biography is that of Dr. Beard, revised and improved,the only impartial, and complete record of the life of the great Negro in any language; while the autography is a translation, made expressly for this edition, of the naive and masterly review of his public career, which Toussaint addressed to the Emperor Napoleon where he was a prisoner in the fatal cell of the Chateau de Joux. This interesting Memoir was published by permission, from the original manuscripts in the General Archives of France, for the first time about ten years since, by a Haytian exile. It has never been translated into English before. A collection of interesting essays is appendedwhich embraces a Proclamation by King Christopher; in which he alludes to Toussaint's services and policy; an essay by Harriet Martineau, in which she describes a visit to the Chateau de Joux; a similar but quite recent account of the same journey by John Bigelow, Esq., our Consuat Paris; the poems of Wordsworth and John G. Whittier on the hero of Haytian; while an extract from Wendell Phillips great oration, appropriately closes the volume.
It is claimed that Toussaint L'Ouverture was not only the ablest Negro that has appeared in modern History, but the greatest military genius and statesman that the New World has produced, up to the present time. Hence, the appearance of this book, while we are still debating the military capacity of me Negro, is timely, and needed.
LAMARTINE ON TOUSSAINT.
"The Auroral Soul."
NAPOLEON BONAPARTE ON TOURSSAINT
"We take pleasure in recognizing the services which you have rendered to the French people. If the banner floats over St. Domingo, It is to you and the brave blacks that we owe it. Called by your talents and the force of circumstances to the highest post, you have destroyed civil war, and reins on the persecution carried on by ferocious men restored to honor religion and the worship of God.
WENDELL PHILLIPS ON TOUSSAINT.
"I would call him Napoleon, but Napoleon made his way to Empire over broken oaths and through a sea of blood. This man never broke his word. 'No retaliation' was his. great motto and the role of his life; and the last words he uttered to his son in France were these: 'My boy, you will one day to back to St. Domingo; forget that France murdered your father.' I would call him Crom well, but Cromwell was only a soldier and the State be founded went down with him into his grave. I would call him Washington, but the great Virginian held slaves. This man risked his empire rather than permit the slave trade in the humblest village of his dominions. You think me a fanatic tonight, for you read history, not with your eyes but with your prejudices. But, fifty years hence, when truth gets a hearing, the Muse of History will put Phocian for the Greek and Brutus for the Roman, Hampden for England, Fayette for France, choose Washington as the bright, consummate flower of our earlier civilisation, and John Brown the ripe fruit of our noondaythen dipping her pen in the sunlight, will write in the clear blue, above them all, the name of the soldier, the statesman, the martyr, TOUSSAAINT L'OUVERTURE."
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON ON TOUSSAINT.
This is no catch-penny affair, but a handsomely printed and profoundly interesting volume of one of the most remarkable men in the history of the world; whose case, indeed has no parallel for its strange vicissitudes from that of a chattel slave to leader, conqueror, statesman, ruler of a liberated race,at last perfidiously betrayed and transported to France, under circumstances of downright barbarity, where he was torn from his family, and consigned to a dungeon by order of Napoleon I. never to come forth alive. The subsequent imprisonment of Napoleon himself at St. Helena, seem to have been a fitting retribution for his infamous treatment of Toussaint L'Ouverture. Prophetically did Whittier write, years ago, of the Negro champion
"Sleep camly in thy dungeon tomb,
Beneath Besancon's alien sky.
Dark Haytian!-for the time shall come,
Yea, even now it nigh,
When every where thy name shall be
Redeemed from colors infamy;
And men shall learn to speak "of thee
As one of earth's great spirits born
In servitude and nursed in scorn.
Casting aside the weary weight
And fetters of its low estate,
In that strong majesty of soul 
Which knows no color, tongue, nor clime,
Which still hath spurned the base control 
Of tyrants through all time!"
We bespeak for this work the attention and patronage of all who are interested in the redemption of the negro race. Event those who are as strongly as they are unreasonably prejudiced against the race may, on giving it a close perusal, find their prejudice giving place to sympathy, contrition, and even admiration. Every intelligent colored person should try to possess a copy of it, not only for his own gratification, but in order to make use of the facts embodied in it for the furtherance of the cause of the millions of bondmen, complexionally identified with himself, who are yet waiting to be actually derived from their galling fetters. Thus shall the poet Wordsworth's prediction be realised, in his memorable sonnet upon Touriesaint L'Oiverture:
"Though fallen thy self, never to rise again, 
Live and take comfort! Thou hast left behind 
Powers that will work for thee: air, earth, and skies. 
There's not a breathing of the common wind 
That will forget thee: thou hast great allies: 
Thy friends are exultations, agonies, 
And love, and man's unconquerable mind!" 
JAMES REDPATH, Publisher
221 Washington Street.
BOSTON.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
THOUGHTS ON THE WORKS OF, PROVIDENCE
BY PHILLIS WHEATLEY, A NATIVE AFRICAN AND A SLAVE.
Arise, my soul! on wings enraptured, rise,
To praise the Monarch of the earth and skies,
Whose goodness and beneficence appear,
As round its centre moves the rolling year;
Or when the morning glows with rosy charms,
Or the sun slumbers in the oceans arms:
Of light divine be a rich portion lent,
To guide my soul and favor my intent.
Celestial Muse, my arduous light sustain, 
And raise my mind to a seraphic strain!
Adored forever be the God unseen, 
Who round the sun revolves this vast machine,
Though to his eye its mass a point appears:
Adored the God that whirls surrounding spheres,
Who first ordained that mighty Sol should reign,
The peerless monarch of th' ethereal train:
Of miles twice forty millions is his height,
And yet his radiance dazzles mortal sight,
So far beneath-from him th' extended earth 
Vigor derives, and ev'ry flow'ry birth: 
Vast through her orb she moves with easy grace,
Around her Phoebus in unbounded space;
True to her course, the impetuous storm derides,
Triumphant oer the winds and surging tides.
Almighty! in these wondrous works of thine,
What Power, what Wisdom, and what Goodness shine!
And are thy wonders, Lord, by men explored,
And yet creating glory unadored?
Creation smiles in various beauty gay,
While day to night, and night succeeds to day:
That Wisdom which attends Jehovahs ways,
Shines most conspicuous in the solar rays:
Without them, destitute of heat and light,
This world would be the reign of endless night.
In their excess how would our race complain,
Abhorring life! how hate its ! lengthened chain!
From air, or dust, what numerous ills would rise!
What dire contagion taints the burning skies!
What pestilential vapor, fraught with death, 
Would rise, and overspread the lands beneath!
Hail, smiling morn, that, from the orient main
Ascending, dost adorn the heavenly plain!
So rich, so various are thy beauteous dyes,
 That spread through all the circuit of the skies,
That, full of thee, my soul in rapture soars, and
And thy great God, the cause of all, adores!
Oer beings infinite his love extends,
His wisdom rules them, and his power defends.
When tasks diurnal tire the human frame,
The spirits faint, and dim the vital flame,
Then, too, that ever-active bounty shines,
Which not infinity of space confines.
The sable veil, that Night in silence draws,
Conceals effects, but shews th' Almighty Cause;
Night seals in sleep the wide creation fair, 
And all is peaceful but the brew of care.
Again gay Phoebus, as the day before,
Wakes ev'ry eye but what shall wake no more;
Again the face of Nature is renewed,
Which still appears harmonious, fair, and good:
May grateful strains salute the smiling morn,
Before its beams the eastern hills adorn!
Shall day to day and night to night conspire 
To show the goodness of th' Almighty Sire?
This mental voice shall man regardless hear, 
And never, never rai. the filial prayer
To-day, hearken, nor your folly mourn.
For time misspent, that never will return!
But see the sons of vegetation rise, 
And spread their leafy banners to the skies!
All-wise, Almighty Providence, we trace
In trees and plants, and all the flow'ry race,
As clear as in the noble frame of man.-
 A11 lovely copies of the Makers plan;-
The power the same that forms a ray of light, 
That called creation from eternal night.
Let there be light! "he said: from his profound
Old Chaos heard, and trembled at the sound:
Swift as the word, inspired by power divine, 
Behold the light around its Maker shine,
The first fair product of th' omnific God,
And now through all his works diffused abroad!
As Reasons powers by day our God disclose, 
So we may trace him in the nights repose:
Say, what is sleep? and dreams how passing strange!
When action ceases, and ideas range
Licentious and unbounded o'er the plains, 
Where Fancy's queen in giddy triumph reigns.
Hear in soft strains the dreaming lover sigh
To a kind fair, or rave in jealousy;
On pleasure now, and now on vengeance bent,
The lab'ring passion struggle for a vent.
What power, O man! thy reason then restores,
So long suspended in nocturnal hours?
What secret hand returns the mental train, 
And gives improved thine active powers again?
From thee, O man! what gratitude should rise!
And when from balmy sleep thou op'st thine eyes,
Let thy first thoughts be praises to the skies.
How merciful our God, who thus imparts 
O'erflowing tides of joy to human hearts,
When wants and woes might be our righteous lot, 
Our God forgetting, by our God forgot!
Among the mental powers a question rose,
What most the image of th' Eternal shows;
When thus to Reason (so let Fancy rove)
Her great companion spoke, immortal Love:-
Say, mighty power, how long shall strife prevail,
And with its murmurs load the whispering gale?
Refer the cause to Recollections shrine, 
Who loud proclaims my origin divine;
The cause whence heaven and earth began to be,-
And is not man immortalized by me?
Reason, let this most causeless strife subside
Thus Love pronounced, and Reason thus replied:-
"Thy birth, celestial Queen, 't is thine to own,
In thee resplendent is the Godhead shown;
Thy words persuade, my soul enraptured feels
Resistless beauty which thy soul reveals.
Ardent she spoke, and kindling at her charms, 
She clasped the blooming goddess in her arms.
Infinite Love, where'er we turn our eyes,
Appears: this ev'ry creature's want supplies;
This most is heard in Natures constant voice;
This makes the morn, and this the eve, rejoice;
This bids the fostering rains and dews descend,
To nourish all, to serve one gen'ral end.
The good of man: yet man, ungrateful, pays
But little homage and but little praise:
To Him whose works arrayed in mercy shine,
What songs should rise! how constant, how divine!

HYMN TO THE MORNING.
BY PHILLIS WHEATLEY.
Attend my lays, ye honored Nine!
Assist my labors, and my strains refine:
In smoothest numbers pour the notes along, 
For bright Aurora now demands my song.
Aurora, hail! and all the thousand dyes
Which deck thy progress through the vaulted skies:
The morn awakes, and wide extends her rays:
On evry leaf the gentle sephyr plays;
Harmonious lays the feathered race resume,
Dart the bright eye, and shake the painted plume.
Ye shady groves, your verdant bloom display,
To shield your poet from the burning day!
Calliope, awake the sacred lyre,
While thy fair sisters fan the pleasing fire!
The bowers, the gales, the variegated skies,
In all their pleasures in my bosom rise.
See in the east the illustrious king of day!
His rising radiance drives the shades away:-
But, oh! I feel the fervid beams too strong,
And scarce begun, conclude th' abortive song.
<c02>
The Liberator.
PLANTATION PICTURES.
BY MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON,
Author of "Cousin Franks Household.
CHAPTER IX.
THE CHINCAPINITES.
Mr. Beverly Manson was an ordinary man; common-place was the term that defined him. He prided himself on the nobility and antiquity of his family. His father and mother were cousins, and fearful that he could not form a suitable alliance without marrying in his own line, he had got up a ready-made attachment for his cousin Amelia;-an arrangement which comported well with his ideas of good management, their estates being contiguous, and an alliance personal being also an alliance of real estate.
Amelia did not repel his attentions. It is true, she had some misgivings; all her ideals were suggested by sentimental romances, which formed a portion of her reading. Her fancied lover was tall, with piercing black eyes, raven hair and mustache: she being in some great peril, he was to appear and rescue her, and then they were to fall in love immediately.
But cousin Beverly was below the medium height-in this unlike his ancestors, who were men of large frames;-in fact, he was not quite as tall as Amelia. This shocked her. it was so unknightly! His eyes and hair were of the brightest description; and as for mustache,-
His youthful down was like his talents rare,
Politely distant stood each single hair.
Such was the hero whose addresses Amelia felt inclined to encourage; for, despite her prejudice in favor of an imaginary Somebody she had never seen, the really did like her cousin. And was she not in her seventeenth year? and how else could she the finish her education? how escape Miss Forsy the and her dreaded lessons?
Mr. Manson's regard for his cousin was accordingly reciprocated; and the young people, after a short courtship, and making sentiment out of moonlight, were engaged. Mr. Nelson was gratified, for he approved of keeping up the old families.
Mr. Manson had inherited Wyatt Hall, an old ancestral establishment that sadly needed repairing. The estate connected with it was under successful cultivation:- t was stocked with well-trained people and yielded a handsome income. From motives of economy he had officiated as his own overseer for the last few years, and, by skillful management, added not a little to his fortune. In order that he might fit up the cage for his bird, as he expressed it, the marriage was deferred a few months.
Cousin Beverly, Ive got a favor to ask of you said Amelia one morning, during his visit to Powhatan.
Granted to the half of my kingdom!" dutifully replied Mr. Manson, as he knocked the ashes from his cigar.
The Rixbys have made me promise to dine with them, and I want you to accompany me. Youll see high life below stairs.
I would not suppose there would be enough of interest to draw you there demurred Mr. Manson, taken aback.
Ah, well, exclaimed Amelia, it's so dull on this plantation, all the time, and the Rixbys are our nearest neighbors. We can have a cozy time riding there and back; and if you don't say we've had a rare treat when we get back, I'll never invite you again." 
"Well, cousin, I am at your disposal replied Mr. Manson, as I said, to the half of my kingdom-so here goes!
What a dear good cousin you are! exclaimed Amelia, Ill, be ready in a moment and she ran off to dress.
Meanwhile, let us glance at the Rixbys Of late, the overseer had been getting up in the world. By dint of savin and care, as his wife expressed it, he had for some dozen years laid by most of his salary. This, as it accumulated, had been carefully put at interest, and the overseer was no longer poor; he was a man of some consequence. He had ready money, and owed not a cent; and neighboring planters, who were embarrassed by living beyond their means, began to treat him more as an equal. Occasionally, he even found access to their dinner parties-a golden key unlocking their doors. They might patronize him by borrowing funds of him; he was on the road to social respectability. There was no denying it, he would soon be able to purchase a plantation, and stock it with slaves. It is true, he could neither read nor write, but then he had a certain business talent, and a swaggering air; and when he dined out, lest he expose his ignorance, made eating his forte, allowing the better educated to do the talking. Within the last year, his daughter Plumy Ann had become educated, having spent two terms at school. She had penetrated into Geography, commenced on Addition, and turned up her nose at Grammar. She had a smattering of drawing, painting, and embroidery, besides thumbing on the piano shockingly. In fine, she had graduated to her own satisfaction, and that of her discriminating parents, who set her down as a paragon of attainment.
Amelia mounted her little black pony, and Mr. Manson his own horse, while John ran before to open the park gate, and let down fences; for the route to the overseer's house lay across the fields. The carriage road leading out the park gate passed, a foot-path was followed across a pasture overrun with juniper bushes and blackberry vines, with an occasional cluster of pines; then through a wood where wound a shallow stream, and issuing from the grove, Chincapin Hill was in full view. It was a low, one-story house-the whitewash discolored by the rain, and overhung by a large weeping willow, which yielded crops of worms, constantly dropping on the roof and in the yard. For the rest, hedges of chincapin bushes mostly made up the view.
It was a day to be remembered by the Chincapinites-this day of Amelia's and Mr. Manson's visit.The overseer managed to compose his faculties sufficiently to ride down to the field, and superintend the people Mrs. Rixby bustled and fussed, commanded and counter- commanded black Ann and yellow Ann, until the poor things were in a maze, and knew not what to do. The mistress was entitled to good-nature on the score of her temperament; but she often observed that her flesh was not good flesh-- it certainly was not good-natured flesh. She never wanted an occasion to find fault. Years ago, she was accustomed to do her own work, and enjoyed much better health. Now, settling down like a post, she mainly exercised her voice, and a wearisome life she had.
Plumy Ann, arrayed in her favorite flaming rustling dress, went out to the gate to receive the visitors; her mother, out of breath, following in her wake.
Good morning, Miss Nelsin! good morning, Mr. Mansing exclaimed Mrs. Rixby. I declare I never was so beat in all my born days. Walk right into the parlor. ImI'm mighty glad to see you, though its a mighty surprise, I must say.
"Why, marm," said Plumy Ann as they entered the house, "I told you they was coming! Amelia said they would."
"It's like you did, replied the mother simperingly, but I did't believe one word more for that that Why, sey I to myself, our Plumy Ann thinks so: an I sint the parson as is gwine to fluster ate her by denying on't. Its like I didnt think theyd make it convenyant to visit our Plume. Though its I sey it, my gals got larnin, and is that accompliahed. As I was sayin, I didnt except you moren nothin, and youll find us all in the suds. Them are pesky sarvints can't be spected to clear up till I drives em tot with shovel an' tongs."
"But I was tellin'you 'bout Plumy Anns deficiencies.-I sey to Rixby, sey I, its the beatenist thing in natur! What dont that gal know? Gography,
<c03>
Rithmetake, an Grammar, I reckon they calls 'em; she knows all them are 'struse sciences, atlasses an all, by heart, an she figures on the slate beautiful! I dont reckon any body could puzzle her, if they was to a suffer. An shes foreverlastingly a readin books, when she aint 'broiderin' or some such gentility.
"Ah, said," Mr. Manson, smiling, your "daughter is quite a prodigy.
In course she is, replied the proud mother, I'll lay she's enny jest got that great volum, Mysteries of Rudolpho, by heart. She's bound to read it arly an late, do an' say what I will. Ive found her over an often sittin up in bed at midnight, black Ann holdin the light, a most fast asleep, fur her to read by. An I tells her its a sin an a shame, fur daylight is long nough to read by, an' lots cheaper than taller and weekin' an' pray what does black Ann amount to next day, arter sech doins? Whip an scold as much as I can; an' the sleepy thing dont arn the salt in her pone. An' so I say its a waste, besides being a sin an a shame.
Oh, marm, interposed the daughter, dew for the lands sake be done!
Bless me! pon my word, returned Mrs. Rixby, shaking with laughter, as she sat in her calico stuffed rocking-chair taking snuff, pon my word, youre a smart un! Its like I shall have my say, tho', an' then I must take the keys and give out things for dinner.
Dew be done, for the lands sake, marm! fretfully repeated Plumy Ann.
I tells you, gal, Is gwine to quit soon as Ive had my say; an then you, an your company, may have the row all to yourselves. Then turning to the company, "I must jist tell you 'bout them to other books,- the Sottish Chiefs, Sot's novels in two volum's. You never seed the beat of it! Day in an' day out, she's at them are books, a gittin them by heart an a gittin so educated that there haint no livin with her. Wheres Plumy Ann, says Rixby, when he comes from the field. An say I, why, dont you know? In course shes in the parlor a readin Sots novels, the Sottish Chiefs. An, says he, swearin awful, I wont have that gal mewed up readin all her days. She'll git so much larnin we shant durst speak to her. Thats jist what Rixby says; but it's no more use than to talk to the wind. Our Plumy is sot on tuck in' all the larnin thats gwine, into her head, an I reckon itll bust one of these days-and she laughed with a rocking motion.
Ill risk it, replied the daughter with an inflated air; marm, aint it time to give out things fur dinner?-and thereupon Mrs. Rixby took out her silver watch, and said, Yes, indeed; it's high time, an more tew, but I must rest a bit, and have my say " -and turning to Amelia, she asked,-
"How's all the folks at Powhatan? Miss Forsythe, and Miss Lelia, an all on em?
Amelia replied that they were all well.
Im bound to come over there some day, an take a look at that ar gal, said Mrs. Rixby; "I've heard tell sech things about her. They say she's the harnsomest gal in the county. Then how the lies travils 'bout the way she plays the pianner an' the jewsharp, an' how she larns all that's gwine. They say you can't hold a candle to her. I makes no bones contradicting it all. I tells folks I knows better; she ain't nothin to you, an'our Plumy Ann, thats clar and Mrs. Rixby having had her say, proceeded to the storeroom to give out things. Firstly, she summoned black Ann,-but no answer. With an oath on her tongue, and a raw hide in her hand, she addled out to the kitchen, which was a little filthy out house in the back yard. There sat the deaf servant in the corner smoking a stump of a pipe, with unwashed dishes all around her. Black Anns ideas of good and evil were all in a jumble under Mrs. Rixby's supervision. Cash instead of the lash would have restored her motive power. As it was, she became wilful and indolent, loitering away her time in a manner trying to the patience of a far more merciful mistress than hers.
Mrs. Rixby called out, Come long, you lazy jade! long to the store-room with you! Black Ann obeyed the order something as a stubborn mule would the whip; and the mistress entered the house, scolding fiercely, unlocked a little provision room, and gave out the materials of which the cook and maid of all work, was to get up the dinner.
Here's the pertaters, she added, "jist twelve, an you see that they 're all put on the table. Don't you steal a mite for your mouth, if you do, Rixby shall give you sech a whaling as you never had afore. Here's a good nice round of beef we've been keepin for this ere. 'casion. A leetle mite tainted, an' all the nicer for that.m Cook it good, or you shant have a mouthful for a week! Here's the bacon, an here's the chicken. Now you've got to do your work fast, and make every step count! Rixby'll be that mad if you dont work lively! "
Hows I to traipse through all this ere work! said black Ann, despondingly. Cant yaller Ann help? I cant git the dinner fore sundown!
You ungrateful truck! replied Mrs. Rixby. Yaller Ann is that stiff with a whipping, but if you'll be spry, I'll roust her, and she shall wash the dishes.
In the stable, on the loose straw and litter lay yellow Ann, groaning with every breath. Mrs. Rixby came in, raw hide in hand, and with a threatening gesture, said,-
Come yaller Ann, what alive you doin? Lying abed all day! you dont arn your salt. Come, up with you; stir your stumps! Weve got a smashin' dinner to git up, an' you must help. Come, be movin, dye hear? and she gave a threatening motion with her raw hide.
"I cant missus, I cant, Is dat sore!" said the girl, with a groan.
"Take that then!" replied the mistress, giving her blow after blow, "see if that wont limber ye!"
Oh, oh, missus, don't!" screamed the girl, turning over with great effort, and at length succeeding in getting up.
Thar now, you re up! said the mistress, your stiff jints is all make believe; now you jist march off to the kitchen an' wash up the dishes, quick time! Be off with yourself!" and following the feeble, faint and lacerated servant, with blows, to the kitchen, she saw her begin on the dried morning dishes, while black Ann kindled the fire to get the dinner.
Now you behave, both on you, ur Ill skin you alive! said the mistress as she left them at their work.
The getting up of the repast proved but a burdensome affair, there being no "will with the two servants, there was the lacking of a may. The mistress had to spend most of her time puffing and blowing between the house and kitchen. At length, however, at the fashionable hour of four o'clock the table was ready, and overseer Rixby having been kept waiting full two hours for the extra dishes, declared with usual expletives that he was hungry as a bar. Mr. Manson, Amelia, and Plumy Ann, amused them selves with rambling in the woods, until the horn gave warning. The moment his guests appeared, the overseer took his seat at the head of the table, and whetting his knife and fork together till the steel flew, asked Amelia, just as she was sitting down, if she liked taters.
There now, Rixby! said the more genteel wife, if you haint made a mistake the fust thing! Why cant you have company manners, and call that are sarce, purtaters. There, lands sake alive! I entirely forgot to count em. Plumy Ann, shove that are plate this way, an let me enumberate them. I'll lay there haint a dozen on 'em. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, and Amelia one, that makes ten! only ten! Them are thievin' sarvints has cat a tater apiece, as true as I'm alive! It's 'nuff to wear out the patience of Job, it is indeed. No other way only to whale 'em at the whipping post, is there, Rixby?"
I reckon that's so! replied that worthy, as he was filling up a plate. Have a drumstick, and the gizzard, Mr. Manson?
<c04>
The lady Rixby then expatiated on the several misdemeanors of black Ann, and yellow Ann, and Amelia was appealed to, if 'twas not the only way to keep them whaled within an inch of their lives. Amelia, thoughtless as she was, was shocked, and replied that she could not say, she was sure she would not know what to do with such perverse servants.
"Wal, Rixby has just been tellin' me that that Chainy is rekivered !That's what I call good news, continued Mrs. Rixby.
"Yes, chimed in the overseer, "that is capital. That are recurrence is a bright spot to me! Didn't I give her the runaway's medicine!
"I reckon you did," laughed Mrs. Rixby, and turning to Amelia, "I suppose you know what Rixby means, a taste of the cowhide "Amelia was silent, and the overseer explained further:-
Miss Forsythe, she got nervous like, an' what does she do but send down for me to come right up to the house, -Squire, Nelson was away, ye see,-she wanted to dissuade me from takin' Chainy to the whippin' post. In course I couldn't do no less than promise 'pon honor I wouldnt harm her; being as Im; bein' as I'm a gentleman, I couldn't do no less, of course; though in generally I profess to understand my profession better than the ladies does. But howsomever, I did my duty an' maintained the discipline of the plantation. I jest showed that are Chainy the odds between runnin' away 'without any provocation, ' an' mindin' her business. Right smart odds I reckon she found 'em, too, by the way she screeched and cried for mercy! and the overseer laughed heartily at his own story.
"But she warn't found anywhere nigh where Hinna told? asked Mrs. Rixby.
Its like she wasnt, replied the overseer, munching beef and potato; ye see, Manson, niggers in generally travils fast; wish to goodness they had as good a will to work as they have to travil; yes, sir, we should double our crops if they'd work with as much elicrity."
Doubtless you are correct, said Mr. Manson, absently.
But, Rixby, persisted the wife, you can't make me believe that Chainy and Trolo was sech fools as to be gwine off south to git clar! If Hinna had told me so fifty times, an' fifty top of that, I wouldn't believed it. She sent you off on a wild goose chase. If you was me its like she'd hear from her trick agin. I'd be quits with her, I really would.
"Jiminy!" exclaimed the overseer, thats jest as much as women in generally knows about business! 'Pears like I knows what I'se about. I understands things. Hinna, she's a good Christian woman, she wouldn't hide the vally of a cent of property by sendin' us off the track. Hinna don't help sarvints off no more 'n you do, Sal. She's on our side, an' orter be depreciated. She's a right smart Christin."
I thought she was a fortune-teller and a witch, remarked Amelia.
"The ferry woman?" asked Mr. Manson, turning to Amelia.
Yes, cousin, replied Amelia, you came over in her boat.
Ah, yes, he replied, and it strikes me that she is a woman of great ability.
"That's what I calls proof in pint," rejoined the overseer; its like shell; help us ketch all the runs ways she can, that's clar.
Wal, wal, said the wife, eagerly masticating, its fortunate they'se rekivered, anyhow. Chaneys ketches, and thatll tale Troll, hell be comin' in from the swamps to see his mother, an' you ken take him, Rixby, if ony you keeps a bright lookout.
"It takes me to ketch 'em," replied the overseer," I always sleeps with one eye open. But I reckon Chainyll hafter be sold, shes so unruly; next we know shell be totin' off that are gal of hern, house-servant Kitty."
"O Pa," said Plumy Ann," I wants Kitty fur my maid."
You do? rejoined the father," that's the idee,; that would keep her safe and sound.I'll consult 'Squire Nelson when he's to hum."
Meanwhile Planter, being at leisure, and hearing of yellow Anns punishment, hovered around the premises, and when he found that Mrs. Rixby had taken her seat at the table, made his appearance in the kitchen. Yellow Ann had finished her dishes, and was curled down in the corner, thinking upon her pain and misery, and wishing she had some one to comfort her.
Planter came stealthily in, and taking her in his arms as he would a baby, kissed her almost before she knew tt. She uttered an exclamation of surprise and smiled through her tears.
"What they been doin' to you, darlin'?" asked Planter, the tears in his beaming eyes.
"O dear! don't ask me to tell," replied the young girl. "I'm dat mortified to be whipped by truck de like o dat.
Dats so, dat's so, darlin' Ann," said Planter," and they shan't do it! I'll tell Massa Nelson about it."
Dat won't do no manner of good," replied Ann," he's, bound to let de overseer have his way."
Den Ill go to Miss Forsythe," said Planter.
"I feared dat wont be no better," said Ann," she pitiful, but she can't straighten everybodys trouble."
"But, darlin', you think Planter ken live an have you 'bused so? Can't noways. We'll go an live in the swamp first. To think the Rixbys dare touch you, darlin', with de rawhide! Its bominable! Was it for dis I tote de overseer hum, an save his life? Better I done leave him to die, a tons and times. An he knows I love you better dan I do myysef, darlin', an' he jes' sech a dog as to aggravate me! I could see him killed, could so! and Planters whole frame shook with his roused indignation. Little Ann was afraid he would do some dreadful deed, and said:"
Never mind, Planter dear, were all the world to each other, an we can afford to let the Rixbys go. They jes no 'count 'tall. Ony poor whites. Miss Rixby cant call her missus to save me, de poor white stick out all over her; she cant hide it noways."
"Dat is de fack truth," rejoined Planter.
"Laws! I'se dat ashamed of her. Dont want to wait and tend for truck like o date, no way. She des no 'count." Black Ann coming in after the dessert, added, "Dey's, poor whites, and dat's all; you cant make no more of de cat dan her skin."
"Dat's so," said Planter,
"Cut down de wilier as much as you will,
And when day sprout day de same tree still."
"Missus she fine fault, fine fault, nuffin' suit," said Black Ann.
"She want 'casion to fine fault, do she?" asked Planter.
"Dat she do," replied Black Ann," an' we'se boun', to see she has de 'casion she wants," and she laughed merrily. "Poor ting! dont she feel cranky, though, like de turkey gobbler, over dat lunge, sofa, she call it! She patch dat are lunge ebery day of her life, an' 'tween times I pulls out de stuffin as fast as she ken put it in; the dat stupid she tink it de mice. She wan't fotched up to sofas, nor the like o' dat, an' she tink data de way of 'em to wear out ober night. An' what an infant baby she do make of dat are Plumy Ann!"
But Mrs. Rixby's gruff voice, "O, black Ann!" was heard, and for once that servant obeyed, and, laden with the rice pudding dessert made her way to the dinner table. Planter, stooping to kiss his betrothed, said tenderly,
Member, Annie darlin', Planter loves you, and," he added fiercely," he hates Rixby," and he was gone.
Mr. Beecher's reception at the Academy last evening (says the New York Tribune of the 25th,) was the greatest financial success which has ever fallen to the lot of any speaker in this country. The receipts, which were for the benefit of the Sanitary Commission, were about $4000. The Tribune, pronounces) it vigorous and very anti-slavery, and gives a full report of it.
<c05>
REV. GILBERT. HAVEN ON THE SABBATH.
In the Second Part of the New Gospel of Peace it is mentioned as a peculiar trait of the men of Unculpsalm that, when they very greatly desired a certain thing to be so, they held a solemn meeting, and confidently declared that it was so. And this declaration was called, in the speech of that land, a rezzleooshn.
The people of this country, however, inherited the trait above-mentioned from their ancestors in England; for it was by "rezzleooshn," among the English Puritans, near the close of the sixteenth century, that the thing now popularly called" the Christian Sabbath" was invented. The wide-spread knowledge of this invention, however, and the belief now existing among Britons and Americans that there is such a thing as a Christian Sabbath, and that it is something of Gods appointment, came, no doubt, from the Westminster Assemblys Catechism, which began to be used in 1647.
Every class of men has its special temptation, its besetting sin. It is very important to clergymen, whose subsistence (as well as professional success, credit and renown) depends on the periodical assembling of people to hear them preach, that the habit of such assemblage be fixed by some means additional to the attractiveness of their sermons. It is of great importance to these men that the community be induced to go regularly to church on Sundays. In no manner could this purpose be so thoroughly effected as by creating a belief that God has specially comanded Sunday to be set apart for religious services. But, since the Christian Scriptures gave neither command nor recommendation of that sort, the Westminster Divines thought it necessary to manufacture one. It would be very insufficient for their purpose to quote the Fourth Commandment of the Hebrew Decalogue by itself, even supposing that code to be addressed to Christians, or obligatory upon them, in any manner or degree whatever; since that command requires only an observance of Saturday, the seventh day of the week, and specifies as the required manner of its observance only rest, a cessation from all manner of work; and of course a command to rest on Saturday would not avail to make men go to church on Sunday. The Westminster Assembly therefore made, by rezzleooshn," a modification of, and addition to, the fourth Jewish commandment, and declared that God has now appointed the first day of the week to be the Christian Sabbath. Their insertion of this falsehood, and of other falsehoods afterwards found necessary to back it up, in the Catechism, proceeded, no doubt, from a very sincere belief that the hearing of their doctrines, one day in each week, was really beneficial and important to the community; essential, indeed, to the salvation of every individual. Moreover, no one questions that the motive last mentioned is the prominent conscious one in the minds of those ministers o who have ever since preached this theory of Gods appointment of a "Christian Sabbath." But the doing of evil that good may come, never justifiable, becomes additionally suspicious when it is in the line of the pecuniary interest of those who practise it. The first preachers of Christianity, who offered the Gospel to their hearers without money and without price, might reasonably call upon men to come and receive this free gift; and yet we do not hear that they enjoined any particular day for its reception; but when a preacher takes a position which virtually proclaims to the community-Come every Sunday, and hear my two sermons, and pay me for them, or else God will punish you"-he puts the matter upon a footing quite different; and when he says, in addition" God commands that you devote all your Sundays exclusively to this business"-he must not be surprised if men scrutinize the evidence, and inquire when and where, and to whom, and in what precise terms, God said all this.
In spite of the opposition of Calvin, Luther and Melancthon, of Bunyan and Baxter, of Roger Williams and of Paley, to this false claim of Gods having commanded the observance of Sunday as a Sabbath, this claim is maintained, now-a-days, by the majority of those who, in other respects, follow the lead, and adopt the theological system, of those eminent reformers. Not only the American Tract Society, (so grossly dishonest in many other particulars,) but the majority of Orthodox clergymen, including some of the best of men, teach the doctrine of a Christian Sabbath of Gods appointment as confidently as if it were true. Of late, a highly respected Methodist minister, Rev. Gilbert Haven, distinguished both as an able preacher and as a faithful Chaplain in the Union army, has preached a discourse on" The Sinfulness of Sunday Secular Concerts," and has replied, in the Post, to a criticism on his discourse in that paper, assuming and asserting, in both documents, that God commands the observance of Sunday as a Sabbath.
No doubt Mr. Haven has thought it part of his appropriate business as a Chaplain to distribute among the soldiers various publications of the American Tract Society, and among them some relating to" The Sabbath." Perhaps he has failed to notice that the tracts of that Society, on that subject, contain so many false assertions and assumptions as to tend utterly to mislead the reader respecting the teachings of that Bible on which they pretend to be founded. Perhaps he has himself incautiously taken for granted, that those assertions and assumptions in regard to a Christian Sabbath are true. At any rate, he most admit the reasonableness of the claim, that a ministers teachings, shall be in conformity with Scripture. I therefore take the liberty to address to him some questions in regard to the scriptural authority on which he assumes to stand.
Writing against Sunday concerts, and assuming it to be the duty of this community to use Sunday exclusively as a Sabbath, Mr. Haven says-"The controversy is Gods, not mine. He ordained the day."
When ministers say.-"The controversy is God's, they ordinarily mean that the Bible teaches the course they are upholding. Will Mr. Haven point out even a single passage in which the Bible requires the observance of Sunday as a Sabbath?
Again. Mr. Haven calls special attention to an injunction of the Hebrew prophet Issiah to his nation, enjoining on them the observance of the Jewisn Sabbath, Saturday, the seventh day of the week, and promising that, if they faithfully observed it, they should ride upon the high places of the earth, and be fed with the heritage of Jacob their father. 
Will Mr. Haven tell us frankly-Did not the prophet mean Saturday, the seventh day of the week, when he charged the Jews to observe the Sabbath! Did not every Jew among those who originally heard his injunction understand, and correctly understand, that he meant Saturday? And does not every devout Jew of the present day still observe Saturday as a Sabbath, in obedience to this command? How, then, is it fair, how is it honest, to quote this injunction as requiring an observance of Sunday, the first day of the week, and to quote it as addressed to Gentiles, who are not the posterity of Jacob?
There are various matters of opinion stated in Mr. Havens letter, in regard to which I differ with him. If certain of the selections performed at Mr. Gilmores concerts have in them no religious element," it is equally true that they have in them no irreligious element. Music cannot possibly express an evil or vicious sentiment, and cannot possibly be, as Mr. Haven declares this to be-" deadly in its spiritual effects.
Mr. Haven refers to the piety of the Pilgrim Fathers as at variance with Sunday concerts. That piety had two sides to it. Let us distinguish between things that differ. When the piety of the Pilgrim Fathers led them to drown witches, to hang Quakers, to banish and <illegible> Baptists, and to make false representations respecting the teaching of Scripture in regard to the Sabbath; it was visions, not virtues; it did harm, not good; it is to be censured, not <illegible>and not set up as a model for our imitation.
Mr. Haven suggests that Mr. Gilmore give Concerts on those days only when all can conscientiously ap-
<c06>
prove and attend. Then he could give no concerts at all; for the Quakers have a conscientious objection to all music. There is a better rule, the very one that Mr. Gilmore has adopted. Let him give his concerts on that day that he thinks right, and let the hearers give their attendance, respectively, on the days that they think right. Then all will be satisfied, or as nearly all as the varieties of opinion and character will allow. The dog in the manger will bark, and we shall let him bark.
These, however, are matters of opinion. One person will think one way-another, another. What I want to know is, whether the Sunday Sabbath is anything more than a matter of opinion; anything more than one of the "devices of men, "in earlier or latter times; whether there is any injunction in the Bible for the use of Sunday as a Sabbath;: whether there is any prohibition in the Bible against using Sunday otherwise than as a Sabbath. To this end, will Mr. Haven please answer, fairly and plainly, the questions above asked?-C. K. W.
ANTI- SLAVERY SENTIMENT IN BALTIMORE. The Baltimore correspondent of the Evening Post, as a gratifying evidence of the rapid spread of anti-slavery sentiment in Baltimore since the first of October, states that the Ladies Union Relief Association of that city has elected Mrs. Henry Winter Davis as its President vice Mrs. Reverdy Johnson, resigned. He also says that previous to the appearance of McClellan's letter endorsing that arch-Pennsylvania traitor Woodward, the portrait of the former hung up in the room of the Association. After that, two holes developed themselves suddenly. Its next fate was its removal.

BOOKS FOR THE TIMES.
I. SPEECHES, LECTURES AND LETTERS. By WENDELL PHILLIPS. Library edition, $2.25; Trade edition, $1.50;Peoples edition, $1.
II. HOSPITAL SKETCHES. By Miss L. M. Alcott. Price 50c.
III. TOUSSAINT LOUVERTURE: a Biography and Autobiography. $1.25.
IV. REDPATH'S LIFE OF CAPT. JOHN BROWN. $1.00
V. HENRY WARD BEECHERS GREAT SPEECH IN ENGLAND. Price 10c.
VI.. THE BLACK MAN. By William Wells Brown. $1.00.
Circulars containing criticisms of these publications sent to any address, free.
Any of these Books will be sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of price. 
R. F. WALLCUT,
Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington St, Boston.
ROUND HILL
WATER-CURE.
DR. HALSTED, of Round Hill Water-Cure, Northampton, Mass., has so far perfected his "Motorpathis System" of treatment that many cases of incipient prolapsus uteri, kindred weakness and ulcerations, can be cared by one consultation, and the following of his instructions. The plan and remedies for self or home treatment are potent and restorative. They dispel pain and weakness in the back, strengthen the nerves, tone the stomach, and obviate indigestion and constipation.
Confirmed cases and bed-ridden patients can be so much relieved by one visit as to give them faith of ultimate recovery at his institution. Water treatment may be used to tone the system, or it may not; but supporters, caustic or harsh treatment, never. The organ, one only, motorpathically adjusted, no ordinary exertion will displace; and after a short treatment, its healthy condition becomes fixed and permanent.
This method is so simple and reliable that it is working a revolution in the treatment of womans disease. Physicians are cordially invited to test its value. Their attention is also called to his treatment for neuralgic and spinal difficulties, by which the vital forces are renewed. strength and elasticity restored, and broken-down constitutions renovated. The names of thousands of invalids who have been cured at his institution are on record, with a history of their sufferings.. Further information will be gives, if desired.
Northampton, Mass., Nov. 25.
GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood & Cos, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Cos, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
In the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Parties,
Shop under the Marlboro Hotel. Order may be left at Messrs. Hall & Stowells Provision Store, 132 Charles street Boston. NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co.
Oct. 30-ly

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
WITHOUT SMUTTING"
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with as bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to he hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years as they often say they can get nothing or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER.

EDWARD M. DAVIS,
STOCK & EXCHANGE BROKER,
No. 39 SOUTH THIRD STREET,
(SECOND FLOOR,) PHILADELPHIA, PA.
I HAVE this day opened an office for the transaction of a general EXCHANGE and BANKING BUSINESS, and the sale of Bonds and other Securities on Commission. 
Particular attention will be given to Government Securities, as the most reliable investments.
Bonds and Stocks in general will be bought and sold.
Dividends, Interests and Coupons will be collected and remitted.
Railroad, City, Country and Township Bonds negotiated. 
Quartermasters Vouchers and Yearly Certificates bought and sold. 
Interest allowed on Deposits, and Loans negotiated.
Special Collections made.
Coin and Currency bought.
Foreign Exchange sold.
As I have a prompt and reliable correspondent in New York, connected with the Brokers Board, I can execute orders there with dispatch.
Any business entrusted to me will be attended to promptly and faithfully, E. M. DAVIS, 
SECOND FLOOR, 39 SOUTH THIRD St. 
Philadelphia, Penn.
Philadelphia, April 1st, 1863.-6m

A.FOLSOM & SON,
MANUFACTURERS OF
OIL CARPETING,
-AND-
ROOF CLOTH,
23 WATER STREET,
A. FOLSOM, BOSTON.
S. P. FOLSOM, BOSTON
M. H. HARDY,
DRESS-MAKING ROOMS,
No. 10, Oliver Place,
Out of Essex Street, between 
Oxford and Edinboro Sts.,
Sept. 23.tf BOSTON.
BRAID PATTERNS
STAMPED AT NO. 20 WINTER STREET, 
AT FIVE CENTS PER YARD.
Boston, Oct. 23, 1863.
