THE LIBERATOR.
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for Ten DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID.) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents is three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO.42. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1706.
VOL XXXIII.NO.12. BOSTON,FRIDAY, MARCH 20,1863. WHOLE NO.1676.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
WALLANDIGHAM’S MEETING 
A meeting of the Copperheads was held at the room on the corner of Broadway and Twenty-second street, on Saturday evening. There were about 500 persons present, (no ladies,) who amused themselves by chatting and smoking, shouting and stamping, until the speaker arrived. We did not discover any distinguished gentlemen among the auditors—indeed, there was not even a notorious character present until John Mckeon made his appearance. He was soon followed by Ben Wood, who looked very pale, Luke F. Cozzens, and others of that kidney. Cozzens made a few remarks, and then introduced Mr. VALLANDIGHAM, who was greeted with cheers. Mr. V. is a man of medium height, has a flesh countenance, sharp eyes and a Jewish nose. His dark hair is slightly touched with the frost of forty-five winters. His self-assurance is one of the most prominent characteristics noticeable in his tone of voice and manner of address. As a speaker, he does not reach a fourth-rate status. His manner is forced and monotonous, his matter common-place and inelegantly expressed; but he has a faculty of saying bold and unpatriotic things in plain words, and he has made himself familiar with points that never fail to please the copperheads. That his auditors were copperheads was made manifest by their continuous hissing when the name of Abraham Lincoln was mentioned. When the speaker alluded to the conscription act, a number of parties present defied the power of the authorities to draft them. He declared that the President has been clothed with the power of dictator. His speech was a rehash of his treasonable utterances in Congress. He said he was not aware until his arrival that threats had been made that this or that man should not speak, or he would have taken an earlier train. (Applause.) The purpose at Washington was to crush out the Democratic party; but they could not succeed. (Cheers.) This is not Cooper Institute. (Laughter.) It is a spontaneous meeting. He came to speak of things which had been done. Where was gold?—invisible, only serving the purposes of the coin collector. What was their currency? (Voices:" Greenbacks—postage stamps.") What was their debt? They would be willing to settle at $71,000,000 when we started. What is the debt now? Only $2,227,000,000 of appropriations by Congress. The purse, which was intended to he in the hands of the people for the protection of their liberties, was now placed for two years in the hands of the President—for what?—to control the life-blood of the nation, its business and currency. Part of it was intended to enter into the Negro trade. The idea of compensated emancipation entered into the mind of Mr. Lincoln (hisses) which, being interpreted into good old-fashioned English, means greenback abolition."(Great Laughter ) But that scheme had been defeated, (A Voice—"What can we do?") I’ll tell you. We can do what we are doing to-night. We can vote. We can try this question before the great tribunal of the people. (A Voice—We’ll fight.") We are good Democrats, and if we are beaten, we will submit; and if they are beaten, by the Eternal, they must submit, (Applause.) Well, what else? Congress has given the President the sword. Your misrepresentatives did it. (Voices—"No, no!") Yes, yes, Democrats did it. I did not do it. (Applause.) If I had had my way, the sword would never have been drawn. I would have passed the Crittenden resolutions. (Applause.) There were 937,000 men sent to the war and committees everywhere helped send them, and they went voluntarily. And I think no place did more of that kind of thing than New York. (Voices—"Yes, yes. " The mob did it") Congress had attempted to invest the President with power to compel every citizen between twenty and forty-five to serve in the army as a conscript. (Voices—"He can’t do it. Don’t see it." Not another man." "He can’t raise another man." "We won’t go.") This bill had, so far as Congress could, surrendered the entire military power of the government into the hands of the president—both the purse and the sword. What else could be needed to make a Dictator? (A voice—"Brains." Laughter.) By courage, and firmness, and manhood, the minority had compelled the withdrawal of every provision that did not relate to it as a military measure. (Applause.) They had compelled the withdrawal of the proposed authorization of Provost Marshals to inquire into disloyal practices such as they were engaged in to-night. (Applause and laughter.) They had also secured an amendment that all citizens arrested for resisting the draft shall be banded over to the civil authorities. (Applause.) Without these amendments, the President would have had all the power of Cincinnatus, without any of his virtues.(Applause.) So also, as to the bill authorizing the President to suspend the writ of habeas corpus anywhere, even a thousand miles away from the rebellion, that law would be declared unconstitutional. (Applause.) The same right of resistance that the common law gives to a man to prevent a trespasser from entering his house, exists with reference to that law. The same redress for the attempted wrong exists with regard to that as to any other wrong. Any honest court will decide the law unconstitutional and illegal. Then, as to the bill permitting the president and his associates to imprison a man until a distant session of a United States Court; if a man is cleared of all accusations, he may be detained at the pleasure of the President, unless he choose to take an unconstitutional and execrable oath. (Applause.) It was an unequalled outrage in ancient or modern times; if it was rivaled by even Bomba, of Naples, he would like to see it. (Applause.) Austria was considered a tyranny until we had ours. As to the remedy for these outrages, he said that as long as free discussion, free assemblages, and a free ballot were allowed, he would recommend no other mode of redress. (Applause, and a voice, "That’s it.") But when those safeguards were invaded, he was in favor of their seeking some other and more efficient mode of defending their liberties. (Thunders of applause.) He did not believe that those rights would be invaded, because the stupidity that has been manifested by those in power must foresee the result. There never was a tyrant who would go people would submit to. (A voice—"I’d advise that we keep our powder dry." Applause and laughter.) He spoke not as a revolutionist. He dreaded a convulsive revolution among such a people as we are, with all the ferocity of the Anglo-Sax-on race; but he was not willing to become a slave. (Applause.) The life that a man has to lose is as nothing compared with the liberties that he has to lose. (Applause ) But for our love for the Constitution and the Union, we should never have submitted to what we have. The army was raised to sustain the Constitution and the laws. How had it been perverted? The officers of the army, all seeking higher promotion, drawing from $2,000to $7,000 per annum, were the men whose interest it was 
<c02>
to keep up the war. These were the men who had got up the pretended meeting of regiments, and sent word that they were going to come back and put down the Democratic traitors and secessionists of the North. He would tell these shoulder-strapped gentlemen that they could not intimidate us; that they underrated the spirit of freedom in those who stayed at home. They could not frighten us, as we outnumber them three to one—even if the soldiers are with them. (Applause.) They had better fight the enemy before they fight us who feed them. When they do come back, there is not a cot of a free Democrat that will not have these resolutions pasted to the walls, and staring them in the face. These officers hail their duty to fight the enemy, and the duty of his hearers was to fight abolition rebels at the North. Let them look to their business; they are amenable to military law. We are, and mean to be amenable only to the civil law. (Applause.) The object of the war has changed to the purpose of abolishing slavery in the South. (" Yes.") The men who spoke last night were pledged to oppose the war in that event. " Yes, yes," "How are you, John Van Buren " Way-ward sisters.") What was the object of a vigorous prosecution of the war Disunion, separation, destruction, despotism. Such must be the result, as they could not change the policy of the administration. He could not support such a policy. Our duty now was a vigorous prosecution of peace, for the Union. (Loud cheers.) The power of the purse and the sword, now vested in the President, he would not consent to, for it could work nothing else than despotism or disunion. (Applause.) He was for a re-organization through a     National Convention. Through no other means could the Union be restored. (Cheers.) (A voice—" Suppose the South won't come back?") How do you know they won't come back? (A voice—" The Tribune says so.") (Laughter and applause.) Had the experiment been tried to get them back? He would not trust Jeff. Davis and Benjamin with the work of reconstruction. Their refusal to return did not annoy him, and he was not going to war merely for the sake of whipping them into subjection. Neither he nor the gentlemen of this city who had proposed to the South to come back, had the power to offer conciliation and compromise now. They were much like that personage who took our Saviour up into an exceedingly high mountain. (Laughter.) His plan was to stop the war; allow opposition parties to spring up in the South, and restore the ordinary instrumentalities; something beside a party to repel invasion. (Applause.) Officers elected by this mean in the South would be ready to agree upon terms of settlement and compromise with the officers of the North, to be by that time elected. (Great applause.) He had not expected the Richmond Enquirer to agree with him any more than the Washington Chronicle, the Evening Post, or the N.Y. Times. (Hisses.) Mr. Lincoln had attempted to inculcate the idea that the Union was older than the Constitution—that the child is older than the father. (Laughter.) He exhibited a coin, coined by the State of Connecticut in her sovereignty after 1787. (Applause.) She didn't issue any greenbacks. (Applause and laughter.) It was a copper coin and had a copper head on it, (Great laughter.) But it was the head of liberty. (Thunders of applause.) Referring to the insurrection in Poland, he said it was against a conscription act not one-tenth as odious as ours. He denied that we owe any obedience to our conscription act, saying that the President has no right to call upon us. We are under no obligation to respond beyond the limits of law constitutionally enacted. We have a right to argue this question first before the. people, as well as any other question. The Democratic party had fought the war of 1812, and the Mexican war, without suppressing opposition sentiments, and without imprisoning peaceful citizens in bastiles. (Applause.) In conclusion, the speaker counselled the government not to interfere with the constitutional rights of the citizen or States of the North.—New York Tribune, 9th inst.

COPPERHEADS IN THE GRANITE STATE.
If the South need any assistance, I will go out and assist them. I won't do a thing to sustain the President, the Administration, Congress, or any of the piratical crew that have control of this government. I won't do anything that can be interpreted as in any way supporting this war. I am personally acquainted with Jefferson Davis. I have seen letters from him. He is a man of wonderful executive power and firmness of will, and the only one who could have successfully conducted the SOUTH through her present struggle. President Lincoln is a knave, an imbecile, a usurper and a tyrant, who curses the country with his administration. Poor, miserable, ignorant, lousy negro. The blood-thirsty followers of beasts, the clergy. [JOHN H. GEORGE, defeated Copper head candidate for Congress in 2d district, N. H.]
I am a rebel. I was locked up forty days in a jail, I never saw the inside of before, because I am in favor of a free government for white people, and not for niggers. SLAVERY IS RIGHT. It cannot be proved that Slavery is a sin. Any physician can disprove that position. The forearms of negroes are four inches longer than those of a white man's. They never sprung from Adam. God never made an animal, except a skunk, that smells half so bad. I AM DEATH ON MINISTERS. They have been preaching the negro twenty-five years, but I have n't heard them for ten years, because I haven't been inside of a church for that period. They are always preaching the negro, and in my town they haven't converted any souls for a good many years. Niggers are their breakfast, dinner, supper, and lodging. Go home, and vote the Democratic ticket.[DR. NAT. BATCHELDER, a leading copperhead, and member of the Rockingham County Democratic Committee, in a speech at the N. H. Democratic State Convention]
"I do not believe aggression by arms is a suitable or possible remedy for existing evils." [FRANKLIN PIERCE, IN A SPEECH FROM NALCONY OF EAGLE HOTEL, CONCORD, APRIL, 1861.]
"What are to be the ultimate fruits of having first wronged, and then conquered and humiliated a spirited and gallant people, whose fathers were the loved friends and co-laborers with our fathers in the Revolution, and who have nobly stood with us, as companions and fellow-soldiers, in every war with foreign foes since that period, remains to be seen." [PIERCE, Published in the N. H. Patriot, after the capture of Fort Donelson.]
"Gentlemen, radical abolition must be put down. This great and glorious country will be shattered into fragments if it is not, or else we shall find ourselves at last brought under the iron rule of military despotism."[IRA. EASTMAN late copperhead candidate for Governor, in speech of acceptance.]
<c03>
selections
FROM GENERAL BANKS'S DEPARTMENT,
Condition of the Department—The Planters' Convention—A Traitor's Declaration—General Banks speech—General Banks Opposition to Negro Enlistments-His Oppression of the Negroes—A Rebel Mob—Discontent of the Soldiers—Probabilities of a Rebel Attack.
BATON ROUGE, (La.) Feb. 26, 1863.
I have just read the Tribune of February 14th. In it I find this paragraph from Washington:—
"So far from there being any disaffection in the command of General Banks, as reported by the rebels, authentic information received here shows a directly contrary state of affairs."
I am not able to affirm or deny this precise statement, for, in these regions, inaccessible by any intelligence except such as comes by steam over the waves, the rebel reports of dissatisfaction are unknown to us. But a state of feeling and affairs exists in this department which ought to be known to a government and a people who solace themselves with the belief that everything is satisfactory to officers and soldiers, and the loyal populace.
I came into these regions indulging that belief. I walked the streets of New Orleans for some hours with it. But further investigation and inquiry made me doubt. I came up to this city, pausing among the soldiers and citizens that live upon the river, and giving an understanding but no tongue to what I heard and saw. I have, here been favored with abundant opportunities of finding what the officer in his quarters, the soldier in his tent, and the seamen in the fleet think of the present state of affairs in this department. If you will spare me a column, I will briefly set down the impressions I have thus received.
In the first place, a planters’ convention I beheld at the St. Charles, met to criticise and reform the orders of the commanding general. Under whatever harmless pretext that convocation came together, it may be charitable to believe that it met for no worse purpose than that; yet, if it were stigmatized by a meeting of cowardly secessionists, who, to a large extent, and perhaps quite generally, have perjured themselves by an oath of allegiance, it is apprehended the exact truth would be stated. I infer as much from what actually passed at the meeting. The most malignant fire-eater spoke under the terrors inspired by martial law; for New Orleans, just now, bristles with bayonets, and its streets tremble under the wheels of cannon. He, therefore, was obliged to mask his treason in at least decent and considerate forms of speech. But this restraint was impatiently borne, for at the very first session a leading orator announced that they must be satisfied with such concessions as they should be able to wring from the military rule under which they were for," said he, in a moment of generous frankness, it is well known to us all that what we really want is, that their officers and soldiers should go North, where they came from, and leave us to manage our affairs here in our own way."
This, you perceive, is an announcement of the secession doctrine in very unequivocal phrase. It was a declaration that these very men, on whom the freshly-taken oath of allegiance hangs like a giant's robe upon the dwarfish thief," were in reality anxious to turn this valley over to the Southern Confederacy. The orator spoke the feeling of the assembly, and it adjourned till the next evening with this utterance on its lips.
For one, having heard the speech, and seeing that it was printed in the city papers in the morning, I expected to read before night an order forbidding its reassembling, or at least its dispersion if it met, at the point of the bayonet, and the arrest of the obnoxious orator and his summary punishment by some proper authority. I inferred that this would be the course taken, inasmuch as it seemed to me to be proper, and because I had seen that poor women and drunken men were daily punished for singing ‘The Bonnie Blue Flag," when under the excitement of rum and dissipation. This deliberate utterance in plain prose, and in a meeting held for the accomplishment of a purpose, seemed to be much more dangerous to the peace of the city and the State, than the half intelligible chant of a courtezan or a debauchee in a midnight revel. But I soon smothered the thought, lest I should be arrested and punished myself for entertaining it. For, to my great surprise, I found that this meeting was patronized by the authorities, particularly by the commanding General, who came to the adjourned meeting, and made the speech which has before this been published at the North.
I cannot tell how that speech will seem when read in your icy latitudes. But considering to whom it was made, and when, it filled me with astonishment as I heard it from the General's lips. It seemed to be very remarkable for what was not in it. Read it, and see if this is not a just criticism. His auditors were met to contemplate their distresses from the war, and to devise means of relief. The commanding General never intimated that the surest means of relief was to conquer the rebellion. On the contrary, he seemed to favor the notion of the orator I have quoted—that the presence of himself and his men here was a thing to be deplored, and the cause rather than the consequence of the woes they suffered. He apologized for being in Louisiana. He excused his acts as the acts of his government. He intimated, if he did not say, that he, with the orator aforesaid, wished he was elsewhere. He talked of peace with the fervor of a copperhead Democrat of the Middle or Western States. He spoke like an envoy sent to patch up a truce, rather than like a General at the head of an army. He spoke of concurring with them in action, when it would better comport with the relative positions of the parties if he had said his orders had been issued, and that it only remained to them to obey them.
But what followed shows that such was not his thoughts nor purpose. It shows, on the contrary, that he was willing to be turned from his purpose by any suggestions these men might make. Take an example: Our army needs recruits. Its ranks are by no means full. Where death snatches a soldier in the miasm of these swamps, his place is not filled. Our young men are not left to us. They are in the swamps of the Chickahominy or beneath the sods of the Rappahannock. Statesmanship and patriotism are tested to find an answer to the question: What shall be done when the nine months men return, many of whom are here holding a shield over New Orleans and the valley below from the incursions of the rebels that lurk in the darkness to-night within five miles of where I now write? What statesmanship could not determine, seemed about to be answered by an unlocked for exodus from the plantations. The negroes began to come to our standard. They were willing to fight for the flag that promised them release from enforced and uncompensated toil. In this condition of things, these
<c04>
planters say to General Banks, Stop this recruiting year army from our laborers, and send back those you already have, to the raising of sugar and cotton. The General says. It shall be done! It is more important that sugar should grow on these acres than that a peace, permanent and beneficial, should be conquered on rebel soil! It is quite well to exhaust our Northern industries of their strong and skillful arms and hands, to empty our colleges of our youth, to snatch fathers and sons from families that they love, to come here and encamp and fight amid the humid air of these unfamiliar regions; but quite wrong to take a chattel from planters who pray for nothing so sincerely as for defeat of those forces, that will leave them to rush into the arms of the Southern rebellion, which they love.
Yet these singular steps have been taken by the Commanding General, in addition to organizing at the national expense a more efficient police for the holding of slaves to their labor than any Southern community ever had. Under it the negro goes to his toil, and remains at it, at the very point of the Northern bayonet. The planter ought to be rejoiced at a war which has brought to him a means of keeping restive negroes at home and at their labor, without the expense of bloodhound, or driver, or lash. Under all these encouragements, it were singular, indeed, if treason failed to gain strength, and to feel it.
And it occasioned no surprise, therefore, when its more open manifestations appeared. On the day after General Banks speech, a number of rebel prisoners were to be sent up the river for exchange. A vast crowd assembled on the levee. Rebel flags were fluttered. Yankees were insulted. Soldiers were spit upon. Cheers for rebel leaders were given, and a street fight became imminent. It has merely been postponed. A mob gains strength by one partial success. These people are now armed to a greater or less extent. They will use their arms, and I predict, that on the first happening of any event attracting large crowds, blood will be freely shed in the streets of New Orleans.
This tendency of treason to grow rampant has not failed to attract the attention of the soldiers. They freely discuss it, and its cause. The testimony is undisputed that it is the product of the mild policy now pursued. The men whom Gen. Banks brought to this department concur with the soldiers and officers whom General Butler had with him, in condemnation of this attempt to win favor with these people by kindness. They are not to be reached by any influences except those which war offers; and if, as I infer from the extract I have placed at the head of this letter, there is a belief at Washington that our soldiers here are satisfied with events as they have happened for a few weeks past, and are now happening, I beg to say, after the most ample means of knowing, that a more gross error in belief never existed.
There seems to be nearly absolute unanimity on the subject; indeed, absolute it may safely be said to be. They arc not demoralized at all. They are in good spirits and good health. But they see the fruits of their sacrifices here lost to the country, and treason springing up behind them, from a lack of vigor and earnestness in some quarter responsible for the orders under which the army moves and acts. Besides, there is deemed to be absolute danger of losing some of the territory now held by our arms. It is the belief of many that an attack will be made here by the rebels long before any shall be made by us at Port Hudson; and the danger certainly exists. Our fleet here may be overcome by some sudden raid. If it should happen, a simultaneous land attack might be attended with the most serious consequences. And the danger of this disgrace, and the circumstance that no practical, efficient and immediate measures seem to be taken to avert it, creates yet further inquietude.
The troops want to do something. That is the spirit which animates the soldier, whether regular or volunteer. But it is undeniable that many officers act as though they would like to pass an easier life than that of the fields of conflict.
I have thought it proper to make the above statements, in view of an impression that seems to me to be erroneous, which has got abroad at the North. Here I propose to leave it.— Corr. of N. Y. Tribune.

SE0ESH VENOM IN NEW ORLEANS.
A letter received in this city relates a striking instance of the malignancy of the poison of secessionism still lingering in New Orleans, especially among the women. It is the testimony of an eye and ear witness. The letter is dated at New Orleans, Feb. 21, and the following is an extract:—
"Notice was given that all paroled prisoners should report to the Provost Marshal, in order that they might take passage yesterday, on the " Empire Parish," for Baton Rouge, there to be exchanged. Early in the morning, the sympathizers began to collect on the levee in the vicinity of the boat; later in the forenoon the prisoners began to arrive, singly, in pain, and in squads, each dressed in a new suit entirely, loaded with bundles, and often followed by a servant equally well burdened. Some had as it many as three coats on their backs, and from the difficulty of locomotion one might judge them to be encumbered with any number of pairs of pants! Every one was followed by a crowd of scowling relatives and friends. At one o'clock a dense mass of human beings were packed on the levee, there being probably not lees than 20,000 person present. Great numbers, more especially females, exhibited, openly, secesh flags, either on their persons, or waving them in defiance. Soon cheers for "Jeff," Stonewall Jackson, &c, were heard. Then the females began to advise their friends to fight to the death, and exterminate all Yankees wherever opportunity offered. If a Union soldier appeared, he was received with groans and hisses. At length orders came from headquarters to clear the levee, and a company of soldiers were detailed to perform the duty. The attempt was vain with the force employed, and a large reinforcement was furnished, including a battery of light artillery. They were assailed with every opprobrious epithet, and still the crowd, composed largely of women, refused to yield. Finally a line was formed, and with bayonets at charge, the troops succeeded in forcing the crowd back. The galleries of all the stores in the vicinity of the levee were crowded, and the ladies, (a mistake, females,) took pains to spit upon the officers and soldiers below, who were but doing their duty. Had the venom in their system been concentrated in their saliva, our boys would have been greater sufferers by the doings of these she vipers. One woman remarked, when informed that there was danger of the gallery falling by the weight of the crowd upon it, " Let it fall, it will kill more Yankees than Confederates. I would jump down and kill myself, if I knew it would exterminate a few of these dirty Yankees." Another boasted that she had "spit on that nasty Yankee," pointing to an officer. Another thought it "very refreshing to see so many confederate uniforms in New Orleans again". Numbers had confederate flags embroider
<c05>
ed very conspicuously on their handkerchiefs; finally the crowd on the galleries grew so insulting that it became necessary to clear them also, and the people driven from view of the prisoners finally returned surlily to their homes. About the time of the bayonet charge, the steamer "Laurel Hill," lying near the "Empire Parish," literally blacked with human beings, got up steam and dropped down to the lower coal yard, some three or four miles distant, thus taking away from the scene some eight or nine hundred. It was rich to see the look of disappointment upon their faces.
Now, for one, I am convinced that had the " iron rule " of General Butler been continued, these things would not have occurred. For six months, not an officer or soldier was insulted by any female calling herself a lady. And those performing these acts yesterday were not the dirty, slip-shod or barefooted viragos that abound in all large cities; far from it; they were few and far between in that crowd; but well dressed, aye, richly dressed, intelligent appearing females, whom one would judge, by their exterior, fitted to adorn any society. I give you these facts, not from hearsay testimony, for everything above spoken of passed under my own observation.
It is useless to attempt to bring back the erring sisters by mild measures. The poison is too deeply seated to yield, except to the most vigorous treatment.— Corr. of Salem Register.

MEETING OF PLANTERS.
A meeting of sixty planters, representing all the parishes within the Union lines, except that of St. John, was held at the St. Charles Hotel, Feb. 18th. E. E. Malhoit of the Parish of Terrebonne presided, and Messrs. J. M. Pelton of Terrebonne and H. B. Foley of Assumption acted as Secretaries.
Mr. Puy offered the following resolution, which was adopted:—
Resolved, That a Committee of one from each parish represented at this meeting, be appointed to inquire if police juries have been appointed in all the parishes; and if not, to have such appointments made at once. That the police jury of each parish be requested to have patrols organized and paid, if necessary, and to make a weekly report of all the strange slaves in their parish, the place where from and name of owner. That the report be forwarded to the President of the police jury of the parish in which the slave belongs.
A series of resolutions were offered by Mr. Pugh of Assumption, as follows:—
Be it Resolved, That a Committee, to consist of one member from each parish represented in this meeting, be required to call on Maj. Gen. Banks, and ascertain definitely from him, if the signing of the contract in accordance with order No. — by the planter, will secure the return of negroes bound by said contract to the plantations to which they are bound as laborers, and by whose agency their return is to be effected.
A discussion followed, and the speakers expressed the opinion that it would be necessary for the military authorities to guarantee that the negroes should be kept at work on the plantations, in order to justify the large outlay which would become necessary in proceeding with the cultivation of the soil.
The resolution was adopted, and the following gentlemen were appointed a Committee to wait on Gen. Banks:—
E. E. Malhoit, Assumption; M. Olivier, St. Bernard; Chas. Le Breton, Jefferson; Andrew Robertson, Plaquemines; Henry McCall, Ascension; Dr. F.C. Ewing, Lafourche; A. McCullum, Terrebonne; A. Lanfear, St. Charles; Emile Legendre, St. James.
About 8 o'clock Gen. Banks entered the parlor, escorted by the Committee. The officers and audience arose, and received him with loud applause.
The President welcomed him as follows:—
GENERAL,—As President of this meeting, I welcome you; and it gives me pleasure to assure you that we entertain the highest respect for you, and are thankful for the many favors you have granted us since your arrival here to take command of the Department of the Gulf.
Gen. Banks replied as follows:—
MR. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN,—I certainly am very happy to meet so many of the citizens of Louisiana as I see around me to-night. I do not present myself here to participate in the proceedings of this meeting, or to take any part in the discussion of the subjects which have brought you together. Charged with important duties by my Government, and so far as I am personally concerned, reluctantly here, I have published that which I thought it to be my duty to do as an officer of the Government, coming here under general instructions in this Department.
I am, sir, unable to express my feelings in meeting so many citizens of this distant part of our confederacy, so many of my fellow-citizens in a portion of the country so far from my own home. But I am happy to believe that in past times we have lived peacefully and prosperously together, and that those who are to come after us will enjoy the same peaceful and prosperous intercourse. The names of Jackson and Taylor are inseparably identified with the history of the nation, and there are no names dearer than those to the hearts of New England; and I trust that there are in your part of the country, as in mine, men who will so direct the affairs of the people, that the East and the West, the North-East and the South-West, may feel that they still have a bond in common.
I am sure that the Government which I represent has no feeling of hostility to the people here, and that it would be the happiest day in our history if the great interests of the country could be united together as heretofore. (Cries of "good," and loud applause.)
I wish to contribute to the extent of my power to the welfare of this Department, and to give you the assurance of my deep and earnest desire to do all that I can, consistent with my duty, for the peace, prosperity and happiness of the people of Louisiana.
Gen. Banks retired amid enthusiastic applause, and the meeting adjourned sine die
GEN. BANKS’S ORDER RELATIVE TO NEGRO LABOR.
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF,
Circular.]   NEW ORLEANS, Feb. 16, 1863.
The accompanying order and circular, relating to the immediate employment of negroes, will explain a system of labor that has been suggested and adopted for the present year. The Provost Marshals are authorized and directed to receive and record the assent of planters or other persons thereto, and when such written consent is given, officers and soldiers, and especially the Chaplains of the army, and all other persons acting under the authority of the United States, are requested to assist, as far as practicable, without violence, in inducing the return of negroes and their families to the plantations where they have been accustomed to labor.
Without regular employment, many thousands of negroes must perish during the year. More than
<c06>
$60,000 were applied to the support of dependent and destitute persons in the moth of January. The support of many thousands of unemployed negroes will increase the burden to such an extent as to make it impracticable to continue the charity. The immediate cultivation of corn, sugar, cotton, and other products, is imperatively demanded upon every consideration of public interest, and for this no other labor is now available. On the plantation, they will have secured to them by the officers of the Government sufficient and wholesome food, clothing, kind treatment, and a share of the crop they produce.
The compensation may seem small; but in view of the pecuniary advances that must be made, and the risk that attend industry in a period of war, it is not inadequate. Those who are not thus engaged will be employed on the public works or in the Quartermaster’s Department, without pay, except their food and clothing, medical attendance, and such instruction and care as may be furnished to them and their women and children. In view of all the facts, and after most anxious consideration, the Commanding General believes it to be the best system of labor that can now be adopted, and, assuming the entire responsibility of the act, he calls upon the commanding Generals and all officers of the Government to assist in its immediate execution.
N. P. BANKS,
Major General Commanding.
ORDER RELATIVE TO NEGROES.
Major General Banks has issued the following important order, dated Headquarters Department of the Gulf, Feb. 18, 1863:-
No negroes will be taken from the plantation until further orders, by any officers or persons in the service of the United States, without previous authority from these headquarters.

GEN. BANKS AT NEW ORLEANS.
Pursuant to the terms of the order in which Gen. Banks republished the President's Proclamation, he has issued another, more precisely defining the relations between the Government and the Planters of Louisiana. We regarded his first order as mischievous in temper and tendency, as opposed to the spirit which animated the Proclamation of Freedom, and as practically annulling it within the limits of the Department of the Gulf. The details of the present scheme are conceived with the same complete disregard for the welfare of the negroes and the authority of the President, and they improve upon the inhumanity of the original order in several respects.
With reference to the question of the employment of the blacks, the serious mistake of Gen. Banks was and is that he considers the Government and the Planters to be the only interested parties. The matter evidently lies in his mind substantially in this way; Here are plantations wanting labor, and a Government that does not want to be burdened or bothered with negroes. The negroes, to be sure, are free, but then they have no political importance, and not many friends. They must work in some way, they are incapable to take care of themselves, and the best practical solution of the difficulty is for the Government to compel them to return to their masters, secure them low wages, and trust to the interest of the planters not to abuse them any more than is necessary to make them work. So the Government will be relieved from a burden and a responsibility, the planters will be conciliated, cotton, and sugar, and corn will get planted, and the negroes— well, the less said about them, the better. Nobody really cares for negroes."
Gen. Banks accordingly appoints a Sequestration Committee; the Committee makes a bargain with the planters, and the negroes have nothing to do but acquiesce in the arrangement. The planter gets his labor for a nominal price, and the Government gets rid of a troublesome question—only undertaking by way of performing its share of the contract to enforce continuous and faithful service, respectful deportment, correct discipline, and PERFECT SUBORDINATION on the part of the negroes." In other words, the military authorities of the Department of the Gulf, who were charged by the President to recognize and maintain the freedom of the emancipated blacks, have gone into the business of slave-driving on the largest possible scale, and the officers who went down to Louisiana from the free soil of New England and New York to suppress a Rebellion of Slaveholders, are made overseers of plantations which the Government stocks with reenslaved blacks.
But this is not all. The negroes who are not wanted on the plantations are provided for with the same generous and consideration care which is bestowed on the rest. It is not enough that the Government shall help the slaveholders coerce the labor of free blacks, but it goes into the business of enforcing unpaid toil on its own account. Gen. Banks orders that the negroes not "engaged" on the plantations shall be employed on the public works or in the Quartermaster's Department, WITHOUT PAY, except their food and clothing, medical attendance, and such instruction and care as may be furnished to them and their women and children." Possibly such economy of administration may be deemed too careful. The Government is spending a great deal of money, no doubt, but we shall be slow to believe that it will resort to indiscriminate oppression and plunder of the negroes, in order- to save to the National Treasury the amount of their hard-earned wages. Let the Administration leave everything else to the will of its General- if it must, but do not leave him to enrich his military chest by extortion from the only class of people subjected to his sway, who are absolutely and totally unable to resist or remonstrate against his oppression.
Other orders of Gen. Banks, and other proceedings under his authority, supply additional evidence, if any is needed, to show how completely his department is administered in the interest of the slaveholding class—a class that, without exception, is malignantly and defiantly disloyal to the Government which he represents. He has forbidden the removal negroes from the plantations by any officers or other person without authority from his headquarters. He has left no means untried to discourage enlistments of the blacks. None will be received who have been at work on the plantations, and those who are already enlisted may withdraw from the service if they choose. His Quartermaster, to whom he gives the Planters’ Committee a note of introduction, assures the slaveholders that everything will be done to restore "lost" negroes. His Sequestration Committee is endeavoring to secure the services of former overseers of plantations-of course, because they are supposed to be familiar with the approved Louisiana method of enforcing plantation discipline. In a word, Gen. Banks appears to have yielded without hesitation or reluctance to every demand which the grasping avarice, the hostility to freedom, the hatred to the policy of the government, the cunning selfishness and the inhumanity of the Lousinia slave masters can have induced them to make.—New York Tribune
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES ....From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extent to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power....It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1> 
REJOINDER TO MRS. STOWE'S REPLY
TO THE ADDRESS OF THE WOMEN OF ENGLAND. 
[The following address has been written with the belief that it embodiers the general sentiments of English women the subject of Slavery. It has been decided to seek no signatures on the present occasion, rather than repeat the vast undertaking of obtaining any number which should adequntely correspond with the half million names appended to the former, Address.]
MADAM,-You have asked of the women of England a solemn question. You have recalled the Address which half a million of us once sent you, appealing to our sisters in America to raise their voices against Slavery; and you deman, where is now the spirit which dictated that appeal? You quote the evidence of our press and our public speakers, that the righteous indignation against slavery which once kindled in all English hearts has waned, if it has not died out; and you allege that we have been wanting in generous faith and sympathy for the North in her great struggle, and have even descended to afford countenance, if not assistance, to the South. You challenge us to account for this dereliction from oar former ardent sentiments, and you ask wherefore it is that now, when the conflict has assumed its most terrible form, and the peaceful persuasions of philanthropists have been superseded by the shock of contending armies spreading desolation through your land-now we stand afar off, viewing coldly that awful contest, and sending, instead of cheering words of sympathy and faith, only doubts and lamentations over a " fratricidal war," and regrets partitioned with strange impartiality between the sufferers in the cause of free America, and those who have, in their own audacious words. "founded their common wealth on the institution of slavery." You retort our old appeal in the face of these things, and you say to us; "Sisters, you have spoken well; we have heard you; we have heeded; we have striven in the cause, even unto death; we have sealed our devotion by desolate hearth and darkened homestead-by the blood of sons, husbands, and brothers. In many of our dwellings the very light of our lives has gone out, and yet we accept the life-long darkness as our own part in this great and awful expiation, by which the bonds of wickedness shall be loosed, and abiding peace established on the foundation of righteousness. Sisters, what have you done, and what do you mean to do? In view of the decline of the noble anti-slavery fire in England; in view of all the facts and admissions recited from your own papers, we beg leave, in solemn sadness, to return to you your own words:-
"A common origin, a common faith, and, we sincerely believe, a common cause, urge us at the present moment to address you on the subject of the fearful encouragement and support which is being afforded by England to a slaveholding Confederacy. We appeal to you as sisters, as wives, as mothers to raise your voice to your fellow-citizens, and your prayers to God, for the removal of this affliction and disgrace from the Christian world."
Madam in answering this solemn appeal, we do not desire to detail the causes which may, in a measure, explain or palliate this failure in our national sympathy, whose existence (in so far as it is true) we prefoundly deplore. Enough, and more than enough debate has been already held on the complicated motives which have blended in your war, as in all other human concerns; and on the occasional acts of questionable spirit which must inevitably attend the public policy and sentiments of a nation engaged in deadliest conflict, and bleeding at every pore. Somewhat you may perhaps forgive to those who have withheld their full sympathies, jealous that a most righteous cause should be maintained with any save the most untainted motives, and the most unbending rectitude; and who have failed even yet to read in your policy the full desire to accomplish that end of universal emancipation whereto Providence is visibly directing the course of events. Somewhat, also, may be forgiven to those who have been misled by the misrepresentations of a portion of our press, and offended by the inimical spirit of your own. But, madam, although many lips have been closed which ought to have spoken to you words of blessing, though the voice of England which has reached you has lacked that full tone of heartfelt sympathy you had justly anticipated, yet believe not that our nation is truly alienated from yours, or apostate to the great principles of freedom which were once our glory. The heart of England is sound at the core-slavery is now and ever an abomination in our eyes, nor has the dastard proposition to recognize the Confederate States failed to call forth indignant rejection, and that, even, with peculiar earnestness from those suffering operatives whose relief such a measure might have secured. It is to assure you of this, to vindicate ourselves from the shame of turning hack in the hour of trial,-most Foreign to our common Saxon race,-that we, the women of England. Offer you this response.
We do not less abhor slavery now than when your eloquent words called out an echo of feeling throughout Europe, such as no other appeal for the wronged or the miserable produced. We abhor slavery, judging it simply as human brings, and because, of all the agonies and tortures it has occasioned. We abhor it, judging it especially as women, because of all the unspeakable wrongs, the hideous degradation it has inflicted on our sex. But we abhor it not only because of these, its results, nor with a hatred which would be withdrawn, were they disputable now or remediable hereafter. We abhor slavery for itself, and for its own enormous iniquity-even the robbing from a human being of that freedom which it was the supreme gift of Omnipotence to bestow. We bold that, were it in the power of the slaveholder to make his slaves absolutely happy, slavery would not less be an injustice and a crime. Happiness is not to be measured against freedom, else would God have left us brutes, not men, and a pared us all the sorrows of struggling humanity. And whereas it has been argued that the negro is of a race inferior to his master, and that therefore it is justifiable to enslave him, we reply that the right to freedom is not founded on the equality of the holder to any other human being, else were every white man also lawfully to be enslaved by every other stronger or wiser than himself. But the right to freedom is founded simply and solely on the moral nature wherewith God has endowed every man and woman of the human race, enabling them, by its use, to attain to that virtue which is the end of their creation. And whereas, others, again, have defended slavery on the grounds of the supposed Divine sanction to be found for it in the Scriptures; we reply that we deplore the condition of those whose religion can lend itself to the task of seeking to appeal to God for the permission of an institution which the consciences He has made unequivocally loathe and condemn. Nor shall we hesitate to stigmatize such an appeal as hypocrisy, until the theologians who make it advance a step further, and tell us that they are prepared to represent Jesus of Nazareth as one who, in fitting time and place, might have been a purchaser and a master of slaves. Thus, madam, do we still condemn and abhor slavery as we haw ever done, as in itself, and in its own nature, utterly civil and indefensible; and we consider its vast and terrible results of cruelty and immorality to be only the natural fruit of so stupendous a wrong.
We have not withheld from your nation either the tribute of admiration for the vast sacrifices you have made, or of sympathy for the bereavements and suffering you have endured. But the expression of such admiration and sympathy from the truest hearts among us have been almost silenced by the solemn joy wherewith we have beheld your country purging herself, even through seas of blood. for her guilty participation in the crimes of the past. and preparing for herself the staiuless future of " a land wherein dwelleth righteousness." We have rejoiced in the midst of sorrow to know that the doom of slavery was written by a Divine Hand, even from the hour when its upholders dared to believe it possible in the face of Heavea to build up a State upon an injustice. We have looked with awe-strock consciences to this great revelation of the moral laws which govern the nations of the earth, and showed to men who sought for God in the records of distant ages that the Living Lord still rules on high, and is working out even before our eyes the delivery of the captive and the punishment of the oppressor. The greatest national sin of Christian times has wrought the greatest national overthrow. The hidden evil of the land which long smouldered underground. has blazed forth at last like a volcano, buning in sander the most solid of human desolation. even to the remotest shores where the spoil of guilt had been partaken. But while we behold with awe, in the present calamity, the manifestation of Supreme Justice, we look with confident to the
<c02>
final issue to which it must lead. In whatever mode that end may be brought out, and through whatever struggle America may yet be doomed to pass, we are assured that only one termination can await a conflict between a nation which has abjured its complicity with crime, and a confederation which exists but to perpetuate that crime forever. It is not now, in the presence of the events of the last three years, that we shall be tempted to fear that wrong and robbery, and the systematic degradation of woman, may possibly prove to be principles of stability, capable of producing the security and consolidation of a commonwealth! Your courage in this Titanic strife; the lavish devotion with which the best blood of your land has been poured out on the field, and the tears of childless mothers, shed in homes never before visited by the sorrows of war; the patriotic generosity with which your treasures have been cast into the gulf opened suddenly in your busy and prosperous land, even as of old in the Forum of ancient Rome,-these noble acts of yours inspire with confidence in you, no less than pride in the indomitable energies of our common race. But above your valor and your patriotism, we look with still higher hope to those moral laws whose vindication is involved in the issue of the conflict; and we feel assured that, while for the slave power the future can hold no possibility of enduring prosperity; for Free America, it promises the regeneration of a higher and holier national existence, when the one great blot which marred the glory of the past shall have been expiated and effaced forever.
This, madam, is the belief, and these are the hopes of thousands of Englishmen. They are, we are persuaded, even more universally the belief and hopes of the women of England, whose hearts the complicated difficulties of politics, and the miserable jealousies of national rivalry, do not distract from the great principles underlying the contest. The failure of English sympathy whereof you complain is but partial at the most, and for that partial failure we deeply and sorrowfully grieve. But the nation at large is still true; and wherever it has been possible to learn the feelings of the great masses, no lack of ardent feeling bas ever been found in England for the Northern cause. Though senseless words and inhuman jests have been bandied across the Atlantic, yet we are assured that in the heart of both our nations survives unchanged that kindred regard and respect whose property it is, above other human feelings, to be indestructible. At this hour of your own greatest need and direful struggle-at this hour, when a pirate from our ports is ravaging your shores, as you believe (albeit erroneously) with our guilty connivance-at this very hour you have come forward with noblest generosity, and sent us the rich vessel which has brought food to our starving people. The Griswold has been your answer to the Alabama. It is a magnanimous, a sublime one; and English hearts are not too cold to read it aright, or to cherish through all future time the memory thereof. Scorn and bate are transient and evanescent things-charity and love have in them the elements of immortality.
Madam, we answer your Appeal by this rejoinder, and send this message through your honored hands to our sisters in America: Our hearts are with you in unchanged sympathy for your holy cause-in undying abhorrence of slavery-in profound sorrow for your present afflictions-and in firmest faith in the final overthrow of that unrighteous power whose corner-stone is an injustice and a crime.
IN BEHALF OF THE WOMEN OF ENGLAND.
THE LIBERATOR.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 20,1863.
NOTICE TO DELINQUENT SUBSORIBERS,
The GENERAL AGENT of the Liberator begs leave to remind delinquent subscribers-i. e., such as are owing from January I, 1862, to January I, 1863-that, unless payment be made by the first of April, (which is granting a longer indulgence than usual,) their paper will be discontinued, in accordance with the STANDING RULE. It is hoped there will be no longer delay on their part in meeting their indebtedness, and no occasion furnished for curtailing the subscription list.
CONTEMPTIBLE BUT OHARAOTERISTIO.
In our last number, we succinctly stated in an editorial article the grounds on which, up to the time of rebellion and secession, we charged the Constitution of the United States with being "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell"; and why we no longer make that issue. with characteristic baseness and malignity, the New York Journal of Commerce copies here and there portions of the article, to suite its own evil purposes-carefully omitting all the pertinent and impressive scriptural quotations in it, being conscious of their exact fitness and prophetic realization-also as carefully excluding all the extracts we made from the writings of Alexander Hamilton, James Madison, and John Quincy Adams, conceding that the Constitution was formed through pro-slavery compromises and guaranties, whereby the parchment became "saturated with the infection of slavery, which no fumigation could purify, no quarantine could extinguish"-and, finally, suppressing that portion of our article, which expressly maintains that, by the traitorous secession of "death and hell," the Free States are now "constitutionally as well as morally released from all obligation to guard or uphold the slave system in any particular; and, therefore, we demand of the President, under the war power, a proclamation of immediated and universal emancipation" But such a knavish procedure is perfectly in character. A paper that is so brutal and profligate as to shield and uphold the system which makes merchandize of the human race, is capable of perpetrating any deed of villany to carry its point.
We are willing to submit the article we wrote, and precisely as we wrote it, to the intelligence and moral judgment of mankind, and to the decision of Him who has said, "For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now will I arise-I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him." it is morally impregnable in its premises and conclusions; and none but the base-minded will seek to represent it as "treasonable" to anything else than the kingdom of darkness.
The Journal of Commerce does not attempt to deny that the Constitution was made in the manner we described, namely, to give security and strength to the slave system by allowing a slave representation in congress for the benefit of the slave-masters, thus (in the language of John Quincy Adams) "committing the lab to the custody of the wolf for safe-keeping"; by providing for the hunting and recapturing of fugitive slaves in every State in the Union; by prolonging the piratical foreign slave trade for a score of years; and by making it obligatory Upon the Federal Government to keep the slaves in their chains, by suppressing every servile uprising with its military power, if called for.
All this monstrous iniquity is precisely to its depraved taste. It ridicules the admonition "not to strike hands with thieves, nor to consent with adulterers," as purely fanatical. It laughs at the prediction, that "though hand join in hand, yet shall the wicked not go unpunished." It bawls "treason! treason!" whenever an appeal is taken from the lower law of the pit to the higher law of heaven; and all its aims and efforts are to inaugurate anew the reign of a slave-driving despotism, to the subversion of all that pertains to the freedom and equality of the human race.
"This Liberator newspaper," it says, "is published by a society, of which leading New York politicians are active members"! This is a false statement-the Liberator is published by no society-it is the organ of none-its editor is its sole publisher and proprietor; therefore, no society is responsible for any thing that appears in its columns; and, therefore, the attempt of the Journal of Commerce to make capital out of this fabrication is as abortive as it is impudent. Once more we exclaim, "Thank God, the covenant with death and the agreement with hell are annulled!"
<c03>
LETTER FROM GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ
LONDON, February 27, 1863.
MY DEAR GARRISON,-I can only send you a very imperfect acknowledgment of your letter of the 10th instant, which reached me at the house of a friend, near Manchester, on the 24th. A portion of that letter was read at the great meeting held in the Free Trade Hall, on the evening of the same day, to present an address of welcome to the captain of the "Griswold." I was at the same hour attending another immense gathering in the town of Huddersfield. I read parts of the same letter at a meeting last evening in London, at which an Address was presented to me by some kind and partial friends. The papers I send with this will give you some account of these proceedings. 
It would be impossible to give you a list of all the meeting which have recently been held, for the purpose of expressing sympathy with the anti-slavery movement in the United States, and commendation of the abolition policy of the Government and Congress. My own strength has been taxed to the utmost, and has been seriously impaired, by the effort I have made to meet the demands made upon me for my presence in all parts of the country. Calls to the same effect continue to pour in upon me; but though the spirit, is willing, the flesh is weak; and were I never so strong, I should be unable to accept half the invitations which are sent me.
The men who a few months ago were so hold and blatant in the advocacy of the cause of the Southern rebels, are now silent. Though some of them are in Parliament, they have thus far been silent, mute, and we hear nothing. We have now an organization which will enable us to furnish an antidote to any pro-slavery poison that may be diffused through the press or the legislature; and there are men in the House of Commons who are now so thoroughly conversant with the merits of the question, that any misrepresentation of facts would be met, at once, with an ample and overwhelming refutation.
I read with deep interest your speech at the Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and have made good use of it. It came to hand very seasonably, and might have been made for the purpose of disabusing the minds of the people here.
Your friend and fellow-laborer,
GEORGE THOMPSON.
A BLOW AT COMPLEXIONAL CASTE.
In the U.S. Senate, last week, the question under consideration being the incorporation of a horse railroad company in the District of Columbia, the following incident took place:-
Mr. SUMNER. Now I move an amendment to come in immediately after the amendment last adopted:-
"And provided also, That no person shall be excluded from the cars on account of color."
I have only to say that a statement was made the other day in the House of Representatives, which certainly was a new illustration, as it seemed to me, of the barbarism left here from slavery: that an aged colored person had been excluded from the cars, and dropped in the snow and mud. That statement was made I believe in the other House. That such an incident as that could occur here in Washington seems to me discreditable; and I think that Congress, in laying down regulations and rules for this railroad, ought to interfere. I am sorry there should be any occasion for it. I should like to have the yeas and nays on the amendment.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
Mr. HOWE. I should like to ask the Senator from Massachusetts, as a question of law, whether if this railroad company, being common carriers, should drop any person or refuse to carry any person who offered them their fare, they would not be liable, as the law now stands, without any express enactment?
Mr. SUMNER. If you ask me the question as a lawyer, I should say they would be liable; but I believe the experience is that that liability is not recognized here; and the Senator knows very well that wherever slavery is in question, human rights are constantly disregarded. Those principles of law which he recognized are constantly set aside; and therefore it becomes the duty of Congress to interfere, and specially declare them.
Mr. HOWE. Would the effect of the amendment be any more than a reenactment of the existing law?
Mr. SUMNER. That was said precisely about the Wilmot proviso, the Senator will remember.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The question is on the amendment offered by the Senator from Massachusetts, and on this question the yeas and nays have been ordered.
The question being taken by yeas and nays, resulted-yeas 19, nays 18; as follows:-
YEAS-Messrs. Arnold, Chandler, Clark, Fessenden, Foot, Grimes, Harris, Howard, Ten Eyck, Trumbull, Wade, Wilkinson, Wilmot, and Wilson of Massachusetts-19.
NAYS-Messrs. Anthony, Bayard, Carlile, Cowan, Davis, Henderson, Hicks, Howe, Kennedy, Lane of Indiana, Latham, McDougall, Powell, Richardson, Saulsbury, Turpie, Willey, and Wilson of Missouri-18.
Thanks to Senator Sumner for proposing an amendment so fraught with humanity and justice; and thanks to those Senators who voted to sustain it. The example will have weight in other sections of the country, where colored citizens are still denied those travelling privileges and accommodations accorded to all others.

THE CONFIRMATION OF GEN. STEVENSON. The Washington correspondent of the Tribune says that Senator Sumner is to be credited with the confirmation of Gen. Thomas G. Stevenson, of Massachusetts, Senator Sumner not only withdrew his own objection, which would have been fatal, but induced other Senators to withdraw theirs also. He took this course after being assured by Gen. Burnside that Gen. Stevenson was an excellent officer, thoroughly loyal, and entirely ready to obey all orders emanating from his superiors.
We think this is a mistaken leniency all round. It is not denied, we believe, that Gen, Stevenson uttered the treasonable language imputed to him; but the excuse is, that he spoke rashly, in the heat of discussion. But, whether in hot or cold blood, there is no doubt, from his antecedents, that he spoke as he feels at all times toward the negro race; and he ought to have been cashiered beyond replacement. An officer who declares, in opposition to the decree of the government, "I don't want to fight with a negro"-"I would rather have the negroes against us than for us"-"I would rather be beaten in the conflict than to employ them"-is not be entrusted with any military power, and deserves to be drummed out of the ranks. The rebels have nothing to fear, loyal men nothing to hope, from such a man.
A letter is published from Major General Foster, in which he treats the charge against Gen. Stevenson "as frivolous in the extreme, and not worthy of serious consideration." Indeed! We should like to know what charge he would consider a serious one! No man is to be trusted in this conflict who is under the dominion of the hateful spirit of colorphobia.
PARSON BROWNLOW. A letter from Parson Brownlow, dated Nashville, March 6th. among other things, says:-
"I told the people of the North, in my speeches, as thousands of them will recollect, what I now repeat-that is to say, one half of all the slaves in the seceded States will fight for their owners, and fight to perpetuate their own bondage.
The assertion was slanderous when first made by the Parson, and is equally so now. The slaves who are still in the power of their rebel masters, are of course compelled to obey them in all things, and there, fore are not free agents. To say that one half will fight to perpetuate their own bondage is arrant nonsense. They will yet vindicate themselves from every imputation of this kind. "Wait a little longer!"
MORE INJUSTICE. The Judiciary Committee of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives has reported a bill to prevent the immigration of negroes and mulattoes into the State. It prevents any such persons from coming into Pennsylvania, either temporarily or permanently, under penalty of indictment, and fine not exceeding $100, with imprisonment not exceeding one year. It is flagrantly unconstitutional.
<c04>
PUBLIC SOIREE IN HONOR OF GEORGE 
THOMPSON, ESQ.
The friends and admirers of this gentleman entertained him at a soiree Wednesday evening, 25th ult., at the Whittington Club, by way of recognizing the important services rendered by him to the anti-slavery, free trade and other great progressive movements during the past thirty years. The assembly included a number of ladies, and some gentleman of color. The chair was occupaied by the Right Hon. Lord TEYNHAM, and on his left sat the guest of the evening. Amongst others present we observed Thomas Bazley, Esq., M. P., A. S. Ayrton, Esq., M. P., Professor Newman, M. Victor Schoelcher, the Revs. Dr. Burns, Sella Martin, (of Boaton,) J. H. Rylance, T. Jones, and J. J. Kelley, (a Mohawak Indian, ) Samuel Lucas, Esq., J. Noble, Esq., J. P., H. Twelvetrees, Esq., and Messrs. W. G. Corner, Denis M' Donnell, Sydenham Nodes, Frank H. Evans, T. M. Whittaker, J. Gorrie, W. Wilks, T. Cook, (Leicester,) F. W. Chesson, W. Shaen, M. A., J. B. Palser, J. A. Horner, &c. &c.
 Mr. WASHINGTON WILKS said that Mr. Cobden and Mr. Bright had expressed their regret at not being able to attend the soiree. The Rev. Baptist Noel, the Rev. N. Hall, the Rev. C. H. Spurgeon, Lord Denman, Mr. W. Eward, M. P., Sir F. Crossley, M. P., Mr. W. Lawson, M. P., Mr. White, M. P., Mr. Coningham, M.P., Mr. Weston Wood, M. P., Mr. William Howitt, Mr. J. Stuart Mill, and other gentlemen, also sent letters of apology for non-attendence.
 The Noble CHAIRMAN said, those present had come as the friends of their guest, Mr. George Thompson; morever, they were assembled as the friends of freedom. They wished to honor their guest who had labored in the hallowed cause of freedom with so much zeal and success; and they hoped that his fellow-laborers would continue in their advocacy of the good cause. This assembly was composed of the friends of Parliamentary reform. Political parties of all shades, some time ago, promised measures of Parliamentary reform but as yet there was no fulfilment of their promises; indeed, the fact that the promises were made by all political parties was a bad omen. (Cheers and laughter.) Millions of Englishmen were still without the franchise. Nothing short of manhood suffrage and vote by ballot would satisfy him-(cheers)-and as long as slavery existed, it would be his duty to cry out "Give liberty to the slave!" Poland was now bleeding, and the sons and daughters of freedom throughout the world should unite to destroy the conspiracy of those two Powers who sought to crush Poland. (Cheers.) Italy, too, must not be forgotten by the friends of freedom, nor faithful Hungary. (Applause.)
 Mr. WILKS moved an address to Mr. George Thompson, which was set lin a large and beautifully gilt frame. The address stated, that wherever the English language was spoken Mr. Thompson's name was familiar, and in only one <illegible> it was not beloved. The exception was in those habitations of cruelty where oppression had ripened into treason and rebellion. If any where else he had enemies, their enmity was softened by the honest admiration felt in all free countries for the zealous, persevering and consistent asserter of opinions that did not reward their advocate with wealth or power. The address alluded to his services in the cause of negro emancipation, and in efforts to cheapen the people's bread. His labors also in the movement for liberating the Church from the power of the State were mentioned, as like wise were his efforts to obtain justice to India, free education, parliamentary reform, aboliton of capital punishment reduction of armaments and the establishment of international tribunals. The address concluded as follows:-
 "Especially have you renewed the admiration and esteem of countless friends on both sides of the Atlantic by the orations that during the last two years have so greatly helped to revive in England the old anti slavery ardor, and to vindicate the great American people from the charges by which it is sought to gain British sympathy for the Southern slaveholding rebels. You have by these labors shown yourself the equal friend of both nations, and alike of liberty and peace. We earnestly trust you will live to enjoy the fullest reward of those priceless and disinterested services-live not only represent once more the English people in their national council, but to receive in Washington the thanks of a Congress gathered from all quarters of the Republican territory, and legislating for a common wealth that contains neither a rebel nor a slave."
 Mr. THOMAS BAZLEY, M. P., who said he spoke with twenty-five years' knowledge of Mr. Thompson's services, seconded the address, which was adopted amid loud applause.
 THE CHAIRMAN, in presenting the address to Mr. Thompson, said no good work was unattended by the Divine blessing, and he hoped that the address would strengthen Mr. Thompson to persevere in his benevolent labors (Applause.)
 Mr. GEROGE THOMPSON then, amid renewed plaudits, presented himself to acknowledge the address. He said it was a reviewal of his public life, and it expressed their admiration of his career. He had reason to believe that his motives as a public man had often been misrepresented, and sometimes misunderstood. He could scarcely tell how he was called out into public life. Amongst his earliest recollections was the history recounted to him by his father of sufferings endured by negro slaves which he had personally witnessed; and the relation of those sufferings mad him anxiously hope that freedom would be given to negroes throughout the world. (Cheers.) In the year 1828, he associated with some young men who met in the house of a gentleman in the city of London, and discussed the question of negro emancipation. Subsequently he, with others, debated that question, but even then he had not the slightest notion of becoming a public advocate of that or any other question. Ultimately, however, he offered his services to the Anti Slavery Society. That offer was accepted, and he went on an experimental tour throughout the country. That tour was successful, and the demand upon his services then became pressing. His first encounter with an advocate of slavery was in the town of Liverpool, in which he was born. For six nights in the yea 1831 he discussed the question of negro emancipation in the theatre of that town, with the accredited agent of our West India planters. (Cheers.) In1833, some of his most distinguished friends proposed that he should enter the profession of the law. But at that time Mr. William Lloyd Garrison visited our shores in the cause of negro emancipation, and he (Mr. Thompson) feeling an earnest desire to promote the liberation of the slaves in the United States, relinquished the idea of going to the English bar, and went to America. He was prompted by no sordid motive in undertaking that anti-slavery mission. He had intended to remain in America for three years, but some of his friends being apprehensive that his life would be endangered by his anti-slavery efforts, he returned in about a year and a half to England. He then engaged in an agitation in this country for the abolition of the apprenticeship system. That agitation was opposed by the Government and by the West India planters. At first, even Lord Brougham was afraid that it would not be prudent to agitate the country in the cause; but soon his Lordship gave his sanction to the agitation and his (Mr. Thompson's) labors were eulogized by his lordship in the Upper House. When slave apprenticeship was abolished in our West India colonies, some of the principal landowners in this country proposed to him that if he would endeavor to convice his fellow-country men of the necessity and justice of the corn laws, they would put him in a position of independence, and advance any political object which he might (Laughter.) That proposal he declined. It induced him to turn his attention to the injustice of the corn laws. In 1839, he devoted his mind to the best mode of securing to this country a supply of cotton from another 
source than that of the United States, for he felt that our supply from that country might cease in consequence of a blight, or an insurrection or a civil war. Would that the manufacturers of this country had at.
<c05>
tended to what he represented to them on that subject in 1839! (Hear, hear.) About that time, his friends in manchester invited him to become an advocate of the repeal of the corn laws. The public press had frequently represented that he would not have done anything in that cause if he had not been remunerated by the mill-owners' gold; but for all his labors in that cause he had received nothing but the satisfaction of his own his anti-corn-law friends that be should render his services gratuitously to them in their struggle, on the sole condition that at the end of their struggle they would help him and others in obtaining justice in India. (Applause.) He had not time to refer to all the topics in the very flattering address just presented to him. But he might say, that on the question of slavery he was actuated by the simple principle that the enslavement of any human being was at once the greatest outrage that could be committed upon any man, and a most grievous offence against God-a system at once unjust and infernal. (cheers.) In the corn-law agitation, he was influenced by the conviction that it was unjust for any human legislation to intervene between the home consumer and the foreign producer, that the harvests of the of the world were the property of mankind, and that god had sent those harvests not for the benefit of a particular class, but for the sustentation of all the human race. (Loud cheers.) He believed that before long questions in this country-(cheers)-and he hoped that when that question was once more revive, the heroic, patient, resigned, hopeful and exemplary conduct of his follow-countrymen in the cotton manufacturing districts would not be forgotten. In conclusion Mr. Thompson said; I have now only to return my heartfelt acknowledgements for this address. It will be a source of comfort, pride and encouragement to me, and I hope you will do something also to animate those who shall come after me. May they be actuated by the same principles-may they live for similar objects-and if it be God's will, may they receive a similar amount of confidence and aoribation at the hands of our fellow-country-men! All that I can say for myself is, that during the remnant of my days I shall remain inflexibly true to the principles I have hitherto professed. And receive my assurance, that whenever I shall seek encouragement and reanimation, I shall recur to the proceedings of this night, and remember that however much we may for a time be condemned or be surrounded by difficulties, a day will come when those who have observed our humble efforts will acknowledge them, and reward them as you have done me. (Renewed cheers.)
The Noble CHAIRMAN stated, that as the question of Poland would shortly be brought before the House of Commons, a petition in favor of the Poles had been prepared, and lay at the door for the signatures of the meeting as they retired.
Mr. AYRTON, M.P., them addressed the assembly at some length. Speaking of the honored guest of the evening, he believed that no man in this country had done more than that gentleman in the promotion of the best interests of mankind. (Applause.)
The Rev. J.SELLA MARTIN, a colored gentleman, late of Boston, (United States,) said that, as a brand plucked from the burning, he tendered to Mr. Thompson his grateful acknowledgments of that gentleman's anti-slavery labors. That gentleman's name, he said, was remembered with benedictions by the slaves in America.
Professor NEWMAN said, that amongst the other things for which Mr. Thompson deserved the public gratitude was his advocacy of the peace principles. He hoped that greater efforts would be made to give effect to those principles.
The Rev. J.H.RYLANCE rejoiced that after Mr. Thompson's long and arduous career of philanthropic labors, that gentleman was still strong, and he hoped comparatively young to do much service yet for his fellow-creatures everywhere. He hoped, that from one end of England to the other the eloquent voice of George Thompson would be heard in loud denunciations of the doings of the blood-covered Southern States. (Cheers.) He hoped too that the Church, in the present crisis, would speak firmly in support of the truth of God, and in defence of the rights of man. (Cheers.)
Mr. JOHN NOBLE, J.P., urged the necessity of all Christians paying more attention to the great political questions of the day.
On the motion OF Mr. GEORGE THOMPSON, a vote of thanks was passed to the noble Chairman.
LETTER FROM JOHN P.JEWETT, EXQ.
LONDON, (England,) Feb.26,1863. you an account of the soiree to be given this week, in honor of our noble friend George Thompson, Esq. It took place last evening agreeable to the printed announcements which I enclose to you. The spacious dinging saloon of the Whittington Club Rooms was filled by the admirers of this distinguished philanthropist. True friends they were, as every word, look and gesture testified. The Right Honorable Lord Teynham, a Peer of the Realm, presided, with great elegance and dignity, honoring himself as much as his distinguished guest by so doing, and by the noble testimony which he bort to the valuable services, covering a period of more than thirty years, which George Thompson had rendered to humanity. It was good to see a man of his standing in society in such a place, and to hear him utter sentiments so true and so well deserved. Encomiums equally strong were spoken by other members of Parliament, and by clergy men and civilians who were present; and from 5
1/2 o'clock until past 10, there was no lack of good speakers; and when the hour for adjournment arrive, several who were expected to speak, and were prepared to do so, were obliged to leave without being heard. The same spirit seemed to pervade the whole assembly, every one wishing to bear his or her appreciative testimony to the ardous, self-denying and valuable services of him whom they had assembled to honor. There was nothing forced-nothing said for effect-but all the proceedings were characterized by that spontaneous out gushing, overflow of soul, which comes only from full hearts; it was emphatically an affectional meeting. The eloquent address presented to the honored guest of the evening, setting forth in terse but beautiful language the eminent services which, for a generation, he had rendered to humanity, was permeated with a tone of affectionate remembrance. While the address was being read, a superb copy of the same, nearly two most exquisite style, and encased in a rich filt frame, was brought into the hall, and placed in front of the desk. It was welcomed by a storm of applause. As a work of art, it is surpassingly beautiful, and is a tribute in every respect which our noble fried, and his children's children, may well prize. That which gave the zest to the evening was the sketch which Mr. Thompson gave of the thirty years of his life, especially referred to in the addrese. It was modest, touching, beautiful; and the moist eyes of his auditors bore evidence to the feelings which he had stirred within them, by a simply straightforward narration of services rendered, and sacrifices made, without expectation of honor, reward, or emolument.
But I have not time to enlarge, and I need not. The meeting was in every sense a great success, and I believe will be followed before long, by another, to be called by those who are determined that a life spent as in its decline, by suitable and substantial pecuniary considerations.
The newspapers gave but a mere outline of the doings of the meeting. The whole proceedings will, however, be immediately issued in pamphlet form, as they deserve to be preserved. You will doubtless be able to enrich the columns of your excellent paper from this valuable document. which you will receive by early mail.
Your friend,
JOHN P.JEWETT,
<c06>
LETTER FROM MRS. FRANCES D. GAGE.
PARIS ISLAND, (S. C.) March 8. 1863.
FRIEND GARRISON,-Your welcome note, introducing 
Mrs.--,and Miss-,was brought by themselves to my island home, and let me assure you both met a cordial welcome. As to the ladies, every one that comes to South Carolina is a god-send, if she be but pure, true, and earnest in her work. The negroes say that "women have short sense, and can't do much; but then, missus, we can't do without "em." That is truth, in more ways than one. This short sense that dives right into the heart of things, and takes hold of all prominent points, and works little by little, is the great lever, after all When the lion got into the net, it was a mouse that gnawed him out, and <illegible> roaring and raving amounted to nothing. Send lown the New England girls and the Western girls, put them into the school-houses, let, them teach the dphabet, teach the use of the thimble and needle teach songs of liberty, teach neatness, propriety, cleanliness, chastity, dropping the little seeds of virtue and truth into the mellow and virgin soil of these contraband hearts, and their " short sense " will stretch away into untold generations, while the long-reasoning and far-reaching strategy of Cabinets and Major Generals will be utterly forgotten. Send your gentle, sweet tempered women into the hospital and camps, and with offices of kindness they shall win hard hearts over to the law of love, and bring the rebellious and half-traitorous spirit into subordination to that" higher law " which has so long been the derision of politicians and spectators.
In Northern newspapers, we read of sad foreboding for the future of our country. How strange they sound to me! Now, when this terrible disease which has so long been preying upon the vitals of the common wealth stands out, revealed in all its hideousness; now, when the surgeon's knife has begun to cut away the putrid masses; now, just when the patient, sorely agonized, cries out in ghastly pain, and writhes under the torture, is it any time to despair, and speak dolorous or threatening words? Discouragements now are almost criminal. Shout hope in every ear, and banish the pale faces, till the struggle for life or death is ended.
To-day, sitting alone by the tide-washed shores of Broad river, the sullen March winds dashing the waves high on the beach, and swaying the great that which lay in sight to and fro at their anchorage. I read Wendell Phillips's grand speech at your Anti-Slavery Convention in Boston. As I read his <illegible> rebuke of the apostate Banks, I looked out at the dark figures carelessly passing beneath my window, free as the eloquent orator himself.
"Toby," said I to a man of fifty, who had been his master's gardener in secesh times, "can you come and work for me in the garden to-morrow?"
"I'd like to do it, warm, but it's quite on possible."
"Why so, Toby?"
"Must list my cotton groun', missus, and my corn: wants to get him in season this year, Gobernment spects we to do dat, so we can't stop off day here and day dare, to make de garding and de like. Glad to blige you, marm, but you see it's on possible."
There 's freedom for you! Toby will stick to his plat of corn and cotton ground, and with all my heart I pray for God's blessing on his crop.
1 turned to my speech again, and read with burning indignation the record of " mistakes that run all one way." But why did he not drop in a word of praise for our Brig.-Gen. Saxton, a son of Massachusetts. who every time is right in behalf of the contraband; who puts no pro slavery men into position as superintendents, and gives no pro-slavery women passes as teachers to these children? —he who could call the great champion of Liberty, T. W. Higginson, to take charge of the 1st South Carolina Regiment, and inaugurate the first New Year's day of freedom even without the news of the President's reiterated Proclamation, by a jubilant festival for the emancipated slaves, upon the soil of South Carolina? There is no truer worker than he. in his official capacity, in private courtesy. or in his social life, he is everywhere true and brave on that one point—the best good of the negro. White Massachusetts blushes for her Banks, let her be proud of her Saxton. Hunter, too, seems truly the friend of the slave. Oh, may success crown his work is this Southern Department, and may the ironclads, when they shall go to their task, be found equal to the labor imposed!
But all this is digression. I was reading Phillips's speech in South Carolina—reading it on one of the Sea Islands—reading it with the bowed and broken slaves of two years ago now walking erect, chainless and masteries all around me—leading it in sight of the great fleet which is (God helping the right) to take Charleston—reading it with the mocking-burds singing roundelays in this old secesh garden, among the budding and blossoming roses and jessamines, and the sweet fragrance of honeysuckles—and I telt
as if the good ship of State and of Freedom, though tossed a little by the gale just now, was steering sureiy into the harbor of peace and justice. Oh, that I could make my voice heard throughout the length and breadth of this land! Every man to his post, and especitally every woman! Now, while men's hearts are filled with the great things, let woman see to it that she do her duty! 'Tis the dew and the sunshine, not the thunderbolt, that makes the harvest; and it the mothers of a nation are brave and selt denying, and faithful to the best interest of those they love, no enemy can prevail against them.
I did not intend to write so long a letter when began, nor to run off into such a rhapsody of hope not the future. But when 1 remember where I am, and think of my surroundings, like yon mocking bird in the old moss-hung oak, 1 feel like singing cheerily in the tree tops, despite the seeming errors and wrongs whose ghosts haunt the slumbers of those whoes faith is weaker than my own in the immutable principles of justice and right. 
We may be foiled at Charleston-what then! Is God asleep? Is not the great heart ot the nation beating steadily on Are not the Pennsylvania boys stationed on our island to learn new lessons of harred to slavery from the blacks themselves! Are not two regiments of brave fellows from the wild hitts of Southern Ohio getting along in words of three syllables, as they bivouac, across Beaufort river, on St. Helena? Will they go back copperheads, Democrats, pro-slavery men? Nay, not one! But when the order echoes along their lines, "Forward to Charleston!" "Down with the accursed institution! " will be the rallyingcry of thousands who, one year ago, said, sullenly-" We have nothing to do with slavery."
yours, truly, FRANCES D. GAGE.
LITBRARY MATTERS. Rev. Wm. M. Thayer, whose "Bobbin Boy" and other works have done much to inspire the young with a healthy ambition, has in prese a kindred work entitled "I he Pioneer Boy; and how he Became President." This book will give the early life of President Lincoln, tracing his career from boyhood up to manhood; his life in Kentucky, where to was born, and his adventures in after years. Two years have been spent in its preparation, and all the material has been derived from reliale sources. This work cannot fail to posses a wide spread interest. It will be published by Walker, Wise & Co., Boston.
Mrs. Elizabeth Barrett Brownina's posthumous volume
 of "Last Poems," edited by The odors Tiltoe, has just reappeared in a fifth edition, (being the fifth thousand) from the prese of James Milter, New York-showing that a good book may successfully face the risks of the market, even with paper at 25 cents a pound!.
NEW MUSIC. Mesers. O. Ditson & Co. have just published "Der Kuss (II Bacio) Gesangs-Walzer son L. Arditi," by Theodore Oesten; "Golden Robin Polka," by N. Bousquet, as performed at Gilmore's Grand Concerts; "Gen. Hooker's March and Quickstep," by E. Jackson; "Sull' Arpe Sulle Cese." I love, I love but thee. Adapted to English Words, by George Linley; and "Annie Lisle," by Brinley Richards.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
CRISPUS ATTUCKS CELEBRATION.
The martyrdom of the colored American, Crispus Attacks, on State street, Boston, March 5th, 1770, was commemorated by a meeting at Tremont Temple, Thursday evening, March 5th, 1863. A detachment from the Massachusetts 54th (colored) Regiment was wasted on the platform, where were also displayed the following flowing among other revolutionary relics:-
DOCUMENTS.
Original copies of the Boston Guzette of March 12, 1770, and one published in 1750, the former containing a full account of the massacre, and the latter an advertisement of the claimant of Crispus Attucks, from whom the latter had run away, and offering a reward for his recovery.
An original printed copy of Hancock’s oration in 1774, in memory of the State street martyrs.
The original certificate of General Washington, honorably discharging from the continental service Brister Baker, a colored Connecticut soldier.
FLAGS.
That presented by Governor Hancock to the colored military company, (“The Bucks,”) and one from the merchants of Boston to a colored organization, (“The Protectors,”) for guarding their property during the Revolution.
The exercisers commenced with singing-
“Oppression shall not always reign,”
by a quartette club, under the direction of J. Harrison Shaw; after which, William C. Nell made the following introductory remarks:-
Ladies and Gentlemen—Ninety-three years ago this evening Crispus Attucks immortalized himself by rallying a company of patriots in Dock Square, marching up State street, and leading them on against the British forces, in which encounter he received two musket balls, one in each breast, and fell-himself the first martyr on that day “which history has selected as the dawn of the American Revolution.” He was buried with honors from Faneuil Hall, and his remains now lie (as yet unmonumented) within ten rods almost in a direct line from the spot I now occupy, on the site of the Boston Atheneum, Beacon street. 
This historic event is invested with special significance this day and hour, when the question is asked on every side, Is the colored man patriotic? Will he fight?
“Is the Negro a man? Hath his voice not a tone,
A language, a music that answers your own?
Hath he not the same hopes, hath he not the same fears?
Feels he not the same joys, weeps he not the same tears?
Do not the same loves make his pulse wildly start?
Are not wife, mother, sister as dear to his heart?
Bears he not the same sorrow, the same chastening rod?
Hath he not the same Savior, hath he not the same God?”
"Fleecy locks and dark complexion
Cannot alter nature's claim;
Skins may differ, but affection 
Dwells in white and black the same.”
The page of impartial history triumphantly answers the question of his patriotism and bravery, as it emblazons the name of Peter Salem on Bunker Hill, and other colored Americans at Lexington, Dorchester Heights, Brandywine, Princeton, Monmouth, Stony Point, Fort Moultrie, Green Bank, 
Croton Heights, Catskill, Bennington, and Yorktown; also at New Orleans, and by naval exploits on the lakes in the war of 1812, and in the gallant action of to Tillman, Robert Small, and many others during the existing slaveholders’ rebellion.
I hail the formation of the Massachusetts 54th (colored) Regiment, and welcome it as a most auspicious sign of the times; for, although some colored citizens have manifested anxiety as to whether their status as equals under the law would be advanced thereby, my conviction has been from the first, and is now very strong, that by accepting the opportunity of becoming soldiers in this our nation’s trial hour, the result cannot be otherwise than a full acknowledgment of every right; and if the 54th Regiment will but fulfil the hopes and expectations of their friends, (among whom I am proud to proclaim myself one,) they will materially aid in the conquest of Southern rebels, and thereby so conquer Northern prejudice, that on their return from the field of victory, they may march up State street over the spot consecrated by the martyrdom of Crispus Attucks, amid the plaudits of admiring citizens.
Rev. R. C. Waterston illustrated his animated and impressive speech by citations from Revolutionary documents, commendatory of colored soldiers, with special allusions to the valuable historical researches of George Livermore, Esq., and claimed that Trumbull added dignity to his canvass by portraying colored men rendering patriotic service.
Wendell Phillips, Esq., was the next speaker, the Damascus blade of whose eloquence is potent in vanquishing pro-slavery opposition-whose white plume, like that of Henry IV. at the battle of Navarre, is always seen at that point where the blows fall thick and fast-whose whole life justifies the application to himself of that tribute which, in his own classic rhetoric, he has awarded to another—“The ocean of his philanthropy knows no shore.”
The speech of Mr. Phillips was in part a review of facts connected with the 5th of March, and in reference to the taunts now being industriously circulated, that the colored man will neither work nor fight. He hoped they would make it truthful so far as to refuse working or fighting as slaves; but, as men, he hoped and believed they would not be lacking in the demands of the hour.
Major William L. Burt having lately returned from New Orleans, gave most interesting and instructive details of the contrast which had been manifest there between the administration of Gen. Butler and that of Gen. Banks. He had gone to the Department of the Gulf with only one prejudice-namely, against Gen. Butler; but he found the General converted, and he saw the process which had converted him. He was happy to testify to the admirable deportment of the colored people in New Orleans, both soldiers and others. After the slaves had gained their freedom under Butler, there was no intoxication, no disorders, no complaint even, except by peaceful remonstrance. In patience and forbearance, these people had been examples to the human race.
He showed that, while the colored regiments held New Orleans, there was no court martial of either officers or privates, and all was quiet; and by way of contrast he presented the disorderly conduct of white regiments, and particularly of Billy Wilson’s Zouaves, who continually abused the colored men who had been so orderly and steady, and themselves became the pest of the city. The colored officers had lately been persecuted into resigning, and they were of the best character, citizens of substance and family; while scores of the white men who had been persecuting them were blacklegs from New York.
These colored men had not received one dollar of pay, and yet it was to the colored regiments of New Orleans we owed the fact that that city was preserved to the Union. All the secessionists wanted was to see them trodden under foot; for every colored man was a true and loyal man, loving the “stars” and stripes,” and loving liberty, while the whites were most of them secessionists.
Even our own General Grover had encouraged this mutinous spirit by refusing to permit colored officers to report to him. There was abundant evidence that the colored women of New Orleans recognized favor to secession in these insults to black soldiers. We wanted a man there, like General Butler, who could put his foot down, and assert and maintain what was right in this mutter.
Major Burt closed with an earnest appeal in aid of the 54th Massachusetts Begiment. He said their thorough military education was of the greatest possible importance, since all of them would soon be wanted as officers of new regiments.
T. Morris Chester, Esq., in a few remarks, eloquently alluded to the bravery and devotion of colored Americans, and particularly to his patriotic brethren of Pennsylvania, who had recently expressed themselves in resolutions at a public meeting in Harrisbuing to remain loyal to “the old flag.”
<c02>
He concluded with a warm tribute to President Lincoln for his Emancipation Proclamation.
The following letters were read from gentlemen unable to atttend:-
LETTER FROM JUDGE RUSSELL.
BOSTON, March 5,1861.
WM. C. NELL. Esq.:
DEAR SIR-I regret that I cannot be with you to night. I look forward, with you, to the time when the prizes of merit in civil and in military life will be distributed as impartially as were the British bullets on the 5th of March.
I hope your meeting will promote those enlistments by which prejudice can best be overcome, and that we shall soon see how well the men can fight who strike at once to save their country, and to elevate their race.
Yours, very truly, THOMAS RUSSELL.
LETTER FROM MONCURE D. CONWAY.
MR. WM. C. NELL:
Dear NELL:
DEAR SIR—I much regret my inability to be present, to night, at the celebration of the honorable and noble Hero of the old revolution.
I am absent only because a call to address a political meeting, to-night, in New Hampshire, seems to me more imperative than any in Massachusetts can be. They who are whole need not a physician, but they who are sick.
I go to tell the Republicans of New Hampshire that we are losing for want of as much boldness in doing right, as Copperheads have in doing wrong.
My conviction is, that we shall begin to succeed in this war only when we openly and everywhere avow that we are fighting for the abolition of slavery, and that no other object is worthy the blood of the humblest soldier.
Yours, cordially, M. D. CONWAY.
Mrs. Dutton executed a series of patriotic airs upon the piano, and sang with great acceptance the parody on “Red, White and Blue,” written by Miss Charlotte L. Forten.
The Quartette Club were joined by the audience in singing “America,” which concluded the services.
N.
THE “TRIBE OF ASA” IN WASHINGTON.
WASHINGTON, March 6, 1863.
DEAR MR. GARRISON,-“This branch of the most wonderfully gifted family of songsters, the Hutchinsions, have just concluded a series of concerts in this city, with great success. The “Tribe of Asa” consists of Asa and Lizzy, his wife, Abby, Freddy, and little Dennett.
The musical gifts of the original “Hutchinson Family” are fully inherited, if not “revised and improved” in the young Hutchinsons. Their singing wins the hearts of all as if by magic. Old pro-slavery partisans, for the time at least, forget their prejudices, under the influence of these songsters, and join in the general applause of the “Old John Brown Song,” Kingdom Coming,” The Slave's Appeal,” and other anti slavery pieces.
“Little Dennett,” named by your friend, Mrs. Lydia, L. Dennett, of Portland, for her husband, the lamented Oliver Dennett, only six years of age, is truly a musical genius of great promise. He “brings down the house” whenever he appears. Freddy, who is, I think, about ten or twelve years of age, sings tenor with a master’s skill and power. Abby, who is fourteen years of age, without doubt has the finest alto voice to be found in the country. For flexibility, compass, smoothness, and fullness of tone, it is pronounced unrivalled. She will yet attain to a worldwide celebrity, if she lives and continues in the calling upon which she has so successfully entered. Of Asa and Lizzy, I need not specially speak. They are well known everywhere; their reputations are established, and their names are as household words throughout the land.
The “Tribe of Asa” are doing much to promote the great reforms of the day. Where truth from the inspired lips and in the silver tones of a Phillips would be rejected and mobbed, when warbled in the songs of the Hutchinsons, melts down old prejudices, finds its way to the heart, and corrects the head. The hero and martyr, John Brown, can be sung a saint in heaven, even here in Washington, with applause; but no orator can talk him such without giving offence. Thus, reversing the illustration, old superstitions and traditional nonsense are sung in the choir long after they cease to be tolerated in the sermon. The reason is, men and women are much more heart than head, and feel more than they think. Here lies a thought worthy of consideration by reformers. Ecclesiastics have never lost sight of it; hence the choir and the organ are never secondary among the instrumentalities employed by the Church in controlling mankind.
One interesting and significant fact I must not forget to mention. At the third concert given at Willard’s Hall, Gen. Burnside and the Hon. Cassius M. Clay were present. At the close of the concert, at the special request of Gen. Burnsi de, the “Old John, Brown Song,” was sung, and enthusiastically applauded. The audience then gave three cheers for Gen. Burnside and Mr. Clay, and three cheers for the Hutchinsons.
The “Tribe of Asa,” here as elsewhere true to their humane and gentle natures, though constantly receiving the flattering attention of the rich and great of the land, have not forgotten the poor and the despised. The sick soldier languishing in the hospital, and pining for sympathy and home, has been visited and cheered; the contraband fresh from the house of bondage, crushed, broken hearted and poor, has been encouraged; and the calloused heart of the hoary, aristocratic, pro-slavery sinner has been touched and softened, by their songs of Home, Liberty and Humanity; and they will leave the city with the blessings of all classes upon their heads. May prosperity and peace attend them wherever they go! may they live long to witness the success of their songs, and the rising fame of the young Hutchinsons! and may their “tribe increase”! A. J. GROVER.
NEGRO HATRED.
The very acme of meanness and depravity is revealed in the rampant hatred which rests upon the negro. “Whom we injure we also hate.” That the present is the hour of signal judgment to our nation, for its diabolical treatment of “Afric’s injured race,” no discerning mind can doubt. We may ask to be delivered from the bitter cup, but it must be drunk to its very dregs. God, the just arbiter of all events, will not let as off till by thorough repentance we cease our hatred and scorn of those who are “guilty of no crime, save having a skin not colored like our own.”
Take, as a fresh illustration, the latent prejudice against the colored race, the atrocious—nay, fiendish conduct of the late mob at Detroit. What brutality and hot haste to let “slip the dogs of war” upon a” defenceless and innocent people”! As if the sin of one of their race must be atoned only by an extermination of all who wear a sable skin! God pity us when justice does her perfect work! This very crime but serves to identify the African with the Anglo-Saxon. And yet a maddened prejudice hurls hot bolts of mischief and death, as though the crime was unpardonable, because committed by a negro!
When will this mania end? When shall we cease to be infidel to the declaration, that “God hath made of one blood all nations of men to dwell upon the face of the earth”? Perhaps our children may learn that such a truth is of more moment than to settle the question of “Geology and Genesis,” or to decide what color distinguished the wood of Solomon’s temple, or whether there can be “a Church without a Bishop.” What a work opens up for the pulpit and the Sunday School! How high, above all else, the lessons yet to he taught to a world “lying in wickedness”!
Is it not the work of every good heart to exorcise the foul spirit of negro-hatred? Shall we, dare we, hope for peace and prosperity, till we accord to our colored brother the rights of a common humanity?
G. W. S. 
G. B. Swan, colored, was elected Trustee of the town of Potsdam, St. Lawrence country, New York, at the recent election. We don't hew that any one is hurt. “A man’s, for a’ that”
<c03>
RETURN OF THANKS.
Dear Garrison,-Allow me a brief word of thanks to your readers, for the response so generously made to my appeal for papers and mapazines for the soldiers, in your paper of Feb. 27th. The Liberators and Standards have come in bountifully, and I assure yon are all read by the boys in our regiment with great interest. I am sure they will do immense good wherever they circulate in the army. I have also had a generous package of the Saturday Evening Gazette, a most interesting paper to the soldiers, and other papers, with which I am able to help the men in camp to a higher inspiration of patriotism, and love of justice and right. Let all such streams pour steadily and fully into the brave hearts of our soldiers. Let them tally understand this great power, and the Union soldiers will speedily and effectually suppress the rebels of the South, and the copperheads of the North.
I am astonished at the action of the Kansas Legislature against the noble man who so ably has represented her people in this Congress just closed. His speech and his life are for freedom, and against slavery; and if we do not see this Spring made glorious by onward marching victories, before which the hope of reconstructing again the old slaveholders’ rule in Washington shall perish forever, his fears will be more than realized. In God and the People, I still hope for a free and united Fatherland as the result of this tremendous conflict. DANIEL FOSTER.
Camp of the 33d Mass. Vol.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
WASHINGTON, (D. C.) March 6, 1863.
GENTLEMEN—The Contraband Relief Association acknowledge the receipt of sixty-five dollars and sixty cents, sent to you by their President, Mrs. Keekley, from the Union Progressive Association, for the relief of destitute contrabands in our midst.
We beg of you to accept their grateful acknowledgments for the same; also their heartfelt thanks for the interest manifested both in this our undertaking and in these our suffering brethren.
In behalf of the Society,
MARY F. COOK,}
ANNIE E. WASHINGTON, 
SECREATARIES.
Messrs. Wm. C. Nell, Mark R. D. Mortie, Edwin M. Banister.
AN INQUIRY.
WASHINGTON, (D. C.) March 6, 1863.
HON. SIR:
There is one relic of Southern “barbarism” not yet destroyed.
Men from whom every trace of identity with African blood has been removed are yet called negroes, and where slavery exists are still held as slaves by an inverted law of the South, making the condition of the mother the condition of the child. Ought not this condition to be removed for the honor of this Congress and the cause of humanity?
Respectfully, ONE IN THE CATEGORY.
LETTER FROM JOHN STUART MILL. The following letter was read and loudly cheered at the celebration of Washington’s birthday, in London:—
“BLACKHEATH PARK, Feb. 11.
Dear Sir,—Although I am prevented by pressing occupations from accepting your invitation to join you in celebrating the glorious memory of Washington, and the great work of liberation in which he took so important a part, I am thankful for the opportunity afforded me of associating myself, if only by letter, with the principles and purposes which are identified with that illustrious name.
The prospects of the human race are so deeply interested in the success of the great experiment which is working itself out in the United States, that the lovers of freedom and progress in other countries feel whatever injuries, and still more whatever dishonors America, as a personal calamity. Foremost among all things which injure and dishonor a country stands the personal slavery of human beings. Rather than consent to the further extension of this scourge, the American people have voluntarily incurred all their present sacrifices; and because what was originally a war against slavery has grown into a war for its extinction, my hopes for the future welfare and greatness of the American Republic were never so high as in this, to superficial appearance, the darkest hour in its history.
I have the honor to be, dear sir, 
Very faithfully yours,
J. S. MILL.”
WHITTIER, THE POET, TO JOHN BRIGHT. The following letter, enclosing money for English sufferers, was written by the poet Whittier to Mr. Bright:-
AMESBURY, 2d of 1st mo., 1863.
John Bright, Esq., M. P.:—Dear Friend: I take pleasure in enclosing to thy care, for the benefit of the unemployed people of thy manufacturing districts, a bill of exchange on Tallamont, Brothers & Co., of London, for £31 14s Id ($238 of our money), the sum contributed by the villages of Amesbury and Salisbury for that purpose. I also enclose the proceedings of the meeting which originated the subscription.
With a grateful appreciation of thy generous efforts to promote good feeling between the people of England and the United States, and of thy eloquent and truthful presentation of the great questions involved in our terrible arbitrament,
I am, very truly, thy friend,
JOHN G. WHITTIER. 
MASON RIDICULED BY HIS FRIENDS. The London Times has an article ridiculing James M. Mason's speech at the Lord Mayor's dinner. It says:-
“The Lord Mayor drew the ‘lion,’ and the ‘lion’ roared with a vengeance. In fact, Mr. Mason availed himself of the opportunity to say at the Mansion House what he had not been permitted to say at the Foreign Office or upon any official occasion.
Mr. Mason has received no assistance or encouragement in this country, except from those gentlemen who, like the Lord Mayor, are under no responsibility to weigh their words and keep their predilections to themselves. It is a sad pity: but we cannot help Lord Mayors doing very much what they please, and there is nobody in this country who can. There are people who are privileged to say and almost do whatever comes into their heads. Kings, Queens and Princes have been brought into good order, but the Lord Mayor is still at large. Unfortunately, this is hot always understood abroad; but we beg to assure the Americans on both sides of the Potomac that what is said or done by the Lord Mayor is considered here, not exactly insignificant or indifferent, but really as beginning and ending in the Mansion House.”
The temper of the Times is evidently becoming mollified.
PRICES IN RICHMOND. General Dix, in a private letter to John Van Buren, says:—
I had a man from Richmond with me yesterday. He gives a gloomy account of things there. Here are some of the prices:
Beef, one dollar per pound.
Pork, one dollar and a quarter.
Butter, three dollars per pound.
Bacon, one dollar and fifteen cents do.
Tea, none to be had except at fabulous prices.
Coffee, do.
Eggs, two dollars per dozen.
Calico, two dollars per yard.
Ready-made coat, from eighty to one hundred dollars.
Soft wool hat, from twenty-five to thirty dollars.
My informant had on an ordinary pair of boots, for which he paid sixty dollars.
These prices are in Confederate money. One dollar in gold brings three dollars and fifty cents in Confederate bills. One dollar in our Treasury notes brings two dollars in Confederate bills.
THE DISTRESS AT THE SOUTH. Reports of destitution at the South begin to accumulate, and the testimony of refugees, now flocking in scores to our lines, leaves not a single peg upon which to hang a doubt of the imminence of actual famine in many parts of the Confederacy. The Washington Star publishes a list, of seventy-nine refugees who have arrived at Washington from Richmond, many of whom were women and children, some of the Latter of tender age. Starvation is at thousands of doors all over the South; even those once moderately wealthy are reduced to desperate straits; and it is utterly improbable that, if every avenue of supplies shall continue to be closed up, the rebellion can bold out another season of distress and exhaustion.
SIGNIFICANT. The Washington Star of Wednesday says that the large number of refugees coming within the lines of our army within the past two or three weeks, particularly of that description of the people denominated by the Southern autocrats as “poor white trash,” is one indication that the end of the rebellion is rapidly approaching. Starvation is threatening, and they are fleeing from the city of destruction
<c04>
THE EMPLOYMENT OF NEGROES BY THE FRENCH.
The following is the official statement in the Moniteur, of January 23d, of the employment of negro troops in Mexico:—
[Translation.]
“BULLETIN.In consequence of the report that the Viceroy of Egypt had placed a battalion at the disposal of the Emperor, the British press had suffered itself to indulge in suppositions which it is proper to correct. The following is the fact Experience having taught, in the case of the negro companies from our West India possessions, that the negro race was not subject, like the white race, to the influence of the yellow fever, the Emperor has asked from the Viceroy, not the permission to recruit soldiers, as the British Government did during the war of the Indies, but the temporary transfer (cession) of a negro regiment of twelve hundred men, fully organized, with its officers and non-commissioned officers. The Viceroy was unable, for the time being, to dispose of more than four hundred and fifty men, who are to do garrison duty at Vera Cruz This measure, adopted in a sense of humanity, cannot give rise to the least criticism.”
THE GREAT FRENCH ABOLITIONIST. The Emperor Napoleon, if accounts be true, has been guilty of shocking impropriety. He considers a “nigger” as good as a white man, and places him on a military equality with his own soldiers. Finding his Mexican war a rather longer contract than he bargained for, he has actually shocked the propriety of the civilized world by hiring from the Pasha of Egypt the services of several thousand conscript Nubians, with “ebo shins and gizzard feet,” “thick lips and wooly hair, and black as a chimney flue in a dark night. According to the logic of those who oppose the conscription of the able bodied blacks in this country to suppress the rebellion, he dirtied himself with the mire of everlasting disgrace. It is an admission, they would say, that the French soldiers proper are unable to whip the Mexican greasers, and the pillars of the Imperial throne are made to rest for their permanence and glory on the shoulders of the stupid and stinking Africans of Upper Egypt. To be sure, it does indicate a desire on the part of the Emperor to save, as far as possible, the effusion of white blood, and to substitute for French soldiers those who can and will fight for the honor of France quite as eagerly as themselves. The opponents of the negro conscription prefer to see a while man killed any day to a negro, and are anxious on two points only: to save their own skins whole and those of the black men in the loyal States.-Boston Traveller.
A CONVERSION TO EMANCIPATION. Mr. J. G. 
Guthrie, a member of the St. Louis law-firm composed in part of those former rabid Secessionists, James S. Greene and Judge A. Reese, and himself hitherto tender-footed on the Union question, has just written a letter announcing his cordial acquiescence in the emancipation policy. He says:-
"CANTON,Mo., February 5, 1863.
Colonel Moore, Twenty-First Missouri, Union City, Tennesse:
DEAR SIR: My brother William is here, but he will leave for St. Louis to-morrow. He wishes to be remembered. He and I go for the President’s Proclamation, and the arming of the three hundred thousand negroes, with all our might.
At first I was afraid that the Proclamation would not work well, but I now view it very differently. I now am satisfied that the war will never end till slavery is choked to death, and the sooner the better.
Yours very truly, J. G. GUTHRIE.”
NEGRO SOLDIERS. An officer of the Massachusetts Cavalry, stationed at Beaufort, S. C,-thus speaks in a private letter of the negro soldiers who have been organized in the Department of the South:-
“I consider the enlistment of negroes as soldiers a complete success. I have had a good chance to judge, having taken great interest in watching their progress from the time of the first enlistment at Hilton Head. During the last week, I have visited their camp three or four times and witnessed their drill, and will state that as far as I am capable of judging of infantry tactics, they display as great efficiency in drill as any of the white regiments on the island. They are quick, active, and possess great power of endurance, are easily disciplined, and well satisfied with their condition. I want to see 300,000 blacks in the field before the first of July. How can we get them? you may ask. By striking into the interior of some thickly settled slave States, and giving every negro a chance to help work out his own salvation. Let the Government do away with their agricultural projects for the present, and instead of sending men to the field to raise cotton, make soldiers of them. The rebels fear them much more than they do white troops. Many of them have old scores to settle up, and they know when they fight it is their only salvation. Ask any of them what they may expect if their old masters catch them, and they will say, ‘Lord, massa, he shoot me, sure—never go alive, boss. As long as this state of feeling exists among them, you need not fear but that they will make good soldiers. The rebels say they do not want any negroes after they have entered our lines, and as a general thing they shoot them when they catch them.”
THE EXPEDITION OF NEGRO SOLDIERS INTO THE 
INTERIOR OF REBELDOM. A Port Royal correspondent.” of the New York Tribune makes the following statement in regard to the negro expedition which left Port Royal about the first instant. This expedition took with them about five thousand muskets to arm negroes upon the plantations along the route. The ultimate destination is supposed to be the interior of Georgia:—
“As I am writing, the fine steamship Boston and several smaller vessels, all laden with negro troops, are lying off the wharf, expecting in an hour or two to sail for Florida. This expedition is composed of all the negro troops now mustered into service in this department. It is to be unaccompanied by white troops, and the negro, and the negro alone, will bear all the praise or blame to follow the success or failure of the enterprise. Col. Higginson, of the 1st South Carolina, will have command in the field, and, for the time being, will be acting Brigadier General. Through causes beyond the control of any one in the Department, this expedition has been delayed until the present moment.
At what point in Florida it has landed, and in what way it has operated against the enemy, you will probably learn first through Southern sources. Though known here and talked about, it has been thought advisable to keep the Northern reading public in ignorance until co-operating movements have been made at other points. As the negro soldiers embarked on board the boats this morning, and left Beaufort Harbor, Gen. Saxton gave them a parting salute of thirty-two guns, the fine band stationed in the city struck up a national air, and the white handkerchiefs of the ladies, who have so long had the best interest of the African at heart, waved them adieu.”
THE COLORED LOYALISTS. The New Orleans correspondent of the Boston Traveller, after giving an instance of a preservation from danger of our troops, through the aid of a slave, says:—
Every day we have some such proof of the honesty of the poor negroes, and their fidelity to our cause has saved many a Northern homestead from being robbed of a precious life. Of course we should denounce this down-trodden and abused race, and pay strict attention to the groans of their ferocious masters, who fear the revelations of their slaves may more deeply implicate them in their treasonable acts against our land. Keep up the howl of the white-livered hypocrites of the North, and the secession presses, and let us forge more chains for the slave-driver. Don’t be so barbarous as to arm the negroes. Oh! no! We must not be so indiscreet.”
THE COLORED REGIMENT AT READVILLE. The Colored Regiment at Readville now numbers nearly three hundred men, and recruits are coming in at the rate of about ten per day. Thus far only ten line officers have been appointed to this regiment, and their relative rank has not been decided upon. All these officers but one have seen service, and have been selected from regiments in the field, which of itself is a proof that Gov. Andrew intends to secure for the regiment as efficient leadership and as perfect drill as possible.
The officers thus far nominated are Col. Shaw, who was a captain in the Mass. 2d; Lieut. Col. N. P. Hallowell, captain in the 20th; Adjutant Lieut. Partridge, of the 38th; Quartermaster John Ritchie, selected from civil life; Dr. L. R. Stone, late of the 2d; Capt E. N. Hallowell, (brother of the Lieut Colonel,) who was 1st Lieutenant in the 20th, and nine other officers Capt. Hallowell is the acting commander of the battalion, and has some six line officers with him at the post, while the other four line officers are absent at the Western part of the State and elsewhere, recruiting.
By the plan of organization, all the men enlisted by the different officers are put into one company until it contains eighty men, when a new company is formed The fourth company is about to be started. No men have been enlisted for the regiment out of the State, although men have been induced to come here, to list after their arrival.
About thirty came from Philadelphia, and after a medical examination, most of them were accepted and taken to camp. The others were sent home. None of the expenses of transportation, outside of the limits of the State, have been paid from the treasury of the Commonwealth, a fund having been raised for that purpose by private subscription.
Rev. James Freeman Clarke, (Unitarian,) has been elected by the Legislature an Overseer of Harvard College.
<c05>
WASHINGTON LIBERALITY. A curious fact, which illustrates finely the narrow pro-slavery spirit which still remains among a class of people at the Capital, has just come to light. The Washington Lecture Association, with John Pierpont, the poet, as its president, arranged with Edward Smelt, Dr. Storrs. Henry Ward Beecher, T. Buchanan Read, O. W. Holmes, G. W. Curtis, Dr. Furness, Dr. Osgood, and a few other gentlemen, to deliver a course of lectures in that city. With this list of names, a committee of the association waited upon Professor Henry of the Smithsonian Institute, and asked for the use of the lecture room, which is often granted for such purposes. The Processor refuted peremptorily. The committee then sought the proprietors of Willard’s Hall, and they refused. The prominent churches were asked in turn to rent on certain evenings for the lectures, but they too refuse! and finally, through the objections of Wickliffe of Kentucky, it was found impossible to obtain the Hall of Representatives. The final result was that the course was abandoned.—N. Y. Eve. Post.
Last Friday, the Copperheade in the Pennsylvania House of Representatives refused to give the use of their hall to Governor Johnson of Tennessee, and Governor Wright of Indian, to address the members and citizens. The Sedate, however, was more civil, and allowed its hail to be used.
Gens. MCCLELLAN AND SCOTT. A correspondent of the New York Tribune has given an excuse for Gen. McClellan’s failure to report to Gen. Scott, in the cases complained of by the latter, which it is but just to Gen. McClellan to make public. This correspondent states that every fact so reported was revealed, to the enemy by a member of Gen. Scott’s staff. This treachery was finally traced to Gen. Scott’s son-in-law (Colonel Scott,) who confessed his guilt. Instead of being shot, he was allowed to be placed on the retired list, with a Lieut,Colonel’s pay, and went to Europe, where he is now doing all he can for the cause of secession!
McClellan at Home. A distinguished gentleman of Philadelphia, in the course of a private letter, says:—
“At McCoy's lecture at the Opera House on Thursday evening, alter cheers had been given most heartily for Butler, Burnside and ‘fighting Joe Hooker,’some body in the upper tier called out, ‘Now three cheers for General McClellan’—a proposition that was met by a deep silence, broken only by some hissing, and by some one below calling out ‘Why, there is a copperhead!”-
THE DETROIT RIOT. Two more negroes have died from injuries received, but the number of deaths will not be us great as at first telegraphed. Thirty-five buildings were destroyed. Contributions are being raised to relieve the sufferers.
The terrible riot that has taken place in Detroit is the natural consequence of the attempts that are made by Democrats to excite prejudices of race. The mob murdered innocent people by the score, and destroyed the property of hundreds of others, for no other reason than that they have been taught to believe that the negro is he cause of all our troubles. They became enraged because they were fired upon by soldiers, who were only doing their duty, and they turned, not upon the men who had fired, and who had arms in their hands, but upon innocent, defenceless persons, who had no connection with the business that annoyed them. The brutality of the mob can be paralleled nowhere out of those narratives in which English writers have told the atrocities committed by the Sepoys, in 1857. These horrible deeds will do us immense damage abroad, for they will be quoted to show that the long-predicted triumph of lawlessness in the North has at last openly commenced, and they will be attributed to our hatred of the unhappy race which we have injured, and which it will be believed we mean to exterminate.—Boston Traveller.
Oil Springs, Canada West, March 16. At a serious riot on Saturday night between the whites and negroes, the whites organized a force and marched to the negro quarters, ordered them away, destroying their property, and burned their houses. The negroes fled to the woods. Three rioters have been captured, and several wounded.
A COPPERHEAD CANDIDATE. Thomas H. Seymour, the Copperhead candidate for Governor in Connecticut, refused positively, last fall, to attend a war meeting, declaring that he was for peace. So well known was it that his sympathies were with the enemies and not with the friends of the Union, that the Legislature of his State ordered his portrait and that of Isaac Toucey, Mr. Buchanan’s Secretary of the Navy, to be removed from the State House, as unworthy to hang there. The loyal people of Connecticut remarked at the time that these two worthies ought to hang elsewhere.
GOVERNOR JOHNSON ON SLAVERY. In his recent speech at the great Union meeting at Indianapolis, Governor Andrew Johnson, of Tennessee, declared himself unqualifiedly for the policy of the government as a whole. He said:—
“I am for the government and all measures necessary to maintain it. Is not this government, the embodiment of the principles of human liberty, worth more than the institution of slavery? It is but as the dust in the balance.”
A FORM OF PRAYER FOR THE TIMES. Father Taylor, the Boston preacher for sailors, is said to have offered the following prayer for the President:—
“O Lord, guide our dear President, the friend of God, like old Abraham. Save him from those wriggling, intriguing, politic, piercing, slimy, bony keel-worms. Don’t let them go through the sheathing of his integrity.”
We cordially say, Amen!
THE NEW HAMPSHIRE ELECTION. Returns have been received from all but 13 towns, showing that the Democratic candidate for Governor will lack about 700 of being elected. Daniel Marty, Democrat, may be elected in the first congressional district by a small majority. Edward H. Rollins, Republican, is elected in the second district by about 300 majority. James W. Patterson, Republican, is elected in the third district by about 500 majority. The Council will stand, 3 Republicans and 2 Democrats; the Senate 9 Republicans and 3 Democrats. The Republican majority in the House of Representatives will be from 45 to 50.
NEORO REGIMENTS IN THE REBEL SERVICE. The Nashville Union says that during the recent tight at Franklin, Tenn., one of our batteries was attacked by two rebel negro regiments. Our artillerists double shotted their guns, and cut the black rebels to pieces, and brought their battery safely off.
The French have many negro soldiers at Vera Crux, brought from their West India islands. They are not such asses as to reject the services of brave men because their skins are dark.
THE SOUTHERN FORTS. Gen. Hunter has issued an order providing for a draft among the colored people of his department, in order that strong garrisons of thoroughly acclimated troops may be at once placed in the Southern forts and posts of that department All able-bodied negroes between the ages of 18 and 50, who are not regularly and permanently employed in the Quartermaster's Department, or as servants of officers, must shoulder arms and join their brothers in the field.
THE DESTRUCTION OF THE INDIANOLA. The Indianola appears to have been really blown up. The rebels had succeeded in raising her, but seeing a “turreted monster.” coming down the river, and supposing she was an iron-clad sent for the recapture of the prize, the authorities of Vicksburg ordered her to be destroyed. It was soon after ascertained that the monster was only an enormous coal boat fitted up to resemble a formidable war vessel; but before the order for the destruction of the Indianola could be countermanded, she was blown to atoms. The rebel batteries turned their fires upon the dreaded monster as it floated past, a over which they gained a complete victory, sinking it in a few minutes. It was a bloodless victory, there being not a soul on board.
On sunday evening, we had the pleasure of listening, to Miss ANNA E. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia, a truly accomplished and admirable speaker. It is only once in a great while that a Claremont audience are permitted to listen to such a flow of patriotic eloquence, to such noble, chaste, inspiring words from the lips of a noble and refined lady. It was truly an intellectual treat as well as a most scathing rebuke of treason and treachery, North and South. If our Democratic friends felt uneasy under the castigation they received, we can only say that there is room for repentance, and there will never be a more favorable time to begin the good work than at the ballot-box today. The good lady received a cordial and unanimous vote of thanks for her able address. The spacious hall was crowded, notwithstanding the heavy snow storm.—Claremont (N.H,) Northern Advocate. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS'S ORATION ON TOUSSAINT L'OUVERTURE. The Semi-weekly Tribune of March 13th contains a full report of Phillips's magnificent Oration, which was delivered to crowded audiences in New York and Brooklyn, on Wednesday and Thursday evenings. No more interesting reading can be sent to soldiers who are fighting our battles, and every person who has friends in the army should see that they are supplied. Price in wrappers, ready for mailing, 5 cents. Three dollars per 100 Address the Tribune, New York.
<c06>
The Richmond Dispath—perhaps the most malignant rebel sheet in all Dixie-by dint of “holding its nose a little,” thus eulogizes Colonel Seymour’s private letter to Thomas Laurence, which was found on the person of the rebel prisoner and spy, Gladding.
“The letter, deprecating a war of subjugation, is worthy of that able statesman and estimable gentleman. He has maintained a consistent position during the war, and will be in after times remembered as one of the very few men at the North who had the reason, humanity, and courage to object to the character and purpose of the atrocious crusade against the South.”
So Jeff. will have one Governor of a Free State after his own heart, when Seymour gets elected in Connecticut. We judge, however, that this will be in some other year than 1863.
A despatch to the New York Times from the Army of the Potomac states that two Lieutenants of U. S. cavalry, to make assurance doubly sure as to the fact of Negroes being in the rebel army on the Rappahannock, passed over a corduroy road, through a marsh, to the edge of the river, and plainly saw with the naked eye Negro cavalry to the number of fifty, with belts and accoutrements, apparently doing picket duty, half and half with white soldiers, who seemed to be regularly distributed with them. The officers went within one hundred yards of them, and only used a glass to render their examinations more certain. The negroes were regularly stationed on posts the same as the whites. The matter has been communicated to the authorities at Washington. There cannot be the slightest doubt of the facts as reported.
KID GLOVES AT A DISCOUNT IN MISSOURI. The authorities in Missouri have no undue tenderness for Secessionists. The proprietors of the Platte County Conservative, who have hoisted the name of Vallandigham for President, and have served for some time in Price’s army, have just been arrested and put under bonds for $3,000, to behave as loyal men hereafter.
EXPURGATED. Under the administration of Jefferson Davis, then United States Secretary of War, an edition of Wayland’s Moral Science was prepared for the military students at West Point, with the chapter on slavery left out. Do they use that edition of Wayland at West Point, now?
ST. LOUIS, March 9. Five hundred contrabands, sent from Helena, by General Prentiss, arrived on the steamer Jessie Bell, to day. The authorities pro; pose to hire them to loyal persons, the hire to be paid to the negroes. One negro, with seven hundred dollars in gold, is the object of great attention and affection.
The Haytien minister, who is a good looking negro, has taken the residence at the corner of 13th and K streets, where he is about to live in style. It is one of the finest residences in the city, and for the last four years has been occupied by Ex-Senator Latham, and Ex-Representative Clark, of New York. It is but three or four doors from Secretary Station’s residence, and but a block from the Mexican Minister’s.
John Van Buren is abused by the copperheads, Cause-He says that nothing but war will answer with the South, and he is for giving the South enough of it, and to spare. In his late New York speech, Mr. Van Buren pointed out that the powers conferred on President Lincoln are no greater than those which were conferred on President Van Buren at the time of the Maine boundary troubles, in 1839.
“Puritanical,” “radical” Massachusetts, with Plymouth Rock, Lexington, Bunker Hill, and a few other “fanatical” institutions within her borders, proposes, or at least her Governor does, to pay her troops on her own account, and wait till the government is ready to refund. Now let’s leave this violent, agitating State-out in the cold! Hartford Post.
The San Antonio, Texas, Herald coolly says, that the number of Unionists in Western and Northern Texas was “small at first, and they are becoming every day less; for in the mountains near Fort Clarke, and along the Rio Grande, their bones are bleaching in the sun, and in the counties of Wise and Denton their bodies are suspended by scores from blackjacks.”
FAST DAY. Governor Andrew, with the advice of Council, has appointed Thursday, April 2, as the day of annual fasting and prayer.
Jeff. Davis has proclaimed another East, to be observed on the 27th of March. Every way, Jeff. is a fast fellow.
A FIEND. A woman named Sault murdered, on the 1st ult., in Scranton, Pa., her three step-children, and endeavored to burn their bodies, but was discovered and apprehended. 
General McClellan has been before the War committee, which could make nothing of him. He takes as much time in answering questions as he took in moving armies.
MR. ALCOTTS CONVERSATIONS. —Mr. A. BRONSON ALCOTT will speak on the “TRANSCENDENTAL CLUB AND DIAL,” at the Hall of the Sons of Temperance, corner of Bromfield and Province Streets, on Monday, evening, March 23rd, commencing at half past 7 o’clock. Tickets to he had at the door.
CATHOLIC CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH, Mercantile Building, 16 Summer Street, Hall No.4. Rev. L. A. SAWYER, Translator of the Scriptures, will preach next Sabbath, at half past 10 o’clock, A. M., on DANIEL, and contemporary history; interpretation of the book commenced.
Copies of the photographic picture, by ALLEN, of the Music Hall stage, in Boston, as arranged for the 29th Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary, may be obtained by application to ROBERT F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington Street, Boston. Price, one dollar.
MARY WATERS (formerly a slave) is well recommended as being capable, intelligent and deserving. She desires employment in washing and ironing, house-cleaning, &c., and does other housework satisfactorily. Any who will give her work will be conferring a kindness, as she is very destitute, being left with four small children. She resides at 29 Anderson Street, formerly West Centre, Boston.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D, has removed on 695 Washington street, 2nd door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children. 
References. —Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. 
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
LIFE OF CAPR. JOHN BROWN.
THE Life and Letters of Captain John Brown, who was executed at Charlestown, Virginia, Dee, 2d, 1859, for an Armed Attack upon American Slavery; with Notices of some of his Confederates. Edited by RICHARD D. WEBB London: Smith, Elder & Co. 1861.
A small fresh supply of this interesting work, (which is prefaced by a fine photograph likeness,) wherein the character and purposes of John Brown are set forth with great clearness and justice, has been received and is now for sale at this office. Price, one dollar. Correspondents sending that sum will have a copy of the book sent them-postage paid. Address, SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Streets, Boston. Mar6
WEIS & ZOEBISCH.
MANUFACTURERS AND DEAKERS IN 
European and Fancy Furs,
308 Washington Street, 308
OPPOSITE BOSTON THEATER, BOSTON.
Particular attention is paid to altering and regarding Old Furs.
Furs preserved during the summer. Navsammer. nev7-3m
IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair Dyeing 
“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that the she has removed from 
223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET.
Where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one also, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey:-
She also has another for restoring grey hair he its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also sealed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTEH,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry
THE TRUE CHURCH.
I asked a holy man one day,
“Where is the one true church, I pray?"
“Go round the world,” said he, “and search:
No man hath found the one true church."
I pointed to a spire, cross-crowned.
“The church is false!” he cried, and frowned.
But, murmuring he had told me wrong,
I pointed to the entering throng.
He answered, “If a church be true,
It hath not many, but a few."
Around the font the people pressed,
And crossed themselves from brow to breast.
“A cross!” he cried, “writ on the brow
In water!—is it Christ's?—look thow!
“Each forehead, forwning, sheds it off:
Christ’s cross abides through seowl and scoff."
Then, looking through the open door,
We saw men kneeling on the floor;
Faint candles, by the daylight dimmed,-
Like wicks the foolish virgins trimmed;
Fair statues of the saints, as white
As now their robes are, in God’s light;
Sun-ladders, dropped aslant, all gold,-
Like stairs the angels trod of old.
Around, above, from nave to roof,
He gazed, and said, in sad reproof,-
“Alas! who is it understands
God’s temple is not made with hands?"
—We walked along a shaded way,
Beneath the apple-blooms of May,
And came upon a church whose dome
Bore still the cross, but not for <illegible>.
We brushed a cobweb from a pane,
And gazed within the sacred fane.
“Do prayers,” he asked, “the more avail,
If murmured nigh an altar-rail?
“Does water sprinkled from a bowl
Wash any sin from any soul?
“Do tongues that taste the bread and wine
Speak truer after, by that sign? 
“The very priest, in gown and bands,
Hath lying lips and guilty hands!"
“He speaks no error,” answered I;
“He says the living all shall die,
“The dead all rise; and both are true;
Both wholesome doctrines,—old, not new."
My friend returned, “He aims a blow
To strike the sins of long ago,-
“Yet shields, the while, with studied phrase, 
The evil present in these days.
“Doth God in heaven impute no crime
To prophets who belie their time?"
—We turned away among the tombs;
The bees were in the clover-blooms;
The crickets leaped to let us pass;
And God’s sweet breath was on the grass.
We spelled the legends on the stones:
The graves were full of martyrs’ bones,-
Of bodies which the rack once brake
In witness for the dear Lord’s sake,-
Of ashes gathered from the pyres
Of saints whose souls fled up through fires.
I heard him murmur, as we passed,
“Thus won they all the crown at last;
“Which now men lose, through looking back
To find it at the stake and rack:
“The rack and stake have gathered grime:
God’s touchstone is the passing time."
–Just then, amid some olive-sprays,
Two orioles perched, and piped their lays,
Until the gold beneath their throats
Shook molten in their mellow notes.
Then, pealing from the church, a psalm
Rolled forth upon the outer calm.
“Both choirs,” said I, “are in accord;
For both give worship to the Lord."
Said he, “The tree-top song, I fear,
Fled first and straightest to God’s ear.
“If men bind other men in chains,
Then chant, doth God accept the strains?
“Do loud-lipped hymns His ear allure?-
God hates the church that harms the poor!"
Then rose a meeting-house in view,
Of bleached and weather-beaten hue,
Where, plain of garb and pure of heart,
Men kept the church and world apart,
And sat in waiting for the light
That dawns upon the inner sight;
Nor did they vex the silent air
With any sound of hymn or prayer;
But on their lips God’s hand was pressed,
And each man kissed it, and was blessed.
I asked, “Is this the true church, then?"
“Nay,” answered he, “a seet of men:
"And seets that lock their doors in pride,
Shut God and half His saints outside.
"The gates of heaven, the Scriptures say,
Stand open wide by night and day:
“Whose shall enter hath no need
To walk by either church or creed:
“The false church leadeth men astray;
The true church showeth men the way."
—Whereat I still more eager grew
To shun the false and find the true;
And, naming all the creeds, I sought
What truth, or lie, or both, they taught;
Thus,-"Augustine-had he a fault?"
My friend looked up to yon blue vault, 
And cried, "Behold! can one man's eyes
Bound all the vision of the skies?"
I said, “The circle is too wide."
“God’s truth is wider,” he replied;
“And Augustine, on bended knee,
Saw just the little he could see;
“So Luther sought with eyes and heart,
Yet caught the glory but in part;
“So Calvin opened wide his soul,
Yet could not comprehend the whole;
“Not Luther, Calvin, Augustine,
Saw half the vision I have seen!"
—Then grew within me a desire
That kindled like a flame of fire.
I looked upon his reverent brow,
Entreating, “Tell me, who art thou?"
When, by the light that filled the place,
I knew it was the Lord’s own face!
Through all my blood a rapture stole 
That filled my body and my soul.
I was a sinner and afraid:
I bowed me in the dust and prayed:
“O Christ the Lord! end Thou my search,
And lead me to the one true church!"
Then spake He, not as man may speak;
“The one true church thou shalt not seek;
"Behold, it is enough,” He said,
“To find the one true Christ, its Head!"
Then straight He vanished from my sight,
And left me standing in the light.
Atlantic Monthly.	THEODORE TILTON.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE CONNECTICUT AND SHENANDOAH.
A TALE OF TO-DAY.
CHAPTER V.
“NOTHING IS STRONGER THAN ITS WEAKEST PART.”
“What have I done that this is my destiny? Answer me, O, my God, although in the terrors of thy thunder—answer me from that far-off, silent heaven of thine! Which of thy laws, broken by me, brings this retribution? What social sin of mine has shut me out from all that makes life of value to an immortal, aspiring soul? O, my mother! thou, in the immediate presence of Him whom, in sweet patience and holy trust, thou didst worship and serve so faithfully to the end, through all the grief and wrong of thy dark lot—O, my mother! thou readest now his counsels—thou seest, now, the end from the beginning. What means thy earth-doom and mine? Speak to thy despairing child—tell her the secret—unfold the mystery, if there be hope in it, that her agonized soul rebel not against his infinite will. Art thou, indeed, happy in that land of clearer light, seeing the misery of thy children? What, in the irrevocable plan, is the mission of all this suffering? To die-that were a little thing; to pass from this dreary defile in heroic effort for the salvation of others—O, how blessed! in heroic self-defence—O, how noble! But to exist thus! lurking through the byways of being—hiding, like a felon, if a stranger-footstep or shadow falls on the pathway—no more—of this, NO MORE! I will go forth, and confront him before the world in the broad glare of noon.” (Her hand grasps, vehemently, the door-knob, then is withdrawn by a sudden impulse. “No, no! This must not be—shall I peril these precious friends who have sheltered and shielded and sustained me so nobly and so long? Him, too, who—alas! why was I created?” (She sinks on a low seat, and buries her face in her hands. Then, rising again, paces the chamber with flushed cheek and flashing eyes.) “Love for me! Love, unrequited! O, my God, do I not know what this is? Crush it back upon your bleeding heart, brave, peerless young man—as I crush back, in suffocating agony, the sentiment, to cherish which rightfully would make me blessed even in this my heaven-forsaken lot. No, no—the object of loathsome passion, the victim of it, I may be, and heaven and nature smile on the hideous sacrifice—and the Law of a Christian land sanctions the worse than Pagan abomination! Thou seest this, O, my God, and withholdest thy thunderbolts? Thou seest this, O, my mother, and demandest not thy child back to thyself? Ah, if this must be, why was I created with these instincts, these aspirations? Why was not my soul made dark and degraded as my lot? Hark! Did I hear a voice, or was it my tortured fancy? A mission, it said. Was it my mother’s voice? Speak on, O, thou who hast suffered, but who seest now—speak on, I hear— I hear!" (She throws herself, prostrate, by the bedside, and buries her face in the coverlet for some time; then, rising, slowly, with a pale, sad, disappointed expression of face, resumes her walking and her words.) “She speaks not to me—I am alone—no voice—no answer. A mission? Ah, yes, I feel it! I will go forth—I will stand before the proud and haughty fathers of this favored New England—I will say to them, look on your loved and lovely daughters, and look on me. Am I not as fair as they? Read reverently their spotless souls, their sacred feminine instincts, their holy affections, their upreaching intellectual powers—all these are mine, as well; yet a destiny, from the very thought of which you would shield them with your lives, you have, in the free exercise of your civil powers as freemen, entailed inextricably on me! I will appeal to mothers, on behalf of that divine office of maternity so debased, so profaned, throughout a so-called Christian land. I will appeal to brothers, by all the chivalry which enters into that beautiful relation of valor and purity—yes, this shall be my holy mission. An inspiration from the Divine shall speak through me, giving power which cannot be withstood to my weak words. Like him, I will hold and sway the hearts of men; with him, I will be a co worker in the redemption of a race and the salvation of my country; the soul that, in the lowliness of the present, has not dared own to its most hidden self the blessed oneness it has felt, shall find the precious companionship in one aim, one motive, one work for the world; and the all-harmonizing Eternities shall accept and perfect the union. Ah, my mother, thy seeing need not make thee sad—look on from thy rest and rejoice in the labors of thy child! My Father, I thank thee! thou hast answered, not in thy thunders, but in counsel and guidance to the soul."
When Aunt Mary entered Clara's chamber again, about five o’clock in the afternoon, she found her sleeping sweetly; the flushed cheek rested on the clasped hands, as if the last action had been that of prayer, and there was a sublime joy and peace spread over the beautiful tear-wet countenance. The excellent lady saw, in this, encouragement that the plan which several hours before she had talked over with Clara, without being able to obtain her assent to it, had found favor in her meditations; and in this hope she laid it before Mr. Horton when he came, in the evening, according to promise. Clara should go, until cold weather, to board in the family of a relative of the Misses Williams, in a remote district of Vermont. The Misses Kent, who, with Edgar Horton and the Misses Williams, alone knew anything of the noble girl's history, in this region at least, had expressed a strong desire to contribute of their ample income to her support when she first came to the cottage. The opportunity should now be given them; they should advance the sum requisite to pay her limited expenses during her stay in the family whither she went, thereby preventing the necessity of any encroachment upon what Clara had laid by, from the results of her labor at the mill, for her holy object.
Edgar listened to the details as given at length by Aunt Mary, then rose and walked the room without reply.
“What do you think of this arrangement, Mr. Horton?"
“It seems the best possible for her safety, at present What does Clara say to it?”
“I could not get her consent when I first proposed it, this afternoon, but am inclined to think she favors it more, now, although I have not spoken to her about it since; preferring to submit it first to you. Yon can understand what her principal objections would be—the loss of time in accomplishing her sacred purpose, and the dependence it involves; you know the sensitiveness of the high minded girl in this connection."
“Do you think she has any other regret at leaving this place, Miss Williams?" asked Edgar with timid hesitation.
“Yes, I do, although I am not clear as to the cause. On all subjects but one, she confides entirely in me. There is one sanctuary, I feel, into which she has not invited me, and where I cannot venture to intrude even a speculation."
The young gentleman suddenly seemed to take heart. He seated himself by the side of Miss Williams, and taking her hand, while a glow of combined courage and modesty animated his features, said, fervently-
“O, my dear friend, if I dared hope that her reluctance to going is in any way kindred to that I feel—that it is because—because of our separation—in view of a future so uncertain.” He paused, then resumed with tremulous ardor— ”Why should I try to conceal from you the fact—this lovely creature is inexpressibly dear to me! I know no sacrifice so great, for me alone, as the loss of her presence. All the anxiety her painful position gives rise to but binds her more and more closely to my heart."
“Mr. Horton, your sentiments are in the highest degree honorable to you, but, I fear, can only bring you disappointment if cherished. Even if Clara reciprocates them, consider the views and feelings of your mother and sister. Marriage on your part so different
<c03>
from their social prejudices would only embitter their whole after lives. You are very young—your first obligation is to them. Consider these things, my dear young friend, and compel reason to control sentiment, however natural and honorable this last may be. Certainly, I do not wonder at your state of feeling. I have seen the danger of your position from the commencement; but from what I know of Clara’s character and circumstances, I am certain she would regard it as a solemn duty firmly to discourage your hope. And, I confess to you, the state of your feelings, my dear friend, seems to me an added reason for her removal. Forgive my candor—you deserve nothing less noble from her or me."
Edgar paced the room in silence. “O, God!" he exclaimed, at last, with clenched hands, “how long shall this devilish system press its iron heel on the palpitating heart of humanity? Who are its victims in every private and personal, as well as public, relation? Ah, damned adulterer, whose vile hand I this morning grasped, add this crushing argument, with all its burden of wo, to what I gave you so calmly, then! Ah, had I known you then!” His teeth gnashed, and his dark eyes shot flame. “Pardon me, dear madam,” he said, at length, more calmly, approaching his forgotten companion, “if I forget myself in your presence—and, say, shall I not see our friend this evening?"
“I should be glad if you might see her, and add your urgency to mine for her departure. May I trust you to do this?” asked the motherly lady in a voice of tender inquiry. “Pardon my momentary doubt; I know I may; for the safety of both depends upon it"
It was at this point that the increasing violence of the thunder-shower brought the girls below, at the call of Aunt Mary. In a few moments, the sounds of wheels and hoofs rapidly approaching announced the return of Aunt Hattie. The rest we know.
The elevation of Clara’s state of mind gave way to sadness when she met the devoted young friend whose heart she had read, and to whom she owed a weight of obligation she felt nothing could ever repay.
“I have been listening this evening to the plans of your excellent friend for removing you from the danger which seems to threaten you here,” said Edgar, with an effort at composure, “and I have promised her that I will second her arguments with my own, if need be. We feel, alas! that not even the watchful care of your friends is any longer a sufficient protection here.” He paused, unable to go on.
“Mr. Horton, words are vain to express my gratitude to my friends; death will never quench it. Does he suspect my being in this place?"
“I think not, now. He knows you are alive—believes you are in Massachusetts, and that the Rev. Mr. Berkeley is seeking you, also, in Boston and the large manufacturing towns. I put him on this track this morning, by a kind of instinct, before I had learned what I now know. It was chance, merely—a pleasure tour through the Connecticut valley—that brought him to this place. But the fiendish hunt is up, my dear friend, and Massachusetts must no longer be blest with your presence."
Clara’s emotion, at the mention of Mr. Berkeley in pursuit of her, was not unnoticed by her companion; but whatever feeling or speculation it gave rise to was soon merged in another, as she replied, firmly-
“Mr. Horton, my plans are matured—I shall not leave Massachusetts."
“What mean you, dear Clara? Do you not yet realize your danger?"
“I realize everything, Mr. Horton; and here, in this State, my mission begins."
“Explain yourself, I pray you,” exclaimed her companion, grasping her hand with irrepressible ardor.
“Yes, I will explain,” she answered, with a voice and manner solemnly calm. “You deserve all the confidence it is in my power to give, most valued friend, and your counsel will help open the way for the commencement of my labors. You are the first to be informed of my plans, and shall reconcile the dear friends in this household to them, as you have striven to commend theirs to me.” She paused, and looked up in his face with an expression that awed him.
“Will you?"
“Speak, I beseech you, before the angel ascends from the form I look on! What is the mission that awaits you?"
“The conversion of New England from its terrible error, and the redemption of a race from its terrible doom."
“How? I know you are equal to anything the angels of God can do, but remember, you are still in the trammels of the human. Are you not about to rush into dangers that may prove fatal to you? Let me, indeed, counsel you, for the sake of the hearts to which you are so dear.” Ah, how thrillingly that heart spake in every tone, as he looked, reverently, into the face of his listener, in its marvellous exaltation. Clara felt it, and sighed profoundly, but it was a sigh of compassion. Voice and manner were nothing less than sublime as she answered-
“Mr. Horton, I am a poor, weak girl, who preferred death to a life of infamy prepared for me by the laws of a State claiming to be a part of the Christian civilization of the nineteenth century. I fled from that infamy to a spot of earth famed throughout the world as the freest and most enlightened upon which sun or stars shine, or the blessed showers descend. The powers of evil hunt me hither, and this broad and beautiful State, crowded with brave men and saintly women, teeming with every material, intellectual and moral resource, has not power to shield this one innocent, helpless girl from the grasp of the foul destroyer. No, nor is there in this almost limitless land one spot where she is legally secure; nor can she claim protection under that beneficent National Government which is at once the envy and admiration of the world, and the vanguard of that world’s progress. Sublimely great in all else, it is powerless to protect or defend the purity and the peace of one assaulted and insulted girl, born on its soil, and nursed almost within hearing of the echoes of its Capitol! What remains for me, then? To glide passively in the current of this civil sanction, and accept the revolting destiny it has prepared for its helpless victim? Better ten thousand deaths! Or shall I wander from place to place, haunted by the omnipresent evil as guilt is haunted by its unholy deed, and never know the sanctity and rest of home? No, no! I am stronger than the meshes of this destiny, stronger than the forces of this Government, so far as it has power to legislate for me, for a God of purity, truth and right is on the side of my instincts, my purposes, my actions. I will face the evil; I will speak His word to the land he has chosen, but not yet redeemed. I will make a pathway of light and peace up from the degradation and defilement of a race to the blessings of enlightened freedom, even though it be over my worn-out and exhausted frame"-
“Say, rather, that mine shall be the priceless privilege to do this for you, noblest of your sex!” exclaimed Edgar, in intense enthusiasm and tenderness, throwing himself at her feet. “Be mine—mine, before this evil and its abettors! Be mine, most loved of women, and together we will lead the way from the darkness of this present to the effulgence of a glorious future! Be mine for time, for eternity! God, who knows my inmost soul, knows there is no desire so intense, so absorbing."
“Impossible, O my cherished, noble friend!” exclaimed the inspired maiden, turning a pale, sorrow-stricken face towards her impassioned lover. “Impossible! The heart you so generously bestow can receive in return only deep, eternal gratitude. Accept that, I beseech you. Then show me how to begin my lofty, lonely destiny, and I will bless you forever."
Edgar took both the fair hands in his, as he knelt at her feet, and, gazing with all his rapt soul into the clear, sad eyes, as if he would be answered from their very depths, said in a voice whose whisper feeling made resonant, “Answer me one question, Clara, my only beloved! Your secret shall be sacred as your
<c04>
precious self to me forever. Is it the devotion of your heart to this cause, alone, that shuts me out from hope, or is there some blessed human soul that has found the heaven I sought? Speak, in mercy." 
“Edgar Horton, star of my darkest night, I will speak, and speak sincerely. I love, hopelessly, another, as you love me. Let this be a new bond of sacred sympathy between us. Let us in silence reverence each other’s experience, kindred as it is. And while I find in my great mission that life-aroma the yearning heart of woman so much craves, do you seek it in the companionship of the pure and noble of my sex. God grant, dear friend, you may again be enabled to give where you shall receive as you desire."
Clara rose as she spoke, parted back the clustering curls from the fair, ample brow, gazed, with the tender candor of her spotless soul, into the sad, dark eyes, pressed her pure lips to the pallid forehead, and hastened from the room.
The next morning, she was tossing in the unrest of fever and the uncertainty of delirium. The excitements of the last few days had been too much for her delicate frame.

LETTER FROM CHARLES STEARNS.
CENTRAL CITY, (C. T.) Jan. 21,1868. 
DEAR FRIEND—On looking over a late number of the Liberator, (which my numerous avocations prevent me from reading as thoroughly as I would like,) I perceive from various letters that the paper is in danger of stopping from the pressure of the times. In order to aid a little in preventing so sad a catastrophe, I enclose $10, which you can use for the support of the paper, after deducting the amount due on my subscription.
I see it hinted in the Liberator that the work of the Abolitionists ceases when slavery is abolished. This I regard as a mistake.(1) On the contrary, their work is but just begun. Three millions of slaves, suddenly liberated, are not in a position to render themselves perfect men without aid from those further advanced. I hope no Abolitionist will attempt to throw off his harness at this most important period of the Anti-Slavery enterprise. Rather, let him gird himself anew for the conflict with evil. Let us all remember that slavery is not abolished because it is wrong, or from any love to the slave, but only for our own preservation—from sheer selfishness. Of course, the slaveholding spirit still flourishes in the hearts of the American people. The terrific power of this hateful element has never been more manifest than since the war began. I was so verdant as to imagine, at the commencement of the war, (as you recollect I wrote you,) that the American people, having perceived so clearly the animus of slavery, would immediately demand its utter extinction. But, alas! how mistaken we have been! It is only by the most superhuman efforts, coupled with the saddest reverses in war and. politics, that they have been persuaded to “let my people go.” A quarter of a million of precious lives have been lost, and a thousand millions of treasure have been expended, and yet the nation very reluctantly consents to let the slaves go free. It is plain that it does it, as Daniel Webster told us we must obey the Fugitive Slave Law, as a disagreeable necessity. Then it follows that no great effort will be made to protect the freed slaves from the rapacity of those into whose hands they may fall. How mean and selfish is our course! We tree the slaves to save ourselves, and then leave the poor creatures to perish, when we owe our very existence as a nation to them, as we acknowledge by setting them free as a “military necessity“ merely.
Our government is the first party that is bound to protect the poor creatures; and if it refuses or neglects to do so, after acknowledging that it could not crush the rebellion without them, it will deserve the execration of all the just. This idea should be pressed upon the consideration of the government. “Honest Old Abe“ must remember, that when a man enters the “strait gate,” his work of justice has but commenced. The gate is not only strait, but “nar row is the way“ that leadeth unto life. No man can satisfy a correct conscience, or please Almighty God, by one act of rectitude merely. As in the case of the sinner, the first step is followed by others, on the downward grade; so with the righteous, one true step always involves the necessity of another. Abraham, after a mighty struggle, has succeeded in exorcising the foul demon that dwelt in his heart. For this manly effort let us praise him, and sympathize with him, in all the suffering he experienced in this act. But another dose of mental ipecac is still necessary. The body of the old pro-slavery demon has, we hope, been mostly ejected from his moral stomach, but his hoofs and a portion of his tail still remain; and Abraham must throw off these, before his system is cleansed entirely. I greatly fear that this last moral effort will shatter his system more than the first; but it must be made, or the first will be almost wholly in efficacious in purifying his system.
In other words, Old Abe has got to arm the blacks: not only to crush the rebellion, but as the only practicable method of taking care of the slaves. The proposition of your Springfield friend is a good one as far as it goes; but it is premature as far as providing for the great mass of the slaves is concerned. After the war is over, it will be just the thing, and, if I live, I intend, for one, to go into it; but, at present, it can save but a very few, for the masses cannot be reached by it. The slaves must be immediately organized into military companies, and paid wages, and with those wages their families can be supported, as the families of the white volunteers are. Thus, by doing. right, can be solved this great question, “What shall we do with the blacks?“ and in no other way can it be solved. Old Abe will hesitate about taking this step, and will say to his Anti-Slavery tormentors, “You are never satisfied.” But they must give him no rest until be performs this crowning act of justice. But I think we ought to praise him a good deal for what he has done, as the praise of man, and his censure, seem to influence him much more than the love of truth and justice. I am glad to see that you praise him for his proclamation. We ought to be very thankful for this three-fourths of the loaf, not doubting that we shall get the remainder if we persevere; and then,
“O, that will be joyful, joyful, joyful,"
will it not? The nation will begin to live, and loud hosannas will ascend from all hearts, and fall on Abraham Lincoln’s heart, as the greatest benefactor of his race, since the days of Jesus Christ. Then will this nation commence its onward march to that glorious goal of perfection that God ordains it shall reach. Slavery being abolished, a great number of other evils must be attacked, as our enemies say that the spirit of Abolition is that of progress and universal reform. The axe has been laid at the root of the tree of slavery, but the trunk and branches are yet to be chopped to pieces, and the soil thoroughly cleansed of all pro-slavery roots. I hope the Liberator will not forget that slavery is only one of the evils it commenced to overthrow. Others still exist; one of which is akin to slavery, viz., the oppression of the laboring classes everywhere.
It is my earnest effort, now, to obtain means sufficient to go to the South at the close of the war, and purchase a confiscated estate, and employ the negroes at such rates as will in due time enable them to become legal owners; also to educate and instruct them in various ways. I hope to be joined in this by great numbers of Anti-Slavery people, who will sell their property and go South after the war is over.
Yours, truly, C. STEARNS.
(1) We used the term “Abolitionists“ in its precise and distinctive meaning. The extinction of slavery will termination their labors as Abolitionists, but not as philanthropists. They will then be mingled with society at large, to devise ways and means for the educational enlightenment, moral improvement, and general welfare of the emancipated. We trust never to abandon the field of reform, while we have strength to labor in it.—[Ed. Lib.
<c05>

WHY DON’T WE CONQUER?
“The race is not always to the swift, nor the battle to the strong," but rather to him who stands unwaveringly by the right. The man who feels a great truth burning in his soul, and is fired by a principle which he knows is vital to the well being and perpetuity of nations, goes forth conquering and to conquer. God is with him, the angels are with him, and he rejoices with exceeding joy. Such an one can chase a thousand, and two put ten thousand to flight
“Wisdom is better than weapons of war.” What is needed now for the salvation of this nation is not so much the external means of defence—not so much the reliance upon large numbers of soldiers—upon swords, bayonets and bombshells; but more than all is needed, a policy based in righteousness, with a wisdom from on high to direct. These the Government lacks. It has little faith in righteousness, little confidence that God will prosper the right, and send confusion into the ranks of Humanity’s foes.
A friend asked me, the other day, why we did not succeed better in this war. “The reason,” I replied, “is because the Lord and his hosts are against us—because neither the North nor the South are fighting to establish justice and righteousness. They are both fighting for dominion and power—for the continuance of the old order of things, wherein dwelleth unrighteousness and the despoiling of the poor. They are fighting for that state of things which permitted to flourish the most gigantic systems of wrong and oppression that ever cursed any land beneath the sun—where the spirit of selfishness reigned triumphant, and has heaped the most bitter, burning wrongs upon the red man and the black man, as well as upon the poor white man, and all their sorrowing widows and orphans. The almost entire extermination of the poor Indian, the cruel enslavement of the inoffensive African, and the heaping of heavy burdens upon the toiling millions-all to gain wealth and power—these are some of the stupendous national crimes which have, for generations, been crying for retribution to Heaven. The Lord has heard the cry. His time has come. He can withhold the rod of his chastisement no longer. War’s bloody enginery rolls heavily over the highway of time; its scourge is felt; the nation’s wail is heard. Still, neither side is willing to do justice. Both continue to fight against Omnipotence. Neither can conquer. Both are made tormentors to each other—causing that suffering which worketh out purification and repentance. When this is done, our troubles will cease; the Truth shall have conquered gloriously; Peace and Harmony then shall reign, and the nations shall become a brotherhood; wars and the causes of wars will then be done away. It will be many years before we reach this; but come at last it must. What war fails to do as a scourge, pestilence and famine may accomplish; and the world will be purified and redeemed, and a high and noble destiny for the race—even the kingdom of heaven—be established upon the earth. 
New Brighton, Pa. M. A. T.

THE RIOT IN DETROIT.
DETROIT, March 9th, 1863. 
To the Editor of the Christian Inquirer:
You will see by the public journals that Detroit has been visited by one of those pro-slavery mobs which have often disgraced other cities of the country. The various particulars you may read in the newspapers.
When we come to the cause of the riot, every fair-minded person traces it to the settled hatred against he negro, which is continually excited in this vicinity by one of the daily papers; and the other is none too free from the taint of the popular prejudice against the colored man, for I find that even in this, when a negro is accused of committing any crime, he is referred to as a “darkey,” and under this name all are included, from the colored preacher to the lowest vagabond. Now, how would it suit our Irish neighbors to be called “Paddies,” from the bishop to the lowest laborer and ignoramus?
This negro mania is one of the worst features of our American civilization, or. so far as it is concerned, I will say barbarism. It is traceable, first, to the home training of children. Parents talk of the nigger even with oaths, in the presence of their children. They teach, by word and example, that the negro is to be hooted and kicked by all respectable people. The boys catch the spirit of hatred, and stone the negro boys on the street, and insult them in every possible way. Servant girls are accosted and insulted. Said a red-faced, whisky-bloated fellow to a colored girl, the other day, as he was coming out of a saloon, and she was going along the street peaceably, “Have you heard from your father Abe, lately?" “Yes,” was the quick reply; “he wants somebody to black his boots, and would like to give you the job.” The whisky-man beat a sudden retreat into the saloon. A person living in the East has no adequate conception of the wicked prejudice which exists here against the colored people. But they have their firm friends, who will defend them by word, and, if necessary, by other means, when the law fails. Now, you add the family influence, the theological (?) teaching that the negro is a cursed race, and then put with this the insults, slanders, and hatred which are vomited out upon the community by a portion of the press Satanic in its spirit, and is it any wonder that the baser passions of the ignorant are aroused, and the work of destruction and persecution is carried on?
It is the duty of all ministers of the Gospel, and all friends of order and humanity, to array themselves against this negro hatred which is now rampant in the country. We must place ourselves side by side with the weak and poor, and fight as good soldiers of Jesus Christ. S. S. H.

THE DETROIT MOB.
Three times during the past year, bands of white ruffians have found or made pretexts for a general assault upon the colored people of Northern cities— once in New York, once in Cincinnati, and last week in Detroit. In each and every case, the law had promptly removed the alleged causes of offence; but the old-time and vengeful hostility of the more ignorant and degraded whites, inflamed by guilty partisan appeals, have broken out into outrages against men and women as innocent of offence as if no crime had been committed.
The mob in Detroit was the worst of the three. The offending negro was promptly arrested, and would in due time have been tried and punished for his crimes. But this was not enough for the rioters. Failing to get him into their hands, they began a general assault upon the class to which he belonged. They set fire to buildings to which the frightened blacks had fled for safety, and met them with revolvers at the doors when they attempted to escape. One colored woman appeared with a babe in her arms, and appealed for mercy; but a shower of bricks, stones and clubs drove her back into the burning building. The men, who, frenzied with fright, rushed into the crowd, were beaten with clubs and axes till they were insensible, and nearly or quite dead. Old and young suffered alike,—the color of their skin was the measure of the injuries they were compelled to suffer.
It was the most atrociously vindictive riot that ever occurred in this country. It was not the result of frenzy or momentary passion, but of the old and heavy prejudice against a race which has borne the burden and curse of oppression till they doubt whether their claim to common justice will ever be acknowledged by the stronger people among whom their lot has been unwillingly cast. It is also the legitimate fruit of the inflammatory school of politics, now rampant in some of the Northern States, which pursues with sleepless malignity the representatives of the colored race, in whatever paths of patriotism, usefulness or honor they vainly try to walk. In contrast with the outrages they have long been compelled to endure, there are no nobler, no more heroic or magnanimous examples of self-devotion, than are shown when colored men come with their lives in their hands to the support of a government under which they have experienced so scant and reluctant protection.— Worcester Spy.
The Detroit Advertiser denies that Faulkner, the cause of the disgraceful riot in that city, is a negro, and states that he is a dark-skinned man, with blue eyes and straight hair, claiming to be Spanish and Indian, and has not only not associated with the colored residents, but has been particularly hostile towards them. 
<c06>

COPPERHEAD RIOT IN INDIANA.
A correspondent of the Chicago Journal gives the following account of a riot at Calumet, Indiana, on the 2d inst.:—
Captain William Copp, of Laporte, had been invited to deliver a lecture for the Sanitary Commission He gave notice a week or ten days previous. The copperheads of that place (two-thirds of the inhabitants being of that stripe,) sent word to him that he must not come to speak; if he did, they would hang him. He came according to appointment, and opened his lecture by taking out his Bible and two revolvers, laying his two revolvers down with the muzzles toward himself, and the Bible in the middle. He told the congregation that he was going to speak for the Union and Sanitary Commission, and that the revolvers would not hurt any one who did not molest him. With his tongue he would use Union men as they should be used, and rebels as they should be used. So the copperheads commenced by swinging their pistols and snapping caps, hissing, knocking the stove pipe apart, and one hurrahed for Jeff. Davis, when the Union men put him out of doors for his trouble.
All this time others were hooting and howling outside, and making all kinds of threats. Presently about eighty men came from Laporte, among them U. S. Marshal Weire. Soon another of them hurrahed for Jeff. Davis. Marshal Weire got up and told them they must stop that, and authorized any man to shoot down any other who hurrahed for Jeff. Davis, and he would bear them out in it. This quieted them for awhile. When the meeting adjourned, the Laporte folks went home, and they commenced again on the people who came in from the country. While they were getting up their teams, which the traitors had set free, breaking their wagons and harnesses, the mob commenced throwing stones and clubs and firing guns at the Union men.
Then the fighting commenced, and, thank God, the copperheads got the worst of it.
In regard to Captain Copp being an abolitionist, he is not. He is a war Democrat, always supporting the Democratic party until the war broke out. He served as a private in the 9th regiment in the three months’ service, and then enlisted again, and was elected Captain.
INDOMITABLE LOVE OF LIBERTY.
From Lake Providence—Negroes Flocking to the Army—Their Horrible Sufferings in the Swamps— A Black Hero.
A correspondent of the New York Times relates the following facts:—
Every few minutes we met little groups of negroes, who had escaped from their masters on the other side of “Bayou Macon.” We stopped to talk to many of these groups. They usually comprised one or two families—men, women and children—who had escaped together. Many of them told us of frightful hardships that they had endured in their endeavors to escape. Two families told us that they had waded across the swamp, six miles in width, which lies on this side of “Bayou Macon,” and during the two days and one night which they had passed in the swamp, they had the greater portion of the time been up to their waists in mud and water, and during that time had had nothing to eat. They were carrying their children mounted on their shoulders, and in this position had carried them through the whole of those fearful two days and night. The black faces of the little creatures locked ashy and haggard from long fasting and sleeplessness, and more than one of them looked as though death had set his seal upon its pinched little features. Yet, under all this suffering, the adults were cheerful. They were clad in rags, were half starved, had been half drowned in mud and water, and were suffering from the fatigue of carrying their children on their shoulders, and yet their faces were radiant with joy. They had voluntarily braved the danger of being detected and shot, willingly encountered the horrors of the swamp for the one great boon of freedom. They had gained it, and were happy. It seemed to me that no man who had the least spark of human kindness in his composition, or whatever his prejudices might have been, could have looked upon their patient, trustful and joyful faces without compassion. Group after group we met, wending their way to the army at Lake Providence, until in our ride of five miles I estimated that we had met over two hundred. We asked some of the men if they were willing to fight for the Government if they were armed, and to die if need be, in the cause. To such a question the most of them answered in that quiet but determined manner which, though but few words were spoken, seems but the cover to a stern and deadly resolution. One answered: “Does you tink, massa, dat we would be afraid to fight after darin to go into dat swamp?” We thought not. We were told of one negro whom the soldiers call “Union Jim,” who, on a recent scouting expedition, came across three Rebels in the swamp. He called to them to surrender. They answered by firing upon him, but fortunately without hurting him. He returned the fire, killing one of them. He then called upon them a second time to surrender, which they considered it discreet to do. They laid down their guns, of which Jim took possession, and marched their owners into camp as his prisoners.
The negroes tell us that the Rebel inhabitants of Lake Providence and vicinity, who have moved back to the other side of “Bayou Macon,” have built themselves log houses, and made quite a settlement On this side of “Bayou Macon,” a cypress swamp six miles in which extends for fifty miles up and down the Bayou. Behind this swamp, impassable to any one but the negroes incited by their desire for freedom, the Rebels feel safe, for the present at least. The negroes say, also, that there are 500 Rebel troops there, and three or four times that many negroes. The utmost vigilance on the part of the Rebel troops is necessary to keep the negroes from rising in insurrection, or from running away. If two negroes are seen talking to each other, they are immediately ordered to separate. If one is detected in a second offence of the kind, he is immediately shot without mercy. They are as strictly guarded as felons in the hulss, and are really more cause of anxiety to the Rebel garrison of 500 than our whole army at Lake Providence. When the idea of arming and organizing them as soldiers was first suggested, I doubted if they possessed sufficient intelligence and pride to make good soldiers, and doubted if they had the moral courage to fight. I have now been with the various armies of the South West nearly a year. I have had good opportunities for observation, and have endeavored to form an opinion of the average intelligence of the slave population, unprejudiced by the color of their skin, and I think that no man, whose perception is not obscured by prejudice, could fail to arrive at the conclusion that at least two-thirds of the men slaves would make brave and effective soldiers. 
154 Washington St., 5 doors South of Milk St.
October 24. 6m

FARM HANDS WANTED!
Two good farm hands can find steady employment, at fair wages, by addressing the subscriber immediately, at MINERSVILLE, Henry Country, Illinois.
Fifty good hands could find lucrative employment in this section the present season, if application be made soon.
A.TAYLOR.
Minersville, III., Feb. 28, 1863. mar 6-3w
