THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecnniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, or Countrymen are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. NO. 21. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 26, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1790.
<c01>
The Liberator.
THIRTY-SECOND ANNIVERSARY
OF THE
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
[Phonographically reported by JAS. M.W. YERRINTON.]
BUSINESS MEETINGS.
TUESDAY AFTERNOON, May 9.
The Society assembled in the vestry of Dr. Cheever's Church, but the attendance was so large that it was deemed advisable to hold the sessions in the church itself, and the meeting was accordingly called to order by Mr.QUINCY, one of the Vice-Presidents.
AARON M.POWELL, of Brooklyn, and JAS. M.W.YERRINTON, of Boston, were elected Assistant Secretaries.
WM.I.BOWDITCH, Esq., of Boston, Treasurer, offered the following report of the financial condition of the Society:-
Annual Account of the American Anti-Slavery Society,
from May 1, 1864, to May 1, 1865.
DR.
By Standard account, $4,351 72
By Donatin account, 4,542 54
By Publication account, 128 47
By Interest account, 102 63
By balance from old account, 4,839 16
$ 13,964 52
CR.
To Standard account, $ 10,709 59
To Agency account, $ 933 79
To Publication account, $107 67
$ 11,751 05
Balance to new account, 2,213 47
$13,964 52
The report was accepted.
OLIVER JOHNSON then moved the appointment of a Committee to prepare a roll of the members of the Society, which motion, after some discussion, was carried, and the following gentlemen appointed the Committee: Oliver Johnson, E.D. Draper, Aaron M.Powell, Rev. J.T.Sargent, S.May, Jr., and Edward M. Davis. The question was raised as to what constituted membership, and the President stated that all who agreed in the principles of the Society, and had contributed to its funds, either directly or through its auxiliaries, were entitled to membership.
On motion of Mr. GARRISON, a Committee of five was appointed by the chair to prepare business for the Convention, as follows: Messrs. Garrison, Phillips, Foster, Thompson, and Bowditch.
Mr. FOSTER moved the appointment of a Committee of five to nominate the officers of the Society for the ensuing year.
Mr. GARRISON opposed the motion, on the ground that the time had arrived for the dissolution of the Society, and that being the case, of course, the election of officers would be superfluous. In the course of his remarks, Mr. Garrison read the following preamble and resolutions, as expressing his convictions in the matter, and stated that, at the proper time, he proposed to offer them for the consideration of the meeting:-
Whereas, the formation of the American Anti-Slavery Society was rendered necessary by the universal complicity of the nation in the guilt of the slave system Church and State, Government and People, Constitution and Union, all being wickedly subservient to the will of a Heaven-defying slave oligarchy; and,
Whereas, after thirty years of faithful testimony and untiring labor, on the part of this Society, to procure the emancipation of the millions held in bondage and through Divine retribution poured out without mixture, and the treasonable attempt of the South to dismember the Union and overturn all free institutions-it is decreed by the nation that all fetters shall be broken, every bondman set free; and
Whereas, it is not for Abolitionists to affect exclusiveness, or to seek isolation from the great mass of the people, when the reasons which compelled them to take such a position no longer exist; therefore,
Resolved, That, uniting our thanksgivings to God with those of the emancipated millions at the South for the wonders he has wrought, and rejoicing with joy unspeakable that "the year of jubilee is come," so that further anti-slavery agitation is uncalled for, we close the operations and the existence of this Society with the present anniversary.
Resolved, That a Committee of-be appointed to liquidate whatever debts the Society may owe; and that the Committee shall appropriate whatever balance of funds may be in their hands in such manner as they shall deem best promotive of the rights and interests of the colored population.
Mr. PHILLIPS expressed the hope that the motion for the appointment of the Committee would pass. He thought the question in regard to the disbandment of the Society could not be decided until the close of the sessions to-morrow; and if it was decided to continue the organization, the members of the Society might be obliged to remain in the city another day to transact the business.
Mr. GARRISON said the Society ought not to stultify itself by any superfluous action. It was well understood by the members of the Society, that the conviction was clear in the minds of the great body of those to whom they had entrusted its management for so many years, that the time had come when, as a matter of good sense and propriety, the Society should be dissolved, and they had made up their minds to act no longer in an associated capacity. The question, therefore, ought to be met at the outset, and settled. He did not see any force in the objection of Mr. Phillips, that there would be no time to choose officers after this question had been determined, because the Society could vote to take the question at any time, and leave ample room for the transaction of any business needed to be done, if they should decide not to disband.
Mr. PHILLIPS hoped the question would be met upon its merits, and not upon the auxiliary question of the appointment of a Committee. If Mr. Garrison would be kind enough to hand his resolutions to the Business Committee, he thought he could say that they should be instantly reported to the Society, thus bringing the matter distinctly and decisively before the body.
Mr. JOHNSON moved to amend the motion, so that it should read, that a Committee be appointed to nominate officers to serve the Society in case it shall vote to continue its existence. Mr. Foster accepted the amendment, and in that form the motion was carried The Chair announced the Committee as follows: Stephen S. Foster, Edward M. Davis, Rev. John T. Sargent, Robt. Purvis, and Elizabeth C. Stanton.
<c02>
On motion of ROBT. PURVIS, the Business Committee was increased by the addition of the name of Thos. Garrett and Henry C. Wright.
Mr. GARRISON, from the Business Committee, reported the resolutions previously read by himself, and also one by Mr. Phillips, for the consideration of the meeting, without any committal on their part. Mr. Phillips resolution was as follows:
Resolved, That since the Constitutional Amendment abolishing slavery is not yet ratified, and consequently the system of slavery stands in the eye of the law untouched; and, whereas, there are still thousands of slaves legally held within the United States; therefore, this Society calls upon its members for fresh and untiring diligence in finishing the work to which they originally pledged themselves, and putting the liberty of the negro beyond peril.
EDWARD M. DAVIS moved the adoption of Mr. Phillips's resolution.
Messrs. FOSTER and REMOND expressed the hope that Mr. Garrison's resolution, inasmuch as it presented the issue whether the Society should disband or continue its organization fairly and plainly, would be the resolution taken up for consideration.
WM. H. BURR, of New York, moved to amend Mr. Davis's motion by substituting, in place of the words "Mr. Phillips's resolution," the words "Mr. Garrison's resolution." The amendment was adopted, and the motion passed.
GEO. T. DOWNING proposed to amend the resolution by inserting the phrase, (from the Declaration of Sentiments,) "and to secure to the colored population of the United States all the rights and privileges which belong to them as men and as Americans," but finding that the passage could not well be introduced, he subsequently withdrew his motion.
SAMUEL KEESE, of Keeseville-It seems to me that the fact that we are doing so much for the relief of the freedmen, and the fact that the whole people are concerned to engage in that work, render it necessary to disband this Society, and then the members will be at liberty to take hold of that work, and join with those who are engaged in the effort to secure to the colored people their rights as American citizens. The reason, then, for disbanding this Society, is not because our labor is done, but because this kind of labor, designed to free the slave, is no longer called for; because, if we retain this organization, these other associations that have been formed, and are springing up, will look upon this as a rival Society, and as somewhat in their way.
C. L. REMOND-I differ very materially from the friend who has just taken his seat. If I understand the Declaration of Sentiments and the Constitution, the object of this Society includes the very point to which our friend Mr. Keese refers, for the emancipation of the slave and the elevation of the free people of color were the original objects of the American Anti-Slavery Society. The work now being done in every part of our country for the enslaved and the nominally free, comes strictly and logically within the purposes of this Society.
Now, I am not among the number who would retain for a moment any one of the members or officers of the Society against his or her wish; for I hold that the man or the woman who remains reluctantly within its pale is of no service to our cause at this critical moment, and it strikes me they have but little to do but ask to be excused. I cannot understand the necessity for disbanding the Society, especially since it is doubtful in my own mind whether a new Society could be got into full play before some valuable hours, days, and perhaps months shall be lost to us.
Now, while I am upon the platform, allow me to remark, once for all, that if I understand its spirit, it is, that individual judgment shall remain inviolate upon it; and if I shall differ in my remarks from my friend Mr. Garrison, or any other member of the Society, I protest against the imputation, that the colored man who differs from his old and tried friends becomes an ingrate. Sir, if there is one word which I hate next to slavery, it is ingratitude; still, I hold that, as colored men or as white men, we may differ from these old friends without being liable to that charge.
Now, sir, how does the case stand in this country? It is assumed (and I do not know that I object to the assumption, only when things are brought to a very fine point, as they are sometimes here) that our white friends understand the black man's case; that they have so often put their souls in his stead, that it cannot be otherwise. To a great extent, this is true; but in many particulars it is not true. Now, while I defer to some and reverence others-and I hope no man can prove himself more grateful than I feel towards our friends-I do assume here that it is utterly impossible for any of our white friends, however much they may have tried, fully to understand the black man's case in this nation. I think I could name one or two men, perhaps a dozen here, who get very near to it, but not exactly "on the square," so to say. Our friend Mr. Garrison told us to-day, that anti-slavery being the order of things, there is no further necessity for anti-slavery work. Why, sir, if my friend should go out upon the highways and byways here, and put the very question which he has assumed as a foregone conclusion, he would find himself so utterly overwhelmed with opposition that he would hardly understand himself. I deny, from beginning to end, that anti-slavery, according to this platform, characterizes any State in this country. I deny, without fear of successful contradiction, that the anti-slavery which takes its color from this platform has a majority in the nation at the present time. Put the question nakedly to the American people to-day, whether they are prepared for the entire and full recognition of the colored man's equality in this country, and you would be voted down ten to one. This being true, I cannot sit here and hear these assertions and assumptions without <illegible> my protest against them.
While coming through in the cars last evening, (I give this as an isolated case,) I gave the conductor my ticket, as the other passengers did. When the others gave up their tickets, he handed them checks. He gave me no check, and I asked him if he did not intend to. He turned round, and gave me to understand that my black face was check enough. Again: I was going to a meeting of our friends in Salem last week, to consult in reference to the question of free suffrage, and schools for the black man, and during my walk from my home to the Lyceum Hall, I heard the expressions, "D-d nigger on the stomach," "d-d nigger on the brain," etc., etc. Such expressions were
<c03>
never more rife in our country than at the present moment. And yet we are to understand that anti-slavery is the order of the day! Sir, it is not true.
But I will not occupy the time further, except to say, that standing as we do at this moment between the fires of rebellion in the South, and this hatred of the colored man in the North, I hope nothing will be done within this Society that shall look like a betrayal of our movement. I know how much our friends have been tried, how much they have sacrificed; and I do not blame those who are growing old, like myself, for their desire to retire. Still, sir, this retirement may be done in a way that shall cause great harm to our cause, and great harm to the colored people throughout the country. I hope, therefore, that this Society may be continued, and if its present officers desire to retire, we will endeavor to succeed them with others.
H. C. WRIGHT-Chairman, it seems to me that the discussion before us may be reduced to a small compass. It is not the question of the effects of slavery, but of slavery itself, that is before us. It is not the question whether the colored man shall have the right to the ballot; it is not the question of hatred to the negro; it is simply the question of chattel slavery. Is chattel slavery in the United States dead-sufficiently so to justify the disbandment of this Society-or is it not? This Society never had had an existence but for the existence of <illegible> slavery. We did not form this Society, mainly nor prominently, to secure to the colored man his right to vote. The denial of that right is the result of that slavery which we undertook to overthrow. All these incidental things came in as arguments why we should exist as an Anti-Slavery Society; but slavery being dead-legally dead-
Mr. PHILLIPS-Will Mr. Wright prove that? 
Mr. WRIGHT-That is the question, I want to state, for discussion; let us free it from all these things. Is slavery dead, constitutionally and legally dead, in this nation? That is the question before this meeting, it seems to me.
As to this talk about retiring from this movement, it comes with ill grace from anybody, in my judgment. Has anybody thought of retiring from the movement, while, in his opinion, anything was to be done to secure the object of this Society? The Society was formed solely to abolish, not that injustice which prevents the colored man from voting, but to abolish chattel slavery.
Mr. REMOND-Will Mr. Wright answer me a question? Is not the elevation of the free people of color set forth as one of the objects of the Society in its Declaration of Sentiments and Constitution? 
MR. WRIGHT-I will answer it by asking another. Would the Society have existed at all, had there been no chattel slavery? I answer, no; Mr. Remond will answer, no. The Society never would have been brought into existence if there had been no chattel slavery.
Mr. REMOND-We should have had nothing to talk about. But, inasmuch as slavery did exist, and we formed an Anti-Slavery Society, I simply ask if the, elevation of the free people of color was not an object of the Society at the outset?
Mr. WRIGHT-I repeat; the refusal of the right of the colored man to vote is not slavery, in the sense which we formed this Society to oppose. Hatred of the negro because he has a black skin is not slavery,, in the sense we have talked about it for thirty years. It is simply and solely the question of chattel slavery that we want to settle; and the question before us, in relation to our movement, is simply this: do we need an Anti-Slavery Society, when there is no slavery in the country? 
Mr. PHILLIPS-Do you mean to say there is no slavery in the country?
Mr. WRIGHT-I am not arguing that question, but it is the question that must come before the meeting, and be discussed. I don't want the question dodged; that is what I mean. Let us meet it fairly. Is or is not slavery abolished in this country? If it is, we do not want the Society any longer. If it is not abolished, then we want the Society. [Mr. PHILLIPS-Hear, hear.] Now let us settle that question.
Mr. GARRISON-[Referring to a remark made by Mr. Remond]-I do not ask the Society to permit me to retire. That is language I do not understand on this platform. I shall retire when I think proper, and I shall think proper to do so at the end of this anniversary.
I think I am competent to interpret the language of the Declaration of Sentiments, if any man living be. I was the author of it; and, unless I have grown demented, I ought to know what I meant, and what this Society meant in using that language. This Society, "The American Anti-Slavery Society." That was the object. The thought never entered my mind then, nor has it at any time, since, that when slavery had received its death-wound, there would be any disposition or occasion to continue the Anti-Slavery Society a moment longer. But, of course, in looking over the country, we saw the free colored people more or less laboring under disabilities, and suffering from injustice, and we declared that, incidentally, we did not mean to overlook them, but should vindicate their rights, and endeavor to get justice done to them. The point is here. We organized expressly for the abolition of slavery; we called our Society an Anti-Slavery Society. The other work was incidental. Now, I believe slavery is abolished in this country; abolished constitutionally; abolished by a decree of this nation, never, never to be reversed (applause); and, therefore, that it is ludicrous for us, a mere handful of people, with little means, with no agents in the field, no longer separate, and swallowed up in the great ocean of popular feeling against slavery, to assume that we are of special importance, and that we ought not to dissolve our association, under such circumstances, lest the nation should go to ruin! I will not be guilty of any such absurdity.
But is this to retire from the field of labor in regard to whatever is to be done in putting down prejudice, and giving the colored man his political rights? I hold all such representations, come from what quarter they may, to be slanderous. No man thinks of doing it; no officer of this Society, who is to retire, proposes to give himself up to idleness, or to abate his testimony against the proscription of men on account of their color. It is part of our nature, it is part of our duty to each other as fellow-men, it is part of our obligation to God, to denounce everywhere all proscription on account of the manner in which it has pleased God to
<c04>
make His children. We, however, are not distinctive on this question of elevating the colored people. If we were, then there might be an argument, not for perpetuating the American Anti-Slavery Society, with no slavery to abolish, but for organizing a special movement, whereby we should seek the moral and political elevation of the emancipated. But we are no longer, I say, peculiar in this respect; we have the million with us. I hold the speech of my friend, Mr. Remond, to be a caricature of this nation, in its present attitude, and a perversion of the views and feelings of those who are about to retire from this Society. We mingle now, thank God! with the great mass of our fellow-citizens. I have only to go before any loyal audience that may be gathered for the discussion of this question, and assert that it is the right of the colored man to vote, to have the verdict given there, as it was given here to-day, strongly in favor of the measure. The newspaper press of the country-the loyal press-is almost universally, I think, friendly to the measure; at any rate, we, a handful of Abolitionists, are not the special champions of that movement. Let us mingle with the mass, then, and endeavor to work with the mass, and not affect isolation or singularity, nor assume to say, "Stand by, we are holier than you," when we are no better. I maintain, therefore, that what was put into the Declaration of Sentiments, in reference to the elevation of the free people of color, was incidental to the grand object-the abolition of slavery. Slavery being abolished, the change that has done that work is a change that will cooperate with us, and speedily give the colored man all his rights. (Loud applause.)
AARON M. POWELL-I have attended, for the last ten years, the anniversary meetings of this Society, and always with peculiar interest. I attend this one with an interest peculiar-differing, in several respects, from any which has preceded it. First, I rejoice in my soul that, in the progress of the arduous struggle in which we have been engaged, we are no longer perplexed with the issues of past years; that the question which perplexes my own mind, as I know it does that of others, is not one in which we differ, I infer, in motive, but one which, from the peculiar condition of national affairs, occasions a difference of opinion, honorable and honest on each side, as to the methods and means of activity under the changed condition of affairs. I look abroad, and I see slavery, not, in my own conviction, literally and actually dead; I do see it, according to all proper and sensible legal constructions, dead. I believe that if the statesmen of this country are the true men that the hour demands, it will be pronounced as their verdict that slavery, from the moment war began, ceased in this country. But I remember that that declaration has not yet in form been uttered. It is a fact which I am bound, in a candid and dispassionate survey of the field, to recognize. I look abroad, however, and see the slave system shattered, and crumbling to pieces with a rapidity which is indeed most gratifying. It was my privilege and pleasure, a few days ago, to look into the faces of many thousands of men and women, created in the image of God, and as truly, in their appearance and spirit, men and women, as the members of this Society here assembled; and to see them in their joy and thanks giving appreciating, in a most noble spirit, the freedom which has come to them, in this transition hour in the nation's experience. I saw, with my friend Garrison, two thousand, I suppose, of the number, just arrived from plantations, and they greeted their friend and liberator in a manner which I wish all of you could have witnessed. (Applause.) I wish some artist with the moral insight to appreciate the significance of the event, might have been there to have given us that picture as a fit and proper historic contribution to the picture gallery of the nation. But I remembered while I was there, that these people came from plantations still organized on the basis of the old despotism, made, if possible, still more infernal and diabolical in the reign of terror and of cruelty in this transition hour. It was enough to stir one's soul to its inner most to listen to the statements of these people as to the condition of things they had just left behind. We are not, then, relieved from the burden of labor which has heretofore borne upon our shoulders. I am glad that there are many here to share it; and I was rejoiced at the spirit manifested by the representative of the Federal government in the case of these negroes coming within the Federal lines. I was glad to see the evidence of heartfelt sympathy and interest in their welfare which many of these men manifested. But I remember, nevertheless, that the peculiar service which will be attributed to the American Anti-Slavery, Society in history will be, that it acted as the prompter of the lax conscience of the people at large, in hours and moments of peculiar danger. 
Now, I am rejoiced to remember, as I stand here that the war is substantially at an end, but I believe that, with its ending, peculiar responsibilities are thrown upon the shoulders of the citizen. We are at this hour just where our fathers stood when they began to organize this national government I think that we, as Abolitionists, should be heart and soul and hand in earnest in this work. I think we are competent still to advise. I believe there never was an hour when our friends were watched as they are this very day; and therefore, while I have peculiar pleasure in the thought that we have reached this stage in our movement, I have an anxiety which, is inexpressible, that we make no mistake, either individually or collectively. I believe there is still felt, in the hearts of many men and women who constitute a working element in this Society, a longing for advice and counsel and earnest labor; and there would be a feeling of bereavement, I know, in my own case, and I believe it would be shared by others, at the loss of the intimate association with men and women who think and feel substantially as I do in regard to the present condition of affairs. I do not assume that, as a necessity, the American Anti-Slavery Society in form and name, must continue; I do not believe there is a moral principle necessarily involved in this question; but I do believe and feel, from my inner most depths, that as a people-not necessarily to be to exclusive and peculiar-we have still a line of labor and duty which no other association, as yet, is adequate to carry out("Hear, hear.")
Now, there is a single point which I want to suggest in connection with the general remarks of my friend, Mr. Garrison. I have felt always and I feel still, that there is a value which can scarcely be csti-
<c05>
mated, in a numerical or mathematical sense, in a thoroughly independent attitude of an individual or an organization. I cannot with my own convictions look to any organization, as yet, where I should feel myself entirely at home, and free to do the kind of work which I believe still needs to be done. If I <illegible> part and parcel of the prevailing political party, I do not need to rehearse to you, who have been educated in that view of things, wherein, by virtue of my membership in that party, I may, at a critical hour, either be forced to do violence to my convictions, or to put my convictions under my feet, that my party may be benefitted for the time being. I think the last year has furnished its illustration, which I will not dwell upon, to show the disadvantage of political associations, viewed in the light which I name.
Now, Mr. Chairman, I think we have still a duty to perform in regard to the completion of the work of abolishing slavery itself; but our main duty is in connection with the condition of the freed people of the nation, and of the whites of the nation, North and South-still to act as educators and prompters, in the sphere wherein the compromising education and principles of the whites, in the past, have disqualified them at the critical moment to meet the insidious advances of the enemy, now disarmed upon the battlefield, but still potent in the brain; an enemy which has always beaten us, and with whom we cope at disadvantage if the acute and conscientious brain of the Abolitionists, as individuals or as an organized body, giving individuals greater power, shall be withdrawn. 
I recognize the clause of the Constitution of the American Anti-Slavery Society which relates to the elevation of the colored people; I believe it has a binding force; but I do not think it was the main question, it of course was not, in the organization of the Society; it was incidentally connected with the main question. If slavery had been technically abolished, I should say there would be no force in the argument for the continuation of the Society, as an anti-slavery body, that slavery had not been formally abolished. Let me suggest, then, that I think we need to continue the work, that we need to continue organized labor.
But there is another thought which perplexes my own mind, and which I know weighs upon the Abolitionists who are listening to me. We are here under peculiar circumstances. We have known each other, respected each other, loved each other. There is a decisive and marked difference of opinion. Have we not, with our differing views, learned that we may respect each other while we differ? I state this as a practical part of the present situation. The American Anti Slavery Society is nearly out of funds. The question of the continuance of the Standard is one of the subjects to come before us. Mr. Garrison, with a conviction which is firm and unalterable, I doubt not, with a view which I am bound to respect, if I do not fully agree with it, believes that his labor in connection with this Society is over. The Chairman of this meeting holds the same belief. Now, if the Society be divided by a strict party vote on this question, you can easily divine, from the debate which has already transpired, the result. There will be just that feeling which always exists between divided societies. I raise, then, for your serious consideration, the question, may not this Society agree to a dissolution, and, agreeing to it, may not such of its members as have in their hearts and consciences a sense of duty to labor, properly and wisely come together in a capacity covering the ground of the still not wholly abolished slavery, and the still broader ground of human rights, as affecting the nation in other particulars, and inaugurate a movement which shall be spontaneous, hearty and harmonious, because voluntary, and greatly useful in this period of the nation's crisis? I think I see the way open and clear for such action. I do not wish, for one, that the action of this day or to-morrow shall give rise to any imputation of motives whichever side may prove numerically the strongest. While I am free to say that differ in opinion from my friend Mr. Garrison, I do not believe for an instant that he is other than he has ever been, and as I heard him pledge himself in the most noble and timely words to the thousands of freed people assembled in Charleston, their true and steadfast friend. (Applause.) In our action, then, let us be dispassionate, clear-sighted, seeking only the triumph of truth and justice, and I believe God and our own sense of responsibility will keep us from making any mistake.
WENDELL PHILLIPS-I am perfectly confident that twenty-five years of labor, affectionate labor, have enabled the Abolitionists of the American Anti-Slavery Society to discuss this question and to decide it, either one way or the other, without any personal bitterness. I will not believe that, in regard to any individual much less marked and peculiar than our beloved leader, it can be necessary to say that there may be a practical difference of opinion on this question, without the slightest thought in any man's mind that it proceeds from any lack of devotion to the interests and the safety of the colored race. I consider that self-respect should lead us to ignore the possibility of any such misconstruction of each other's motives. Certainly, I have seen no necessity for any thing of the kind, in any of the discussions which I have previously attended on this question. To me, it is a perfectly simple question, dividing itself into two parts. One is, as Abolitionists, is there anything for us to do? And the second is, granting that there is something for us to do, is there any peculiar facility and power conferred upon us in regard to doing it by remaining associated as we have been for thirty years? Have we got anything to do, and are we better able to do it as members of this Society? It seems to me these points include the whole question.
Now, what brought us together? Slavery; the system of slavery in the Constitution-the substantial existence of slavery on the plantation. Certainly, that brought us together. No matter that in our Declaration of Sentiments and in our Constitution, having been attracted by that great evil, we extended our pledge to something more, as my friend Mr. Downing has reminded us. But let us consider the point of view from which Mr. Garrison presents it. The question of slavery brought us together-what will naturally dissolve us? Why, the death of slavery-the legal and substantial death of slavery. Now, when we undertook to come together, what did we look at? We looked at the Constitution of the
<c06>
United States. We said, "Here are provisions which make a system of chattel slavery legal under this government." That was the law that brought us together.Is it ended? Is there, anybody in this house who undertakes to say that he can go into the office of any distinguished counsellor in this city, or in any other city of the country, and ask him. "Sir, is slavery, beyond dispute, illegal in the United States of America, at this moment?" and that he will say, "Yes, sir"? Go to what counsellor you please, and ask him, "How stands the Constitution of the United States to-day?-does it sanction slavery?" and he will say, "It does, sir." Suppose I should say to a lawyer, "Can you tell me what fact will notify me that the legal existence of slavery is unmistakably ended?" he would say, "Yes, I can. Whenever the Secretary of State at Washington, by the advice of the Administration, or with the consent of Congress, or by permission of the Supreme Court, shall issue a proclamation declaring that the Constitutional Amendment abolishing slavery hereby and hereafter forma a part of the Constitution of these States, then slavery is at an end." Have you heard of any such proclamation? Of course not. When it will come, nobody knows. It may not come until next May; it may come next October. Some men count States one way, some another. On Mr. Sumner's theory, twenty or twenty-one States will be sufficient, and we make up that number by counting in Arkansas, Louisiana, and other States, which the legislative branches of the government have not yet recognized as States. Of course, therefore, they cannot be counted. We have not, therefore, covered even Mr. Sumner's theory. I agree with Mr. Sumner's theory as a lawyer; I think it is sound constitutional doctrine. But if it were covered, it would not matter. Gerrit Smith thought there was no slavery in the country years ago, but we did not dissolve. Lysander Spooner proved it beyond question, to his own satisfaction, but we did not dissolve. A great many men agree with Mr. Garrison that that Amendment is law, but how shall we know it? We shall know it when the appropriate departments of the government pass the act that seals it. The Secretary of State is authorized by the law of Congress, taking such counsel as he sees fit, to issue a proclamation and state when, in the opinion of the government, the Amendment is adopted. Up to the present time, no such proclamation has been issued. The government of the United States, therefore, at present, does not acknowledge the existence of the Constitutional Amendment, and slavery is yet, so far as the Constitution is concerned, a legal element of it.
That is one-half the question. We came together to abolish the system of slavery. That system was a legal matter; it existed in the parchment; it was laid up in the statute-book. Well, it lies there still. In the eye of the law, we have not touched it. My beloved friend, Mr. Garrison, used a word which suggested to me an old story. He said slavery has received its death-wound. Ah! Gen. Heath said, in the Convention which ratified the Federal Constitution in Massachusetts, in 1789,"Gentlemen, if slavery is not dead, it has received its death-wound"; but it is not dead yet.
Now as to the substantial slavery. My friend Powell says, what everybody knows, that all around the Gulf there are black men by hundreds of thousands laboring to-day under the lash, and in the same bonds, untouched, that they did in the year 1860. Our sword has not reached them; <illegible> has not reached them. Neither proclamations nor laws have reached them. We shall reach them. We shall send our scepter down to the Gulf, but we have not sent it. It has not lifted the yoke from their shoulders. Many a man's brother will die and be buried, and never know freedom; a thousand will die before this news, in its actual significance, reaches them. This is substantial slavery. Go into Kentucky, and you will find substantial slavery-so strong that it keeps thousands of black men in their chains, and holds the Legislature against your Constitutional Amendment; the virus of the system and the exhibition of the system both. Why, I have a letter from one of the highest officers and most active and devoted Abolitionists of Delaware, and he says to me, "For Heaven's sake, don't disband! If you haven't anything else to do, send all your force into this little State, and in three months you will give us an anti-slavery Legislature and the Constitutional Amendment" (applause). Shall I come up here as an Abolitionist, and say that my work is done, when a man from that slave State holds his hand over the border, and says, "Come and help me out of a pro-slavery vassalage which does not permit me to labor to put my State on the side of the Constitutional Amendment, or sweep away one single relic of the disfranchisement or oppression of the black race in this State"? My work done? Why, here is testimony that it is not practically and substantially done. Hundreds of thousands of slaves at this moment know not liberty, and thousands never will. It is no time for us to disband.
Do you want to look at the exhibitions of the disease? My friend, Mr. Garrison, and others, say in reply to Mr. Remond, "These incidents are not what we referred to." No, of course we did not. I know a disease will last in its exhibitions long after the citadel is carried. But when the citadel is not carried, when legally and substantially it remains, it is germane to look at the exhibition. Down at Richmond, within a month, they wanted that Augean stable of crime and filth, the Libby Prison, cleansed. Whom did they send to make it fit for Christian men to enter? The white rebels of Richmond? Oh, no; the black troops (cries of "Shame")-the men who had fought for us, and bathed the flag in their own blood on many a battle-field <illegible> Oh, if there is anything a Northerner loves at the bottom of his heart, it is a rebel-a good, true, strong, stalwart, unconverted rebel! (Sensation.) So, when our authorities-these very men in whose good purposes, in whose intention and determination the Anti-Slavery Society is to leave the just finished question-when they had peculiarly disagreeable and horrible work to do, the white men of Richmond, who had stood by and seen that prison grow into its state of hell, were delicately considered, and the colored troops were selected to do it! (Cries of "Shame!" ) And when these same "delicate" rebels could not bear the sight of a black face under the Union flag, we removed all our colored troops from Richmond, and sent them down to Petersburg!
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST;
and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. . . . . From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE <ILLEGIBLE> WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power . . . . It is a war power. I say it is a <illegible> power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEN. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Is that a converted government? Is it so thoroughly impregnated with the idea of justice to the negro, that the Abolitionists can to be generous about technicalities, and dispense with the etiquette of the question?
Mr. GARRISON-Where is the evidence of that fact?
Mr. PHILLIPS-It is evidenced in all the reports that come to us from Richmond. Weitzel sent away all the black troops, (1) and he himself was sent down, very properly, by the Secretary of War. Why, out of that very prison a white soldier looked, and said to a black woman passing by, " Mother, give me one single taste of bread, for I am starving," and she handed him a loaf; and as it passed from her hand to his, the guard shot her down ! (Sensation.) And yet those guards, and the men who stood behind them, are sednlously cared for by the government; their feelings, their prejudices, antipathies nurtured-the black race fit for anything! I do not trust such a government; I do not believe in it-that is, in the sense of leaving our question to it. We have got very near the end. We shall put the seal on the bond. That will be something. If then you choose to say, "The law is all right, we will leave to politicians the substance," perhaps I shall not very anxiously say no. But my conviction would be that, even when the seal was put to the bond, we ought not to dissolve until society itself is so arranged as to guarantee it. (Applause) 
That is the work before us. Now, can we do it any better as the American Anti-Slavery Society than in any other capacity? My friends say, "We do not mean to give up work." I never suspected them of it. I never supposed they intended to give up work. No doubt they mean to work. My friend, Mr. Powell, suggests that we break up the Society to oblige them, and then come together on a new basis. Ah! I cannot, for the slave's sake, if the majority are with me, consent to give up the prestige of the name of the American Anti-Slavery Society, (2) earned by thirty years of labor. (Applause.) When President Lincoln said to a citizen of Connecticut, who was counselling and almost rebuking him upon the subject of slavery, "How dare you rebuke me, (3) when Lloyd Garrison applauds me?"-what as the significance of that name with which he silenced his conscientious rebuker? Why, it was, that that name represented thirty years of untiring, disinterested and courageous devotion to justice and honor. Now, the American Anti-Slavery Society has that same value earned by thirty years of devoted labor. It means something that has stood through fiery trials. It has earned a reputation for good sense, for far-sighted statesmanship, for a clear insight, for standing by the right, and knowing how to stand by it. That reputation which it has earned belongs to us. The majority as long as they hold together in a fair and Christian spirit, have a right to it, and for the slave's sake, I claim it, if it belongs to me. (Applause.) I will not pull down my flag until the United States pulls down hers. (Applause) We ran up this flag of the American Anti-Slavery Society against the constitutional flag of slavery. When Wm. H. Seward pulls his down, I will pull down mine-not until then. (Applause.) Mine floats as long as his does. While there is a slave to free on any plantation of the States, this side of the Gulf of Mexico, this Society has work to do, and I am for keeping it together. (Renewed applause.)
Now, you will ask, "What will we do?" This we will do: we will continue the publication of the Anti-Slavery Standard. If we cannot afford it once a week we will publish it once in two weeks; if we cannot afford it once in two weeks, we can publish it once a month; (4) and we will to the American people-weekly, fortnightly or monthly-"The judgment of the men who have given their noon of days to the study of this question, and who have proved the sincerity of their views by a life devoted to it, is that there should be no peace and no reconstruction that does not put land under the foot of the negro, and a ballot in his hand. (Loud applause.) Well, what does Washington say? We are told that the Cabinet meetings which have been held recently have exhibited the largest disposition to adopt this view, and that the President says to his friends, "I must have the expression of public opinion to sustain the Administration in such a step." Who shall give it to him? It is to be done by Senator Sumner assembling a Convention of his friends in Massachusetts, and Dickinson doing the same in New York, and letting the determination of the people be manifested through the channel of these and similar Conventions in other States. And are we nothing? Mr. Garrison says it is almost self-conceited for us to stand isolated, that it is assuming to ourselves a great deal. I have stood isolated so long that I am quite accustomed to it. (Laughter and applause.) I know where I stand, and I know that, small as have been our numbers, we have been looked to in the whole settlement of this question as men who studied and understood it, and sacrificed to it. I do not know how much our influence has been, but I know that all we had we gave, and that is all we were responsible for. I know that, standing side by side with each other, with the persistency and devotion of thirty years, increases our influence a hundred-fold. I want to continue in just that position. I want all that past for my back-ground. I want all that
(1) This is not the first, nor the second, nor the third time that Mr. Phillips has been so unfortunate as to make unjust and unfounded allegations against prominent individuals, hastily assuming them to be facts on the statement of anonymous letter-writers. The following letter from General Weitzel, which appears in the Cincinnati Gazette, effectually disposes of Mr. P's charge against him :-

"HEADQUARTERS TWENTY-FIFTH ARMY CORPS, 
ARMY OF THE JAMES,
IN THE FIELD, VA., May 5.
"Editors of the Cincinati Gazette, Cincinnati, Ohio: It is wholly untrue that I removed a guard of colored soldiers from Mrs. R. E. Lee's residence in Richmond. This lie was circulated by some misinformed newspaper correspondent.
Another equally false report was circulated by another correspondent, viz.: That I would not let my colored troops march through Richmind. My colored troops were marched by me through the heart of Richmond, and twice through the main streets of Petersburg.
The rebel women, who are alone and defenceless, as far as my experience goes, are perfectly satisfied with my colored troops, and I have a dozen colored soldiers at the vicinity of my camp. 
 The only remark I ever heard about the colored soldiers was from the more sensible rebel ladies, who said that their people had made a great mistake in not arming their negroes before we did.
Please publish this as conspicuously as you did the falsehood. Cincinnati is my home, or you would not have seen this. I remained silent as long as the lie was published only in the Eastern papers. Respectfully, G. WEITZEL, 
Major General United States Volunteers."
(2) When the Society had no "prestige," but was hotly opposed by both Church and State, it was then a power and a necessity. Now that it has a "prestige," it proves what a revolution has taken place in Church and State on the slavery question, and that it is no longer distinctive or essential as an anti-slavery instrumentality.
(3) We cannot credit this statement, as here made, for Mr. Lincoln never indulged in such a style of address. What he may have said, whether soberly or jocularly, respecting our approval of his general course after he gave the death-blow to the slave system, and when all the powers of darkness were combined against him, we do not know; but Mr. Phillips is quite too much inclined to put words into the mouths of public men, by a free rendering of their language, which they would not sanction. 
(4) So! the "prestige" of the Society is suddenly reduced to this:- "If we cannot afford the Standard once a week, we will publish it once in two weeks, or once a month "! Puissant organization! What is this but an admission that, through the mighty revolution which has taken place in the Society has consummated its distinctive work?
<c02>
name to conjure with. What do these gentlemen offer me instead? Why, they offer me, most of them, a Freedman's Association. Well, I sat down and read its circular, and it said, "Gentlemen! Christians! give us funds ! We want to elevate the degraded negro." I said, "Enough! if that is the only goal you have reached, if that is the average of your estimate of the black race, after four years of such sublime exhibition of Christianity and patience and heroism, somehow or other, I don't belong to you, or you don't belong to me" (Applause.) Well, who do I find standing on their platform as speakers? Men who have not touched the Garrisonian enterprise for twenty-five years with a forty foot pole (laughter); men who, no time within a quarter of a century, would have been seen on this platform-(Mr.GARRISON-So much the better)-men who, within three months, have told me, in their own native State, that they dared not claim suffrage for the negro, and that all they dared to claim was the school house. I said to them, "Go on; it is an honorable in you. It is all Baltimore will tolerate, for aught I know. God speed you! What little you can do, do it! But do you suppose I added, "Drag me down to your level!" Do you suppose I said, "Put-Baltimore half-gagged, on my Boston ungagged lips!" No, indeed. (Applause.) I said, " Thirty years have I worked, that I may say, in the community in which I live, whatever my conscience dictates; and if you have not worked your way up to that level yet-God speed you !-but I do not come down to yours." A friend suggests that these men may feel very uncomfortable, and may think us very much in their way. An infant, just getting on to its feet, says to its mother, "Mother, you are very much in my way." (Laughter.) Why, it is just possible we may consider them in our way, if they were likely to be in anybody's way; but they will not be, until they put into the front rank, and on their platform, a man who to-day represents the vanguard. The Freedmen's Associations are doing a good work, and a work that is needed; but not the work of an Abolitionist of the American Anti-Slavery Society to-day; and therefore you have not supplied me a substitute for this Society in any that I see around me. Legally and substantially, our work is not done; and by every association of history, by every natural result of past labors, we are a hundred-fold better able to do it, organized as the American Anti-Slavery Society, with its old banner, than we are either as individuals, or as enrolled in a new organization.
But, friends, this is confining the discussion altogether too narrowly. I do not know what Mr. Garrison meant when he wrote the Declaration of Sentiments, and the Constitution of the American Anti-Slavery Society- 
Mr. GARRISON-I do.
Mr. PHILLIPS-Of course he does; and his construction is sufficient for his guidance, but not for mine and not for yours. The clerks who wrote the Constitution of the United States are one thing; the people who accepted it are another. Now, we accepted the Constitution of the American Anti-Slavery Society; we all came under it, and labored under it. It has one harmonious, indivisible idea; it is the safety beyond peril and the equality without a doubt of the colored race in this country. (Applause and cries of "Hear, hear.") If Garrisonianism means anything, it means that; and in all prior time, we have claimed it. In the day of mobs and perils, that was the meaning of all our efforts: The negro an equal with the white man-the word white banished from our Constitution; I will not say (although we have generally added that) and from our society. Well, we stand to day not only with technical and substantial slavery, but we stand with the black race on the heights of Canaan, it is true, but by no means in it. Prejudice is very rife. All over the country, the colored man is yet a Pariah. Now, friends, my abolitionism, when I pledged my faith to that Declaration of Sentiments and Constitution of the American Anti Slavery Society, was, " Absolute equality before the law ; absolute civil equality" (loud applause); and I never shall leave the negro until, so far as God gives me the power, I achieve it.
Mr. GARRISON-Who proposes to do so?
Mr. PHILLIPS-With this Society, so mighty a weapon for that purpose, justified by its Constitution in continuing, pledged, I think, by its thirty years of utterance, to continue, I cannot consent to see it disband. I want every doubter to remember that the flag of slavery floats over the Constitution. Mr. Seward has not opened his lips to proclaim the adoption of the Anti-Slavery Amendment; Chief Justice Chase does not authorize it; Congress does not authorize it; and in Delaware, Kentucky, and along the Gulf, hundreds of thousands of slaves are in chains. Substance and theory, fact and law, are alike still unsettled. Now, while there is one legal slave in the Union, the American Anti-Slavery Society has no right to dissolve. (Applause.) While there is one single act to be done to make certain the ratification of the Constitutional Amendment, this Society has no right to dissolve. (Renewed applause.) 
The Society then adjourned, to meet on Wednesday morning at 10 o'clock.
WEDNESDAY, May 10. 
The Society met again at the hour of adjournment, Edmund Quincy, Esq., in the Chair. The resolution offered by Mr. Garrison in reference to the dissolution of the Society was read by one of the Secretaries, and the discussion upon it continued.
Rev. Mr. SPAULDING, of Salem, Mass.-I hope this Society will not disband. The meetings it has held in town and country, through a long series of years, have done a great deal to enlighten and inspire the general mind. Its organ in this city, which has been conducted with ability, would be greatly missed by its subscribers. Do you propose to haul down your Standard? The Herald lives. Is there no work for you to do? Mr. Greeley is in tears through fear that Jefferson Davis will be hung. I hope you will try to solace him. (Laughter.) the Liberator to be given up ? Why, the Courier still lives. Who will take care of Lunt? And, not to forget my own profession, who will look after Adams and Blagden, and men of that stripe among the clergy? The Liberator has done a good work in bringing the clergy to their duty, and I think much yet remains to be done in that direction.
But it is said-"Slavery is dead-why war against the dead? "We were told yesterday, I think by the President of this Society, that the Constitutional Amendment was passed. Well, the government does not think so, or it would, through the proper channel, announce the fact. President Lincoln did not think so. He was very anxious that Louisiana should be admitted as a State, in order that it might act upon the Amendment He was afraid the egg would be smashed before the bird was fairly out. I think if we could the slaves of the Gulf States if they regarded themselves as free, they would point to the fetters still upon their limbs. I expect the Amendment will pass. The hand is uplifted that shall, in form, at least, give the death-blow to slavery; but let us wait until the hand falls before we disband. Let us wait until the thunderbolt has smitten the monster to the earth ; and I think it would be well then to have a jubilant anniversary round the grave of the evil that has oppressed us so long.
I am not entirely certain that the work of this is accomplished. I had thought that the Amendment would take the four millions of slaves at the South from the market; that it would serure them the marriage institution ; that it would bring to them some recompense for their labor; and in trying to gather up in my thought what we should surely gain out of this struggle, I have permitted myself greatly to rejoice in these results ; but the remarks of Frederick Douglass last evening, in the Cooper Institute, have had the effect to shake, in some measure, the faith I had permitted myself to cherish. He pointed out what privileges and rights might be wrested from the black man by unfriendly legislation. I do not know but he might be compelled, notwithstanding the adoption of this Constitutional Amendment, to toil for his
<c03>
mere subsistence. I do not know but the South might refuse to establish a tribunal which would legalize within its borders the institution of marriage among the blacks. I do not know but that the black man might, on the ground of some pretended crime, be thrown into the market, and that Charleston might call upon Boston to return the old auction-block. The remarks of this man, who ought to understand the perils of his own race better far than I, or any white man, can understand them, greatly shook my faith in the results which I had believed would follow from this Amendment. I think, at the it can give to him but a small portion of his rights, and I hold that a man is a slave just to the extent he is robbed of his rights. (Applause.) Bind him hand and foot, seal his lips, close his vision, shut out from his soul the harmonies of heaven, if you can, and we should be all agreed that he was indeed a slave. Rob him of all his rights, and who disputes that he is a bondman? Touch the eye, and it opens-is he entirely free? Unbind the manacle that holds his right hand-is he a freeman? Give to him exemption from the auction-block, secure to him the marriage institution, and some recompense for his daily toil, and stop there-is he a freeman? Withhold from him the spelling book, take from him the ballot, deny him the right to occupy a place in the jury-box-is be a freeman? I think not. Here is a felon shut up in his cell-the door locked, the iron bar placed across it. That felon has chains upon his limbs, and the bolt is driven into the wall. Now, turn the key, lift the bar, throw open the door-is the man at large with the chain still upon his limbs, with the bolt not yet wrenched from the wall? I think not. Have you satisfied his desires? Have you restored him to liberty? No. Until you melt the chains from his limbs, wrench the bolt from the rock, and bring him into the open day, and leave him in the full enjoyment of his God-given rights, you do not make him a freeman. 
Now, I do not believe that this Society was organized to inaugurate the work of emancipation merely, but to carry it on, and to complete it. I do not believe it was founded to utter great prophecies, but to fulfil great hopes. I do not think it was established to go out upon the sea, and bring in the men floating in peril of their lives there, and place them so near the shore that it shall be within the compass of their vision, and then throw them upon undertow that may take them all back into the very depths of the sea. In a speech which Mr. Phillips made a year or two ago, he said the object of this Society was to place the black man of America upon the solid ground of citizenship; it was not to leave him low down upon the shore of the dark, heaving sea of oppression. As he expressed it, it was not to leave him in shoal water, where Webster was wont to shoot snipes, but it was to carry him to Plymouth Rock, and leave him there. (Loud applause.) It was to take him to Bunker Hill and Faneuil Hall, and leave him there. It was to take him to the ballot-box, and the jury-box, and the school-house, and the open church, and leave him there. It was not to let him go until it found for him the high ground of equality before the law. I have always supposed that you were to accomplish this full work before you were to disband; and if I have been right in this supposition, I think I may say that your work is not completed.
We learn by the last arrivals from the South, that the rebels of Louisiana are uniting with the pro-slavery Union men (if you can understand that term,) for the purpose of getting possession of the State government; and I ask you how long a period of time will in your judgment elapse, if this plan shall be carried into execution, as I greatly fear it will, before the colored men of that State will receive the right of suffrage? They will not receive it until the Mississippi runs up hill. We learn from Richmond that the leading rebels of that capital are in great numbers taking the oath of allegiance. They are hungry for the amnesty oath. The owner of the Tredegar works has taken it, and, for aught I know, the members of the rebel Senate and House of Representatives of that State have taken it. Doubtless they all will, and the people will take it; and the New York Tribune of this morning declares that this oath will prepare nine hundred and ninety-nine Virginians out of a thousand to discharge the rights of citizenship. Now, give the State government of Virginia into the hands of these nine hundred and ninety-nine subdued, crushed, but not regenerated or repentant rebels, the control of the Old Dominion, and when will that black man who informed the detectives and the soldiers of the Republic where the assassin of our lamented Chief Magistrate had found refuge, get his right to go to the ballot-box? When will Virginia give to the black man the right of suffrage? Not until the James river dries up, and Wise, and Letcher, and Gov. Smith have found the way to heaven. If the black man gets his right to the ballot at all, then he must get it from the General government, in the settlement of this difficulty, and I believe it to be the mission of this body to bring its influence to bear upon the government to compass this work.
On motion of Mr. Bowditch, speeches were limited to ten minutes, except with permission of the meeting. 
SAMUEL MAY, Jr.-I wish to say a very few words on the resolution before the meeting. Putting all personal consideration aside, I wish to state how this question looks to my mind. I have given, with as much sincerity and disinterestedness, I believe, as I could, about twenty-five of the years of my life to this Society, and the holy cause it has advocated. I have no desire for the Society to live one minute after its work is done. Out of regard to it, I would never wish any one to say of it, with truth, 
"Superfluous lags the veteran on the stage." 
The moment its work is done, I wish it might dissolve, as it could then, gloriously, honorably, and, I think, with the approval of all good men, and of God. While I essentially agree with the spirit of Mr. Garrison's resolution, while I agree essentially in the view that the abolition of slavery is practically accomplished, there is yet one consideration which prevents my giving a vote at this time to dissolve the Society. I feel, as Mr. Phillips succinctly and forcibly stated it yesterday, that the Anti-Slavery Society ought not to haul down its flag one moment before slavery hauls its flag down. I do not say before the United States haul its flag down. I believe the United States flag now testifies for freedom wherever it is raised; but until the flag of slavery is struck in such a way that the whole world shall see it beyond all mistake, beyond all doubt, and until we have engrafted on the Constitution the principle that slavery is abolished and forever prohibited in the land, I want this Society to remain afloat.
Now, my idea and wish were, that our President should have remained in that office, as he has done for some twenty years past; and I know, if he had been willing to remain, no rival could have dislodged him from that place. No person looking at the matter unselfishly, and without any partizan feeling, could come here and ask Mr. Garrison to leave that place, that another might be put there. I never have had any doubt of that; and I am fully confirmed in it by the fact that the Nominating Committee, as I am informed, intend to nominate him, although it is known to be Mr. Garrison's purpose to vacate the office at this time. It is a handsome tribute to him. I know that if he had been willing to stand where he is a little longer, (as it seems to me he should, but he is a much better judge than I am,) there he would have stood, and the Society would have gone on as in times past, and been conducted on the same liberal, magnanimous, generous, faithful principles which have marked its career from the beginning. What, as it seems to me, would have met the present state of things would have been for the Society to pass, at this meeting, a resolution stating that whenever the Secretary of State should declare the Constitutional Amendment adopted, then the Society should be dissolved de facto, or providing for another meeting, when the members could come together and dissolve the Society.
<c04>
Now, in regard to the point of the work to be done, our friend Phillips tells us. I say that work has been done; I say the Society has been just as to all these other objects to the great work for abolition of slavery. Everywhere the battle has been fought for the elevation of the colored man. Take the marriage law, the separata schools, the exclusion from railroad cars and other vehicles-one by one, these oppressive and unjust distinctions have fallen before the might and power which, I say before God, emanated from this Society, and those acting in connection with it. We have been true to these great principles, and every colored man and woman knows it, and they testify thankfully to the work we have accomplished. We have done that work. And now that slavery is virtually abolished, now that the Constitutional Amendment is within six, eight or ten months of being ratified, and the work for the overthrow of slavery is so near at an end, I say, in view of my interest in these great questions, (and I go most heartily, as I have never had any other thought, for making the colored man a free and equal citizen, with land, the ballot, and everything that belongs to any other citizen,) I think the work can be a great deal better accomplished out of this Society than in it. Take the leaven of this Society, and infuse it into every Freedman's Aid Society in the land, and every other society, and, my word for it, that leaven will leaven the entire mass, and its power will be multiplied a thousand-fold. Who that went to the Cooper Institute last evening but must have felt mortified at the representation made here yesterday of the Society which held that meeting? First, the President of the Society, a Maryland man, pledged it to every right of the negro, including his right to land, equal citizenship, the ballot. Then came our eloquent friend Douglass, who had doubted, at first, whether he was properly there, but he made a magnificent speech, and approved and blessed the Society, and allowed that he had not formed a true idea of its value and intent. Then came speaker after speaker, and finally Mr. Garrison, who made a very able and eloquent speech. I want to refer to a few remarks of my friend Douglass in his eloquent speech. He said he was afraid that Society would outlive its usefulness; he doubted whether we needed such a Society. He said, " Let us alone; we, the colored people, don't want assistance; we don't want help; let us alone; if you see us going to school, let us go; if you see us going to the ballot-box, let us alone; we don't want old clothes; we will take care of our schools, we will take care of our churches, if you will only allow us our rights." I think that was his exact argument Now, Mr. Douglass was afraid that Society would outlive its usefulness, yet he is not willing that this Society, which has lived two and thirty years, should contemplate disbandment in the course of the year to come, because there is this great measure of political enfranchisement and other measures to be accomplished.
WILLIAM I. BOWDITCH-Mr. President, there are two or three notions impressed upon my mind which I would like to utter. We were organized as an Anti-Slavery Society. The abolition of slavery was the idea with which we started. It is true we also said, "We are to oppose all prejudice of color, and to use our efforts for the elevation and advancement of the free people of color." But I take it, we put these objects in our Constitution, not because those were our main objects, but because we intended to attack them as the bulwarks of slavery. Prejudice of color grew out of slavery, supported slavery, and therefore we contended against it. In just the same way we attacked the Church. We did not attack the Church as a Church, but simply because, as a brotherhood of thieves, it was the bulwark of slavery. We did not attack the Union as the Union, because we have always been in favor of a Union down to the Gulf, but we attacked the Union because it was a Union the corner-stone of which was slavery.
We, then, organized for the purpose of abolishing slavery; we were and are Abolitionists; and when our duty performed, we are to dissolve. We are bound to keep our flag flying until slavery is abolished; until slavery is not merely dead, but buried. I want to make a sure thing of it. (Applause) Now, slavery actually exists in the Gulf You remember, Mr. President, that in our State (Mass.) slavery was abolished by the adoption of our State Constitution; but it actually existed after the adoption of that Constitution, and it required a decision of our Supreme Court to declare that slavery did not exist, and that during those few years, it had never existed. It does not seem to me that our duty in the premises is determined by this consideration, that slavery actually exists in the Southern States at this time. I admit the fact to be as our friend Phillips says, that slavery does in fact exist in the Southern States. I agree also, with Mr. Garrison, in thinking that slavery is at this moment legally and constitutionally dead. I would not give two straws for any legal support that at present exists for the institution of slavery. The loyal States have carried on this government for the last four years. We have laid and collected taxes throughout the Union-in the Southern States as well as in Northern States; we have sold estates at the South under our confiscation law; we have coined money; we have raised and supported and managed armies and navies; all our internal government has been carried on by the loyal States; all the external affairs of the government have been carried on by the loyal States alone. We are not bound, it seems to me, to wait for the seceded States to come back and unite with us. We have the power, under the Constitution, unless they please to come in, in the way pointed out by the Constitution, and exercise their powers If they do not see fit to do it, it is their own fault We do not suffer in consequence; we are all right The Senate have acted on this principle. They have changed the number requisite to constitute a quorum of that body, in consequence of the withdrawal of the seceded States. Therefore I believe that slavery is disintegrated, and will surely die. I believe that slavery has been constitutionally abolished, and I have acted on that belief. I was born again (laughter) about twenty-three years ago, through the influence of my friend, Wendell Phillips. He gave me a very sufficient scourging, and I resigned my commission as a Justice of the Peace, because I had then aided fugitive slaves to escape, and intended to do the same again. But I have taken the oath to support the Constitution, and I have taken it honestly, and mean to abide by it. I do not feel under the slightest moral, legal or equitable obligation to support the institution of slavery at this present moment. I agree fully with Mr. Garrison in this respect. But that does not settle the question. It seems to me that we may believe that slavery is constitutionally abolished, and act upon that belief, because we most act upon our individual belief. But no department of the government has as yet declared that slavery is constitutionally abolished-neither Congress, nor the Secretary of State, nor the Supreme Court Under these circumstances, it seems to me that it is our duty to remain together until the thing is made sure. We have, as members of the Society, duties to third persons, and we are bound to remain together until the government, through its appropriate organs, admits the fact that slavery is unconstitutional. Mr. Phillips said, and I believe he made the only argument that seemed to bear against the position I have taken, that we might take the opinion of the lawyers of this city, and they would all unite in the opinion that the Constitutional Amendment had not been adopted. Well, suppose they would? I don't suppose that one in fifty of them would have given the opinion that the President had the right to issue his Emancipation Proclamation. I don't suppose one in fifty of them would have decided that slavery was abolished in Massachusetts by the adoption of the Constitution, yet it was; and we all believe the Emancipation Proclamation abolished slavery wherever it operated.
Mr. PHILLIPS-I did not mean to say, in that sense, that that would be their opinion. I meant to say 
<c05>
that no lawyer  consider the Amendment sealed until the proclamation of the Secretary of State. I did not mean to fall back upon the corrupt or timid members of the profession, any more than my friend Bowditch. 
Mr. BOWDITCH-I have always, through my life, when acting for other parties, when there were two methods, one probably sure, the other absolutely certain, taken the latter. Now, I am quite sure that slavery constitutionally and legally dead, but there is one way in which I can be perfectly sure that it is; and that is, by waiting until the government, through its appropriate channel, has declared that fact. I think it is our duty to wait until that announcement is made. [Applause.] 
FREDERICK DOUGLASS-Several gentlemen have been so kind as to refer to me in the course of this discussion, and my friend, Mr. May, referred to me as being opposed to the disbandment of this Society at any time during the present year. Having been thus referred to, I wish to put myself properly before the meeting. 
Almost the first work the American Anti-Slavery Society asked me to do, after employing me as an agent more than twenty years ago, was to accompany Stephen S. Foster and Abby Kelley (now Mrs. Foster) into the State of Rhode Island, to wage a most unrelenting war against what was called the " Dorr Constitution," because that Constitution contained the odious word "white" in it That was regarded as legitimate anti slavery work at that time ; and that work was most effectively performed, amid mobs and all sorts of violence. We succeeded in defeating that Dorr Constitution, and secured the adoption of a Constitution in which the word "white" did not appear. We thought it was a grand anti-slavery triumph, and it was; it was a good anti-Slavery work. When I came North, and went to Massachusetts, I found that the leading work of the Abolitionists was to put the State of Massachusetts in harmony with the platform of the American Anti-Slavery Society. They said charity began at home. They looked over their statute-book, and whenever they found the word " white," there they recognized slavery, and they made war upon it The anti-slavery ladies made themselves of no reputation by going about with petitions, asking the Legislature to blot out that hated word " white " from the marriage law. That was good anti-slavery work twenty years ago; I do not see why it is not good anti-slavery work now. It was a part of anti-slavery work then; it is a part now, I think.
I do not wish to appear here in any fault-finding spirit, or as an impugner of the motives of those who believe that the time has come for this Society to disband. I am conscious of no suspicion of the purity and excellence of the motives that animate the President of this Society, and other gentlemen who are in favor of its disbandment I take this ground; whether this Constitutional Amendment is law or not, whether it has been ratified by a sufficient number of States to make it law or not, I hold that the work of Abolitionists is not done. Even if every State in the Union had ratified that Amendment, while the black man is confronted in the legislation of the South by the word " white," our work as Abolitionists, as I conceive it, is not done. I took the ground, night, that the South, by unfriendly legislation, could make our liberty, under that provision, a delusion, a mockery, and a snare, and I hold that ground now. What advantage is a provision like this Amendment to the black man, if the Legislature of any State can to-morrow declare that no black man's testimony shall be received in a court of law? Where are we then? Any wretch may enter the house of a black man, and commit any violence he pleases; if be happens to do it only in the presence of black persons, he goes unwhipt of justice [" Hear, hear "]. And don't tell me that those people down there have become so just and honest all at once that they will not pass laws denying to black men the right to testify against white men in the courts of law. Why, our Northern States have done it Illinois, Indiana and Ohio have done it Here, in the midst of institutions that have gone forth from old Plymouth Rock, the black man has been excluded from testifying in the courts of law; and if the Legislature of every Southern State to-morrow pass a law, declaring that no negro shall testify in any courts of law, they will not violate that provision of the Constitution. Such laws exist now at the South. The next day, the Legislatures may pass a law that any black man who shall lift his arm in self-defence, even, against a white man, shall have that arm severed from his body, and may be hanged and quartered, and his head and quarters set up in the most public parts of the district where the crime shall have been committed. Such laws now exist at the South, and they might exist under this provision of the Constitution, that there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in any State of the Union.
Then another point I have thought, for the last fifteen years, that we had an anti-slavery Constitution -a Constitution intended "to secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity." But we have had slavery all along. We had a Constitution that declared that the citizens of old Massachusetts should enjoy all the rights and immunities of citizens in South Carolina-but what of it? Let Mr. Hoar go down to South Carolina, and point to that provision in the Constitution, and they would kick him out of the State. There is something down in South Carolina higher than Constitutional provisions.
Slavery is not abolished until the black man has the ballot. While the Legislatures of the South retain the right to pass laws making any discrimination between black and white, slavery still lives there. [Applause] As Edmund Quincy once said, "While the word ' white' is on the statute-book of Massachusetts, Massachusetts is a slave State. While a black man can be turned out of a car in Massachusetts, Massachusetts is a slave State. While a slave can be taken from old Massachusetts. Massachusetts is a slave State." That is what I heard Edmund Quincy say twenty-three or twenty-four years ago. I never forget such a thing. Now, while the black man can be denied a vote, while the Legislatures of the South can take from him the right to keep and bear arms, as they can-they would not allow a negro to walk with a cane where I came from, they would not allow five of them to assemble together-the work of the Abolitionists is not finished. Notwithstanding the provision in the Constitution of the United States, that the right to keep and bear arms shall not be abridged, the black man has never had the right either to keep or bear arms; and the Legislatures of the States will still have the power to for bid it, under this Amendment They can carry on a system of unfriendly legislation, and will they not do it? Have they not got the prejudice there to do it with? Think you, that because they are for the moment in the talons and beak of our glorious eagle, instead of the slave being there, as formerly, that they are converted? I hear of the loyalty at Wilmington, the loyalty at South Carolina-what is it worth?
Mr. MAY-Not a straw.
Mr. DOUGLASS-Not a straw. I thank my friend for admitting it. They are loyal while they see 200,000 sable soldiers, with glistening bayonets, walking in their midst [Applause.] But let the civil power of the States be restored, and the old prejudices and hostility to the negro will revive. Aye, the very fact that the negro has been used to defeat this rebellion and strike down the standards of the Confederacy will be a stimulus to all their hatred, to all their malice, and lead them to legislate with greater stringency towards this class than ever before. [Applause] The American people are bound-bound by their sense of honor (I hope by their sense of honor, at least, by a just sense of honor), to extend the franchise to the negro; and I was going to say, that the Abolitionists; of the American Anti-Slavery Society were bound to "stand still, and see the salvation of God," until that work is done. [Applause.] Where shall the black man look for support, my friends, if the American Anti-Slavery Society fails him? [" Hear, hear."] From whence shall we expect a certain sound from the 
<c06>
trumpet of freedom, when the old pioneer, when this Society that has survived mobs, and martyrdom, and the combined efforts  priest-craft and state-craft to suppress it, shall all at once subside, on the mere intimation that the Constitution has been amended, so  shall hereafter be allowed in this land ? What did the slaveholders of Richmond say to those who objected to arming the negro, on the ground that it would make him a freeman? Why, they said, "The argument is absurd. We may make these negroes fight South, we can keep them in their subordinate positions," That was the argument; and they were right. They might have employed the negro to fight for them, and while they retained in their hands the power to exclude him from political rights, they could have reduced him to a condition similar to slavery. They would not call it slavery, but some other name. Slavery has been fruitful in giving itself names. It has been called "the peculiar institution," "the social system," and the "impediment," as it was called by the General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church. It has been called by a great many names, and it will call itself by yet another name; and you and I and all of us had better wait and see what new form this old monster will assume, in what new skin this old snake will come forth [Loud applause.]
THE CHAIRMAN-I am told that a very eminent gentleman, well known to every person in this nation, is present. I am also told that he has a message of good news that he may communicate. I refer to the Hon. HENRY WILSON, Senator of Massachusetts. If he is here, and will have the kindness to address the audience, I am sure he will receive a most hearty welcome [Loud applause]
Hon HENRY WILSON-Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen : I came here to-day, as I have been accustomed to whenever I had the opportunity, for the last twenty-nine years, to listen to the voices from the platform of the American Anti-Slavery Society. I came not here, sir, to speak, but to listen. I understand that the question before the Society is on its dissolution or continuance, and upon that, sir, I have not a word to say; it would not be proper for me to do so. You have asked me, sir, to say a few words. I can only say that I believe slavery, which this Society was organized to extinguish, is to-day in its grave, and there is for it no resurrection. [Great applause.] There is not power enough anywhere in America to breathe vitality into that deal institutions. But I do believe, sir, that the dark spirit of slavery lives in the hearts of the rebels. They are subdued, but they are not converted. The heel of the nation is upon the institution of American Slavery, and its supporters are defeated, conquered to-day; but their love of slavery, their disposition to make the condition of the black men of this country miserable, still lives, and it is the duly of all men in the American Anti-Slavery Society, and out of the American Anti-Slavery Society, to see to it that all the power of this nation is used, in every legitimate and proper way, to protect the freedmen of the South. Sir, I am in favor of all legislation that shall place the black man of the country exactly and precisely where I stand to-day [tremendous applause ]; that shall give to him the right to go where he pleases in any and every part of the continent ; that shall secure to him the fruits of his own labor ; that shall, in a word, give him the same liberty, the same rights, that we all possess, in every respect. [Applause.] And, sir, I am in favor of using the power of this nation to make the Constitution of the United States what it declared itself to be-a Constitution for the protection of the people of the country and their posterity forever. Now, sir, I believe, if we carry out this idea, we must hold the rebels in subjugation for years with the bayonet, or we must put the ballot into the hands of the colored men of the South. [Applause.] It must be the bayonet of the black man to protect the rights of the black men to protect their rights. And, sir, peace, law, order, progress, humanity, Christianity, plead the ballot, and not for the bayonet. [Applause.]
Now, sir, I have no faith at all in what is called Unionism in the rebel States. I was at Charleston and Savannah, the other day, and I saw one solitary Union man, who admitted himself to be such. I have no faith in their love of the Union, no faith in their love of the triumph of the Emancipation Proclamation, or of the Constitutional Amendment. They are simply defeated; they have been beaten in the field. They are about this city to-day, purchasing goods, and admitting that they have been defeated and subdued. Therefore, it is of vital importance, I say, that all of us, on whatever theatre we may act, should see to it that the freedmen of the country are protected in all their rights; and that we should see to it, too, that we, all of us, may speak as freely and think as freely in South Carolina, in Georgia, aye, in Texas itself, as in Massachusetts or New York. (Applause.) The work of anti slavery men, of lovers of liberty, equal, impartial, universal, is not ended in our country. In regard to particular societies and modes of action, people may decide as they please; but our duty is as clear as the track of the noon day sun in the heavens to-day, and that duty is, with vigilance, with unwavering fidelity, to see to it that the men we have emancipated shall not be crushed by the dark spirit of slavery, by unfriendly legislation in any portion of the country. (Loud applause.) I have received a letter to-day from an eminent and distinguished military man in Kentucky. He says that slavery surrendered in Kentucky on the 23d of April. They have enlisted in that State, under the law giving freedom to the black man who will enlist in the service of the United States, about 25,000 men. Under the law making their wives and children free, slavery is perishing in Kentucky. This officer says he has given to wives and children more than 500 free papers in a day. The Governor has called the Legislature together on the 15th, and I have no doubt they will adopt the Constitutional Amendment. This Amendment I regard to-day as an achieved fact. No power in the country can baffle or defeat it. It will be adopted ; slavery will perish in name. Let us see to it that the thing itself perishes forever. Sir, I will detain you no longer. For nearly thirty years I have not been able to agree with some of the views held by your Society, but in their love of freedom, in their devotion to the slave, in their willingness at all times and on all occasions to fight the battle of the bondman, I know that I have warmly sympathized, and I have endeavored, in public and private life, to act up to that feeling. And in the future, during what little of life remain to me, either public or private, I may possess, shall be used to make out country-this glorious, free country of ours-this great democratic Republic of ours-to day the most powerful nation under the sun-to make it so that the lovers of liberty all over the globe, as they turn their eyes hitherward, will quote and commend our example. (Loud applause.)
ROBERT PURVIS-Mr. Chairman, the word which I desire to utter has already been spoken by the speakers this morning; and the reasons which have been given why this Society should not be dissolved are my reasons. I do not desire and shall not attempt to reiterate what has been said. The trusting of the colored people in this Society-and which, sir, has never been betrayed-will not permit of its dissolution at this particular juncture. I have risen simply to say, that I trust in God that my very heart may cease to beat when its pulsation fail to bring with them stirring emotions of gratitude, and a lasting, ever-enduring sense of my obligations to you, (turning to Mr. Garrison;) and to ask of you, to beg of you, to entreat of you, to remain at your post until slavery goes down so effectually that about it we can have no question or doubt. (Prolonged applause, and cries of "Amen!")
(To be concluded next week.)
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
MAY 26. THE LIBERATOR. 83
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 26, 1865.
NEW ENGLAND A.S .CONVENTION.
The Annual New England Anti-Slavery Convention will be held in Boston, at the MELODEON, on Wednesday, May 31st, at 10 o'clock, A.M.
Questions of great importance and interest, in relations to the final Abolotion of Slavery in the United States, will doubtless come before the Convention. All the old members of it, and all persons interested, are invited to attend.
By order of the Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society,
EDMUND QUINCY, President.
R.F.WALLCUT, Secretaries
SAML. MAY, Jr., Secretaries
LESSOND FROM THE WORLD OF MATTER AND THE WORLD OF MAN. By Theodare Parker. Selected  from notes of unpublished Sermons, by Rufus Leighton. Boston: Published by Charles W.Slack 1865." Large 12mo., pp.430.
This elegant book seems to have been a labor of  love on the part of both Editor and Publisher. It is well known that Mr. Leighton took phonographic Reports of all Mr.Parker's sermons in the Meledeon and Music Hall, precisely as they were delivered; thus preserving the many beautiful extemporaneous passages which the preacher's own mind, or some external incident, suggested at the moment of delivery. These reports, therefore, are fuller and richer than even the manuscript sermons. The selections have been made with fine taste and judgment, and include passage from the sermons of ten years, from 1849 to 1859.They thus embrace a wide range of topics, and the volume is well suited, either for addition to the author's previously published works, or to give, to a person unacquainted with these, a good general idea of Mr. Parker's Theology, Religion and Morality.
This book, too, is rich in beauties of thought and expression. The Editor well remarks of the Author that "one of the most striking peculiarities of his preaching was his happy faculty of presenting the highest themes, however abstruse or complex in their nature, in such a manner as to render them attractive to the thousands, gathered from all walks and conditions of life, who so eagerly listened to him, and adapting them to every range of comprehension." This marked attribute of Mr. Parker's preaching, so needful go the success of a Minister of the Gospel, yet so rarely found in the pulpit, may be understood to some extend by the reader of this volume. Its thoughts, even upon the loftiest subjects, are not only beautiful, inspiring, elevating, but attractive; drawing those who are neither scholars nor thinkers to the earnest contemplation of divine things, and to an intelligent appreciation of them. The reading of this book cannot but sharpen the public interest in those works which Mr. Parker's literary executor still holds in reserve.
Mr. Leighton dedicates this work, most appropriately, to Hannath Elizabeth Stevenson, "for many years the much valued friend of Theodore Parker, and coworker with him in letters and in all the humanities."
The form of the book is worthy of its substance. It is beautifully and very accurately printed, on clear and good sized type, and its tinted paper has a liberal margin. It is to be had of Mr. Slack, at the Common wealth office, No.22 Bromfield Street. -C.K.W.
THE IDEAL ATTAINED. Being a story of Two Steadfast Souls, and How they Won their Happiness and Lost it Not. By Mrs. Eliza W.FARNHAM. New York: C. M. Plumb & Co., 274 Canal Street. 518 pp., 12mo.Price $2.
Less than six months have passed since Mrs. Fernham, well known throughout the nation as a phiasthropist and an author, closed her career, just in the prime of a useful life. Her publishers present us in the work named above the only complete manuscript she left, and the only work of fiction she ever wrote.
The scenes and incidents of this facinating story- nearly every page of which, we are persuaded, is taken from her own real experiences-are connected with the early years of California. The leading characters embody the author's exalted ideal of true man and womanhood, and the work is full of sentiment as well as incident, as instructive as it is entertaining. It will be sought by the many to whom her name is known. To other it may be said that Mrs. Faruliam was acknowledged by the best authorities to be a writer of great power, as well as a woman of rare genius and philanthropy.
The IDEAL ATTAINED was her only work of fiction, and embodies in vivid characters the author's exalted ideals. The wok is published in an elegant volume, and is sold at $2.
MORNING  LECTURES. Twenty Discourses deliverd before the Friends of Progress in the City of New York, in the Winter and Spring of 1863. By Andrew Jackson Davis, author of several volumes on the Harmonial Philisophy. New York: C.M. Plumb &co., Publishers,274 Canal Street. 1865.
We give the contents of this interesting and instructive volume, in order to show the nature of the topics discussed, and to induce an examination of it by the friends of progress, justice and love:-
1. Defeats and Victories.2 The World's True Redeemer. 3. The End of the World. 4. The New Bith. 5. The Shortest Road to the Kingdom of Heaven. 6.The Reign of Anti-Christ. 7. The Spirit and its Circumstances. 8. Eternal Value of Pure Purposes. 9. Wars of the Blood, Brain and Spirit. 10. Truths, Male and Female. 11. False and True Education. 12. The Equalities and Inequalities of Human Nature. 13. Poverty and Riches. 15. The Objects of Life. 16. Expensiveness of Error in Religion. 17.Winter-Land and Summer-Land. 19. Material Work for Spiritual Workers. 20. Ultimates in the Summer-Land.
SERMONS PREACHED IN BOSTON, ON THE DEATH OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN, TOGETHER WITH THE FUNERAL SERVICES AT WASHINGTON.
The contents of this volume are: - Frist, the Funeral Services in the East Room of the Executive Mansion at Washington.Every word spoken over the remains of Mr.Lincoln are recorded in this volume.That, in itself, is of sufficient interest and value to induce every American and true lover of his country to own and preserve the volume, as a memorial of the time, and to hand down to his children. Then come the Sermons, by our principal Clergymen, which are simply the thoughts of the people when the sad news was received. Intelligence came Saturday morning that the President had been murdered. These Sermons were delivered the next day; and their value to another generation will be, that they express the thought and feeling of the people at the time the dreadful dead was done.
The idea, that the book will be of greater value ot those who come after us than to ourselves, has been carried out in making it. The printing and blinding have been manner; and will do justice to our time when we shall be called "those oldfashioned people who lived in the time of the Great Rebellion."
J. E. Tiltion & Co., Publishers, Boston.
FUNERAL ORATION ON ABRAHAM LINCOLN, by Miss Emma Hardinge.
This is an eloquent and glowing tribute to the memory of the martyred President, delivered on Sunday, April 16, at Cooper Institute, New York, before upwards of three thousand persons. It was delivered by special invitation from several influential citizens, but was entirely extemporaneous. Published by the American News Company, Nassau Street.
<c02>
A PROTEST.
LEICESTER. Mass, May 12,1865.
I am constrained to take this method of laying before the member, of the American Anti-Slavery Society a subject which I had no opportunity to present at the late annual meeting, on account of its wholly unexpected adjournment. I had remained in attendance upon the Wednesday's business meeting from 10 o'clock A. M. to 5 P. M. without intermission, and then left, it being the general understanding (as I inferred from repeated statement, to that effect,) that there would be an adjournment to the next morning at 10 o'clock. Not long after leaving, I was informed by one who had just come from the meeting, that the Society had adjourned sine die.  I am, therefore, under the necessity of addressing the Executive Committee and member, of the Society in this manner.
According to the Treasurer', report, there is remaining in hi. hands a balance of over two thousand two hundred dollars. Of this amount, the sum of aleast two thousand dollar, was raised at the Subscription Anniversary in Boston in January last, being contributed, perhaps not wholly but nearly so, by those who supported and approved the management of Society and of the Standard as then and for many years existing, and who approved the Standard's principle of giving a discriminating and honest support the anti-slavery policy of Mr. Lincoln'. Administration. I know this to be the fact in regard to a large proportion of the subscriptions made on that occasion; and I believe it to be so with very nearly all the remainder, because the issue with the Standard had then been fully taken, the purpoee of Mr, Phillips and his friend, to withhold their support from it had been distinctly announced, and it was understood that it devolved wholly upon the friends of the Standard as it was, to carry forward that Subscription Anniversary. The management of the Society and the Standard having now gone into the hands of those who, either during the whole of Mr. Lincoln's Administration or for the last two years of it at least, did all in their power to disparage it before the public, to destroy confidence in it, and to supersede it by another, (even -at the imminent risk of bringing back the reign of slavery with Gen. McClellan,) I maintain that they cannot, in justice or with honor, take or use the money coming from the said Subscription Anniversary. It is pretty generally known that the present Executive Committee of the Society (or the great majority them) contributed nothing to that fund, and gave no countenance or help to the meeting which raised it. Will they take that money, and use it to make Standard essentially different from the purpose had in view by its donorsa purpose for which, they know, it would never have been given?  I trust not. If the Standard's course is not to be changed, why the last year's denunciation of it and war upon it? If it is to be changed, will they take this money for the pupose?
Having myself been largely instrumental in obtaining the fund in question, (which I may say without subjecting myself to the charge of egotism,) I feel that it is my right and my duty to protest against such diversion of it from its original design, and to claim its restoration to those who were originally made trustees of it. And this I do claim in this public and distinct manner. Legal forms may justify the preset Committee in detaining it, but every higher consideration peremptorily forbids.
I ask and claim that the fund in question, or so much of it as may fairly be considered as derived from the late Subscription Anniversary, may be paid into the hands of those who constituted the late Execution Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society, to be appropriated by them as they shall judge best in aid of the Anti-Slavery cause; willingly excepting from this claim any subscription whose donor prefers its use by the present Committee.
The above was written four days since. To-day I learn that Parker Pillsbury is selected to act as the future Editor of the Standard. That fact does lessen my'desire to make this protest. Intimately knowing Mr. Pillsbury's devotion and eminent sevices, to the Anti-Slavery cause in year, past, and having for a considerable term of years been a hearty fellow-laborer with him in the cause, I have still seen in him during the last four years such a lack of sound judgment in regard to its promotion, such a prevailing tone of despair in regard to its success, such a purpose to decry as only specious and hypocritical the progressive step, of the people and government towards Liberty and Justice, that I can look with no pleasure on his appointment. And when I remeber that he was a promoter of the Cleveland Politic Convention, a member and officer of it, and a supporter of its nomination, as long as they could kept before the peopleand believing as I do that the success of the Anti-Slavery cause was greatly perilled by that movement, and some of its essential principle, compromisedI feel that one who could commit such an extraordinary mistake (to call it by no harder name) at that most critical hour of the Anti-Slavery contest is by no mean s the right editor of the Standard now. I certainly say this in no personal unkindness to Mr. Pillsbury. I say what is the truth, and truth which ought not to be forgotten.
My protest and appeal are, therefore, before the subscribers to the Standard, whom I regard as (after all) the real constituency and membership of the Society, and whose decision, on several points I believe would be quite different from those given at the late annual meeting. I especially think they would not have refused a vote of thanks and approval to the past editor, of the Standard, for their many years of, Laborious and conscientious serviceto unhandsomely  refused at the late meeting.  My protest it also before the Executive Committee of the Society.
I remain, respectfully, yours,
SAMUEL MAY, JR
A NOTE FROM MARY GREW. 
MR. EDITOR:  I very much regret that the American Anti-Slavery Society closed the sessions of its annual meeting without expressing its appreciation of the value of it. organ, the National Anti-Slavery Standard, and its gratitude to the gentlemen who have, a long period of years, been it. Editors.  The eminent ability with which the paper has been conducted has won for it a wide and honorable reputation, among both the friends and opponents of our cause; and the service which it ha. rendered to that cause cannot be  fully estimated.  The best year, of the life of its Resident Editor have been devoted to this department of anti-slavery labor, with untiring zeal and unswerving purpose, through the dask and the bright period of our warfare.  Doubtless, the glorious triumphs of our cause, in which we are now rejoicing, are sufficient recompense for all his self-sacrificing labor. 
In common with many member, of the Society, I deeply regret the determination, announced in the Standard, of the Editor, to resign their posts before the  ratification  of the Constitutional Amendment should ensure the utter extraction of American slavery.  In common with many of my fellow-labors, I have dissented from the course sometime, pursued by the Standard, during the last two years; but in common, I believe, with the member, of the American Society generally, I bear my testimony most heartily to the ability, the fidelity to the slave, the generous devotion to Truth and the Right, with which the Editors of our organ have performed their onerous duties. 
I trust that the hour is not far distant when question, upon which we were divided in opinion at our recent Annual Meeting, will be no longer a question; but that the legal and constitutional extinction of slavery will be a fact "known and read of all men," and we shall, with united voices, dissolve our Anti-Slavery Societies, and sing our Jubilee Hymn. Until that hour, let us all, who have, for thirty years, stood side by side and heart to heart, breasting the  battle and the storm, continue to work for the cause of Human Freedom, in such manner as our consciences
<c03>
and opportunities may direct; and, while differing in judgment, strive to preserve the unity of the spirit, in the bond of peace. MARY GREW. 
May 14,1865. 
NEW OCCASIONS TEACH NEW DUTIES. 
It is now said that the volunteer troops of the United States are to be disbanded and discharged, and that the military force still to be kept on foot will consist only of the regular army. Four corps, report says, are considered sufficient for present purposes, and of these, two are to be of white and two of colored men. The remainder will return to their homes, or make new ones, beat their swords into ploughshares, and know war, it is fervently to be hoped, no more. 
They will return to their homes or make new ones. Why should not the latter alternative be deemed preferable by tens of thousand, of discharged soldiers? Our people are a roving, an adventurous, a pioneering people. Those who wandered for pleasure, or health, or commercial speculation, have in past times been accustomed to go South. But men whose support depended on the application of their own strength to agricultural or mechanical labor were debarred from the experiment of Southern life by the blight that has hitherto rested on it, and were obliged to move West-ward or stay at home. 
Now, thing, are changed. Slavery is rapidly becoming extinct, and we feel morally certain that free institutions are to be the heritage of the whole South. If the right measures are taken in this period of transition, men who love right, and justice, and religion, and progress, will now be able to live even in South . Carolina, even in the Gulf States, even in New Orleans, in peace and prosperity.
Formerly, as a general rule, the going of a good man to settle in the South was the loss of one more good man to the country and the world. Those who touched not only its pitch, but its cotton, its sugar, its rice, its business of any sort, were defiled. The trail of the serpent was over them all. The Slave Power demanded obeisance and allegiance of all who came within its territory. Now, this Upas is so nearly destroyed, and event, seem to be going in so fair a train to complete the destruction, that if due precaution be observed, and proper remedial means applied, we may reasonably expect a progressive improvement there. Not only each generation, but each year, (due precaution being observed,) may be expected to show a gratifying movement in the right direction.
The most important of these precautions, the most indispensable of these remedial measures, is the settlement of Northern men as landholders in the South. It is to be hoped that a very large number of the soldiers, both white and black, will make their homes on the bounty lands to be allowed them in the Southern States. Such a movement as this, in combination with the acquisition of land by the most able and enterprising of those negroes who are not soldiers, will make an excellent opening for the removal thither of those Northern people, both white and black, who prefer the Southern climate, or are tempted to a trial of agricultural labor by the very low price of land there. The hope of our country rest, on the establishment of these classes in the South, on small or only moderately large pieces of land. Thus only can a beginning of life truly democratic be made there. Thus only can the " poor whites " of the South be taught manners and customs better than those which the fallen dynasty of slaveholder, forced upon them. Thus only can a majority of certainly loyal voters be secured, to bring the secession States squarely into line with the Union, and keep them there. Thus only can we surely counteract the influence of that large portion of the Southern people which will wish, and try, to keep up some distinction between white and black men in regard to right, and privileges. 
Some Northern people to whom such removal would be otherwise desirable may be deterred from it by the idea that much of the land in the South is worn out it and worthless. That it is worn out for any profitable continuance of the sort of cultivation heretofore applied to it may be very true, while yet it may be valuable under those better method, which Northern industry and intelligence would bring to it. Farmers who understand their business will supply to the soil the element, that have been drawn from it, and make that land fertile which the wasteful and shiftless Southron knew no better than to call worn out and worthless.
Another change in our policy seems demanded alike so by justice and the exigencies of the present time namely, the promotion of men of acknowledged merit and ability in (or out of) the colored regiments to the posts of commissioned officers. 
Some persons, both white and black, thought that this should have been done from the beginning. To them it was plausibly replied that, the whole military business being absolutely new to the negro, it was proper that he should take it by regular stages, and by learn the less difficult and responsible parts before undertaking the higher:that the lesson of military or obedience should come (not only appropriately but needfully) before the function of military command:he and that, as we have more confidence in the ship-master who has been himself a sailor than in one who crept in (as they say) through the cabin window, so the man who has risen by merit from the ranks is likely, other things being equal, to do best in the position of military officer. 
These statements, I say, had plausibility and some of reason in them at the beginning of the experiment of negro soldiership. Now circumstances are changed, and we ought to change with them. The black regiments have proved themselves equal to the white ones in military merit, not only in general, but in the very points where doubt had been felt in regard to them. They have stood the test of obedience, an individuals among them have been earnestly recon mended, by their white officers, for advance to official positions among themselves. Why should not that recommendations now take effect, and a system of promotion, in cases of decided merit, be adopted? Justice seem, to require it. The reasonable expectations of these brave and faithful soldiers, who have contended, in our behalf, with more than the ordinary for dangers and sufferings of war, certainly require it. And social and political expediency present a very strong claim in the same direction, in view of the new feature, in Southern society which the public welfare demands.
If anything is plain in regard to our future, it is that distinction, based upon color or race should disappear from our society. Let the positions of black people, as of white, henceforth depend upon their merit and of ability, all over the country. The utter extirpation of slavery, whenever that shall have been completed, will go far to prepare for and facilitate this change, but yet more help in regard to it will be needed by the Southern white people. All classes of them have so long been accustomed to look upon the negro as an inferior, that line upon line and precept upon precept must be given them to compel their recognition of him as a man. It will help this process not a little if, while it is going on, more or fewer of the colored people are placed by the Government in positions of authority. If the "poor white." of the South now see individual negroes made superior to themselves in station and function, and see the incumbent, of those offices acting creditably to themselves and usefully the the State, the way will be materially cleared towars the abolition of that foolish prejudice, the spawn slavery, and a recognition of human beings as having the equally the same rights, the same possibilities, the at same destiny. Why should not the Government, alike in the District of Columbia and in every State, place some colored persons in respectable official stations, both military and civil? If suitable persons are chosen for this promotion, the effect would be, in many ways, most highly advantageous; and the administration would then have done its part to counter the act the shameful pandering to prejudice against color which was sbown in so many ways by the Presidents preceding preceding Lincoln.c. k. w. 
<c04>
LETTEES FROM NEW YORK. NO. XXXIV.
NEW YORK, May 18,1865. 
To the Editor of the Liberator:
" What shall we do with the Negro? " has quite given way for the moment to " What shall we do with the Traitor? " But there is less diversity of opinion on this question than on that. There is still less diversity of conjecture as to its solution. Ninety-nine men out of a hundred will tell you Jeff. Davis ought to be hung; nine hundred out of a thousand that be will be. I believe in the duty, and in the probability of its performance. It is no longer a case of catching a hare before you cook him. The miserable procurer of assassination, hunted from his throne of skulls to the woods and swamps, shunning instead of facing the miserable Nemesis, is tracked and overtaken in the garb of a woman, showing " a great peard under her muffler." The Cyclops of the rebellion it on his way to that capital which he last quitted as a perjurer, which he besieged as a pretender, and which was the Mecca of his ambition. He enters Washington not as a conqueror, nor as a liberator, but as a fugitive and in chains. For four year he has appealed for justification to Christendom; as M. Rogeard says of Napoleon, c'est le licteur qui repondrait is the beadsman who will answer him. 
If the dictum of Aeschines be true, that the character of a State is determined by that of the men it crowns, we may also assert: by the character of the men it hangs. If it has not discarded capital punishment, if its penal code still acknowledges the right of society to attach the forfeiture of life to certain crimes, then when these crime, occur, it has but one recourse in order to be true to itself. There may be limits to such an obligationthe extent of the crime and the multitude of criminals. We find it so to-day. Yet even here the burden of guilt rests not on million., but on dozens or scores,nay, one might affirm, on a single score of representative men, by whose punishment not only justice but the public safety would be secured. The chief of them is in our handsthe moat active brain, the most skilful hand, the most undaunted soul of the conspiracy. Had he fled the country, he might well have been " let alone." But he is prisoner to the Republic, and logically and actually responsible for the gigantic enormities of the warfare which he inaugurated, directed and maintained with infernal ability. In him are embodied the sacrilege of Bull Run, the mutilations of Shiloh, the massacre of Fort Pillow, the indescribable, unmatched horrors of the rebel prisons, the riots of this metropolis, the firing of our hotels, the plot to introduce here the pestilence, and the murder of the rightful occupant of the Presidential chair. The catalogue is imperfect: it is an outline onlyit suggests, but does not portray. There is no name for Davis', offence, nor is there any adequate punishment. Yet the most cruel would be less monstrous than none at all. The greatest that can be permitted is the least that will satisfy: it is death. Not vengeancethe object is too pitiful, the cause too vast; not retaliationnon possumus; not chastisement, reallyit would be soperfluous. But vindication of law, and an example for the ages. Clemency, if you please, to all the rest.Soldiers of the Union at Andersonville saw their feet rot off from exposure and neglect in the open air. Robert E. Lee knew of it, and did not interpose or protest. But pardon him. One man must not, cannot be forgiven. The fate of Jefferson Davis decides the stamina, the courage, the consistency of our democracy. 
This seems to me Bot only clear as an argument, but the common sense of the people at large. That has not been so ever since the outbreak of the war, I am well aware, in spite of the favorite allusion to a " sour apple tree." Perhaps after Davis's flight from Richmond amid the caving in of the Confederacy, the knowledge that he had escaped to a foreign lane would have given general relief to minds which rather dreaded the issue betwixt treason and loyalty at the country's bar. Since the 14th of April, the change has been unmistakable and awful. It may be said, almost without a metaphor, that Abraham Lincoln signed the death-warrant of his antagonist; and he, the mildest, most forgiving of men, will virtually draw the rope which terminate, a blasphemous career. Thus
God's just wrath shall be wreaked on a giant liar." 
Yet ought we to be scrupulous as to the other victims of outraged law. Having hanged a single culprit for treason, there is, of course, no excuse for preserving Davis; but, if the crime of the former be petty, we assume an obligation to punish similarly a host of, intermediate offenders up to the arch traitor himself. It would be hard and unequal to send a " Son of Liberty " to the gallows, and extend amnesty to Henry A. Wise or Alexander H. Stephens. We must early reconcile ourselves to the impossibility and the impolicy of meting out their dues to all who are justly liable. If life is to be taken, let it be done mercifullysparing the lowest and most ignorant, and inflexibly destroying the leaders. Banishment, perpetual exile, the deprivation of citizenship, will aid us in securing tranquillity and safety for the nation without immoderate executions. Let us accept it as a Providential guidance that the pseudo-President has not slipt through our fingers, and not so much pronounce his doom as administer it.
The desire for peace and the restoration of the civil code is commendable enough in itself, but the haste with which it is assumed in some quarter, that peace is already upon us seems to me as indecent as it is short-sighted and contrary to fact. The end of active hostilities and the beginning of peace are not coincident, and the removal of martial law rests with the Executive who proclaimed it. He may fairly be open to advice, but the bullying tone of the New York press is surely censurable. Military occupation of the South for a considerable time is a settled policy of the Administration, based upon a necessity which is patent to all eyes. The War Department will subside very gradually into its original (and proper) state of impuissance. We should be jealous not of its powers, nor of the simple exercise of them, but of the motives which control it, as heretofore; nor are we precluded from exclaiming against its injustice. So long as we are satisfied that the military machinery is run in the interest of civil order and ultimate civil supremacy, without unnecessary postponement of these ends, we have little to fear. In truth, the speedest return to civil ways is through military channel. The immense appliances of Government are thus brought to bear most promptly and with the most permanent effect. We see this in the repair of the very devastations of war. Railroad, and bridge, are rebuilt almost as rapidly as they were destroyed; harbors are cleared, light, and buoy, replaced, as rapidly; and Secretary Stanton announced to us yesterday the renewal of complete telegraphic communication with New Orleans, save an easily-bridged interval of twenty-four hours. The thousand year, which the poet required to form a State have been dispensed with by us. Am ready the defunct Commonwealth of Virginia has been galvanized into life, and, with the support of the Government, will mount to prosperity on eagle wings, if, hold the military authority of the utmost consequence in reconstruction, if only for economy in time. How else can a republican form and substance of government be guarantied to the subjugated States? If you point to the instrumentality of immigration, I answe, that the way must be opened and kept open at first by to the hand which is next of kin to the hilt; without which the confiscation act may be wretchedly abortive. 
This reminds me that confiscation has advanced one stage since I last wrote. The Freedman's Bureau has begun to be organized by the appointment of Maj. Gen. O. O. Howard to its head, to the gratiflcation of all who know him, and care for the objects of his future charge. He is particularly fortunate in having traversed the South so exteusively, and witnessed in person its actual condition; and he brings to his work a character unsurpassed in our armieswithoit fear and without reproach. This morning he issues his first order as Chief of the Bureau, and request the assistance not only of his military subordinates,
<c05>
but of all who are identified with freedom by sympathy and philanthropic endeavor. If any one has felt depressed or apprehensive by reason of the late utterances of President Johnson, which would indicate that he still labors in the slough of black colonization, let him dismiss despondency. There is no danger in the effete idea. There was, while President Lincoln held it, because opportunity for experiment existed, and the people were ready to tolerate the trial of Arache. That lesson and others undeceived all minds, Mr. Lincolns, included. Hereafter there will be no appropriation of public money, to deport the labor which cannot be spared from the Southern country. The most convincing proof to the contrary lies in this very Freedman's' Bureau, within the organization of a Department notoriously disposed to plant the black man so deep where he now is that no ploughshare of unfriendly legislation can root him up. We are now proceeding against the last stronghold of aristocracy and slaverythe land. It is the injunction of history: Divide and govern. 
M. DU PAYS. 
DEATH OF REV. DAVID THURSTON. The Lewiston Journal announces the decease of Rev. David Thurston of Litllefied, Me. in the 87th year of his age. Father Thurston, as he was familiarly called, was the oldest minister in the State. He was a pioneer in the Anti-Slavery cause, and with Samuel Fessenden, (father of the Senator,) and others, took part in the first Anti-Slavery organisation in New England. He was one of the signers of the Anti-Slavery Declaration of Sentiments in 1833, at Philadelphia, and was the first one to put his name to that important historic document (Maine being the first State in the order of arrangement). He also assisted in the formation of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and for several years was one of its officers. He serenely and unflinchingly encountered much obloquy and persecution for his abolition, and bore faithful and persistent testimony against " the sum of all villanies," in a deeply religious spirit and the tenderest sympathy for suffering humanity. He was for several years president of the American Missionary Association. Entering the ministry in 1806, in the 28th year of his age, he was first settled over the Congregational church in Winthrop. He continued in this pastorate for over 45 years, resigning about 1851 or 2. He then removed to Prospect, where he preached about six years, at the end of which time he was settled over the Congregational church In Littlefield, where he continued till the time of his decease. 
SENATOR SUMNER. Senator Sumner has written a letter to a Committee of Colored Men in North Carolina, who asked him whether they should take part in the reorganization of that State, in which he tells-them that it is their right and their duty. " I see," he says, " little chance of peace or tranquillity in any rebel State unless the rights of all are recognized, without distinction of color. On this foundation we must build." Subsequently the Senator says: " As you do me the honor to ask me the proper stand for you to make, I have no hesitation in replying that you must insist on all the rights and privileges of a citizen. They belong to youthey are yoursand whoever undertakes to rob you of them is a usurper and an impostor." 
LECTURE BY REV. CALVIN FAIRBANK. Rev. Calvin Fairbank, who was imprisoned for many years in Kentucky, gave a narrative of his experience and sufferings, in Tremont Temple, Sunday evening. Mr. Fairbank was sentenced to fifteen years' imprisonment in the Kentucky State Prison in 1850, for aiding a slave woman to escape. While confined there, he was put to the most severe tasks, and punished with lashes on the bare back for any failure to complete the allotted task. He was pardoned within the last two years. The lecturer was introduced by Wendell Phillips. Miss. Tileston,  to whose self-denying labors Mr. Fairbank was principally indebted for his release, and who has since become his wife, was present on the stage Sunday evening. 
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY for June, 1865, is received. The following is the table of contents: 
A Letter about England; by John Weiss. A Prose Henriade; by Gail Hamilton. Harpocrates; by Bayard Taylor. Dely's Cow; by Rose Terry. Needle and Garden; VI. Going to Sleep; by Elizabeth A. C. Akers. Dr. Johns; V.; by Ik Marvel. The Great Lakes; by Samuel C. Clarke. To Carolina Coronado. Regnard; by F. Sheldon. John Brown's Raid: How I got into it, and How I got out of it; by John G Rosengarten. Schumann's Quintette in Flat Major; by Anne M. Brewster. Richard Cobden; by M. D Conway. Modern Improvements and Our National Debt; by E. B. Bigelow. The Chimney Corner; VI.; by Mrs. H. B. Stowe. The Jaguar Hunt; by J. T. Trowbridge. Late Scenes in Richmond; by " C. C. Coffin; (" Carleton.") Down! by H. H. Brownell. The Place of Abraham Lincoln in History; by George Bancroft Ticknor & Fields, publishers. 
HARPER'S MAGAZINE, for June, contains the following papers:1. Washoe Revisited, (second number,) with illustrations. 2. From Teheran to Samarcand, 3. The Sun-Dial. 4. Heroic Deeds of Heroic Men. VII. The Change of Base EffectedIllustrated. 5. Dirge for the Fallen. 6. Dobb's Dinner at Delmonico'sIllustrated. 7. Andrew Kent's Temptation. 8. The American, on their Travels. 9. Contrast 10. Recollection, of Grant, with a portrait. 11. Armadale, by Wilkie Collins. 12. The University of Oxford. 13. In Memoriam W. S. 14. Our Mutual Friend, by Charles DickensIllustrated. 15. Monthly Record of Current Events. 16. Editor's Easy Chair and Drawer.
For sale by A. Williams & Co., 1CC Washington Street.
SPEAKER BULLOCK'S CLOSING ADDRESS to the members of the Massachusetts House of Representatives was one of the finest efforts of his oratory. The following paragraph is a sample: 
" Gentlemen, I will not detain you with much allusion, however fitting it might be, to national events. They have been decisive and sublime since our session began. The victories of our armies have come to us like thronging battalions. The confederacy of to treason has at last fallen before the slout hearts and strong arms of our patriotic soldiers, and the ARCH TRAITOR, captured under circumstances which deprive even treason of its dignity, is already under their guard on his way to the capital. And when I think how costly has been the sacrifice in which he has involved this government and this people, when I look around and behold myriad, of families in mourning for those whom he has slain, when my eyes fall upon the drapery which still darken, these walls in memorial of that just and pure magistrate whose life was snatched away by a hand which his spirit nerved, when I reflect that JUSTICE is the only security of a government in the whole universe of God, for myself and for you I demand that the President shall award to Jefferson Davis that punishment which, while sitting by his side in the Senate Chamber, he promised him." 
Gen. Gideon J. Pillow has been captured near Selma. Gov. Brown of Georgia has been placed in the Old Capital Prison at Washington. The Rebel Governor Vance, of North Carolina, has arrived in Washington, and is at a well-conducted and secure boarding establishment on Capitol Hill. The Rebel Gen. Early, it is said, died recently at Lynchburg Previous accounts had left him there suffering from rheumatism in the stomach. 
" New Orleans advices report that Gen. Banks has compelled the President of the City Railroad Company to allow the blacks to ride in the can of the company. Heretofore the company has set apart can for the use of the negroes, but the General has now ordered that there shall be no distinction.
The capture of Jeff. Davis created a universal feeling of satisfaction throughout California. The people of Sacramento hung Davis in effigy. Davis, A. H. Stephens, Clay and Reagan are now all safely incarcerated at Fortress Monroe. 
<c06>
TO THE READERS OF THE ANTI-SLAVERY STANDARD.
My labor, as Resident Editor of this Journal end with the present number. I have occupied this post or twelve yearsfrom 1853 to 1858 as the associate of Mr. SYDNEY HOWARD GAY, and from 1858 to the present time atone. My duties, though exceedingly arduous, have been very pleasant, for my heart has been in then as well as my head aad my hands, and I have had sympathy, encouragement and rapport from men and women with whom to be associated in so glorious a cause was at once a privilege and an honor. I came to this editorial chair under the black shadow cast over the whole land by the Fugitive Slave law of I850, and when the Demon of Slavery was enthroned In Church and State; and I leave it now when that Demon is under the feet of the American people, and with the music of broken fetters and the jubilee shoots of millions of ransomed slaves ringing in my ears. The great object for which this paper was established, and for which I nave toiled and prayed from dewy youth to more than manhood's prime, is attained, and I am happy! 
Reader, of the STANDARD1 I bid you, one and all, an affectionate farewell. For twelve years I have labored to make this paper worthy of your esteem and of the cause it was set to defend. That I have made many mistakes is probable,nay, certain; but believe me, they were mistakes of the head, not of the heart. To the multitude of friends, known and unknown, in different parts of the country, who have so often cheered me with tokens of kind appreciation and sympathy, I return heartfelt thanks. If there is one who bears in his heart the memory of a single unkind word uttered by me in these columns, I crave his gorgiveness, as, "with malice toward none, and charity for all," I lay down my pen. Farewell! 
OLIVER JOHNSON.
My friends may address me, for the present, at No. 90, East Twelfth st., New York. O. J.
THE ARREST OF JEFF. DAVIS.
NEW YORK. May 21. The Herald's correspondence gives the particulars of the arrest of Jeff Davis, fully confirming the official accounts already published. When the guard went to the tent, they were met by Mrs. Davis en dishabille, with "Please, gentlemen, don't disturb the privacy of ladies before they have time to dress." " All right, madam," said the Corporal, " we will wait until you have on your dress." Presently there appeared at the tent door an ostensibly old lady with a bucket on her arm, escorted by Mrs. Davis and her sister. " Please let my old mother go to the spring for some water to wash in," said Mrs. Jeff., in a pleading tone. " It strikes me your mother wears very big boots," said the guard, as he hoisted the old lady's dress with his sabre, and discovered a pair of No. 13 calf skins" and whiskers too," said the Sergeant, as he palled the hood from her face, and lo! Jeff. Davis stood before them! A pistol was immediately placed at his ear, and he was placed in durance vile.
Only about $8000 in specie was found with the party, though several boxes were not searched. They were brought along, however, and will be delivered to the authorities at Washington. There were found on the person of Postmaster General Reagan papers showing that a large amount of specie had been shipped for London, which will also be delivered to the authorities by Col. Pritchard.
The latter, with the prisoners, immediately started for Macon. The party were all sullen, and Davis remarked to Pritchard that had they not been taken by surprise, they would not have surrendered without a fight. While on the road, they received a copy of the
President's proclamation offering $109,000 reward for Davis. Davis read it, and trembled, and pressed his hand, to his side, and with a groan he dropped the paper. His wife picked it up and read it aloud, when the entire party burst into tears.
The cavalcade arrived at Macon on the 13th, and soon after took a special train for Atlanta, and thence for Augusta.
A. H. Stephens and Wheeler were captured by a detachment of Gen. Upton's division, and Clay and his lady surrendered to Gen. Wilson at Macon. 
FORTRESS MONROE, May 19. Jeff. Davis with family, staff officers, &c., arrived here to-day from Hilton Head, S. C, in the steamer Wm. H. Clyde, convoyed by the U. S. gunboat Tuscarora, Commodore Finley. Col. Pritchard of the Michigan cavalry, who made the capture, with a strong body of men accompanied the party, and he immediately telegraphed to Washington for instructions in regard to the disposal of his charge. 
THE THIRTEENTH YEARLY MEETING OF PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS will be held at LONGWOOD, (near Hamorton,) Chester Co., Pa., commencing at 11 o'clock, A. M., on Fifth day, (Thursday,) the 8th of Sixth month, (June,) 1865, and continuing, probably, three days. 
OLIVER JOHNSON,RACHEL WILSON,
ANNIE M. STAMBACH, EUSEBIUS BARNARD,
BENJAMIN C. BACON, MART ANN FULTON, 
SUSANNA P. CHAMBERS, ALFRED H. LOVE,
THEODORE TILTON, LUCRETIA NAYLOR,
ANNIE F. KENT, J. WILLIAM COX, 
CARROLL DUNHAM,JENNIE K. SMITH,
ANNA E. DICKINSON,WILLIAM LLOYD. 
Among those whose presence is confidently anticipated are George Thompson of England, William Lloyd Garrion, and Aaron M. Powell. 
FRIENDS OF HUMAN PROGRESS.Yearly Meeting of Friends of Human Progress will be held at the usual place near Waterloo, on Friday, Saturday aad Sunday, 2d, 3d and 4th days of June next. 
CHARLES D. B. MILLS, FREDERICK DOUGLASS, AARON M. POWELL, GILES B. STEBBINS, GEO. W. TAYLOR, and other gifted speakers from abroad, will be present to participate, and lend interest to the occasion.
Communications for the meeting should be addressed to PHEBE B. DEAN, Waterloo, N. Y.
NOTICE.The American and Foreign Anti-Tobacco Society will hold its annual meeting on next Monday evening, at half-past 7 o'clock, in the Meionaon. Wax DELL PHILLIPS, Esq., will preside. The Annual Report will be presented by Rev. Mr. TRASK, and a dozen short and pithy speeches will be made. 
THEODORE PARKER'S 
"LIFE THOUGHTS." 
HIS MOST POPULAR WORK!
" Lessons from the World of Matter and the World of Man." 
BY THEODORE PARKER.
Selected from Notes of Unpublished Sermons, by RUFUS LEIGSTON.
Just published420 pages, tinted paper and illustratod title, with portraitan ELEGANT OCTAVO VOLUME.
PRICE $2 50. 
Copies sent by mail, postpaid, on recelpt of price.o
CHARLES W. SLACK, 
Publisher, No. 8 Bromfield St., Boston. 
May 19, 3t 
CLEANSE THE BLOOD. 
WITH corrupt, disordered or vitiated blood, you are sick all over. It may burst out in pimples, or sores, in some active disease, or it may merely keep you listless, depressed, and god for nothing. But you cannot have good health while your blood is impure. AYER'S SARSAPARILLA purge, out these impurities and stimulates the organs of life into vigorous action, restoring the health and expelling disease. Hence it rapidly cures a variety of complaints which are caused by impurity of the blood, such as Scrofula, or King's Evil, Tumors, Ulcers, Sores, Eruptions, Pimples, Blotches, Boils, St. Anthony's Fire, Rose or Erysipelas, Tetter or Salt Rheum, Scalt Head, Ring-worm, Cancer or Cancerous Tumors, Sore Eyes, Female Diseases, such as retention, Irregularity, Suppression, Whites, Sterility; also, Syphilis or Venereal Diseases, Liver Complaints, and Heart Diseases. Try AYER'S SARSAPARILLA, and see for yourself the surprising activity with which it cleanses the blood and cures these disorders.
During late years, the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick; for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound "Sarsaparilla," and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. We think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. We can only insure the sick that we offer them the best alterative which we know how to produce, and we have reason to believe it is by far the most effectual purifier of the blood yet discovered by anybody.
AYER'S ILLEGIBLE PECTORAL is so universally known to surpass every other remedy for the cure of Coughs, Colds, Influenes, Hoarseness, croup, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and for the relief of Consumptive patients in advanced stages of the disease, that it is useless here to ecount the evidence of its virtues; the world knows them.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell Mass., and sold by all durggists.
March 15. 2m.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
MARAH AMONG THE VIOLETS.
BY KATY CARLISLE.
"First-born and darlings of the spring,
In purple beauty drest,
How low ye nestle, lovingly, 
On your sweet mother's breast!
"Gainst the rich mosses of her vest
How soft your foreheads lie!
How sweet, beside the woodland streams, 
Is your low lullaby!
"Oh, darlings, since I saw you last,
What changes have been min;-
What trembling lips have pressed the cup
That held life's sweetest wine!
"'Life's sweetest wine!' I prophesied-
I knew that cup would be-
Though passing sweet to other lips,
Most bitter sweet to me!
"Yet far beyond my best deserts,
O Father, dost Thou bless;
The friends afar, the well beloved,
Have life and hope and peace.
"So, Father, be the brows I love
With softest roses crowned,
And I will praise Thee for the thorns
With which mine own are bound.
"If one rose-petal kiss them soft
For every thorn I wear,
Be my thorns countless. Joy too keen
Shall be the pain I bear!
"So give them roses for my thorns,
And all my life shall be
A low, subdued, but fervent strain
Of love and praise to Thee!
"Yet since I loved the violets first,
What buds of hope have blown!
What dear cloud-castles that I built,
To real things have grown!
"The friendly touch of hands that broke
A million chains; the word
From lips whose music-woven words
All souls' great deeps have stirred-
"Father in heaven, what asked I more?-
Would I not cross the main,-
Tread Afric's sands with feet unshod,
Such blessed boon to gain?
"And those great souls, who to my heart
Their nobleness did teach-
Up to whose far and starry heights
My spirit may not reach-
"See they not, where their clear eyes watched
The feeble dawn afar,
The morning sun of freedom rise
From dark-red waves of war?
"And, Oh! for Truth's dear sake alone,
The loyal sacrifice;
And, where the clank of chains was heard,
The songs of praise that rise!
"Rebuke my murmuring, violets mild,
Gently, in Pity's name;
I am a child that wildly weeps
To grasp th' ethereal flame.
"Say to me softly: 'God is good,
And Earth is fair and sweet;
Turn thou thy gazing from the stars,
The flowers are at thy feet.'
"Yet Earth is sad-Oh, poor crushed hearts,
That, suffering, live and live;
Oh, dark brows lifted pleadingly-
And I have naught to give!
"Oh, tear-dimmed eyes, to whom the light
Of freedom comes too late;
O mothers, weeping loved ones lost,
By Slavery separate!
"And I-Oh, restless selfishness!-
And why should I complain
Because some tears fall in the dark,
Because some dreams are vain?
"Bloom on, ye violets, fresh and fair,
Fair, brave dead brows above;
And bend to touch with fragrant lips
The sighing waves I love.
"Yet know I, loved of long ago,
Sweet blossoms, purple-drest,
'Tis deep below you, not above,
The heart may find its rest!"
Boston, May, 1865.

PRESIDENT LINCOLN'S REMAINS IN THE CAPITOL.
Gaze, and pass on!
Ye who but yesterday shared his fond greeting;
Solemnly gather at this, the last meeting;
Look once again on the care-furrowed brow,
Stamped by the seal of eternity now!
Life is not there!
Think not to catch the old echoes of cheer,
List not the step ye shall nevermore hear,
Seek not the smile from those lips chill and wan;
All of him earthly is faded and gone!
All is not dead!
Still in your midst the best lingers to-day
Of the loved and departed, untouched by decay:
The virtues he cherished yet live, and will last
When the scenes of the Present are lost in the Past.
Undaunted he fell!
Not in the winter of age bending low,
Wasted and worn in the Summer's warm glow;
Strong in his manhood, Hope gilding his sky,
In the pathway of Duty he sank down to die.
Chant the sad dirge-
Ere he goes forth to his earthly rest,
Sing round his coffin the songs of the blest;
Mid silence and sadness the sweet strains will rise.
Like flowers breathing incense to him in the skies.
Pause now and weep-
Weep for our President lost to our sight;
Nobly he toiled for us-gave of his might.
Ye may search for his like as long years circle round,
But a loftier spirit will never be found.
Bear him away!
A fatherly ruler is laid on the bier;
Slowly, for thought groweth weary and drear;
Sadly, with measured funereal tread,
Soldiers and citizens, on with the dead!
Christian, farewell!
As ready for death as true in thy life,
No danger appalled in fratricide strife;
With tears we commit the dear form to the sod,
The dust to the earth, the spirit to God.
CHRISTIAN, farewell! 

SONNET.
THE MOURNING NATION.
As if in troubled visions, on my bed,
I saw a nation to the sepulchre
Come mourning; and there rose a solemn stir,
As of a household, with their heavy tread,
Bearing away, to its last home, their Head!
Even with such rites a nation did inter
That form resigned to earth, and lost to her!
And in the concourse such wide grief I read,
As if the waves of ocean, flocking near,
Had all bewailed some lost one on the bier!
"What woe is this?" said I, "such rites to crave?"
An universal voice the answer gave:
"We bury thus a common friend, most dear,
And follow him, thus weeping, to the grave!"
April 19, 1865.
-Boston Christian Register.
<c02>
Selections.
EDMUND QUINCY, ESQ. ON THE DISSOLUTION OF THE AMERICAN A. S. SOCIETY.
The New York Independent, of last week, contains a racy letter from Edmund Quincy, Esq., (who has for a full score of years been the corresponding editor of the Anti-Slavery Standard, writing nearly all its able "leaders,") in the course of which he gives his views as to the expediency of dissolving the American Anti-Slavery Society at the present time, as follows:-
I voted in favor of Mr. Garrison's resolution for the dissolution of the American Anti-Slavery Society, simply because I regarded it as the bare statement of an already accomplished fact Slavery being practically abolished, wanting nothing of technical abolition but certain formalities, as sure to be performed as the world is to endure, it seemed to me that Anti-Slavery was, ipso facto, practically abolished too. That it was not merely an anomaly, a solecism, an absurdity, but an impossibility to maintain an Anti-Slavery 'Society after Slavery was killed. There are some things beyond the power of majorities, and this is one of them. Not unanimity, not the concert of all mankind, not even (with perfect reverence be it said) Almighty Power itself could make such a contradiction in terms and in fact practicable or possible. If the worthy ladies and gentlemen who voted the resolution down fancy remaining together, and calling themselves an Anti-Slavery Society when there is no Slavery to oppose, they can do so, of course. But they are in fact nothing of the kind. Did you ever hear Mr. George Bradburn's story about the farmer, his son, and the calf? Mr. B. was member for Africa in the Massachusetts General Court for several years, and this apologue was one of the many bright things he used to enliven its solemn sessions with. The farmer's boy said to the farmer, " Father, how many legs would the calf have if you if you called the tail a leg?" "Five, to be sure." "No, he wouldn't!" "What do you mean, my son? The calf has four legs, and if you call the tail a leg, he would have five legs." "No, he wouldn't!" "How so?" "Because calling the tail a leg doesn't make it one!" The application is obvious. The town of Hull in Massachusetts (the smallest municipality in the world) may vote itself by a majority, or even unanimously, to be the State of Massachusetts or the United States of America; but it would remain the town of Hull, for all that. I therefore voted for the formal recognition of the fact that the Society had ceased to exist, because it seemed to be decorous that it should accept the fact of its own demise, and not exhibit the uncomely spectacle of
"A corpse set up for show,
Galvanized at times to go."
Swedenborg says there are men who have been dead a hundred years, and have not found it out yet! I was in hopes that the grand old American Society would not be found in that company. Still, there is no harm in this posthumous name to live. I think the ladies and gentlemen in question could employ their time and pains to better purpose. But of that they are the sole judges. If it amuses them to play at Anti-Slavery when there is no Slavery, I have no doubt whatever that it will amuse us to look on.
In point of fact, the Anti-Slavery Societies had little to do after they had made the two Houses of Congress Anti-Slavery Debating Societies, and had agents in the field by hundreds of thousands with Grant and Sherman at their head. And they have actually done little, excepting keeping themselves ready in reserve, in case of need. This was an imperative duty, and felt to be so by the Abolitionists in general who contributed more liberally to maintain them for the first three years of the war than ever before. Up to the time of the Proclamation, their existence was obviously necessary, and, after it, up to Chief Justice Taney's death, there was always danger that that immortal act might be set aside by the Supreme Court, and some kind of compromise patched up by which Slavery should have some reprieve, at least. In such case, the leadership would revert at once to the Abolitionists, and it behooved them to be ready to step to the front again. The appointment of Chief Justice Chase, speedily followed by the passage of the Amendment and the certainty of its ratification, relieved them of this duty, and gave them the right, or, as it appears to me, imposed the necessity upon them of disbanding. The Abolitionists were like magicians who had raised spirits too strong for them to control. The events which they had evoked were mighty beyond the power of their spells. The staff of accomplishment passed into other hands. Though it was their duty still to do wisely what their hands found to do, it was but little that they could do in the presence of the great forces at work for them. The present situation is only, in its remote origin and first springs, their work. Had their operations been entirely suspended for the last three years, and had not a voice been uplifted of all their platform speakers, it must have been just what it is. The sagacious and statesmanlike mind of Mr. Garrison recognized the necessities and proprieties of the case. He refused to be hindered by the machinery he had himself invented, when it had done its work. The Society he had formed had been a sharp threshing instrument in his hands until the harvest was secured. To go on threshing the straw after the grain was out would be a task productive only of dust and noise, and one suited neither to the dignity of his character, nor to his eminently practical good sense. Anxious souls, distressed lest he intends abandoning the colored race, freedmen and freemen, to their fate, may be at ease. Neither he nor any who acted with him have any such nefarious design. But the sphere of that labor is entirely distinct from that of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and far transcending its limitations.
As to the poor dear Standard, of which I have been the unworthy Corresponding Editor and Correspondent for one and twenty years, I hold the same reason applicable to the organ as to the Society for which it spoke. An Anti-Slavery journal, with no Slavery to fight, seems rather to belong to superfluities and luxuries than the necessaries of life; and so my excellent coadjutor, Oliver Johnson, and my-self took ourselves out of the way. We had tried to carry our dish as even as we could, and we think we did it pretty well, considering the joggly state of the times. Mr. Phillips thinks it has been a "blind" and "bitter" partisan of the Administration, and therefore " a fraud and disgrace upon the Society." Quite as true and competent judges as he, of other leanings, think it has been unduly severe, and even unjust toward the Administration. I rather think we have observed the exact judicial impartiality that was our duty. I apprehend the crying sin of the Standard is its treatment of the Fremont-Fizzle. It did treat that absurd abortion with ridicule and contempt. There is no doubt of that. And we must take the consequences, even should they take the terrible form of a vote of censure. But was it our fault?? Editors are but men, after all. Our censors should blame the Creator, who saw fit to make Man a risible animal. It all came of that.

HENRY WARD BEECHER'S VISIT TO SOUTH CAROLINA.
In the New York Independent of the 11th inst. Rev. Henry Ward Beecher gives a very interesting and graphic narrative of his recent trip to South Carolina, from which we take the following extracts:-
One of the most affecting incidents of my visit occurred on the Saturday night preceding this service. I was notified that a delegation of colored persons wished to call on me, and pay their respects to me. I was more than pleased. Nine came. They were plain, ordinary-looking women, with one or two exceptions; and all of them were very African. One of them that was to be the spokesman, was to make me, I understood, a little speech. What manner of speech it was to be, I had no idea. She was a thoroughly black woman, and was modest; and yet she had, withal, a certain sweet and graceful way with her. She had a little bunch of flowers, which she presented to me. And then, instead of making a speech, she merely said that they came to express to me their thanks for my interest in their people, and to pray God that I might be preserved and blessed, and that I might go to heaven. She repeated this over and over, in various forms. I was not tired of hearing it; but that was her little message. And when she had said what she had to say, I uttered some words of reply; and then I shook hands with each of them-for I honored them from the depths of my heart.
Four of those women had been lashed on their bare backs, for being detected, in the night, stealing to our poor prisoners in Charleston, and carrying to them food, and bandages, and medicines. One of them had received seventy-five lashes on her bare
<c03>
back for her humanity and kindness towards these suffering men. And now, since Charleston had been occupied by our forces, and they have been set free, some two hundred colored persons, they told me, had joined together in a relief association, and had, although their poverty was such that they were obliged to work all day to obtain the means of livelihood for themselves and their families, worked through many hours of night, that they might collect a little raiment or a little means with which to clothe those of their own color that were going to school. In other words, they put forth every effort to do such works of mercy and charity as God in his providence placed before them. They filled up their lives with good deeds that came, as it were, from their very blood and bones. And that is what I call true Christian benevolence. Here were these people so poor that they lived with their cheek upon the very cheek of poverty; and they gave their hours of sleep to earn a little pittance, by which to relieve some of the wants that existed around them. They were martyr women.
On the Sabbath day, after the sermon, I saw some of these noble philanthropists rejoicing together. Forming little companies, and taking hold of hands, they sang "Roll, Jordan, roll," and other songs, swaying their bodies as they sang. That was their mode of glorifying and praising God, and enjoying their religion. I was not turned away from it by any fastidiousness of taste, though it was not my manner of worshipping. They that had such hearts as I knew these people had might employ whatever method of worship they pleased. It was acceptable to God, and it was sweet to me.
I may say that, next to that in interest to me, was a scene that we witnessed on Monday morning, when we were preparing to leave the city. The streets were full of colored people. I supposed that they had just come in from plantations-for they were being brought into Charleston by hundreds and thousands by our soldiers returning from raids through the adjacent country; but they said they were going to see Mr. Garrison and Mr. Thompson off. And we could have, found our way to the steamer by following this crowd. When we reached the wharf, it was black; and yet it glowed like a garden. They had but little to bring as testimonials of their remembrance and gratitude; but what they had they brought One had a little bunch of roses. Another had a bunch of jessamines and honey-suckles. Others had bunches of various kinds of flowers. I saw Mr. Tilton loaded down with these treasures that had been showered upon him, and struggling beneath his burden as he came on board. And they were thrown up on the steamer to Mr. Thompson and Mr. Garrison, and whatever person showed himself by the rail. And they lay about in bowls-full, and baskets-full, and heaps in the corners so abundant that we knew not how to dispose of them. They were all they had to bring by which to express their gratitude toward those that they supposed had befriended them. No, not all; one poor, decrepit old woman came with a straw basket containing about two quarts of ground-nuts, which she wished to give us. A young woman came with some dainty little cakes that had been carefully prepared in some kitchen. There were various little delicacies brought for us, that we might eat them, and remember the givers. I shall not forget these scenes. I shall not forget the cheers and acclamations of that dusky throng, as speeches were made to them. And when the boat moved off, I felt that we had left behind many of the Lord's elect, and that it were better for a man that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea, than that he should lay one finger of harm on these little ones of Christ.
The schools in Charleston are very flourishing; and although all the houses are not yet opened and occupied, under the zeal of Mr. Redpath, the superintendent of the schools there, they are being opened very rapidly, and are crowded with scholars. And it is a peculiar feature of the school in Charleston, that they are common. There is no color there. There are the people, and no distinction is made by the military authorities between black and white. The schools are free, and everything about them is impartial.
I went, while in Beaufort, at the request of the Secretary of War, to look at the plantations in the neighborhood, where were settled the " refugees," as they are called-the negro population. Before Sherman's march, there were about sixteen thousand in this district, which reaches from Georgetown to the Florida's. I rode with Gen. Saxton, and spent a forenoon of exceeding great interest, in traversing Lady's and St. Helena islands. On St. Helena island we saw, in various expositions, the allotment system, by which forty acres of land are apportioned to a family, with a few tools and a small house. There are already ninety thousand colored people in the district, thirty thousand of whom have an abundance to eat, and an abundance of clothing, and comfortable houses. And they are independent. They do not need one cent from the Government. They seemed to be industrious, and I was told that there was universal contentment among them. All that is needed is to have the Government guarantee the ownership of the land to them. It is feared that, from political reasons, there may be an attempt to restore these plantations to the old owners, upon their taking the oath of allegiance. It is my hope and prayer that, among the first things that President Johnson will do, will be to take his iron pen and strike out, with utter annihilation, so much of the proclamation of amnesty as contemplates restoration of property to those who take the oath of allegiance. [Great applause.] I am not in favor of vindictive or cruel punishment; I stand to every word that I have spoken hitherto; but I hold that the educated, original ruling classes in rebellion should be made to smart and tingle to the uttermost with condign punishment, whose elements should be, first, trial and condemnation, if need be, with remission of sentence of death; secondly, disfranchisement, thirdly, confiscation. [Renewed applause.] I would not shed blood; but no man that, with his eyes open, went into this rebellion should go unpunished; and if I were President of these United States, no such man should ever again have the power to shape a law or elect a magistrate, or should stand otherwise than as a branded and disgraced traitor. Pardoned he might be, and suffered to live; but he should live as Cain lived.
As to the other classes that held property, and that have offered to take the oath of allegiance, and to come back under the amnesty that is promised, I do not say that I would withhold from every one of them his property; but I do say that it is to be a matter of grace whether or not their property is restored to them, and that, if it is restored to any , it is to be a matter of discretion whom it shall be restored to. At any rate, where these estates and islands have been set off to colored men in forty-acre tracts, a mark should be put upon them, and no traitor's title should ever overlay the title of these colored men. [Applause.]
I believe that our Government should take warning from all that this country has suffered. We, for fatal expediency's sake, have staved off the day of justice from year to year, and this red war has been our punishment. And now, if, from any eagerness for peace, from any desire to compromise or conciliate, we tamper with the element of rank injustice, God will curse us again. And by the sword, by the blood of thousands of slaughtered victims, and by the fire that has laid waste so many towns and villages, I adjure every living man, whatever else he does, to insist upon it that absolute justice shall take the place of trading expediency. [Applause.]
Although I was not permitted to extend my inspection, as I anticipated doing, to Savannah and on the coast of Florida, yet what I saw satisfied me that this land system was the true system. Make farmers of these freedmen, and you will make citizens of them. There are already among them men of enterprise. There is one that bought a large tract at tax sale, who, the first year, not only paid the whole price of the land, but had five thousand dollars surplus. Now he is worth, twenty thousand dollars; and he bids fair to be, in a few years, worth a hundred thousand, as I was informed by Gen. Saxton.
I have no word to speak to-night on the subject of reconstruction, because it is a subject so wide, and one that involves so many elements that if I spoke on it at all, I should want to make it the sole topic of a single discourse.
In regard to the future of South Carolina, I am satisfied that, so far as Charleston is concerned, other men must help rebuild it. New blood, new ideas, and new policies, educational, religions, and industrial, must take the place of the effete and outworn barbarous ness of the olden time. The upper districts and mountains I know not much about; but I know that the State is ransacked and sucked dry. It swings on the web of the Union as on the spider's webs wings the body of a fly, a mere shell. You cannot conceive of its desolation and punishment. Every invested dollar, almost, except here and there where
<c04>
cunning and secretion have withheld it, has been swallowed up in this rebellion. All the orphans' funds, all the widows' funds, all the school funds, all the funds set apart for various eleemosynary purposes, were exchanged for Confederate bonds;; and these bonds are not to-day worth the paper that they are printed on. Widows' funds and orphans' funds went to found cannon, to make more widows and more orphans. And South Carolina is eaten up by poverty, and God has branded her. She stands gaunt and hideous in poverty and suffering, a memorial and a warning.
We had returned to Beaufort, and were on the eve of going upon shore to enjoy a social interview, before setting out for Savannah, when a telegram came to Senator Wilson from Gen. Gillmore. As the boy that brought it passed me, I jocosely asked him some questions about it . Presently Senator Wilson came out of his cabin, much agitated, and said, "Good God! the President is killed!!" and read the dispatch. It was not grief, it was sickness that I felt.
In one half-hour we had wheeled upon our keel, and were plowing our way back to Hilton Head, whither we had telegraphed to have steam raised upon the Sow Nada, that we might leave immediately for the North. We could see no more sights. We had no more heart for pleasure. The heavens seemed dark. Nothing was left, for the hour, but God, and his immutable providence, and his decrees. I leaned on them, and was strengthened. But, oh, the sadness of that company, and our nights' and our days' voyaging back!! We knew nothing but this: that the President had been assassinated. All the rest was reserved for our coming into the harbor. We hoped to have returned with great cheer, and to have come up this noblest bay of the world to see it lined with tokens of joy and beauty; but, instead of that, on a dreary morning, drenched, chilled, and seasick, we came creeping up the bay under a cloudy sky, fit symbol of our nation's loss, and betook our selves to our several homes.

LETTER FROM MRS. L. M. CHILD.
WAYLAND, Mass., May 6th, 1865.
DEAR FRIEND TILTON-Again the miracle of spring returns. Nothing but its familiar recurrence could prevent every one of us from regarding it as a miraculous manifestation of the Invisible Power. In view of its marvellous transformations, no wonder that human imagination early conceived of haggard old crones changed by the touch of a magic wand into beautiful young princesses. Already the delicate green enamel of the meadows conceals the decayed stubble of last year's growth. Through the bright air floats a snow-storm of cherry blossoms. They cover the ground with beauty; but the breeze, as it wafts them, seems to sing, in sighing tones,
"Fair pledges of a fruitful tree,
Why do ye fall so fast?"
To thoughtful minds there is also a minor cadence in the song of spring. For always memory mingles her plaintive refrain with the bright warblings of hope, continually reminding us that all this rejuvenated loveliness will soon pass away, even as the generations of men glide through the sunshine of their brief day, and vanish into night But hope, with her sky-lark voice, again takes up the strain, and sings, that the night is day elsewhere, and that winter is only summer sleeping.
This spring we look on the renovation of nature with sadder eyes than usual. Thoughts inspired by the fresh landscape have sombre drapery about .them, as the streets of our cities have been hung with crape. The suddenness with which a good and great man has been cut off by the hand of violence impresses the mind too deeply to be rapidly succeeded by exhilarating ideas. Often a vision passes through my mind of the shocking manner in which we have lost the friend and father of the people, who were wont to express their trust in him by homely phrases of affectionate familiarity, such as "honest Abe," "good old Abe," and "Father Abraham." Conservatives complained much of his want of dignity; but to me there was always a charm in his unsophisticated way of talking with the people when they called upon him for a speech. His "little stories," so much ridiculed by the malignant and the fastidious, were usually full of homely wit and practical good sense. There was decidedly a smack of Franklin in them; and they were pleasant scintillations and the lowering clouds of war. More solemn occasions inspired him with grander utterance. What a generous and tender spirit of toleration and forbearance toward political opponents was exhibited in his reply to those who serenaded him when his reelection had become certain!! How heart-touching was the eloquence of his speech at Gettysburg! And, best of all, that last Inaugural address, so gentle and devout in its spirit, so strong in its manly sincerity, so full in its conciseness, so sublime in its simplicity. It was fitting that the heavens should open, and-crown him with sunlight when he uttered it . How would it have increased our reverence had we then known that the glorious aureole typified a martyr's crown!
After the publication of his first inaugural, I said I would never forgive Abraham Lincoln. But I could not keep the unchristian vow. Year by year he gained upon my respect and confidence. I gradually came to think that I had underrated the qualities of both his head and his .heart. One rarely sees such honest unselfishness of purpose combined with so much shrewdness in dealing with men for the accomplishment of purposes. How completely he transferred the laboring oar into the hands of those refractory Border States, when he gave them a chance to make a good bargain out of Emancipation, if they would but accept the generous terms!! Perhaps he took it for granted that they would reject them; but, doubtless, he also foresaw that, if they did so, circumstances would eventually compel them to give up slavery without pecuniary recompense, while at the same time they would have silenced, by their own act, the sympathy of Democrats, at home and aristocrats abroad. Observing these things, I felt more and more that it was not the least of the remarkable manifestations of Providence in our favor that the people, knowing so little of the man, except his established character for honesty and good sense, should have selected him at such an eventful crisis. It is not easy to think of another man who possessed such a combination of qualities as would enable him to hold steadily in leash so many refractory forces, and to guide them at last to the desired result . Where was another man to be found who could have so united the North as to insure the continuance of the Republican policy for another four years? Assuredly, Abraham Lincoln, notwithstanding deficiencies which sorely tried the patience of radicals, was a great gift from Providence at such a crisis. History will inscribe his name on her cleanest tablet, and already the more generous of his enemies have fallen into the ranks of mourners. 
With regard to the violent manner of his death, have you noticed that it was singularly hinted at by an astrological prediction, months before it happened?? A modern believer in astrology, who signs himself Thomas Lister, calculated the horoscope of Abraham Lincoln, and published it in a newspaper, Sept. 29, 1864. It was therein stated that the President was born under Jupiter, a planet whose influence usually made men fortunate in their undertakings. It predicted that he would be reelected in November, because, astrologically speaking, " His ruling planet will then be transiting over his ascendant in his own house." He goes on to say: "The transit of the evil planet Mars, in opposition with his ascendant, plainly shows that the struggle will continue till April, 1865, when the foes of the Union will be compelled to lay down their arms. In December, 1864, and in January, 1865, some deep base plot will be got up against the President, shown by the transit of Mars; and the aspect of that planet shows danger by pistol-shot, or some infernal machine. During these months, more than ordinary caution and watchfulness will be highly necessary. After February, that evil transit will have passed away. We could increase our remarks concerning the personal danger of the President, but believe forbearance in this case to be a virtue."
People of poetic temperaments, who " delightedly believe in fays and talismans," when they read this prediction, will half believe in astrology, and call to mind Schiller's beautiful lines:
"It is a gentle and affectionate thought
That in immeasurable heights above us,
At our first birth, the wreath of love was woven, 
With sparkling stars for flowers."
Even some of philosophic tendencies, perceiving that nothing stands alone, that everything is spirally linked with everything, from base to summit of the universe, may query dubiously whether, by some unknown laws of our being, the movements of the stars can possibly indicate the character and fortunes of men. But those who habitually lean on material and external testimony will promptly in-
<c05>
quire whether Mr. Thomas Lister could have heard any whisperings about such a deadly conspiracy.
From the first moment I heard of the murder, I believed that the plan was known and approved at Richmond, if not concocted there. Meanness and brute violence are the natural outgrowth of slavery. Men educated under such a system become familiar with assassination. In the first years of the war, I often heard, people express a wish that we had such an able and gentlemanly President as Jeff. Davis. It seems to me that his ability has been chiefly manifested in bold, persistent falsehood, and the unscrupulous use of base and cruel means to accomplish his unprincipled designs. As for polished manners, I never mourned over the absence of them in "Honest Abe." To me, he seemed more respectable seated on a table, forgetful of himself, while discussing the difficult problems he was conscientiously trying to solve, than did his false self-seeking, treacherous adversary in. the genteel attitudes of the drawing-room. The fact is, I am somewhat deficient in the power of admiring polished villains. I remember an old aristocrat, who was often pointed out to me in my youth as a model of urbane deportment; and I never looked upon him without thinking of Milton's line:
"Satan bowing low his gray dissimulation," etc.
I wonder whether the admirers of gentlemanly Jeff. will find anything to eulogize in his performance of prompter in the tragedy of assassination. How grandly the character of honest, kind-hearted Abraham looms up in comparison!! Never was there such a triumph of homely sincerity and unpretending good sense over polished falsehood and boastful pride.
You will, perhaps, think it strange when I tell you that the news of Gen. Sherman's negotiations excited me more than the President's death. I have always feared that he had pro-slavery proclivities, and I have noticed in him a tendency to pass over the boundary between military and civil power. I never heard but one echo to my secret misgivings, and that was from a small paper called the Broken Fetter, published during the Fair at Chicago, in the beginning of March. It propounded this significant question: "The South is calling for a military Dictator. Could not Gen. Sherman be induced to accept the office?" But, notwithstanding this vague feeling of anxiety in my mind, I was utterly surprised by the negotiations entered into with Gen. Johnston. The Richmond correspondent of the London Times had, six or eight weeks before, predicted that Gen. Sherman was going to be the most conspicuous figure on this continent; that he would assume an importance no one dreamed of; or words to that effect. While the plot to assassinate the whole government of the United States was being matured at Richmond, Jeff. Davis entered into negotiations with Sherman, as if he considered him the head of the government. The terms he proposed secured recognition of the rebel State governments, and, instead of disarming them, left them in a condition to re-organize their military power; and the victorious leader of our armies, who might have obtained surrender upon almost any terms, agreed to Jeff. Davis's propositions when he knew of the assassination of President Lincoln!! It is dangerous to trust to circumstantial evidence; but in this case it is too formidable to be otherwise than painful, in view of the great services heretofore rendered to the country by Gen. Sherman.
But even this stunning blow did not overcome my faith that God does not intend to annihilate this nation. I still believe that, through fierce trials, He is molding us anew to become a worthy instrument of good to the human race. Even the death of Father Abraham, heavily as it fell upon our hearts, is perhaps another providential event in the history of this remarkable epoch. He was sent to us to do a great and good work, and he carried it through successfully. But perhaps his character was not so well adapted to the work that lies before us. He was too kind-hearted and confiding to deal strictly enough with those insidious and malignant desperadoes, who will never cease their efforts to ruin the country if they cannot rule it. Andrew Johnson has more of the grit of Andrew Jackson; and he appears also to have the honesty and straightforwardness of Abraham Lincoln. His interview with the new British Minister was a refreshing specimen of republican simplicity. I rejoice in having such a plain man of the people to rule over us. I fully sympathize with his hearty aversion to aristocracy. His eloquent utterances on that subject remind me of the old Roman Marius, in his best days. That he is Southern born is a fortunate circumstance; and the fact that he was a "poor white " will help to give him influence with that much injured class. He probably could not have been elected President by votes of the people, yet, from all appearances, he is exactly the man for the hour. How wonderfully has Providence guided us, from the beginning of this terrible struggle up to the present time!
As for the stylish aristocrats, who robbed the poor of their earnings, and sold their children to build themselves palaces, I hope they will quit the country, never to return. Their habits and opinions are more in harmony with the despotisms of Europe. Perhaps Louis Napoleon will invest them with the Legion of Honor, or Maximilian will make Dukes of them. If so, their descendants cannot say, as Sir Walter Scott facetiously did: " My ancestors have no worse blots on their escutcheon than Border Theft and High Treason; and these, I trust, are gentlemanly crimes." The slow murder of prisoners by starvation and the slaughter of disarmed prisoners are fouler blots, which no imagination can convert into gentlemanly crimes." If we can have the country well-cleansed of these haughty oligarchs, I trust something of the old respect for labor will return, and that, by becoming truly a republic, we shall learn to have faith in the capacity of the people for self-government.
Yours truly,
L. MARIA CHILD.
-New York Independent. 

THE QUESTION OF TO-DAY.
John G. Whittier writes in the Villager (Amesbury, Mass.) his views of the present danger of our country and duty of her loyal people, from which we quote as follows:
"In spite of all revelations of the utterly barbarous character of slavery, and its direful effect upon all connected with it, we were on the very point of trusting to its most criminal defenders the task of reestablishing the State governments of the South, leaving the real Union men, white as well as black, at the mercy of .those who have made hatred a religion and murder a sacrament. The nation needed one more terrible lesson. It has it in the murder of its beloved Chief Magistrate and the attempted assassination of .its honored prime minister, the two men of all others prepared to go farthest to smooth 'the way of defeated rebellion back to allegiance.
Even now, the lesson of these terrible events seems but half learned. In the public utterances I hear much of punishing and hanging leading traitors, fierce demands for vengeance, and threats of the summary chastisement of domestic sympathizers with treason, but comparatively little is said of the accursed cause-the prolific mother of our abominations, Slavery. The Government is exhorted to remember that it does not bear the sword in vain-the Old Testament is ransacked for texts of Oriental hatred, and examples of the revenges of a semi-barbarous nation-but, as respects the 4,000,000 of unmistakably loyal people of the South, the patient, long-suffering, kind-hearted victims of oppression-only here and there a voice pleads for their endowment with the same rights of citizenship which are to be accorded to the rank and file of disbanded rebels. The Golden Rule of the Sermon on the Mount is not applied to them. Much is said of executing justice upon rebels, little of justice to loyal black men. Hanging a few ringleaders of treason, it seems to be supposed, is all that is needed to restore and re-establish the revolted States. The negro is to be left powerless in the hands of the 'white trash,' who hate him with a bitter hatred, exceeding that of the large slaveholders.
In short, four years of terrible chastisement-of God's unmistakable judgments-have not taught us, as a people, their lesson, which could scarcely be plainer if it had been written in letters of fire on the sky. Why is it that we are so slow to learn, so unwilling to confess that slavery is the accursed thing which whets the knife of murder, and transforms men, with the exterior of gentlemen and Christians, into fiends? How pitiful is our exultation over the capture of the wretched Booth and his associates!! The great criminal, of whom he and they were but paltry instruments, still stalks abroad in the pine woods of Jersey, where the State has thrown around him her legislative sanction and protection. He is in Pennsylvania thrusting the black man from public conveyances. Wherever God's children are de-
<c06>
spised, insulted and abused on account of their color, there is the real assassin of the President still at large. I do not wonder at the indignation which has been awakened by the late outrage, for I have painfully shared it. But let us see to it that it is rightly directed. The hanging of a score of Southern traitors will not restore Abraham Lincoln, nor atone for the mighty loss. In wreaking revenge upon these miserable men, we must see to it that we do not degrade ourselves, and do dishonor to the sacred memory of the dead. We do well to be angry; and, if need be, let our wrath wax seven times hotter, until that which was a murderer from the beginning' is consumed from the face of the earth. As the people stand by the grave of Lincoln, let them lift their right hands to heaven, and take a solemn vow upon their souls to give no sleep to their eyes, nor slumber to their eyelids, until slavery is hunted from its last shelter, and every man, black and white stands equal before the law.
In dealing with the guilty leaders and instigators of the rebellion, we should beware how we take counsel of passion. Hatred has no place beside the calm and awful dignity of justice. Human life is still a very sacred thing; Christian forbearance and patience are still virtues. For my own part, I should be satisfied to see the chiefs of the great treason go out from among us homeless, exiled forever, with the brand of Cain on their foreheads, carrying with them, wherever they go, the avenging Nemesis of conscience. We cannot take lessons, at this late day, in their school of barbarism; we cannot starve and torture them as they have starved and tormented our soldiers. Let them live. Perhaps that is, after all, the most terrible penalty. For wherever they hide themselves, the story of their guilt will pursue them-they can have no rest nor peace save in that deep repentance, which, through the mercy of God, is possible even for them.
I have no disposition to stand between these men and justice. If arrested, they can have no claim to exemption from the liabilities of criminals. But it is not simply a question of their deserts that is to be considered; we are to take into account our own reputation as a Christian people, the wishes of our best friends abroad, and the humane instincts of the age, which forbid all unnecessary severity. Happily, we are not called upon to take counsel of our tears. Rabbinical writers tell us that evil spirits who are once baffled in a contest with human beings lose from thenceforth all power of further mischief. The defeated rebels are in the precise condition of these Jewish demons. Deprived of slavery, they are wasps who have lost their stings.
As respects the misguided masses of the South, the shattered and crippled remnants of the armies of treason, the desolate wives, mothers and children mourning for dear ones who have fallen in a vain and hopeless struggle, it seems to me our duty is very plain. We must forgive their past treason, and welcome and encourage their returning loyalty. None but cowards will insult and taunt the defeated and defenceless. We must feed and clothe the destitute, instruct the ignorant, and, bearing patiently with the bitterness and prejudice which will doubtless for a time thwart our efforts and misinterpret our motives, aid them in rebuilding their States on the foundation of freedom. Our sole enemy was slavery, and slavery is dead. We have now no quarrel with the people of the South, who have really more reason than we have to rejoice over the downfall of a system which impeded their material progress, perverted their religion, shut them out from the sympathies of the world, and ridged their land with the graves of its victims.
We are victors-the cause of all this evil and suffering is removed forever-and we can afford to be magnanimous. How better can we evince our gratitude to God for His great mercy than in doing good to those who have hated us, and in having compassion on those who have despitefully used us!! The hour is hastening for us all when our sole ground of dependence will be the mercy and forgiveness of God. Let us endeavor so to feel and act in our relations to the people of the South that we can repeat in sincerity the prayer of our Lord: 'Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us,' reverently acknowledging that He has indeed 'led captivity captive and received gifts for men; yea, for the rebellious also, that the Lord God might dwell among them.'"
J. G. W.
REMARKABLE DECLARATION. Four years ago, President Lincoln, when present at the raising of the national flag at Independence Hall, Philadelphia, uttered these words:
"I have often inquired of myself what great principle or idea it was that kept this confederacy so long together. It was something in the Declaration of Independence giving liberty, not only to the people of this country, but hope to the world for all future time. It was that which gave promise that, in due time , the weights should be lifted from the shoulders of all men, and that all should have an equal chance. Now, my friends, can this country be saved upon that basis. If it can, I will consider myself the happiest man in the world if can I help to save it. But if this country cannot be saved by giving up that principle-I was about to say, I had rather be assassinated upon the spot than to surrender it"
STRANGE STORY OF MR. LINCOLN. Three years ago, the gentleman I spoke of told as a story of Mr. Lincoln, which I have not thought of since, until now. When Mr. Lincoln received the news of his first election , he came home to tell Mrs. Lincoln about it. She was up stairs in the bedroom; and after telling the news, in walking about the room, his eyes fell upon the bureau glass. Immediately he threw himself down upon the lounge, and told Mrs. Lincoln he thought that he must be ill, for he saw a second reflection of his face in the glass which he could not account for. It was perfect, but very pale. "Oh," said Mrs. Lincoln, "that means that you will be reelected-but I don't like its looking pale," she added: "that looks as if you would not live through your second term." Mr. Lincoln himself told this to the friend I mentioned, and this gentleman told it to us in our parlor, soon after the first Bull Run battle. It made quite an impression on me at the time-but one targets such things. Was it not singular?-Corr. of a Country Gentleman.
TRIBUNE TO GEN. ROBERT E. LEE. To the Editor of the Boston Transcript: It is proposed (providing the plan meets with favorable approbation) to tender to Gen. Robert E. Lee a grand reception in New York by the returned Union prisoners, to show their high appreciation of his magnanimity. He will be received by a Committee of General Officers selected from a number of those who have been the recipients of Southern hospitality and chivalrous treatment during the war. After being welcomed by these gentlemen, a procession will be formed to escort him through the principal Greets. The rebel musicians (now all Union men) will lend the column, playing " Hall to the Chief who in triumph advances." The band will be followed by rebel prisoners on parole in many ranks , and bearing a banner with the motto. "You can never win us back." Southern sympathizers with banner, motto, " Actions speak louder than words." Southern citizens in disguise, banner with portraits of Davis and Booth, motto, "par nobile fratrum." Returned Union prisoners-banner draped in black, portrait of Gen. Winder with a porcine couchant, motto, "The prisoner's friend."
Prisoners from Andersonville, Macon Columbia, etc., motto-"The pen is mightier than the sword." Blockade runners in carriages-banner with portrait of Semmes , and a lion rampant. Prisoners from Belle Isle-banners with full length portrait of Dick Turner. (no motto required.) Colored troops with arms reversed, carrying 
the "Bonnie Blue Flag,"-band playing, "Carry me back to Old Virginny."
The above will give the public a general idea of what might be done if a sufficient fund can be raised. It is expected that the friends of those who have fallen in the field, or been killed with kindness while prisoners of war, will contribute largely. It is also hoped that money enough will be raised to purchase the estate at Washington, and present it to Gen. Lee, at this time, that he may thus pass the remainder of his days in the enjoyment of a peace and happiness his magnanimity for the past four years has so richly entitled him to. All contributions may be sent to
Messrs. H. U. MILITY and C.OPPERHEAD,
Marked Via. Nassau, N.P.
DESTRUCTION OF SALISBURY PRISON. Gen. Stone man burned the notorious pen at Salisbury, where many unfortunate Union prisoners pined their lives away. A few United States prisoners were found , skeletons of their former selves. Almost all of them died on their way to Knoxville. They preferred to die under the stars and stripes than be left in the loath some hospitals at Salisbury.
Of what breed are the rebel rams?? Marine-O, of course.
