THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT -
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6,
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:- FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our country is the World, Our countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO.3. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1570.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE ALTERNATIVE:
A Separate Nationality, or the Africanization of the South.
Extracts from a pamphlet printed at New Orleans, entitled as above:-
A sectional party, inimical to our institutions, and odious to our people, is about taking possession of the Federal Government. The seed sown by the early Abolitionists has yielded a luxurious harvest. When Lincoln is in place, Garrison will be in power. The Constitution, either openly violated or emasculated of its true meaning and spirit by the subtleties of New England logic, is powerless for protection. We are no longer partners to a federal compact, but the victims of a consolidated despotism. Opposition to slavery, to its existence, its extension and its perpetuation, is the sole cohesive element of the triumphant faction. It did not receive the countenance of a single vote in any one of the ten great cotton States of the South! The question is at length plainly presented: submission or secession. The only alternative left us is this: a separate nationality, or the Africanization of the South.
He has not analyzed this subject aright, nor probed it to the bottom, who supposes that the real quarrel between the North and South is about the Territories, or the decision of the Supreme Court, or even the Constitution itself; and that, consequently, the issues may be stayed and the dangers arrested by the drawing of new lines, and the signing of new compacts. The division is broader, and deeper, and more incurable than this. The antagonism is fundamental and ineradicable. The true secret of it lies is the total reversion of public opinion which has occurred in both sections of the country in the last quarter of a century on the subject slavery.
It has not been more than twenty-five years since Garrison was dragged through the streets of Boston, with a rope around his neck, for uttering Abolition sentiments; and not thirty years since, the abolition of slavery was seriously debated in the Legislature of Virginia. Now, on the contrary, the radical opinions of Sumner, Emerson and Parker, and the assassination schemes of John Brown, are applauded in Fauteuil Hall; and the whole Southern mind, with an unparalleled unanimity, regards the institution of slavery as righteous and just, ordained of God, and to be perpetuated by man. We do not propose to analyze the causes of this remarkable revolution, which will constitute one, of the strangest chapters of history. The fact is unquestionable.
The pro-slavery sentiment is of recent development. It is more recent, than any of the great inventions which have created the distinctive forms of our modern civilization. It is more recent than many of the great innovations of thought which now agitate mankind. The great and good fathers of our Republic unquestionably entertained anti-slavery sentiments or predilections, and the flippant Abolitionist thinks he has silenced us forever by quoting the opinions of Washington and Jefferson and Madison on this subject. The anti-slavery sentiment of that era was partly derived from the radical influence of the French revolution, the mad frenzies of which fearful convulsion, the fanatics of the North may yet repeat in the Western hemisphere.
In opposition to the prevailing sentiment of the North, we believe that men are created neither free nor equal. They are born unequal in physical and mental endowments, and no possible circumstances or culture could ever raise, the negro race to any genuine equality with the whites. Man is born dependant, and the very first step in civilization was for one man to enslave another. A state of slavery has been a disciplinary ordeal to every people who have ever developed beyond the savage condition. Those who cannot be reduced to bondage, like the American Indian, perish in their isolated and defiant barbarism. Freedom is the last result, the crowning glory of the long and difficult evolution of human society. Few nations have yet attained to that lofty standard. Those who say that the French, the Italians or the Prussians are not yet fit for freedom, and are still unable to appreciate the blessings of constitutional liberty, would thrust the splendid privilege of Anglo-Saxon superiority upon the semi-barbarous negro! What folly, what madness!
Man has no "inalienable rights"-not even those of “life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." 
We anticipate no terminus to the institution of slavery.
The doctrine that there exists an "irrepressible conflict" between free labor and slave labor is as false as it is mischievous. Their true relation is one of beautiful interchange and eternal harmony.
The only "irrepressible conflict" is between pro-slavery and anti-slavery opinion. Here, indeed, collision may be inconceivably disastrous, and fanaticism may thrust her sickle into the harvest of death. The pro-slavery sentiment is unconquerable. It will be more and more suspicious of encroachment and jealous of its rights. It will submit to no restriction, and scouts the possibility of any "ultimate extinction." Nothing will satisfy us but a radical change of opinion, or at least of political action, on the subject of slavery throughout the Northern States. The relation of master and slave must be recognized as right and just, as national and perpetual.
When a Northern Confederacy can no longer, like a vampyre, suck the blood of the sleeping and compliant South; when agrarianism, and atheism, and fanaticism, and socialism, de their perfect work in a crowded and crowding population, will not the dark enigmas of free-labor civilization press heavily upon it, and the dread images evoked by the prophetic wisdom of Macaulay arise indeed-taxation monopoly, oppression, misery of the masses, revolution, standing armies, despotism, &c.? It may yet deserve the strange epitaph written for this nation by Elwood Fisher:—
"Here lie a people, who, in attempting to liberate the negro, lost their own freedom."
The fact is, the Constitution is dead, for it carried with it the seeds of its own dissolution. The Union has achieved its mission; the last page of its history is written, and it may be safely deposited in the glorious archives of the past. The genius of Anglo-Saxon liberty, when she emigrated to these shores, bore twins in her bosom, and not a single birth. The Northern race, bold, hardy, intelligent, proud and free, will receive into its embrace the heterogeneous spawn of European civilization, and mold it to its own shape, and prepare it for its own destiny. The Southern people are brave, courteous, credulous and forbearing-loving friends, chivalrous enemies, and good masters, to whose strong and generous hands alone, the Almighty would entrust the tutelage of his most helpless and degraded children.
It is unfair to represent this question as one of secession or submission. The word submission, in the sense of political degradation, does not exist in the Southern vocabulary. There is no man in the South so stupid, so cowardly, so base, as to be willing to live in the Union as it is. There is no difference
<c02>
between us as to the fanaticism and tyranny of the North, no difference as to the wrongs and injuries of the South. Some of us would give the North a last chance to abandon her false position, to make apologies and amend, and to secure us in the strongest bonds imaginable, against not only the encroachments, but the existence of the Republican party.
To the professed Abolitionists, that motley crew of men who should be women, and of women who should be men; who see in Fred Douglass a hero, and in John Brown a martyr; whose venom is proportioned to their ignorance, as some animals are said to be fiercest in the dark; and who are ready to perpetrate the blackest crimes in the name of liberty, and under the garb of virtue, we have nothing to say. 
The Republican party itself, the best and worst of it, we charge with having outraged our feelings, violated our rights, and initiated a policy, which, if carried out, will be destructive of our liberties. It is not an election, but a usurpation, and if we acquiesce, we are not citizens, but subjects. The forms of constitutional liberty may have been observed, but the spirit of tyrannical dictation has been the presiding genius of the day. Suppose the people of the North were to repeal their obnoxious laws, to confirm and abide by the decision of the Supreme Court, to divide the Territories in an equitable manner, and to recognize the equality as well as the Union of the States, what and where would the Republican party be?  Dissipated into thin air, dissolved like an empty pageant, not leaving a trace behind. With the Republican party, therefore, as it exists at this hour, we have no parley. If it questions us, we have no reply but the words of the gallant Georgian, "Argument is exhausted, we stand to our arms!"
To the conservative men of the North, who sacrificed their time, treasure, interest and popularity in our behalf, and who have proffered their blood in our defence, we have no language which can truly express the gratitude of our hearts. Generous and faithful spirits! Stand bravely a little longer in the imminent deadly breach, which is yawning between the North and the South, and stay, if it yet be possible, the bloody hand of fanaticism  Raise your eloquent voices once more for equality and fraternity, for justice and union! If it prove in vain, as, alas! it will, keep firm at least to your principles and your faith; work without ceasing as a leaven of good in your infatuated communities; infuse into the contest before us some chivalric element, worthy of yourselves and of us, which, if the worst comes, shall mitigate the horrors of war, and hasten the returning blessings of peace. When we think of you in the future, we will forget the violence of individuals and the disloyalty of State governments; we will forget the calumnies of Sumner, and Phillips, and Giddings, the blasphemies of Emerson, and Cheever, and Beecher, and the vile stings and insults of the aiders and abettors of thieves and assassins; we will willingly forget them all, and entwine you tenderly in our memories and affections, with the immortal friends and compatriots of our revolutionary sires-with Otis and Warren, and Hancock and Putnam, and Wayne and Hamilton and Franklin. And in the fearful troubles which may come also upon your fragment of this dismembered nation, may the sign of our covenant be found upon every one of your door-posts, to ward off the destroying angel from your favored and happy homes!
Southerners! In this great crisis which involves the welfare of the present and the future, let us be united as one man. Let us survey the whole question in all its bearings, immediate and prospective. Let us act calmly, wisely, bravely. Let us take counsel of our duty and our honor, and not of our danger and our fears. Let us invoke the guardian spirit of ancestral virtue, and the blessing of Almighty God. Let us remember that, although precipitancy is a fault, it is better, in a question so vital as personal and national independence, to be an age too soon than a moment too late. If we succeed in establishing, as we shall, a vast, opulent, happy and glorious slaveholding Republic, throughout tropical America, future generations will arise, and call us blessed! But if it be possible, in the mysterious providence of God, that we should fail and perish in our sublime attempt, let it come! Our souls may rebel against the inscrutable degree of such a destiny, but we will not swerve a line from the luminous path of duty. With our hands upon our hearts, we will unitedly exclaim. "Let it come!" The sons and daughters of the South are ready for the sacrifice.  We endorse the noble sentiment of Robert Hall, that he has already lived too long who has survived the liberties of his country!
WILLIAM H. HOLCOMBE.
Waterproof. Tensas Parish, La.

Selections.
THE ANTI-SLAVERY STRUGGLE.
Extracts from a very eloquent and able Thanksgiving Sermon, delivered in the Harvard Street M. E. Church, Cambridge, Sunday evening, Nov. 11, 1860, by Rev. GILBERT HAVEN, Editor of Zion's Herald:— 
A great calm follows a great storm. The children of the revolutionary parents were feeble, in principle, low in moral tone. They were tired of great ideas and great deeds. The overstrained nature sprang back to the narrower range which men naturally prefer. The leading men of that age, men who have just left us, were far below their fathers in greatness of nature, and will be incalculably beneath them in greatness of fame. Clay, Calhoun, Adams, Webster and Jackson, its five representative men, present to the historian no such lofty traits of character or service as shine in the names of five representatives, of the preceding era, Washington, Adams, Jefferson, Hamilton and Franklin.
John Quincy Adams alone of his peers held forth the light that glowed in his youth.  But not he, till he had descended from the presidential throne into the vale of age and comparative political obscurity. Hardly a word of his can be quoted before his seventieth year, that has the ringing sound of liberty. How different from the young John Adams in the mass meetings of Boston, the Provincial Congress and Independence Hall! Fortunate was he that those last few years and that congressional opportunity were given him.
It was an era of the deadening of the conscience, on the subject of freedom. Church and State alike fell into the slumber. Political and religious compromises became the order of the day. The sentiment of the fathers was against slavery. But sentiment can do nothing against sin. And so the sons came to endure, to pity, to embrace the unclean thing, and from Calhoun to Webster, fell down and worshipped the abominable idol their pious fathers had neglected to destroy.
"New times demand new measures and new men."
The new times had arrived. New men and their new measures were not wanting. The third generation appears on the stage of action. The grand-
<c03>
sires find their likeness in their grand-children, not their children. Thirty years passed from the triumph of Jefferson to that of Jackson, the representatives of the ideas of their generations. Thirty years have passed from the triumph of Jackson to that of the Anti-Slavery sentiment, not in the person, of its recognized exponent, but still in the strength of its mighty feeling and purpose. This thirty years covers the era of agitation: covers the adult life of its promoters. You will find on the Liberator of this year, "Volume XXX."; and this sheet has the honor of initiating the movement in this Nation.
The Conscience was aroused very slowly. The deadly slumber was pleasant. Churches, societies, parties, everybody, disliked to be disturbed. But the young men sympathized with young Mr. Garrison and his young idea. Young Mr. Seward, then emerging into public life, felt the throbbings of the new inspiration. Young Mr. Phillips and Mr. Sumner, then students at Harvard or on their way thither; the youthful Tappan, and Leavitt, and Lovejoy, and Giddings, and Gerrit Smith, caught the flame in their fresh and sympathetic hearts, and commenced kindling it in the breasts of others. Dr. Channing and John Quincy Adams were almost the only men of accomplished fame that endorsed the enterprise, and they did not publicly cooperate with its youthful managers.
Soon bitter conflicts sprang up in the breasts of these young philanthropists. The fresh-armed men began to bite and devour one another, and were well-nigh consumed one of another. Yet still the great inspiration moved on, through them, in spite of them. New measures were required by the progress of the sentiment. The conscience growing, demanded a chance to express itself at the ballot-box. This was resisted by Garrison. He did more than this. Led by his love of free speech, he permitted some of his leading associates to burden the "animosus infans" with gross infidelities and social absurdities. But its intense life threw off all these deformities. Would that, in his sphere of effort, and to the measure of his large abilities and influence, he had kept his liberty from becoming licentiousness. Would that he, like Wilberforce, had kept his heart sweet with prayer and piety through the whole of this great war. Wiser minds, not larger hearts, took the reins: or, rather, on different parts of the same field, with different weapons, they fought the common foe.
This conscience has steadily increased until this hour. The vast majority- of the men <illegible> to-day have grown up under its power; for the mass of men are under forty-five years. The impressible youth of fifteen, who drank of this new wine when it was first pressed from the grapes of a fresh experience, is to-day the Governor elect of your Commonwealth. The poor youth of twenty, toiling in the solitude of Western rivers and forests, learning to abhor slavery because of its contempt for honorable industry, is to-day the civil leader of the cause and country.
Thus has the conscience which moved our grandsires to the great work o<illegible> personal liberation, moved us towards the completion of their work, in the liberation of more persons than their valor saved, from a bondage infinitely worse than that which pressed them down.
The knell of slavery was struck last year in the heroic deed, and more heroic death of John Brown. He first shook the tottering Bastile to its foundations. It had been riddled, it had been undermined, but it had not rocked on its base till he put his hand upon it. It reeled to and fro like a slave-ship in a storm, and well-nigh foundered then. I have frequently mentioned this event with words of approval, such as but few, probably, in this audience will reecho.  It is proper, therefore, that I should pause, and give a brief reason for my opinions.  Our satirical neighbor says the millennium is near at hand,
"When preachers tell us all they think."
I have not shunned to declare to you the whole counsel of God on the highest of our duties. I shall not play the hypocrite now. Allowing the largest liberty of opinion to others, I claim equal liberty for myself. I know how the tide of misconception and condemnation still sets against Capt, Brown. I know that the Tribune and Independent, anti-slavery journals of deserved influence, still speak of his attempt as a "raid," a term of disparagement, if not of reproach. I know Mr. Seward said he was "justly hung." I know that many cry out with horror at the bare idea of putting weapons in the hands of the slaves, to maintain their freedom, and say, that he who apologizes for such an act defiles his sacerdotal garments, and is become a companion with murderers.
But, on the other hand, I see how Victor Hugo and the other great and pure patriots of Europe can find no words to express their admiration of the deed and its doer. Struggling in chains of despotism at home, they know how to appreciate the intense humanity of one, who strove not to save himself, but others, from a far worse tyranny than crushes them down. I see the strong arm of Massachusetts wielding a sword, while she pronounces the sentence first uttered by the slaughtered patriot, Algernon Sydney, which might have been properly emblazoned, with Virginia's motto, on John Brown's banners: "Ense petit placidam sub libertate quietem" —She seeks, with the sword, serene quiet under liberty. I see Hayti, the only really independent and enterprising African State, hailing the man with a spontaneous reverence and admiration, and out of her poverty sending to his family thousands of dollars, as a token of her gratitude.
I find nothing in human nature, human history, or the Word of God, that rebukes this sentiment. The Gospel of Peace does not always require of its disciples non-resistance to every form of revolting oppression, but sometimes demands of them a stern resistance even "unto blood, striving against sin."
The Saviour himself, among his last injunctions, commands those of his disciples who had no sword to sell their tunic, or chief garment, and buy one;- thereby clearly teaching us, that the clothing needful for the protection of our bodies is not to be placed beside the means of defending our liberties and our lives. This enterprise, as we understand it, sought to put the sword in the hands of the slave, only that he might defend his God-given freedom against his enslavers. So deep and universal is the conviction of this right, that had the people whom he strove to deliver been of our own race, or even of any race but the African, whom we hold in such inhuman contempt, there would have been no more objection to the rightfulness of the enterprise, than there was to the many unsuccessful attempts of our fathers to release their brethren from the far less terrible slavery, in which they were held by the Corsairs of Algiers.
In the light of these facts and principles, I find no condemnation for this man or his deed. In, the light of its influence on the hideous wrong it assailed, I see much in it to approve. I cannot but conclude, therefore, that the words of censure so rife at present are the offspring of long-indulged prejudice, or when uttered by some of our wise
<c04>
leaders, have been prompted either by an unwise desire; to commend the anti-slavery chalice to the lips of slaveholders, by removing some of the bitter but essential ingredients that strengthen the potion, or else by the temptations of ambition,-
“That last infirmity of noble minds."
In either case, they will yet be regretted more than any other of their utterances.
If this be called fanaticism, I am content to bear the imputation. I am not alone in this State, however it may be elsewhere, if the late election truly expresses the sentiment of the people. The election to the Governorship, by the largest vote any candidate ever received, of the man, who, more than all others, labored to save him from that "just" death, who publicly endorsed his character, if not the abstract rightfulness of the attempt, such an elevation of his best friend to our best office is a strong evidence that our common sense and common humanity are getting the better of our fears and prejudices. The hated Mordecai already descends, here, from the gallows of public condemnation on which the Haman of a subtle pro-slaveryism had hung him, and rides through our streets in the royal apparel of executive sovereignty, as the man whom the people delighteth to honor. As if to show that this remarkable act of the people of Massachusetts was not the blind following of blind political leaders, but a silent yet real voice of approval, her favorite lyric poet comes forth, and places a garland of exquisite beauty and perfume on the grave of the hero. Under the influence of his religious training, the Quaker Whittier cast upon his coffin a hastily gathered wreath of bitter herbs. But true also to the fundamental principles of his faith, through the influences of the events and reflections of the past year, he has discovered the "Inner Light" of superior truth, and with characteristic frankness has published the revelations of that Light. A late poem, written on the liberation of Italy, by its own confession, covers the whole ground of the present controversy. The laurel which he places on Garibaldi's brow, he hangs alike on John Brown's tomb. Hear the sentiment of almost every Christian in these true and tender and solemn words:-
"I dreamed of Freedom slowly gained
By Martyr meekness, patience, faith;
And, lo! an athlete, grimly stained,
With corded muscles battle-strained,
Shouting it from the field of death!
I know the pent fire heaves the crust,
That sultry skies the bolt will form
To smite them clear; that nature must!
The balance of her powers adjust,
Though with the earthquake and the storm.
And who am I whose prayers would stay
The solemn recompense of time,
And lengthen Slavery's evil day
That outraged Justice may not lay
Its hand upon the sword of crime!
God reigns, and let the earth rejoice!
I bow before His sterner plan;
Dumb are the organs of my choice;
He speaks in battle's stormy voice,
His praise is in the wrath of man!"
If the violent act of one man thus paralyzed this iniquity, much more will the peaceful act of two millions tend to its annihilation. Our righteous and peaceful course will not be instantly answered in a similar spirit. It may at first, it undoubtedly will, intensify the rage that already burns in their breasts, seven-fold hotter than it did aforetime. This rage and fear will gnash upon us with its teeth, will seek to frighten us, by financial crises and threats of secession, into submission. Let us not be alarmed. Let but Wall street look on and hold on, calm and cool, as Menelaus did when Proteus sought to elude him by assuming terrific shapes and making beastly noises, and the monster now, as then, will become tame and humble. Our greatest danger is in the cowardice of the moneyed power. The Church is getting ready to do her part, Politics is doing hers, and now the third of our social forces must do hers. If she fails, if she whines and grows pallid, and begs her dear slaveholding brethren to desist, and promises Northern repentance and its meet works, she will only encourage them in their course. She can never change the course of the Republic. Freedom is more than trade, liberty than wealth. Our fathers have said so twice. We shall not fail to repeat the word, if it must be spoken.
The poor slave will also burn in the hot breath of this fiery furnace. The master fears his slave more than he hates the North. He will feel the scourge of that fear. It is one of the necessities of tyrants that they can preserve their power, and even their life, only by the frequent deaths of their enslaved subjects. Sicilian prisons, Neapolitan dungeons, Roman inquisitions, everywhere, every when, has triumphant sin taught us that this necessity is laid upon it. So it is now where this worst of sins holds completes it sway. No dungeon of Venice or Rome or Naples ever vied with Carolina prisons or Alabama plantations in the excruciating cruelty which the helpless victims of their fear and hate receive at their hands.  When the secrets of this prison-house shall be revealed, you will cease to wonder at the tortures of Messina and Palermo.  No woman suffered there, only a few score of men.  Here, tenderest women suffer such cruelty daily as hard-hearted heathen Rome, the most cruel of the ancient nations, would have shrunk from inflicting.   Read Olmstead's late "Tour Through the Back Country," and you will find incidents of these tortures, inflicted so coolly and carelessly, as show them to be a common matter of daily and indifferent outrage. But he never saw the slave roasting at the stake. He never saw the fierce blood-hounds tearing in pieces the tender flesh of fainting women. He never saw, as a friend of mine did, himself once a slaveholder, a frantic mother torn from a nursing babe, less than a year old, and dragged, shrieking down the public street of a Missouri village, by men who bore Christian names, and a white skin, and were, not unlikely, born in Puritan New England of pious parents. 
"On horror's head, horrors accumulate," 
and the longer we dwell on the dreadful theme, the longer we seem to wish to dwell.  It has an awful fascination about it, like the hungry, basilisk gaze of the anaconda" "It holds us with its glittering eye," and we only escape by a strong effort of the will. We emerge from the dungeon so full of
"Horrid shapes and shrieks, and sights unholy," 
and breathe the upper air of liberty, as an angel might feel who had escaped from Pandemonium revelry and outrage into the pure society of the blessed. Alas, unlike the angel, we do not leave only sinners and damned spirits behind us, rioting in their willing wickedness, but pure and lovely souls, —pure as the spirits of the just made perfect, lovely as their angels, who do always behold the face of their Father which is in heaven,—these we leave behind, suffering such shame, such sorrow, such anguish of body and of soul, as only God can feel, only He can relieve, only, He can avenge.
<c05> 
THE ADMISSION OF NEW MEXICO.
The following is the concluding portion of a very able and tersely written communication which appeared in the Boston Atlas and Bee a few days since:-
A proposition to admit New Mexico as a free or slave State, slavery not having been already prohibited by act of Congress while it was a territory, is in direct conflict with our declared principles. At Philadelphia, in 1856, it was declared by the Republicans to be both "the right and the duty of Congress to prohibit in the territories, those twin relics of barbarism, Polygamy and Slavery." The Chicago Convention affirmed the same principle as to "all the territory of the United States." Mr. Lincoln at Freeport, in reply to Mr. Douglas's question,-“I desire to know whether he stands pledged to prohibit slavery in all the territories of the United States, north as well as south, of the Missouri Compromise line," answered, "I am impliedly, if not expressly pledged to a belief in the right and duty of Congress to prohibit slavery in all the United States Territories." Now, in all these declarations of opinion, where is there any exception of New Mexico? None, whatever. No delegate would have had the hardihood to propose such an exception in the Chicago Convention. Had Mr. Adams proposed it in the Convention at Milford which nominated him for Congress, he could not have obtained a vote for it. But the same clause is in the acts creating the territorial governments of Kansas, Nebraska, Utah. Singular language, "all territory,” with such vast and magnificent exceptions! What is there left, but the territory of Washington and perhaps Dacotah, to which to apply the much vaunted doctrine?
If the Republicans have any principle, it is that Congress is bound to prohibit slavery in New Mexico; but if it fails to do so because our opponents are in a majority, then it is our duty to resist its admission as a slave State. If not, why will we defeat Eli Thayer? Why did Mr. Sumner make those elaborate and most able speeches at Fitchburg and Worcester to maintain the integrity of our cause? And how does Mr. Adams now differ from Mr. Thayer? In both instances, as Mr. Sumner said of Mr. Thayer, "it is a mistake over which History will drop a tear.
There are those, we know, who approve of the position of Mr. Adams. The <illegible> and Courier have given him friendly recognition. There may be timid, half-believing Republicans who are willing to accept it. Some men without convictions may rejoice, for it leaves them free to barter away our cause, no breakwater, as they think, being left to resist the swell of a reaction. But from the West, from the Republicans who have grown up under the teachings of Abraham Lincoln, comes a different voice. They tell us that they made more votes in Egypt by the odious slave code of New Mexico than all other reasons, and they stand amazed at Mr. Adams's position 
It is said by a Washington correspondent of the Traveller, that business men have written to Mr. Adams, imploring him to do something to assuage the storm. It may be so; but Mr. Adams should uphold the courage of such. He can see lights they cannot see, and hear voices they cannot hear. From the serene altitudes of history and philosophy, he can beckon them to be of good cheer. Historian as he is, statesman as he should be, he knows that in times like this, when a mere expedient may defeat the very end it was designed to effect, principles alone are the safe guide. The temper of his constituents is firm. Even among merchants with Southern trade we have heard it said, with beautiful heroism, "We will lose all, rather than compromise the rights of freedom." It was the most glorious day in the life of John Adams, not when he stood in the presence of George III, the first ambassador of the triumphant colonies, or later, when he took his oath as President of the United States, but when, in the darkest of colonial struggles, he set his face against compromises, and walked the streets of Philadelphia, the countenance of John Dickinson averted from him. An Adams never won fame in making compromises.
Said Abraham Lincoln, in his speech at the Cooper Institute, the best considered speech of his life, full of wisdom and hope, in fit words for the hour:-
"Wrong as we think slavery is, we can afford to let it alone where it is, because that much is due to the necessity arising from its actual presence in the Nation; but can we, while our votes will prevent it, allow it to spread into the National Territories, and to overrun us here in these free States? If our sense of duty forbids this, then let us stand by our duty, fearlessly and effectively. Let us be diverted by none of those sophistical contrivances wherewith we are so industriously plied and belabored-contrivances such as groping for some middle ground between the right and the wrong, vain as the search for a man who shall be neither a living man nor a dead man-such as a policy of ’don't care' on a question about which all true men do care-such as Union appeals beseeching true Union men to yield to disunionists, reversing the divine rule, and calling, not the sinners, but the righteous to repentance-such as invocations to Washington, imploring men to unsay what Washington said, and undo what Washington did. Neither let us be slandered from our duty by false accusations against us, nor frightened from it by menaces of destruction to the Government, nor of dungeon to ourselves. LET US HAVE FAITH THAT RIGHT MAKES MIGHT, and in that faith let us, to the end, DARE TO DO OUR DUTY, AS WE UNDERSTAND IT."

PROTEST.
The following protest was written by a citizen of Milford to the Hon. Charles Francis Adams, Representative in Congress from this District, and signed by about a dozen other persons, who happened to come in contact with it before it was transmitted to Washington. Had it been circulated for signatures among the Republicans of the District, it is probable that it would have been extensively signed:— 
To the Hon. Charles Francis Adams, Representative for the Third Congressional District of Massachusetts: 
MY DEAR SIR,-Although I have no personal claims to your attention, and am without social or political influence, yet, as one of the commonest of the common people, that reads and thinks for one's self, I beg you to listen to a protest against your vote "to admit New Mexico with or without slavery, as she may elect;" and also to your vote, “that all future amendments to the Constitution shall be proposed by Slaveholding States, and ratified by all the States."
And I believe, sir, from the expression, which is all but universal, among Republicans around us, in condemnation of your course, that throughout the District there is a spontaneous protest. Of course, it may be that future revelations and explanations may make this matter acceptable. And yet, <illegible>, Washburn, Kellogg, Tappan, Morrill and others, who are with you, present, and whose sources of information ought to be equal-they do not agree with you.
<c06>
Many of us who voted for you in the last election, myself especially, had much confidence in the anti-slavery sentiment of your convictions. We remembered that you had never repudiated the Buffalo Platform upon which you stood in 1848; that you was the personal friend of our almost idolized Sumner-and we remembered your ancestry. We can understand, even if we will not be comforted, the matter of Burlingame's defeat; and since the Ninth Congressional District had told the Hon. Eli Thayer, "No! no! we do not want your 'Squatter Sovereignty' in any shape," we had supposed that all was well. But we are disappointed! We had begun to take pride in Massachusetts; she has never been so grandly represented in the Senate as since Sumner and Wilson-the scholar and mechanic- types of her learning and her industry, have been chosen; and in John A. Andrew we have, at last, secured the philanthropist Governor.
I do not know the opinions of the leaders in this District; they may express themselves with greater caution; but they do not have a party that can be caucussed into the support of a man who is not sound upon the idea of "No more Slave Territory."
We are ready for just one compromise, viz.: Massachusetts to contribute two millions of dollars to give to the Legislatures of the Cotton States a good common school education. Millions for Education, but not one inch to Slavery, is our word.- Milford (Mass.) Chronicle.

THE ADAMS COMPROMISE.
We think it safe to say, that the course of no man, in the present Congress, has so much surprised the whole country, and especially New England, as that of Mr. Adams, of Massachusetts. Judging him by his past record, and by the traditionary devotion to liberty which is his inheritance, not a man in Congress, from any section, but would have been expected to yield a vital point of the Republican platform before him. And yet, he was the first man to propose a compromise, which either meant a fraud upon the South, or a surrender of an immense territory to slavery. This is just what the proposition to admit New Mexico and Arizona as a State, means. It either means to give up all our South-western territory, both present and prospective, to slavery, or it means to hold out a deceptive lure, which will <illegible> It is either a downright betrayal of freedom, or it is a downright fraud. In either case, it is unworthy of an ADAMS, or of an honest Republican.-Concord (N. H.) Democrat.
SOUTH CAROLINA-HER STRENGTH AND HER WEAKNESS.
We are not of at those who “calculate the value of the Union." It has a measure of value, in our estimation, totally unapproachable by any figures of dollars and cents; but when a portion of it seems disposed to go off, to leave the shelter and protection of the stars and striper, and set up for itself, we have a right to calculate its value. In the matter of paying their share of the family expenses, the cotton States have been sadly deficient, but yet we never should complain of that deficiency, nor seek for a remedy, so long as all live together under one roof. Certainly is not convenient, but it is no crime to be poor; but then it is not honest for those who pay but a third part of what it costs to support them, to pretend that they have all the wealth, pay all the bills, and threaten to break up the establishment, unless they can manage it exactly in their own way. We hope that some man of common sense may yet turn up in these cotton States, with boldness enough to cure them of their madness-to prevent them, in short, from imitating South Carolina.
That State, so far as she has the power, has dissolved her connection with the Union, and set up for herself. To hear the grandiloquent boastings of some of her citizens on this event, a stranger to her position and her weakness would be led to conclude that she had escaped from some unbearable oppression, and that, rich in everything that goes to make a State, she is now on the high road to that prosperity she has so long been seeking in vain. “What constitutes a State? ”Men, high-minded men." And what is her strength in this respect? In 1856 she had (estimated) a population of 705,000, of which four-sevenths were slaves (not much of “high-minded men” there), and one-seventh, at least, but a slight remove from paupers; leaving two-sevenths of the whole population to furnish the State with “high-minded men." And how are such men to be made? By education mainly. In 1852 the appropriation of the State for this purpose was the paltry sum of $36,000. In 1856 one-half of her 78,000 children had no schools provided for them, and 20,000 of her adult whites could neither read nor write. Not much doing, we should say, to form the necessary compliment of” high-minded men." Coming down to physical means, we find her carrying a heavy public debt for so small a State, ($3,145,000 in 1850); with some ten millions of paper currency based on $1, 200,000 of gold; with no internal resources but direct taxation-her own citizens having no money to lend; and without the shadow of credit abroad; with a slave population of 400,000, a paper population of 100,000, and a self-supporting population of 200,000. In the late prosperous years for her staple, she has been able to consume of foreign importations about $3,000,000 annually, and if that consuming power still exists, she might collect a revenue on imports of six or seven hundred thousand dollars, which, added to her present direct tax of six hundred thousand dollars, would give her a total income of twelve to thirteen hundred thousand dollars; or, if she establishes free trade, she might possibly raise the whole amount by direct taxes. Out of these means her wise men propose to support an army of 10,000 men at a cost of EIGHT MILLIONS annually, to buy or build a marine of sufficient strength and numbers to guard two hundred miles of sea coast, which is full of harbors and inlets; to send ambassadors to foreign States, and to do all that an independent nation can and ought to do!
Hitherto she has lived on credit- always in debt for next year's crop-now she proposes to pay up and buy for cash; or whether she proposes to or not, she will have to buy for cash, for nobody will sell to her people on credit.
She has two elements of strength-inordinate SELF-ESTEEM, on which she is swelling up like the fabled frog, and an overweening PRIDE, which closes her eyes to danger. On the other hand, she has an inflammable population of 400,000 people, held in the most abject bondage, who may strike out blindly for liberty at any time, requiring care and watching all the time, and at every point. She has 100,000 poor whites, now excited to phrensy in the cause of independence, because they hope to reap advantage from it, who will be very apt to take a lurch the other way, and become a thorn in her side, when they find that hope is not to be realized. She holds out no encouragement to immigrants who might strengthen her weakness; on the contrary, she steadi-
The United States Constitution is “a covenant with death, and as an agreement with hell”.
“what order of men under the ,most absolute of monarchies, or the ,most aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than of the chair of the senate, and in the presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nations, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six states of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more <illegible> to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever knows. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the under standing of mankind It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the “language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, of in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United Stated by an equivocations-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free Stated imagines or <illegible> what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession” –JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
ly rejects them-forbids their landing on her shores. Her commercial marine is next to nothing. The whole production of her labor and capital is less than $75 a head to her whole population, and to crown the whole, she has not a man within her borders-at least no one has yet shown himself-who has common sense enough to be aware of all these elements of weakness. If any evidence were wanted that "pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before, a fall." we have it in abundance in the recent movements of the people of this weak and poor State; flouting their emblem of pride and poverty, the worthless palmetto, in the face of the Union, and threatening us with war if we dare attempt to keep our own property, or to enforce the laws which they have helped to make. To intelligent foreigners, the pompous declarations of these South Carolina dignitaries must appear supremely ridiculous, and if we had a President of the United States of ordinary courage and ability, and true to his trust, they would soon become so at home, or rather they would never have found utterance. After all, however, the people of South Carolina are not so much to blame; their ignorance has been imposed upon, their cupidity excited, their self-esteem puffed out, their pride aroused by the frauds, falsehoods and perversions of a few men-bankrupts in fortune, integrity and patriotismï¿½to whom any change promises improvement, and who, by their own confession, have been thirty years employed in the villanous work before they could bring the people to the sticking point. We speak of South Carolina, therefore, more in sorrow than in anger; for whatever may be the effect of her movements upon the other States of the Union, on herself it can only be bad, and constantly proving worse. If she succeeds in dragging other States with her into the slough of secession, it will not help her condition; if she fails in that, and has to stand alone, it will be so far better that she will the sooner see the folly of it, and banish from her counsels the traitors who have misled her.-Boston Journal.

SENATOR SEWARD ON THE CRISIS.
The following is the conclusion of Mr. Seward's speech, delivered in the U. S. Senate on the 12th inst.:
Here I might close my plea for the American Union; but it is necessary, if not to exhaust the argument, at least to exhibit the whole case. The disunionists, consciously unable to stand on their mere disappointment in the recent election, have attempted to enlarge their ground. More than thirty years there has existed a considerableï¿½though not heretofore a formidableï¿½mass of citizens in certain States situate near or around the delta of the Mississippi, who believe that the Union is less conducive to the welfare and greatness of those States than a smaller confederacy, embracing only slave States, would be. This class has availed itself of the discontents resulting from the election to put into operation the machinery of dissolution long ago prepared, and waiting only for occasion.
In other States, there is a soreness because of the want of sympathy in the free States with the efforts of slaveholders for the recapture of fugitives from service. In all the slave States there is a restiveness resulting from the resistance which has been so determinedly made within the last few years, in the free States, to the extension of slavery in the common Territories of the United States. The Republican party, which cast its votes for the successful Presidential candidate on the ground of that policy, has been allowed, practically, no representation, no utterance by speech or through the press, in the slave States; while its policy, principles, and sentiments, and even its temper, have been so misrepresented as to excite apprehensions that it denies important constitutional obligations, and aims even at interference with slavery and its overthrow by State authorities or intervention of the Federal Government.
Considerable masses, even in the free States, interested in the success of these misrepresentations as a means of partisan strategy, have lent their sympathy to the party claiming to be aggrieved. While the result of the election brings the Republican party necessarily into the foreground in resisting disunion, the prejudices against them which I have described have deprived them of the cooperation of <illegible>. On a complex issue between the Republican party and the disunionists, although it involves the direst national calamities, the result might be doubtful; for the Republican party is weak, in a large part of the Union. But on a direct issue, with all who cherish the Union on one side, and all who desire its dissolution by force on the other, the verdict would be prompt and almost unanimous. I desire thus to simplify the issue, and for that purpose to separate from it all collateral questions, and relieve it of all partisan passions and prejudices.
I consider the idea of the withdrawal of the Gulf States, and their permanent reorganization with or without others in a distinct Confederacy as a means of advantage to themselves, so certainly unwise and so obviously impossible of execution, when the purpose is understood, that I dismiss it with the discussion I have already incidentally bestowed upon it.
The case is different, however, in regard to the other subjects which I have brought, in this connection, before the Senate.
Beyond a doubt, Union is vitally important to the Republican citizens of the United States: but it is just as important to the whole people. Republicanism and Union are, therefore, not convertible terms. Republicanism is subordinate to Union, as everything else is and ought to beï¿½Republicanism, Democracy, every other political name and thingï¿½all are subordinate; and they ought to disappear in the presence of the great question of Union. So far as I am concerned, it shall be so; it should be so if the question were sure to be tried, as it ought only to be determined, by the peaceful ordeal of the ballot. It shall be so all the more since there is, on the one side, preparedness to refer it to the arbitrament of civil war.
I have such faith in this republican system of ours, that there is no political good which I desire that I am not content to seek through its peaceful forms of administration, without invoking revolutionary action. If others shall invoke that form of action to oppose and overthrow Government, they shall not. so far as it depends on me, have the excuse that I obstinately left myself to be misunderstood. In such a case. I can afford to meet prejudice with conciliation, exaction with concessions which surrender no principle, and violence with the right hand of peace.
Therefore, sir, so far as the abstract question whether, by the Constitution of the United States, a bondsman, who is made such by the laws of a State, is still a man or only property. I answer, that within that State, its laws on that subject are supreme; that when he has escaped from that State into another, the Constitution regards him as a bondsman who may not, by any law or regulation of that State, be discharged from his service, but shall be delivered up, on claim, to the party to whom his service is due.
While prudence and justice would combine in persuading you to modify the acts of Congress on that subject, so as not to oblige private persons to assist in their execution, and to protect freemen from being, by abuse of the laws, carried into slavery, I agree that all laws of the States, whether free States or slave States, which relate to this class of persons, or any others recently coming from or resident in other States, and which laws contravene the Constitution of the United States, or any law of Congress passed in conformity thereto, ought to be repealed.
Secondlyï¿½Experience in public affairs has confirmed my opinion, that domestic slavery, existing in any State, is wisely left by the Constitution of the United States exclusively to the care, management, and disposition of that State; and if it were in my power, I would not alter the Constitution in that respect. If misapprehension of my position needs so strong a remedy, I am willing to vote for an amendment of the Constitution, declaring that it shall not, by any future amendment, be so altered as to confer on Congress a power to abolish or interfere with slavery in any State.
Thirdly-While I think that Congress has exclusive and sovereign authority to legislate on all subjects whatever in the common Territories of the United States, and while I certainly shall never, directly or indirectly, give my vote to establish or sanction slavery in such Territories, or anywhere else in the world, yet the question, what constitutional laws shall at any time be passed, in regard to the Territories, is, like every other question, to be determined on practical grounds. I voted for enabling acts in the cases of Oregon, Minnesota and Kansas, without being able to secure in them such provisions as I would have preferred; and yet I voted wisely.
<c02>
So now, I am well satisfied that, under existing circumstances, a happy and satisfactory solution of the difficulties in the remaining Territories would be obtained by similar laws, providing for their organization, if such organization were otherwise practicable. If, therefore, Kansas were admitted as a State, under the Wyandotte Constitution, as I think she ought to be, and if the organic laws of all the other Territories could be repealed, I could vote to authorize the organization and admission of two new States which should include them, reserving the right to effect sub-divisions of them whenever necessary into several convenient States; but I do not find that such reservation could be constitutionally made. 
Without them, the ulterior embarrassments which would result from the hasty incorporation of States of such vast extent and various interests and character, would outweigh all the immediate advantages of such a measure. But if the measure were practicable, I should prefer a different course, namely, when the eccentric movements of secession and disunion shall have ended, in whatever form that end may come, and the angry excitements of the hour shall have subsided, and calmness once more shall have resumed its accustomed sway over the public mind, then, and not until thenï¿½one, two, or three years henceï¿½I should cheerfully advise a convention of the people, to be assembled in pursuance of the Constitution, to consider and decide whether any, and what, amendments of the organic national law ought to be made.
A Republican nowï¿½as I have heretofore been a member of other parties existing in my dayï¿½I nevertheless hold and cherish, as I have always done, the principle that this Government exists in its present form only by the consent of the governed, and that it is as necessary as it is wise to resort to the people for revisions of the organic law when the troubles and dangers of the State certainly transcend the powers delegated by it to the public authorities.
Nor ought the suggestion to excite surprise. Government in any form is a machine; this is the most complex one that the mind of man has ever invented, or the hand of man has ever framed. Perfect as it is, it ought to be expected that it will, at least as often as once in a century, require some modification to adapt it to the changes of society and alterations of empire.
Fourthlyï¿½I hold myself ready now, as always heretofore, to vote for any properly-guarded laws which shall be deemed necessary to prevent mutual invasions of States by citizens of other States, and punish those who shall aid and abet them.
Fifthlyï¿½Notwithstanding the arguments of the gallant Senator from Oregon, (Gen. Lane,) I remain of the opinion that physical bonds, such as highways, railroads, rivers, and canals, are vastly more powerful for holding civil communities together than any mere covenants, though written on parchment or engraved upon iron. I remain, therefore, constant to my purpose to secure, if possible, the construction of two Pacific railways, one of which shall connect the ports around the mouths of the Mississippi, and the other the towns on the Missouri and the Lakes, with the harbors on our western coast.
If, in the expression of these views, I have not proposed what is desired or expected by many others, they will do me the justice to believe that I am as far from having suggested what in many respects would have been in harmony with cherished convictions of my own. I learned early from Jefferson, that in political affairs we cannot always do what seems to us absolutely best. Those with whom we must necessarily act, entertaining different views, have the power and the right of carrying them into practice. We must be content to lead when we can, and to follow when we cannot lead; and if we cannot at any time do for our country all the good that we would wish, we must be satisfied with doing for her all the good that we can.
Having submitted my own opinions on this great crisis, it remains only to say that I shall cheerfully lend to the Government my best support in whatever prudent, yet energetic efforts it shall make to preserve the public peace, and to maintain and preserve the Union; advising, only, that it practice as far as possible the utmost moderation, forbearance and conciliation.
And now, Mr. President what <illegible> I know that we are in the midst of alarms, and somewhat exposed to accidents unavoidable in seasons of tempestuous passions. We already have disorder, and violence has begun. I know not to what extent it may go. Still, my faith in the Constitution and in the Union abides, because my faith in the wisdom and virtue of the American people remains unshaken. Coolness, calmness, and resolution, are elements of their character.
They have been temporarily displaced; but they are reappearing. Soon enough, I trust, it will be seen that sedition and violence are only local and temporary, and that loyalty and affection to the Union are the natural sentiments of the whole country. Whatever dangers there shall be, there will be the determination to meet them; whatever sacrifices, private or public, shall be needful for the Union, they will be made. I feel sure that the hour has not come for this great Nation to fall
This people, which has been studying to become wiser and better as it has grown older, is not perverse or wicked enough to deserve so dreadful and severe a punishment as dissolution. This Union has not yet accomplished what good for mankind was manifestly designed by Him who appoints the seasons, and prescribes the duties of States and Empires. No, sir; if we were cast down by faction today, it would rise again and reappear in all its majestic proportions to-morrow.
It is the only Government that can stand here. Woe! woe! to the man that madly lifts his hand against it. It shall continue and endure: and men, in after time, shall declare that this generation. which saved the Union from such sudden and unlooked-for dangers, surpassed in magnanimity even that one which laid its foundations in the eternal principles of liberty, justice, and humanity. 

MR. LINCOLN'S POSITION.
If this had not been shown by his published speeches and by the debates with Douglas, it would seem to be put at rest by the editorials of the Illinois State Journal, since secession raised its ugly head. We cut the following from the issue of December 31:-
South Carolina has, and the other cotton States are about to pass seceding resolutions, professedly because they cannot get their rights in this Union. We are told by some Southern men, and a great many Northern ones, that the North has behaved so badly that the cotton States cannot live with us. Now, this is all rant. The Personal Liberty bills and the violation of the Fugitive Slave law have about as much to do with this cotton stampede as the banking laws of Canada, or the violation of a city ordinance of Springfield.
They make the slavery question the pretext, but not the cause for disunion. They do not want to leave the Union because the laws protecting slavery are not numerous enough, or strong enough, or are not faithfully enforced. They want to build up a great Southern Confederacy, "resting," as they say, "on the solid substratum of African slavery." To Southern statesmen, the picture of such a confederacy is one of beauty and grandeur. They seem to imagine that their progress is retarded by their connection with free communities, and that once released from the clogs of free society, they will out-strip all the nations of the earth in the race of progress. Their connection with the free States alone gives them security, peace, and whatever of prosperity they enjoy. They suffer no wrongs at the hands of this Government, but do derive innumerable advantages from it. They would now destroy it, and plunge headlong into ruin. They must not be permitted to do it. Their own goodï¿½their own safetyï¿½their very existence as a people, requires that they should yield a cheerful obedience to the laws of the Unionï¿½laws which they themselves helped to frame. Kindness to them, love for them, requires that this Government should interpose the strong arm of its power to save them from destruction, by preserving, at whatever cost or sacrifice, the integrity of this Union.
The Constitution of the United States, in its operations, does not and cannot act directly upon the States which compose the Union. It has to do with the peopleï¿½with individuals. So far as suppressing insurrection, putting down domestic violence or punishing treason is concerned, the States are wholly ignored. State Legislatures and State Conventions may pass what disunion ordinances they please, and may resolve and re-resolve to their heart's content against the General Government, but these manifestos upon paper signify nothing. States cannot commit treason; but should the people, or any part of the people of South Carolina, for instance, re-
<c03>
fuse to pay revenue duties, or resist a United States officer in the execution of the laws, then the particular men who do it have committed an overt act, and are liable to trial, conviction and punishment for their crime against the Government. And, we may add, the Federal Executive is recreant to his duty and false to his oath of office, if he fails to vindicate the dignity of the outraged law.
This seems to be clear and decisive, and we doubt not accurately represents Mr. Lincoln's as it does the Republican policy.

The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 1860.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS.
Delinquent subscribers for the past year,ï¿½that is, from January 1, 1860, to January 1, 1861,ï¿½are respectfully requested to remember our STANDING RULE, by which their papers will be discontinued after February 1,1861, unless payment for the same be previously sent in. We shall be extremely sorry to lose a single subscriber in this manner, especially at this crisis in our national affairs; but, as our printed terms indicate that payment is to be made in advance, we are sure if, instead of rigidly exacting it, we allow (as we do) a credit of thirteen months to delinquents, they can have no cause of complaint when their papers are stopped for omitting to make settlement.

ANNUAL MEETING.
The Twenty-Ninth Annual Meeting of the MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held at the TREMONT TEMPLE, in Boston, on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, January 24th and 25th, commencing at half past 10 o'clock, A. M.
The members and friends of the Society are urgently requested to make the attendance on their part larger than ever before seen since its formation. In view of the position of the Anti-Slavery cause, and of the state of the nation, it will be the most important anniversary the Society has ever held. Troublous as is the aspect of things, it is a sure indication that the cause of impartial freedom is moving onward with irresistible power, and that the day of jubilee is rapidly approaching, to be succeeded by universal joy, peace and prosperity. For nothing disturbs the repose, deranges the business, assails the interest, dishonors the character, and imperils the existence of the republic, but SLAVERY. Freedom, and the love of it, and the advocacy of it, and the uncompromising support of it, without regard to color or race, can never work ill to whatever is just, honest, noble, humane, and Christ-like. It is not the Abolitionists, who simply espouse the cause of God's poor and needy and oppressed, that it may go well with our land, but the Southern slaveholders and slave-breeders, who traffic in human flesh and enslave even their own blood-kindred, and who hate every thing that savors of liberty, who have brought the nation into its present distracted and distressful condition; for theirs is the spirit which chooses "rather to reign in hell than serve in heaven." 
Come, then, friends of freedom, to the Anniversary, strong in the righteousness of your cause, serene and undaunted in spirit, and resolute in your purpose to seek the speedy removal of the cause of all our national suffering and danger!
Among the speakers expected are WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL MAY, Jr., C. C. BURLEIGH, T. W. HIGGINSON, A. T. Foss, Rev. JAS. FREEMAN CLARKE, Rev. J. SELLA MARTIN, Rev. F. FROTHINGHAM, of Maine, H. C. WRIGHT, Hon. N. H. WHITING of the Senate,<illegible> of Chicago, Rev. ADIN BALLOU, WM. WELLS BROWN, Dr. J. S. ROCK, F. B. SANBORN, and others.
At the opening session, Thursday morning, WM. LLOYD GARRISON, T. W. HIGGINSON and Rev. JAS. FREEMAN CLARKE, with others, are to speak. An early and prompt attendance is earnestly requested. 
In behalf of the Society,
FRANCIS JACKSON, President.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Secretary.

MR. SEWARD'S SPEECH.
In view of his relation to the Republican party, and especially of the admitted fact that he is to fill the important post of Secretary of State, under President Lincoln's administration, a good deal of anxiety has been felt, by all parties, to hear from Senator Seward in regard to the present distracted state of the country, and his method of effecting reconciliation and harmony. On Saturday last, he made an elaborate speech in the Senate upon the crisis, and was listened to with profound attention by a densely crowded auditory.
Formerly, we entertained a high opinion of the statesman-like qualities of Mr. Seward, and were ready to believe, in consequence of several acts performed by him in the service of an oppressed and despised race, that he was inspired by noble sentiments, lifting him above all personal considerations; but we have been forced, within the past year, to correct that opinion, and to change that belief. His intellectual ability is unquestionably of the first order; he writes and speaks with remarkable perspicuity, and often with great rhetorical beauty; nothing with him is hastily done; his caution is immense; he aims to be axiomatic and oracular. But it is evident that his moral nature is quite subordinate to his intellect, so as to taint his philosophy of action, and prevent him from rising to a higher level than that of an expedientist and compromiser. The key to his public life is contained in this very speech. Here it is:-
"If, in the expression of these views, I have not proposed what is desired or expected by many others, they will do me the justice to believe that I am as far from having suggested what, in many respects, would have been in harmony with cherished convictions of my own. I learned early from Jefferson that, in political affairs, we cannot always do what seems to be absolutely best. Those with whom we must necessarily act, entertaining different views, have the power and right of carrying them into practice. We must be content to lead when we can, and to follow when we cannot lead; and if we cannot at any time do for our country all the good that we would wish, we must be satisfied with doing for her all the good that we can."
Now, a declaration like this, expressed in such carefully considered language, carries upon its face nothing startling or objectionable; because it is the merest truism to say, that where there are many minds of conflicting views to be reconciled, mutual concessions must be made to secure the desired unity of action. And where no moral principle, no sacrifice of justice, is involved, a course like this is the dictate of common sense; otherwise, the state of society would be chaotic, and an efficient administration of public concerns impossible. But in the sentence, "In political affairs, we cannot always do what seems to be absolutely best," there is to be found the germ of all political profligacy, and the nest-egg of all those sinful compromises which have cursed this nation since the adoption of the Federal Constitution. There is no position in which men may place themselves, or be placed by others, where they can be justified, whether to reach "a consummation devoutly to be wished," or to avoid formidable danger or great suffering, in violating their consciences, or conniving at what their moral sense condemns. Personal integrity and straight-forward regard for the right can allow no temptation to make them swerve a hair's-breadth from the line of duty; for they are of more consequence than all the compacts and constitutions ever made. Disregardful of this, the doctrine, that "the end sanctifies the means," or that "we cannot always do what seems to be absolutely best," becomes the doctrine of devils. Mr. Seward means just thisï¿½a compromise of principle to propitiate the perverse wrong-doers of the Southï¿½or his language is a mockery in this emergency. He is dealing, not
<c04>
with a material question of dollars and cents, but with the most momentous moral question ever presented to the worldï¿½not with well-meaning but deluded men, but with sagacious desperadoes and remorseless men stealers. All his talk of adhering to old compromises, and making additional ones to appease the ferocious and despotic South, relates to slavery, 'the sum of all villany'ï¿½and to nothing else. Hence, he is for continuing to slaveholders the inhuman privilege of hunting their fugitive slaves in any part of the North. Hence, he is willing to vote for an amendment of the Constitution, declaring that under no circumstances shall Congress have the power to abolish or interfere with slavery in any State. Hence, his readiness to enact laws, subjecting future John Browns to the punishment of death for seeking to deliver the slaves Bunker Hill fashion, and after the example of Lafayette, Kosciusko, Pulaski and De Kalb, as pertaining to our own revolutionary struggle. Yet, in another speech delivered at Madison, Wisconsin, not long since, Mr. Seward solemnly declares:-
"By no word, no act, no combination into which I might enter, shall any one human being of all the generations to which I belong, much less of any class of human beings of any race or kindred, be oppressed, or kept down in the least degree in their efforts to rise to a higher state of liberty and happiness. Whenever the Constitution of the United States requires of me that this hand shall keep down the humblest of the human race, then I will lay down power, place, position, fame, everything, rather than adopt such a construction or such a rule."
What shall we think of the consistency or veracity of Mr. Seward in this matter of freedom? He knows, he concedes, in the speech we are criticising, that, under the United States Constitution, the fugitive slave is not entitled to safety or protection in any Northern State; and those who rush to the rescue of the enslaved millions at the South, as John Brown and his associates did, he is for hanging as felons under that same Constitution! It is time for him to lay down power, place and position!
Look at the present state of the country! The old Union breaking up daily, its columns falling in every directionï¿½four Southern States already out of it, and all the others busily and openly preparing to followï¿½the national government paralyzed through indecision, cowardice, or perfidyï¿½the national flag trampled upon and discarded by the traitors, and a murderous endeavor on their part, by firing heavy shot, to sink a government vessel entering the harbor of Charleston upon a lawful errand, compelling her to flee in disgrace, and to avoid certain destructionï¿½treason and traitors every where, in every slave State, in every free State, at the Seat of Government, in both houses of Congress, in the army and navy, in the Executive department, at the head of the press, audacious, defiant, diabolicalï¿½ the United States arsenals and fortifications already seized, or rapidly falling into the hands of the Southern conspirators, through the blackest perfidyï¿½every movement contemplating the enforcement of the laws, and the protection of its property, on the part of the national government, impudently denounced by the traitors and their accomplices as "coercion," "tyranny," and "a declaration of war"ï¿½with the murderous avowal that Abraham Lincoln shall never be inaugurated President of the United States, and the unquestionable purpose of these Catilines and Arnolds to seize the Capitol, and take possession of the government by a coup d ï¿½etat, which we have long prophesied would be their last desperate effort to keep the reins of power in their own grasp, and which we have no doubt will be successful, in spite of all the precautions of Gen. Scott.
In this state of things,ï¿½when the elements are melting with fervent heat, and thunders are uttering their voices, and a great earthquake is shaking the land from centre to circumference, threatening to engulf whatever free institutions are yet visible,ï¿½Mr. Seward, with the eyes of expectant millions fastened upon him as "the pilot to weather the storm," rises in the Senate to utter well turned periods in glorification of a Union no longer in existence, and to talk of "meeting <illegible> with conciliation, exaction with concession which surrenders no principle, (!) and violence with the right hand of peace"! The tiger is to be propitiated by crying "pussy cat!" and leviathan drawn out with a hook! The word "treason" or "traitors" is never once mentionedï¿½no recital is made of any of the numberless outrages committedï¿½no call is made upon the President to be true to his oath, and to meet the public exigency with all the forces at his commandï¿½ no patriotic indignation flushes his cheekï¿½but all is calm as a summer's morning, cool, compliant, unimpassioned! His boldest word is, "We already have disorder, and violence is begun." How very discreet! It is a penny-whistle used to hush down a thunderstorm of the first magnitudeï¿½capping Vesuvius with a sheet of straw paper! And this is all the statesman-ship of William H. Seward, in a crisis unparalleled in our national history! Stand aside! "The hour" has come, but where is "the man"?

REASONS FOR REPEAL.
1. "The Personal Liberty Bill must be repealed." 
Certainly! True, it only throws the shield of legal protection, to the extent of the use of habeas corpus and the right of jury trial, around our free colored citizens, against prowling kidnappers and slave-hunters, without denying the right of the slaveholder to his fugitive slave: but such protection is offensive to our Southern masters and overseers, and therefore it ought to be instantly withdrawn, on peril of their fierce displeasure! What right have our colored citizens to any security in their persons or domestic relations, as against any form or device of slaveholding villany? None whatever! True, they are bona fide citizens of Massachusetts, equal with all others before the Constitution and the laws, eligible to every office in the gift of the people, and required to perform all the duties and to sustain all the burdens of citizenship; nevertheless, "the hunters of men" demand that they shall not be allowed even the common right of a jury trial, in case of arrest as fugitive slaves, and that the Fugitive Slave Law shall be enforced "with alacrity" in all such cases; and their demand ought to be complied with, in the spirit of penitential recantation!
2. "The Personal Liberty Bill must be repealed."
Certainly! True, the voice of nature and of God thunders in our ear, ï¿½Thou shalt NOT deliver unto his master the servant which is escaped from his master unto thee: he shall DWELL WITH THEE, even among you, in that place which HE shall choose, where it liketh HIM best: THOU SHALT NOT OPPRESS HIM." True, the command of God is, "Execute judgment; make thy shadow as the night in the midst of the noon-day; hide the outcasts; be thou a covert to them from the face of the spoiler; and bewray not him that wandereth." But the voice of Southern men-stealers is more potential than the voice of God, and their command to us to have no mercy on the flying fugitive, but to assist in his capture, ought to be obeyed rather than his! Especially as it will allay all agitation, and help to preserve our glorious Union!
3. "The Personal Liberty Bill must be repealed." 
Certainly! True, the Fugitive Slave Law has shocked the civilized world by its revolting features, and caused every conscience loyal to God and humanity to rebel against it; but is not implicit obedience to it enjoined by the combined oppression, ruffianism, cupidity, malevolence, phariseeism, impiety and scoundrelism of the land? And ought not these to bear sway, to the repudiation of every principle of justice, every attribute of mercy, every sentiment of humanity, every dictate of reason, every precept of that gospel which we profess to believe?
4. "The Personal Liberty Bill must be repealed." 
Certainly! True, the Declaration of Independence affirms it to be among self-evident truths, that all men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with an inalienable right to liberty; and by the Golden Rule it is enjoined, "Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them"; and Jesus has declared, ï¿½With what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged, and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again"; but the Declaration 
<c05>
of Independence is only "a rhetorical flourish," and filled with "glittering generalities"ï¿½and the Golden Rule is an impossible rule of conductï¿½and Jesus meant his language to apply only to those whom he addressed; but in these times, and in this land, he who is not for giving every facility to slave-hunting at the North, to the removal of every impediment, is to be set down as a fanatic, and utterly destitute of every feeling of patriotism!
5. "The Personal Liberty Bill must be repealed." 
Certainly! True, we profess to be a Christian people, and Christ has given himself for all races of men impartially; true, He has said, "I was an hungered, and ye gave me no meat; I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink; I was a stranger, and ye took me not in; naked, and ye clothed me not; sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not"; applying this to the least, and most despised, and most oppressed, of all the human family,ï¿½thus incarnating himself in the person of every fugitive slave within our borders; still, is it not in the constitutional bond that fugitives shall be delivered up to their masters? Ought we not to be, faithful to our promise? Having made "a covenant with death and an agreement with hell," are we not bound in honor to carry them out, to "conquer our prejudices," and thereby endeavor to bring peace to our distracted country?
6. "The Personal Liberty Bill must be repealed." 
Certainly! True, we ought to love our neighbor as ourselves, to be tender-hearted and merciful, to scorn to do a base action, to "have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness"; but, in that case, how are fugitive slaves to be caught? and if they are allowed to abide among us, how can we be true to our national compact, and how can we hope to induce the South to remain in the Union? Morality, humanity, and the "Higher Law," are very well in their place, but not in times like these. To talk of obeying God, without regard to consequences, is sheer fanaticism and infidelity! It is better that a hunted slave should now and then be caught in Massachusetts, than that the Republic should be dismembered; just as it was better, eighteen centuries ago,ï¿½as in the crucifixion of Jesus,ï¿½that one man should die, than that a whole nation should perish!
7. "The Personal Liberty Bill must be repealed." 
Certainly! True, when any of those who have been, life-long, deprived of their natural rightsï¿½subjected to all possible outrages, insults and exposuresï¿½scourged, branded, mutilated, chained, torturedï¿½driven to uncompensated toil by remorseless overseersï¿½yoked like beasts, and bought and sold like them in the marketï¿½at last resolve to seek freedom and safety by flight, and come to us, foot-sore and ragged, worn down by exhaustion, begging us, in the name of Heaven, and by all the claims of a common origin, to have pity upon them, and not allow their pursuers to seize them by any consent or complicity of our own, it does seem base, inhuman, cowardly and damnable to "see the anguish of their souls," and, searing our consciences as with a hot iron, and hardening our hearts like adamant, coolly to deny their prayer, and readily assist in their capture and return to the horrible doom from which they fled, at the bidding of miscreants impiously claiming to be their rightful owners, and for the sake of continuing in alliance with them; but we must be "law-abiding," remember the bargain we have made, stick to our constitutional agreement, do fealty to the devil as men of honor, make even more fiendish concessions rather than retract anything,ï¿½because, if we do not thus act and conspire, "our glorious Union" will certainly be dissolved; and its perpetuation is a thousand times more important to public tranquillity and the general prosperity, than loyalty to an upright conscience, reverence for the eternal law of justice, fidelity to the cause of bleeding humanity, and obedience to God!
Wherefore-the Personal Liberty Bill must be repealed!

SERMONS ON THE TIMES.
THE CAUSE AND THE CONSEQUENCE OF THE ELECTION OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN: a Thanksgiving Sermon, delivered in the Harvard-Street M. E. Church, Cambridge, Sunday evening, Nov. 11, 1860. By Rev. Gilbert Haven. Boston: sold by J. P. Magee, 5 Cornhill.
We have never been backward in acknowledging with pleasure every earnest and manly effort, on the part of the pulpit, to bring the hideous slave system to the dust. It is in this light we regard this Sermon. Its rhetoric is glowing with genuine feeling, and its boldness of utterance remarkable for one occupying such a relation to the Methodist Episcopal Church as Mr. Haven does. That relation, as a matter of anti-slavery consistency, we think, would be "more honored in the breach than in the observance," on his part-at least, until that Church cease to welcome slaveholders to its communion-table as true Methodists, and "brethren and sisters in the Lord." The extracts we have made from this discourse, on our first page, will enable the reader to judge of its style and spirit throughout, and we trust will help to extend its sale and circulation.
We have a brief criticism, however, to make upon a single paragraph contained in these extracts.
Referring to our early labors, and to those who were our co-laborers, Mr. Haven says:-
"Soon bitter conflicts sprang up in the breasts of these young philanthropists. The fresh-armed men began to bite and devour one another, and were well-nigh consumed one of another."
What those "bitter conflicts" were about, or who were justly responsible for them, the reader is left to imagine. An imputation is cast in the lump, and there left.
Again, Mr. Haven says:-
"New measures were required by the progress of the [anti-slavery] sentiment. The conscience growing, demanded a chance to express itself at the ballot-box. This was resisted by Garrison."
Is this a fair statement of the case? No-it does us great injustice. It represents us as resisting the action of a quickened conscience, zealous in the service of the slave! This we did not and could not do. Such a conscience was all too rare for us to have a controversy with it, and should it become universal, we shall rejoice evermore. We were simply true to our own conscience, and on that score, however mistaken, deserve commendation, not censure. If Mr. Haven had stated the case truly, in this wise, we should have taken no exception to it:ï¿½The growing anti-slavery sentiment demanded a chance to express itself at the ballot-box. For a time, Mr. Garrison favored the movement, so far as causing the various candidates to be interrogated as to their views on the subject of slavery, and supporting such, without regard to party distinctions, as answered the most satisfactorily. But the time came when he was led to analyze the Constitution of the United States, and he reached the conclusion that, IN CONSEQUENCE OF ITS PRO-SLAVERY STIPULATIONS, it was a covenant with death and an agreement with hellï¿½and, therefore, that, by an inexorable moral necessity, he could not any longer, either innocently or consistently, vote under it. Hence, he has ever since taken for his mottoï¿½"No Union with Slaveholders." Admitting the truthfulness of his charges against the Constitution, the great body of professing anti-slavery men have, nevertheless, continued to use the ballot-box, either as Liberty Party men, or Free Soilers, or Republicans, as in their judgment the most practical course, till at last they have succeeded in electing their Presidential candidate, Abraham Lincoln.
This is the exact state of the case; but, as given by Mr. Haven, it makes us the opponent of conscience, instead of being true to our own conscience, to the loss of the elective franchise, and the repudiation of all chance for political elevation or emolument, on our part. We maintain that our ground is impregnable, and our example identical with that of all those in the past who refused to compromise the principles of righteousness to subserve even their most cherished purposes, or to escape from any peril. Events are showing that a just God has made it impossible for
<c06>
such a mongrel Union to exist. "For what concord hath Christ with Belial? or what fellow ship hath light with darkness?"
Again, Mr. Haven is most unjust to us when he says-
ï¿½Led by his love of free speech, he [Garrison] permitted some of his leading associates to burden the <illegible> infansï¿½ with gross infidelities and social absurdities."
We deny the charge, and call for the evidence. None of our "leading associates" have sought to do any such thing. They have advocated the anti-slavery cause with all fidelity upon its own merits, and have not sought to burden it with any extraneous question. Nor is it for us to "permit" them to do either this or that, as one in authority; they are of age, and speak for themselves. When Mr. Haven will point out the "gross infidelities and social absurdities" to which he refers, we will give them our gravest consideration. Till then, the imputation is a stab in the dark.
Finally, referring to us personally, Mr. Haven says:
ï¿½Would that, in his sphere of effort, and to the <illegible> of his large abilities and influence, he had kept his liberty from becoming licentiousness! Would that be, like Wilberforce, had kept his heart sweet with prayer and <illegible> through the whole of this great war!ï¿½
How are such disparaging accusations and invidious comparisons to be met? Where all is vague, nothing of course is tangible. In what does our ï¿½licentiousnessï¿½ consist? Who have advocated a more faithful adherence to principle, or a more uncompromising regard for the laws and commands of God, than ourselves? When or where have we played fast-and-loose with the claims of humanity or the demands of justice? When has ours been a whiffing standard? Or when have we been beguiled from the path of duty, or allowed others to stray therein, on the ground of expediency or worldly policy? Impeached in this sweeping manner, we have a right to call for explicit answers to these questions.
As for our ï¿½prayer and piety,ï¿½ we have nothing to say. The priestly hand is seen in the thrust made at us under cover of Wilberforce. With all his ï¿½prayer and piety,ï¿½ Wilberforce was as bitterly denounced and calumniated as we have been, for his devotion to the Anti-Slavery cause in England; and possibly, at the end of half a century, our religious character will be in better repute than it now is.
THE ï¿½GOODLY HERITAGE.ï¿½ A Sermon delivered on Thanksgiving Day, Nov. 29, 1860, in the Church of the Puritans, New York, by Rev. Theodore F. White.
The author of this Sermon is at present supplying Dr. Cheever's pulpit, and evidently is an imitator of Dr. C.ï¿½ s impassioned and intense style of writing. It bears a strong testimony against our national system of oppression, and such as give aid or countenance to it. It protests against any compromise being made with the enslavers of men; says if it be true that this Union can be maintained only by the dominance of the Slave Power, it were a thousand times better that the Union should be dissolved; warns the Republican party that its heart's blood is an ANTI-SLAVERY CONSCIENCE, and the moment that conscience is alienated through sinful concessions, the party is a lifeless thing; and concludes with the declarationï¿½ï¿½Politicians and representatives may quail, as they have quailed before, and stoop to cowardly and disastrous compromises, and cotton may rule again; but the pulse of that Northern conscience beats in the firmness and fullness of health and strength. That conscience will neither bend nor break, but will repudiate every compromise, will bring swift retribution on every public servant who betrays his trust, and will dash in pieces any party which essays to dispute its will.ï¿½ This is truly and forcibly stated.
This Sermon, as printed, is weakened and marred by an excessive use of italics, which ought to be as sparingly used as ornaments in composition.
Its assertion, that ï¿½every cause must stand or fall by the verdict of the Bible,ï¿½ indicates a tread-mill reverence or a traditional credulity, and not close, independent thinking. We totally dissent from this postulate. The Bible has settled nothing in theology, science, morality, or religion, beyond the prevailing opinions of the times. ï¿½Every cause must stand or fallï¿½ by its own inherent character or properties, whatever may be the verdict of the Bible respecting it. Neither human rights nor human obligations originate with or depend upon anything in the Bible. To say this, is not to disparage that volume, but to redeem it from utter absurdity. What is orthodox in one age, is heresy in another, according as the Bible is popularly interpreted. A vast amount of time has been wasted, and incalculable mischief done, by attempting to determine whether freedom or slavery, peace or war, total abstinence or moderate drinking, the gallows or its abolition, womanï¿½s equality or subordination, monarchy or democracy, universal salvation or eternal punishment, &c., &c., is sustained by the Bible,ï¿½regarding it as an infallible authority in all such matters, and therefore a finality. Judge the tree by its fruits. Let conscience and reason, observation and experience, be more relied upon than dead parchment. "Why judge ye not of yourselves what is right?" was a pertinent and suggestive inquiry of Jesus. They who stood before him were infatuated with a senseless reverence for Moses and Abraham, and full of their worthless traditions, and needed to be reminded (as multitudes now do) that they were bound to examine all things independently for themselves, and to take nothing upon trust.
Againï¿½we must dissent from the assertion in this Sermon, that ï¿½the clergy are the anointed teachers of the word of God.ï¿½ By the word of God is meant the Bible, for which assumption there is no authority either within or without the lids of the Bible, either in reason or historical verity. God has made a terrible blunder indeed, if he has had any hand in anointing the clergy of our land; for, according to this Sermon, ï¿½they are the authors and trainers of public sentiment, and responsible for it.ï¿½ What that public sentiment is, the present demoralized condition of the country testifies trumpet-tongued. Hence we agree with our author, that ï¿½at the judgment seat Christ, no class of men will receive a more terrible condemnation than the cowardly and time-serving ministry of this day, and of this land." Wherefore, we submit that they are not ï¿½the anointed teachers of the word of God,ï¿½ but wolves in sheep's clothing. Exceptional cases of pulpit fidelity are, ï¿½like angels visits, few and far between,ï¿½ and need no special vindication. The clergy, as a body, are not called of God, but of men, and merely follow preaching as a profession, under a regular contract, and subordinate to the will of a majority of the church or parish. Hence their time-serving spiritï¿½their readiness to daub with untempered mortarï¿½and to cry ï¿½Peace, peace,ï¿½ when there is no peace.
But here is an extract from the Sermon which evinces any thing rather than moral consistency, spiritual enlightment, or anti-slavery fidelity on the part of its author. We quote it precisely as emphasized.-
ï¿½So also there are brave and honest and well-meaning men, having done yeomanï¿½s service in the great cause of human rights, who, because the Church and the ministry of Christ are guilty of complicity with slavery, and have too often apologized for it, and defended it from the Bible, denounce the Church and her institutions as antichrist and on abomination, declare its ministers and members to be a man of hypocrites, and deny the inspiration and authority of the word of God. The Church is wrong on the subject of slavery, fearfully wrong, and intensely guilty. But she is still the same Church which Christ instituted. In her faith, her <illegible>, her worship, and the ministration of the Spirit, she is still ï¿½the Church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth.ï¿½ To her are committed the oracles of God, and if slavery is ever abolished, it must be by her, with these weapon in her hands. Not of such a class, let it be understood, are <illegible> and the Church of the Puritans. TO US THE CHURCH, WITH ALL HER IMPERFECTIONS, IS STILL THE BODY OF CHRIST, and the Bible is the infallibly inspired Word of God, and the only rule of faith and practice."
This is monstrous indeed! The Church which is ï¿½guilty of complicity with slavery, and has too often apologized for it, and DEFENDED IT FROM THE BIBLE"-which is ï¿½wrong, fearfully wrong, on this subject, and INTENSELY GUILTY,ï¿½ is not to be denounced as ï¿½anti-Christ and an abomination," but eulogized and defended as ï¿½still the body of Christ," still ï¿½the same Church which Christ instituted," still ï¿½the
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Church of the living God, the pillar and ground of truth"!!! Was there ever a greater jumble of ideas than this! For slavery in this extract, substitute the petty offence of sheep-stealing, or robbing of hen roosts, and then see how it will read!  And, then, the conclusion so complacently arrived at, that “if slavery is ever abolished, it must be by her"-by the very Church which does homage to and u controlled by slavery
The Church of the Puritans cannot hope for clearness of moral vision while it is satisfied with such teacher.

REVIVAL OF PRO-SLAVERY MOBOCRACY.
The cowardly and lawless interruption of the Anti Slavery Convention in Boston on the 3d ultimo, under the leadership of Mr. Richard S. Fay and Mr.J Murray Howe, has since been imitated at Buffalo, Rochester and other places. For an account of the rowdyism at the Convention held at Buffalo, see our last page, as given by the Commercial Advertiser of that city, given in a manner to encourage the rioters, rather than otherwise. How utterly lost to all self-respect, to all sense of decency, to every manly feeling, must such invaders of a lawful assembly, convened for the holiest purposes, be! Such shameless will any is villainy it only one of the innumerable plagues to which the accursed slave system has given birth; but, thank God, it is as impotent as it is despicable. The result of it will be to strengthen and advance the cause it was intended to put down. This is certain.
A glorious achievement, truly, for an organized body of bellowing. brutal, brazen-faced ruffians to howl down one man and two women, attempting to plead the cause of "all such as are appointed to destruction" in that portion of our land which is "full of the habitations of cruelty,” and thoroughly demonized in spirit! And who were the parties thus put down? Rev. Beriah Green. formerly Professor at Hudson College, and subsequently President of the Oneida Institute a man of the rarest culture and the most scholarly attainments, one of the profoundest thinkers of the age, a great heroic soul, a world embracing philanthropist, full of “the milk of human kindness,” genial, persuasive, courteous, large-hearted, and without spot  or blemish:- Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, daughter of the late highly respected Judge Cady, and wife of Hon. Henry B. Stanton-among the foremost women of the age in intellectual power, moral elevation of mind, breadth of reformatory purpose, and nobility of character:- Miss. Susan B. Anthony, who is honorably known to tens of thousands in the Empire State for her efficient public labors in the cause of education, temperance, the rights of her sex, as well as the anti-slavery cause; intelligent, self-sacrificing, and thoroughly devoted.
One other speaker, who joined this little party at Rochester, Rev. Samuel J. May, of Syracuse, needs only of be named to indicate every tiling pure, upright, benevolent, loving and lovable-one in whom all "the fruits of the Spirit,” enumerated by the Apostle, are seen in the richest profusion.  
And it is such as these who are branded as fanatical an mad, while their vile and rowdy assailants stand forth unblushingly as the representatives of all that is patriotic, and the champions of "law and order." There is no disposition to bring them to justice by those in authority, for a state of universal demoralization prevails, society is turned upside down, and "he that departed from evil markets himself a prey."

THE STRUGGLE WITH SLAVERY.
Extract of a private letter from a prominent and highly esteemed member of the Republican party in Maine to a friend in this city:-
"I have often been impelled, during these exciting times, to write you a few words touching the progress of the great cause in which our feelings are so much interested. The secession of South Carolina, and the strong probability that the confirmed and determined slave States will follow her, is a new phase in the progress of the great struggle with slavery.  I have, for years, foreseen this result, and have not withheld my vaticinations in regard to it.  It must take place now, or some time soon.  In spite of the timidity of many Republicans, and the utterly servile spirit of the Northern commercial classes, as indicated in the disgraceful Boston mob, the Philadelphia Union meeting, and the result of the late municipal elections, I believe and hope the catastrophe will occur now.  True, there are a host of difficulties in the way of establishing a Southern confederacy-how to carry the mails, how to avoid paying revenue to the General Government, and to obtain out of an impoverished people, whose financial system is hi confusion, a sufficient revenue to equip and maintain an army and navy-how to appease the jealousy of other slave States, and without a general Convention to agree upon a plan of action which will suit all their different views-all these seem formidable difficulties in the way of the consummation of success.  But then the excitement is so great, and there is at the bottom of this great question such a world-wide difference, out of which hostile feelings constantly grow, that the chances of a compromise and settlement seem very small.  The North seem weak enough to compromise again, but the South are so infuriate and unreasonable, so bent upon self distention, that it does not seem possible to conciliate them. So, with a separation of the confederacy, we enter upon a new epoch of our history.
Upon the slave and his fete, the effect of disunion seems at present disastrous.  The separation cuts him off from Northern sympathy, and the influence of a humane and civilized government.  If the South would submit to the Republican rule, I think slavery might disappear gradually and peaceably. But, shut up within a confederacy whose sole policy will be the security of slavery, I am afraid the slaveholders will be able to maintain their ill-gotten power for many years. That is, they might do so if their very infatuation did not work their ruin. They will, how open the foreign slave trade, and by the superior ever fruitfulness of the colored race, the white being reinforced by no foreign emigration, will at length create a powerful brute force of fierce hatred and resistance, which will, before many years, quench slavery in blood. It is a fearful future to contemplate; but did ever a guilty people so rush upon a terrible punishment, in spite of all the warnings of mankind?
True, it will be a signal deliverance.  To have the horrid and filthy hoof of the Slave Power taken off our necks, and to stand up in the dignity and decency of honest men, will be no slight advantage.  Aside from our guilty implication in slavery, no thoughtful person has failed to notice what a hindrance in the way of our progress, what a corrupter of our morals, what a fruitful source of individual and social degradation, the practice of slaveholding has been to us.  I believe it will be for the disenthralled North the beginning of a career of advancement in every moral, social and material good.
My only fears are of a dastardly recession, and of an ignominious compromise. Every voice and pen must now come to the rescue, and each with a power self-multiplied, to stimulate, encourage, threaten and command. Blessings upon the Old Guard of Abolitionists!  Let every soul be instant, every slather on his watch-tower; and if treason to right and justice is done, let it not be for want of warning, and sharp and serious censure."
We regret that the letter of Mr. Phillsbury, last week, was marred by several typographical errors, which were overlooked in correcting proof. We have on file another letter from Mr. P.
We copy from the Northampton Free Press, an excellent and well conducted paper, the letter from Mr. Burleigh in another column, giving an account of the outrage perpetrated in Westfield West Farms by a gang of "patriotic" rowdies, ending in the burning of the school house as an offering to the demon  spirit of slavery. 

<c02>
THE TWENTY-SEVENTH NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION-ANNIVERSARY. 
The claims of this anniversary can hardly fell, at the present hour, to be recognized. Its funds are devoted, not to African colonization; not to political partisanship; not to theological and metaphysical polemics not to the separate education or religious instruction of persons of color; not to the fomenting of sectional prejudice, civil war, or bloody insurrection; not to the relief or redemption of individuals.
These subscriptions have always been appropriated to the work of awakening the public conscience, enlarging the popular heart, and enlightening the national mind, that, by the practical application, through legitimate channels, of the acknowledged religious and political principles of this country, slavery might be abolished, and the whole land made happy and united: not through enforced emancipation, but by voluntary enfranchisement. 
There  is no longer any need of defining or describing the brutal system of slavery that, since 1789, has been demoralizing the country. A lifetime under violence, loss, and continual annoyance has been spent in doing that. The people know, now, that it is no distant, imaginary evil, but one that overshadows every life with danger and dishonor. While fulfilling even the simplest duty of humanity to any perishing fellow-creature who has taken refuge in the sanctuary of their own homes, their whole nature is outraged by the thought that he may be mercilessly seized as a slave, from the very hearth. They cannot protect a hunted child from a fate worse than death, without the risk of being themselves broken down for life by fine and imprisonment. 
Of course, the pious refusal of free Northern populations to obey such diabolical mockeries of Constitutions and laws, with the simultaneous determination of slave-holding ones at the South never to permit their amendment, necessitates revolution. And now, no qualified observer, surviving the country, can hesitate to acknowledge the great work already done by the American Anti-Slavery Society. It has enabled the Northern populations to meet the present crisis with calm and intelligent resolution; and if the American Anti-Slavery Society had been earlier sustained, to diffuse its deep human feelings, its true counsels and accurate knowledge, more extensively, the masses of the people would betimes have been so warmly and wisely devoted to this magnificent cause, that revolution would have been purely moral, and no disturbing crisis like the present could have occurred.
But the wrong a few just and generous persons have been unable to prevent, may still, by timely co-operation with them, be retrieved.
In the very nature of things as they here exist, it will always rest with disinterested persons in private life to initiate every change for the better. Under its present cherished institutions, the country must always look beyond its Church and State dignitaries, its political and ecclesiastical servants, for the previous preparation indispensable to national progress; for how can a Governor, a Senator, a Judge, a minister of any denomination or religious society, take the lead? Every such public functionary is engaged by the people not to lead, but to serve; not to make creeds and constitutions, but to administer under them; not to make things what they should be, but to take them exactly as they are.
Hence the need of an auxiliary private, voluntary service, like that which for the last seven and twenty years the American Anti-Slavery Society has by this anniversary helped to fulfill its claims to popular support begin to be felt. The moral vanguard of the people, whether in a sovereign or a functionary capacity, begins to see the mistake of sending a noble official servant to reap where no generous voluntary service of good and thoughtful men has previously sowed. Let all now unite to sustain such a service-the only possible means of peaceful national progress-the only possible condition of national growth or guaranty for continued national existence. 
After having for a life-time done what we could in this behalf, have we not established its claim upon every thoughtful, just and noble soul On all such we cordially and confidently rely for both moral support and pecuniary aid. Both will be afforded by the act of subscription to which we now invite. 
We entreat our friends to remember that, however advantageous and indispensable the largest sums subscribed, none confer on us a higher obligation than the smaller one which the guest offers, regretting that it is the largest in his power.
In behalf of the  Twenty-Seventh National Anti-Slavery Subscription-Anniversary, 
MARIA WEST ON CHAPMAN. 

FUGITIVE SLAVES AND THE LIBEETY ACT.
NUMBER III. 
It is admitted  by nearly all persons in the free States, that slavery is intrinsically and fundamentally wrong, that it is a violation of justice and natural rights, at war with the laws of God and humanity, and that no government has a right to legalize it, and make it one of their civil  institutions. But  it has been claimed, that by reason of the right of sovereignty, any government has the right to exercise a jurisdiction over all subjects pertaining to the welfare of the people under its control, and that, by virtue of this right of sovereignty, it may legislate slavery into existence, and may maintain it by legal enactments when it is created. But, in my judgment, a great mistake  is made, and a great fallacy uttered, when such a doctrine is advanced, and such an extensive application of the right of sovereignty is claimed. This right, like all other rights, is bounded by the principles  of justice and equity, and cannot transcend them. No State under it has the right to legalize crime and I wickedness, and to make it legal to commit murder, theft, piracy or slavery. No State has even the political right to do such a thing, certainly not the moral right. No State has the right to pass a law, allowing an act which is "malum in se," that is, in itself intrinsically wicked and criminal. It has undoubtedly the right to pass a law, allowing an individual to do, I  prohibiting him from doing, an act which is or is no,” malum prohibited. or a crime, according as it is, or is not, allowed by the State. By "alum malum prohibited" is meant, an act which in itself is not criminal, but may become so by being prohibited by the State off the over sign. To such acts, the sovereign power of the State extends, but not beyond them. Slavery, then, being   crime, "malum in se." like murder, theft and piracy, cannot possibly be legalized by government, but must  remain such, whether the government attempts to legalize, it or not; and should be so considered and treated every one. 
If this position is a sound one, and of this I  have no doubt,—,-it follows necessarily, that no State in which slavery does not exist has any right to  consider slavery a legal institution in any State where it does exist, but a crime there and everywhere. And such being the case, it has no right to bind itself by any constitutional provision to recognize it as a legal one, and to engage that fugitive slave shall be returned to his master; for by so doing it becomes particles criminals with the slave State itself, 
To illustrate these views, and make the case a very clear one, I will suppose that, at the time the Union was formed, piracy was an authorized and legalized practice in the Southern States that a large number of vessels were permitted by law to engage in this enterprise, and that the vessels and cargoes taken are by these piratical expeditions were considered by the law of these States as the  legal property of the captors, and were adjudged such by their legal tribunals. I It is now proposed by them to form a union with the North; and in doing this, they maintain that it is own necessary that the North should recognize this  right in them to engage in these piratical expeditions, and their right of property in the vessels and cargoes they should capture; and that if any of these vessels and cargoes should find their  way into the Northern States, and be claimed by those from whom they were
<c03>
captured, they should not be given up to them by the North, but to the pirates who had captured them; and that they should insist upon a provision in the National Constitution making such a stipulation. "Would the North, I ask, feel justified in making such a stipulation; and if they did make it, would they feel bound to observe it? "Would they feel justified in countenancing the doctrine that property obtained in this way should be considered and treated as property obtained in any other way, and given up, not to its real and bona fide owner, but to those who had no other claim to it than that founded upon piracy? I do not think they could be brought to consider it in this light, or to make such a constitutional stipulation; or, if they made it, that they would consider themselves bound to carry it into execution. I believe that the State would decide that it was a stipulation that they never had a right to make, that it was a clear invasion of the rights and property of others, as founded in justice and the laws of all other countries of the civilized globe, except these piratical governments; and having so decided, they would proceed to declare this provision of the Constitution null and void, leaving in full operation all other parts of the Constitution, which were considered moral and just. And no judicial tribunal, National or State, would consider itself bound to enforce a law, made under such a constitutional provision, but would treat it as a dead letter, totally to be disregarded and contemned. 
Now, the doctrine is maintained by those in favor of executing the laws made under the provision of the National Constitution relating to fugitive slaves, that all provisions of the Constitution, of whatever nature, must be recognized and enforced, without any regard to their justice or injustice, and that all States which have adopted this Constitution, and the individuals composing them, are bound to carry out these provisions, and can in no way be released from them. Now, we have put a case, putting to a test the soundness of this doctrine, and shown it to be clearly unsound, and that there may be cases where a provision of the  Constitution would clearly not be binding; and by so doing, we have completely overthrown the whole ground upon which the binding force of the Fugitive Slave Law rests, so far as it relates to those who believe in its gross injustice and criminality. For if one provision of the Constitution may be rendered invalid for such a cause, so may another be; and their whole doctrine is overthrown. 
But to continue the parallel between piracy and slavery. I say that the views expressed above in relation to piracy apply equally well to slavery. This institution, here at the North, is viewed as criminal as piracy, and the property held under it as wrongful and unjustifiable; and even more so, as the one is the asserted right of property in the souls and both of our fellow-men, and the other in mere inanimate matter, as goods, wares and merchandize. And not only so, but that slavery is the actual result of the slave trade, which is now legally piracy, as it was always morally such, so that the only claim of the owner of a slave to a property in him is one founded on piracy, either directly, or through a remote ancestor of the existing slave. What such a right of property is worth is easily understood by those who can appreciate the source from which it proceeds, viz., piracy. Why, then, entertaining such opinions here at the North, have we any more right to recognize the right of property in  slaves than in vessels captured by piracy? And why have we any more right to stipulate, by a constitutional provision, to return slaves to their masters, as their just property, instead of allowing them! to own themselves, than to return vessels and cargoes captured by pirates to the latter, instead of their true owners? And why is the State or its citizens, or any  tribunal, whether State or National, any more bound to carry this constitutional stipulations into effect, than  such a stipulation in regard to pirated property? I must confess that, for myself, I do not see even so much reason, as the enormity of the crime in the case of slavery is so much greater. 
There can be but one possible ground that furnishes even a specious justification of slavery, and that is, that the African race are not in fact human beings, but brutes, and therefore, like other brutes, are justly subjected to the dominion and control of the white race, who are, in fact, the only human beings. But I no one, even the most inveterate slaveholder, will attempt to maintain such a ground as this. 
There are differences in intellectual capacity among the African  race, as  there are among the white race, and the highest order of the former stand higher in the scale of intellectual development than the lowest of the latter; so that if intellect is to be made the standard according to which men are to be made slaves, a large part of the white race should be reduced to slavery, as well as any portion of the African race. And not only so, upon the ground that the whole African race are naturally inferior to the whole white race, and therefore may be reduced to slavery, it would necessarily follow that there should be no free colored. people, as there are at present, but all indiscriminately should be made slaves. And the fact that a large portion of the African race, even in the slaveholding  I States, are allowed to remain free, shows that even in these States, they have no confidence in this doctrine as a justification of slavery, and do not act upon it. In fact, there is no ground upon which slavery can stand but that of gross and unmitigated wrong. Its only title is that of piracy, and that committed upon a human being; and it is equally criminal with other  piracy, and much more so. 
I hold, therefore, that the National Government have no right in any way to recognize the institution of slavery as legally existing in any territory under the jurisdiction and control of the National Government on; for they have no authority given to them by the Constitution, from which they derive all their authority, for this purpose, but that they are bound both by the letter and spirit of this instrument to abolish it where ever it exists in the National Territory and in the District of Columbia, and by a law of Congress for that it should ever be introduced into any of the Territories of the United States; and that no comprising ever should be acceded to by the free States, with out view of conciliating the slave States, let the consequences be what they may, which should recognize the legal  is existence of slavery in any way whatever within  the jurisdiction and sovereignty of the National Government. If the Union cannot be saved but by a sacrifice of justice and right, and the enslavement of the colored race, let it fall! My maxim in this, as in  all other cases, is" Fiat justifier, runt column."
W. S. A.
ANTI SLAVERY FESTIVAL AND ANNIVERSARY. "We trust it will only be necessary to remind the friends of our cause, that the Annual Subscription-Festival will be held on Wednesday evening next, at Music Hall, to insure a large and brilliant assembly, ready to testify their abiding interest and unwearied zeal in behalf of the grandest movement of the age, by contributing generously of their means for its completion, whether it be the widow's tow two mites, or donations on the largest scale. For particulars, see advertisement in another column; and do not fail to read the admirable statement of the case from the pen of Mrs. Chapman.
The annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society will commence in the Tremont Temple, on Thursday morning next, at half-past 10 o'clock.  Its members and friends in the various country towns will, it is hoped, be strongly represented.
SEND IN THE PETITIONS. The petitions for putting an effectual end to slave-hunting in Massachusetts should be immediately forwarded for presentation to the Legislature. They can be sent either to the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, or to the Representatives of the various towns from which they emanate.  Those who have not yet put their signatures to them should do so with all alacrity.  Before God, and by the law of eternal justice, what moral difference is there between the act of kidnapping on the coast of Africa, and consenting to the re-capture of the panting  fugitive on our own soil?
<c04>
MOBOCRACY AT WESTFIELD WEST FARMS.
In last Saturday's Springfield Republican, I read that "Charles C. Burleigh, a rabid Abolitionist, delivered a political address at a school house in west farms, Westfield, Thursday evening, and uttered sentiments so offensive that a mob gathered and broke up the meeting, and celebrated their triumph by malting a bonfire of the school-house and its contents."
This statement gives the mob more credit-not much, at that, it is true-than they deserve, for it implies, that their riotous demonstration was provoked by something "offensive" which they heard in the address. The truth is, they did not wait to know whether its "sentiments" would be "offensive" or not; but began the disturbance before a word of it was uttered, and even before the speaker had reached the place of meeting. It was enough for them that he Was "a Abolitionist," [they filled the blank with a different epithet from the Republican's,] and that the appointment had been made by "a [epithet repeated] Black Republican. "Between these two pestiferous classes of persons, they evidently saw no appreciable difference; for their maledictions were distributed between them with entire impartiality, as well as the utmost liberality. If you think your readers would care to see a correct account of the affair, the following is at your disposal. 
On Wednesday evening last, I went to Westfield West Farms, to meet an appointment, which, at my request, had been made for me there. Having repeatedly, within the last two or three years, had a quiet and attentive hearing there, I went, anticipating nothing else at this time. But, on reaching the school-house, at the appointed hour, I found a scene of unexpected confusion, and soon saw evidence of a purpose to make disturbance. The house was nearly full— -some were sitting, some standing there was a buzz of voices the stove had been thickly sprinkled with some substance like pepper, which, in burning, gave out a pungent odor, annoying to all in the house. Most of the company had come to hear the address; a few five or six, I think to prevent its being heard. The well-disposed had opened a window to correct the air, but could keep it open only by taking the sash entirely out.
The chief rioter, whose name I was told was Tyler, and whose face bore, in Nature's plain hand-writing, a certificate of his fitness for the work he was about, sat at the teacher's desk, no doubt to prevent my standing there; and with him sat an old man, of countenance no way prepossessing, puffing tobacco-smoke from the stump of a pipe blackened by much use. I passed in, and, not at first suspecting the purpose of their sitting there, laid on the desk a bundle of books and roll of portraits, and had hardly more than turned to take a survey of the room, when both were violently hurled against the stove, and fell to the floor. I took them up, and held them in my hands during the remainder of my stay in the house.
The head of the riotous gang now began to vociferate that no lecture should be allowed there, protesting, with sundry expletives more emphatic than elegant or reverent, that we had no right to use the house for such purpose. Others replied and remonstrated; voices grew high, oaths were frequent, and fists were shaken. Seeing the impossibility of making myself heard to any advantage, I stood a silent spectator of the tumult for a few minutes, then accepted the invitation of the occupant of a dwelling-house near by, to go and give my lecture in that. As I began to move toward the door, a small specimen of a man met me, rudely seized my arm, gave me a push more spiteful than forcible, and said something about tar and feathers. I walked on as if he had not been in the way, and nearly all present went with me to the friendly neighbor's house, where we had an undisturbed and pleasant meeting.
At the close of my discourse as I had no engagement for the next evening—-I proposed to speak again somewhere in that region, and, being promptly invited to do so at the same house, made an appointment accordingly. But the next day, some who were indignant at what they considered a violation of their right to hear peaceably in their, school-house, resolved to try again to assert that right. They got permission of the District Committee man to use the house, and announced that the meeting would be there. [I learned in the morning, what I did not know before, that permission had not been asked for the first evening, because, as I was told, it had been customary to use the house for meetings without that formality, and no objection was anticipated, as none had ever before been made.]
When we met the second evening, no disturbers were at first present, and it was said that the mob-leader had declared that he should not molest us.But either  the report or his declaration proved false, for I had spoken hardly more than fifteen minutes when he appeared, and standing in the door, with his gang behind him, began a clamorous interruption. Some within tried to prevail on him to be quiet, and to lelet the door be shut, but he only grew more noisy, till several of the young men, provoked beyond their power of self-restraint, (some "Democrats" among them, not liking perhaps that the reputation of their party should be compromised by the bully's conduct,) rushed upon him to put him out. A scene of wild confusion followed; struggling and pushing and blows1, swearing and threats and defiance, making altogether a tumult in which it was, of course, useless to try to proceed with my address, and I stood looking on in silence. In the strife, one rioter seized some of my books which were spread on the desk before me, and hurled them furiously at his antagonists; but my friends gathered them up, and returned them to me While the battle raged, one of the mob snatched the loose legs of the stove from under it on one side, an overturned it, pouring the fire out upon the floor, and filling the room with smoke. My friends speedily replaced it, and, as they supposed, gathered up and put back all the coal. It having become manifest that the rioters were <illegible> enough to prevent my being heard, I again <illegible> to leave the house, and repair to the kind neighbor's, (the invitation being renewed,) where we met the evening before. I had packed my books and put on my coat for this purpose, when a new phase of the affair appeared. It seems that, doubtful of their success in one way, the mob had planned another had sent to Westfield for a lawyer who  was also a Justice of the Peace, and a police officer, and that these dignitaries had been in the house during a part of the time of the struggle just described; the man of "a little brief authority," the magistrate-lawyer, had made out a warrant to arrest me on a charge of assault, using as complainant the fellow who the had assaulted me the evening before. The poor fellow's notions of personal identity had, it seems, become" so confused in the tumult that, mistaking me for himself, and himself for me, he swore to a complaint again me for his own act upon me. The officer came to me, warrant in hand, but, instead of making the arre!8st, told me that the movers of the prosecution would withdraw it, if I would leave the school-house. I replied, in substance, that if he wished to give me a motive for going, he was too late, as I had already resolved to go for another reason, the impossibility of making myself heard there; if he wished to hasten my going, he was too soon, for now I must stop awhile longer, to inquire into this new shape of the case, and that I was curious to see the man who had sworn to such a ridiculously false accusation. The man was called out, and stood forward, not I thought with the greatest alacrity or an air of the utmost confidence, and I subjected him to a brief cross-questioning which in he evidently did not enjoy; although, of course,  with his instigators and backers about him, he still stood to his lie, and they echoed it. But he soon slunk back among the crowd. Having given his associates a rich concise expression of my estimate of the whole affair, a ugand then invited all who wished to hear me farther to follow me to the neighboring dwelling-house again, I led the way thither. Some followed; some stayed to speak their minds also to the rioten. rioters. On reaching  of the house, I found the evening so far spent that I concluded not to resume my discourse, and after passing
<c05>
half an hour or so in social converse, we dispersed. when I passed the school-house, with the friends who made me their guest for the night, the company had Milone, and all was still and dark. Two or three hours later, the voices of my host and his family roused me from sleep, and, looking out, I saw the school-house on fire, and evidently too far gone for any chance of saving it. Probably at the overturning of the stove, a  I few coals had fallen unperceived through the floor, and from them the fire had kindled; though, as I heard next morning, there were suspicions that, after the people had gone home, some of the rioters returned, and purposely set the house on fire. Be that as it may, one thing in is certain, that, in one way or the other, the school house was made a whole burnt-offering to the demon-deity whose worship is the suppression of free speech for freedom. And what could be in better I keeping? If thought is to be stifled and utterance choked, in order that slavery may go unreduced, what is the need or use of school-houses? “Why should not an ignorance go with barbarism 
C. C. BURLEIGH. 
Florence, 1st mo. 8th, 1861. 

CORRECTION AND ANNOUNCEMENT. 
CINCINNATI, Ohio, Jan. 9, 1861.  
EDITOR LIBERATOR: 
In your last issue, you announce that the Dial is to be discontinued. Please correct this as soon as you can. The Dial is changed from a Monthly to a Quarterly Magazine, but counts yet on a long battle for the liberty of Man. It hopes to give good papers, during the year, from Emerson, Curtis, Thoreau, Sanborn, Howells, Farness, Joel and Myron Benton, and O. B. Frothingham. It claims to be the freest magazine in America; and if it these, will be of telling the truth to despots of mind and body. From all who care to the extent of two hundred cents whether such an organ "is voted up or voted down," I shall hope to hear. 
Yours for good drainage, whatever frog-ponds be broken up, M. D. CON WAY. 

THE TWENTY-SEVENTH 
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVEKY  
SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY. 
The Ladies who have for so many years received the Subscriptions of their friends to the Cause, ask the favor of their company, as usual, at this time of the year, on WENESDAY EVENING, the 23d of January,
in Music Hall, Boston. 
As accidental omissions are almost unavoidable, even of those whoso company is most desired, the Ladies  hasten to say that ALL who hate slavery, and wish ty become subscribers to the funds for its peaceful, immediate abolition, without expatriation, may obtain special invitations (without which no party is ever admitted) at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, and of the Ladies at their respective homes.
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN,
MARY MAY,
LOUISA LORING,
L. MARIA CHILD,
HENRIETTA SARGENT,
ANNE WARREN WESTON,
MARY GRAY CHAPMAN,
HELEN ELIZA GARRISON,
SARAH SHAW RUSSELL, 
FRANCES MARY ROBBLNS,
CAROLINE WESTON,
MARY WILLEY, 
SARAH BLAKE SHAW,
SUSAN C. CABOT,
SARAH P. ATKINSON,
ELIZA ANDREW,
LYDIA D. PARKER, 
ELIZA F. EDDY,
SARAH P.REMOND,
SARAH RUSSELL MAY,
ABBY KELLEY FOSTER,
SARAH H. SOUTHWICK,
EVELINA A. SMITH,
ANN REBECCA BRAMHALL,
AUGUSTA G. KING,
ELIZABETH VON ARNIM,
ANNA SHAW GREENE,
ELIZA APTUORP,
MARY ELIZABETH SARGENT,
MATTIE GRIFFITH,
ANNE LANGDON ALGER,
MARY E. STEARNS.
The friends of the Cause in distant cities, or in country towns, with whom we have been so long in correspondence, are earnestly entreated, for the sake of the Cause, at this moment of hope and cheer, when the very evidences of progress make it difficult to raise money in large sums,	-to take up collections in their respective neighborhoods; using all diligence to make the amount of smaller subscriptions supply any deficiency the hard times may possibly occasion in the larger ones. Now, as the very time for the most efficient expenditure, should be the time of most devoted effort. It is to be hoped that not a town in any State where we have ever had correspondence, nor an individual whoso heart is in unison with ours on this subject, will be found wanting to our list. We have ample opportunity to know that there are many such at the South, as well as at the North, for we are not exclusively of Northern birth, nor all free from the painful remembrance of having once, been slaveholders. We hope to welcome as many as possible at the evening reception; at all events, to receive, their subscriptions by letter. Some of the ladies will be ready, while directing the arrangements for the evening reception, to welcome and receive the subscriptions of all their friends who prefer to make their calls during the day.
The Germanic Band will fill the pauses of conversation in the evening. The guests may leave cloaks and shawls in the care of the attendants at the entrance and in the ante-rooms.
Each invitation must be countersigned by the guest, as last year, before presenting at the door. 
The guests who have not already received special invitations, will find them at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington street.  

NEW SERIES OF TRACTS.
PUBLISHED BY THE 
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY,
AND TO BE OBTAINED AT THE 
Anti-Slavery Offices, 5 Beekman Street, New York; 107 North Fifth Street, Philadelphia 15 Steuben Street, Albany; and 221 Washington Street, Boston.
No. 1. Correspondence between Lydia Maria Child and  Governor Wise and Mrs. Mason, of Virginia, pp. 28. 5 cents.
No. 2. Victor Hugo on American Slavery, with letters of other distinguished individuals, vis., Tocqucville, Mazzini, Humboldt, Lafayette, &c. pp. 24. 5 cents.
No. 3. An Account of some of the Principal Slave Insurrections during the last two Centuries. By JOSHUA COFFIN., pp. 36. 5 cents.
No. 4. The New Reign of Terror in the Slaveholding States, for 1850 and 1860. pp. 144. 10 cents.
No. 5. Daniel O'Connell on American Slavery;  with other Irish Testimonies, pp. 48. 5 cents.
No. 6. The Right Way the Safe Way, proved by Emancipation in the West Inthes and else where. By L. MARIA CHILD, pp. 95. 10 cents
No. 7. Testimonies of Capt. John Brown at Harper's Ferry, with his Address to the Court, pp. 16. 3 cents.
No. 8. The Philosophy of the Abolition Movement. By WENDELL  PHILLIPS, pp. 47. 
5 cents.
No. 9. The Duty of Disobedience to the Fugitive Slave Act: An Appeal to the Legislators of <illegible> Massachusetts. By L. MARIA CHILD., pp. 36. 5 cents.  
No. 10. The Infidelity of Abolitionism. By WM. LLOYD GARRISON. pp. 12. 3 cents
No. 11. Speech of John Hossaek, convicted of a Violation of the Fugitive Slave Act at Chicago, III. pp. 12. 3 cents.
No. 12.The Patriarchal Institution, as <illegible>  described by Members of its Own Family. Compiled by L. MAUIA CHILD, pp. 55.5 cents
No. 13. No Slave-Hunting in the Old Bay State: An Appeal to the People and Legislators of <illegible> pp.24. 5 cents.
<c06>
MASSACHUSETTS ANTI SLAVERY SOCIETY 
Collections by Salivs Holley:
Millbury, 8 36; Brookfleld, 7 56: Aadorer, 7; Mrs. E. B. Chase, 5; A friend.Mend, 1 58; Newbury-port, 7 25; diamond Plain, 6 12; West Wrontham, 4 21; Burnstable, 2 6808; North Dousls, Dennis, 3 76; East DounlsDennis, 4 29; Harwich, 9; MysannisHyannis, 5 02; Centreville, 4; Mrs. Russell Marston, 2; Osterville, 8 32;Cotuit, 6; Provincetown, 6 27; Manville, R., I. 3 43; East Greenwich, do. 4 23; Canton, Mass., 5 34; East Needham, 4 30; North Berwick, 3; James N.Buffam,10; Franklin, 3 57; West Medway, 5 53; friends, 2;  Fall River, 10; a friend, 1, 150 22
Collections by A. T. Foss:
Constributions at Fall River, $10; Wm. Barker, 1; Wm. Howland, 1; New Bedford, 20; Lawrence, 4 91.  $36 91
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.
NEW YORK STATE CONVENTION. The Fourth Annual New York State Anti-Slavery Convention will be held at Albany, in Association Hall, Monday evening , Tuesday and Wednesday, afternoon and evenings, Feb. 4, 5, G. Bon. Gerrit Smith, Lueretia Mott, Rev. Beriah Green, Ernestine L. Rose, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Oliver Johnson, Rev. S. J. May, Aaron M. Powell, Susan B. Anthony and others will address the Convention.
Afternoon sessions will commence at half -past 2 o'clock.  Admission free.  Evening sessions at half -past 7 o'clock.  Admission, 10 cents.
SIXTEENTH COURSE--.-The Eighth Lecture before the Salem Female Anti-Slavery Society will be given by Rev. FREDERICK FROTHINGHAN, of Portland, on sunday evening, 20th January, in Lycoum Hall, at 7 o'clock.  
The Ninth Lecture will be given the following Tuesday evening, 22d inst., by Rev. J. M. MANNING, of Boston, in a same place. Admittance five cents.
CAROLINE BALCH, Rec. Sec!
MANCHESTER, N. H. A. T. Foss, HENRY C. WRIGHT and J. M. HAWKS will speak in Manchester, N. II. Sunday, Jan. 20, day and evening.
H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at Neponaet, Monday evening, Jan.12.
H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at East Abington, Sunday, Jan. 27, afternoon and evening  At Bridgewater, Tuesday, Jan. 31.
WOMANSRIGHTS. The Second Annual New York State Woman's Rights Convention will be held at ALBANY, in Association Hall, Thursday and Friday, afternoons and evenings, Feb. 7 and 8.
Lucretia Mott, Ernestine L. Rose, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Hon. Gerrit Smith, Rev. Beriah Green, Rev. S., J. May, Aaron M. Powell, Susan B. Anthony, and others, will address the convention.
Afternoon sessions at half  past 2 o'clock. Admission free. Evening sessions at half-past 7 o'clock. Admission 10 cents.
FREE DISPENSARY, for Women and Children, 274 Washington street, Boston,. Open every day, from 12 to 1 o'clock.
The above institution (in connection with the LADIES MEDICAL ACADEMY) is now open for the gratuitous treatment of Women and Children, and for Surgical Patients of both sexes. Difficult cases may have the benefit of a consultation on Wednesdays, at 12 o'clock.
MIDWIFERY. Attendance by duly qualified female practitioners will be provided for the poor, at their own homes, free of charge.
MRS. M. B. JACKSON, M. D.HAVING HAD FIFTEEN years, having had fifteen years' experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers here professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References. David Thayer, M. D. Luther Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 31 Bowdoin and 10 Allston streets, Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
BESSIE S. LOCKWOOD, M. D. No. 34, Auburn. Street, Boston., Particular attention paid to the Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Diseases.
 OFFICE HOURS from 11, A. M., till 2, P. M. Nov.23-3m
SITUATION WANTED-.A lady who has had large experience in matters of house -keeping, and who is eminently qualified satisfactorily to discharge the duties connected therewith, desires a situation either an housekeeper, or matron of some establishment, either in this city or vicinity.  The best of references given. Address X., Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington street.
If Mr. Henry Alexander will call on R. F.Wallcut, at 221 Washington street, he will find the document which he left at 26 Essex street.
MARRIED-In this city, Jan,. 7, by Rev. L. A. Grimes, ELIJAH W. SMITH TO ELIZA RILEY.
JOHN WM. TEAMOH TO FLORENCE P. GAULT.
In Northampton, Jan. 9, HENRY M.BURY , Editor of the Northampton Free Press, to FRANCES A. HUNT, daughter of Seth Hunt, Esq.

The British Reviews, AND Blackwood's Magazine.
1.THE LONDON QUARTERLY, (Conservative)
2.THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, (Whig.)
3.THE NORTH BRITISH REVIEW, (Free Church.)
4.THE WSTMINSTER, REVIEW, (Liberal)
5.BLACKWOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE, (Tory.)
TERMS.
Per ann.
For any one of the four Reviews, $ 3 00
For any two of the four Reviews, 5 00
For any three of the four Reviews, 7 00
For all four of the  Reviews, 8 00
For Blackwood's Magazine, 3 00
For Blackwood and one Reviews, 5 00
For Blackwood and two Reviews, 7 00
For Blackwood and three Reviews, 9 00
For Blackwood and the four Reviews, 10 00
N. B.-The price in Great Britain of the five Periodicals above named iS $31 per annum.
Republished by LEONARD SCOTT & CO.,
54 Gold Street, New York.
Dec. 28.  6w
$40 PARKER  $40
Sewing Machines, 
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread. Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company.  They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanizes Char liable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines new now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington Street, 
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice.
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861. 
3m.
SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE
Fourth Edition.
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR Propositions, theological, moral, <illegible> 
Scripture embodying most of the <illegible>
Historical and speculative, each proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture; embodying most of the palpable and striking self contradictions of the <illegible>
So-called inspired. Word of God! Fourth Edition.  Price 13 cents, <illegible>
Post-paid. Eight for a dollar.  Sold by all liberal <illegible>
booksellers, and by the publishers, A. J.DAVIS & CO.,
05 6m 274 Canal street, New York.
TRANSIENT BOARDERS.
THE subscriber has just opened house No. 77 Myrtle street, for the <illegible>
accommodation of transient Boarders. The loc tine is a <illegible>
Location is a pleasant one, within a few minutes' walk of the most central portions <illegible>
Will be made for the comfort of these <illegible>
Portions, of the city. Every exertion will be made for the comfort of those who may favor the house with a call. <Illegible>
Rooms furnished with or without board. Terms <illegible>
Moderate. Jan. 11, S. NEWELL.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY
For the Liberator.
LINES TO NEW ENGLAND.
BY THE OLD COLONY BARD.
Stand firm, New England!-calm and cool
Be thy deliberations now;
Though madness in the South may rule,
Still, Freedom claims thine altar-vow;
Of what for Freedom thou hast wrought,
Bate not a shade of word or thought!
Heed not Oppression's angry waves!
Concession ne'er would still the storm;
Thy free-born sons to chattel slaves,
Peace to ensure, though thou transform,
‘Give, give,’ the slave-fiend still would cry;
No boon would ever satisfy!
Inglorious peace thou wilt not crave,
Freedom and honor dwell with thee,
No son of thine can be a slave,
Thy mountains and thy plains are free;
Then, if a hunted bondman come,
NEW ENGLAND may he make his home!

From the Harvard Magazine.
EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND SIXTY-ONE.
Bright year of promise! ushered in
By ransomed millions'loud acclaim,
Who now a nobler life begin,
Redeem'd from Slavery's curse and shame!
The Russian serf, but yesterday
A slave to the insensate sod,
No more a tyrant must obey,
But bows before the freeman's God.
Yet not alone by Baltie's tide
This morn the sun of freedom shines,
But walks, with more than regal pride,
Above the classic Apennines.
For Italy, so long cast down
'Neath Despotism's iron heel,
Mindful, at last, of old renown,
Draws, not in vain, th'avenging steel.
Now by the Tiber's storied wave,
And Adriatic's silver flood,
Striking for freedom or a grave,
The patriot sheds his dearest blood.
Base Bomba from his hated throne
By Garibaldi's hand is hurled;
And Freedom's fruitful seed is sown
Amid the plaudits of the world.
O glorious Sixty-one, all hail!
From distant Ural's snowy pines
The songs of Freedom swell thy gale,
To the fair Southern Land of Vines.
So may we feel that healthful breeze
Sweep hither on its saving way,
Our tyrants'hearts with terror seize,
And speed Emancipation's day.
Though now where Santee's waters flow,
And by Fort Moultrie's blood-stained wall,
Born to a heritage of woe,
Bows'neath the lash the Afrie thrall,
God grant the contest now begun
May bid the bondman's fetters fall;
Then shall we sing thee, Sixty-one,
The year most glorious of all!

From the Boston Journal.
THE VOICE OF THE DYING YEAR.
WRITTEN BETWEEN ELEVEN AND TWELVE ON THE LAST NIGHT OF THE YEAR.
NIGHT OF THE YEAR,
As within my chamber musing,
Watching the departing year,
Listening to the tread of angels,
Waiting still their notes to hear;
Lo! I hear the spirit voices
Of the dying year exclaim:
Have you used the moments wisely,
Or has been my gift in vain?
Have you tried to help the needy?
Have you soothed the bed of pain?
Have you lifted up the lowly,
Nor have deemed your labor vain?
If a single ray of sunshine
Gleamed within the cottage door,
Or a heart was made more grateful
In the dwellings of the poor?
Have you wept with weeping mourners?
Have you dried their falling tears?
Have you pointed them to JESUS,
When you gained their listening ear?
Have you tried to be more useful,
As the hours flew swiftly by,
And to bear with greater patience
All the ills you could not fly?
Have you learned the one great lesson
Which our FATHER fain would teach-
That the trials and temptations
Which HIS wisdom gives to each,
Are the rounds in life's rough ladder,
Which our toiling feet must press,
Ere we see His glory dawning
From the Mount of Holiness?
If you have, the year in passing
Has not fled for you in vain,
But the LORD of all the harvest
Has secured His golden grain.
No. 34 Bowdoin street. M. B. J.

IF WE KNEW.
If we knew the cares and crosses
Crowding round our neighbor's way;
If we knew the little losses,
Sorely grievous day by day;
Would we then so often chide him
For the lack of thrift and gain-
Leaving on his heart a shadow,
Leaving on his heart a stain?
If we knew the clouds above us,
Held by gentle blessings there,
Would we turn away all trembling,
In our blind and weak despair?
Would we shrink from little shadows,
Lying on the dewy grass,
While'tis only birds of Eden,
Just in mercy flying past?
If we knew the silent story,
Quivering through the heart of pain,
Would our womanhood dare doom them
Back to haunts of guilt again?
Life hath many a tangled crossing,
Joy hath many a break of woe,
And the cheeks, tear-washed, are whitest;
This the blessed angels know.
Let us reach into our bosoms
For the key to other lives,
And with love toward erring nature,
Cherish good that still survives;
So that when our disrobed spirits
Soar to realms of light again,
We may say, Dear Father, judge us
As we judge our fellow-men!

TREASON
Remember him, the villain, righteous Heaven,
thy great day of vengeance, and blast the traitor,
And his pernicious counsel, who, for wealth,
For power, the pride of greatness, or revenge,
Would plunge his native land in civil war!
[Rowz.
Is there not some chosen curse,
Some hidden thunder in the stores of Heaven,
Red with uncommon wrath, to blast the man
Who owes his greatness to his country's ruin?
[ADDISION.

THE TRUE PREACHER.
He stands as grave old prophet stood,
Proclaiming the truth of the living God-
Pouring reproof on the ears of men,
Whose hearts are at ease in their folly and sin,
With a challenge of guilt still unforgiven,
To the soul unfitted, unmeet for Heaven.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR
LETTER FROM HENRY C. WRIGHT.
Are you for Liberty, or for Slavery?-The Mighty Issue-The one Great Test of the Nineteenth Century- The Doom of all who befriend Slavery.
WEST RANDOLPH, (Vt.) January 4,1861. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON: 
MY FRIEND-Great and intense is the excitement among the Green Mountains. The dissolution of the American Union-the downfall of the Republic, the model Republic-the cowardice and treachery of Buchanan-the deliberate treachery of Floyd and Cobb, who have controlled the Treasury and the military the past four years, and used all their power and influence to throw money and arms into South Carolina and other slave States, to enable them to secede and resist the Federal Government, all carried on under the eye and in presence of the President, and he taking no steps to prevent the treachery, and to preserve the government! Deep, loud and bitter are the curses poured upon them all by those whose homes are amid these valleys and upon these mountains. Multitudes await around the stations and post-offices, on the arrival of every train and mail, all eager to get the latest news from Washington and Charleston. 
Even now the people can hardly believe that slaveholders can be the embodiment of the ‘sum of all villany.'They are amazed at such fraud, treachery, lying, theft, robbery and plunder as are practised by the slaveholders, though their eyes see and their ears hear it all. They are unwilling to believe that a slaveholder is of necessity a thief and robber, and that he can, in the nature of things, have no respect for property, or personal and family rights. One man, who had ever opposed Abolitionists, and pleaded for the character and rights of slaveholders, said, the other day, respecting the secession traitors, “D-n them! they are determined to prove themselves to be just what the Abolitionists have declared them to be, the meanest and vilest of all thieves and robbers.” It is very hard for priests and politicians to admit that we have never applied an epithet to slaveholders which they did not deserve. 
But I took my pen to say to all true friends of liberty and enemies of slavery, amid this storm and tempest of revolution, when the Republic, in its present form, is hastening to its final doom, do not lose sight of the one great issue-Liberty or Slavery. This is now, and ever has been, the sole and single issue—the one only test: Are you for Liberty, or for Slavery? Thirty years ago, you and your coadjutors made that issue before the nation and the world, and, ever since, we have been applying it as a test to Church and State. Are you the friend of liberty, or of slavery? This has been applied to priests, deacons, Christians and churches; to politicians, legislators, judges, governors and presidents. Are the Bible and Constitution, are the creeds of churches and political parties, for liberty, or for slavery? We have said-Down with the Bible! Down with the Constitution! Down with Democracy! Down with Whiggery! Down with the Republic! Down with all religions, governments, and gods-that cannot exist without enslaving men! Let men be sacred in” life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness”-and let all things perish that must exist by desecrating and imbruting man! This has been the sole and single issue of Abolitionists, and to this test have all institutions and customs, social, ecclesiastical and political, been brought. 
Before this God-appointed test, down went the Methodist church, as a national organization. Then down went the Baptist denomination. Then followed the Presbyterian combination. The entire South went for the” sum of all villany," the North for liberty, (politically.) But all the ecclesiastical bodies of the country have bowed, and done homage to the test, to some extent-at least so far as to make all slaveholders feel that they were on trial before the religious tribunals of the land, as convicted murderers and pirates. 
The same test-Are you for liberty, or for slavery? was applied to political combinations. Down went the Know-Nothing party. Then, down went the Whig party. Then, down went the Democratic party. As national organizations, they all went for slavery; and where are they? With the dead past-no more to take part in the mighty and glorious conflict between Liberty and Slavery. And now, as the last crowning triumph of Liberty, DOWN HAS GONE THE AMERICAN UNION!-this great American Republic, which had by her loud and continued boasts of liberty attracted the gaze of mankind. But her staple article of trade proved to be “SLAVES AND THE SOULS OF MEN." Abolitionists asked the American Republic—“Art thou for liberty, or for slavery?” The Republic answered,” For slavery”-and sank, to rise no more. 
Thus have gone down to death and oblivion, as national institutions, all our ecclesiastical and political combinations. With them have passed from the political horizon all our Northern statesmen, our Websters, our Fillmores, our Pierces, our Douglases, our Cushings, our Bell-Everetts, our Choates, who have taken part in the mighty struggle. They went for slavery-the Benedict Arnolds in the camp of Freedom-and have shrunk away. One yet remains, the arch traitor of all-so far as he had power to be-and James Buchanan now hangs over the yawning gulf of oblivion, into which he is soon to plunge, amid the scorn and contempt and bitter execrations of an insulted and betrayed nation. Even those for whom he has sacrificed his manhood spit upon him, and turn from him with loathing, as from some weak and cowardly reptile. 
Thus must it ever be from this day forth and forever; for, in this conflict between Liberty and Slavery, the friends of Liberty can never retreat, nor stay their warfare, till the friends of Slavery have ceased to pollute the earth. In this hour of revolution, when our political institutions, so far as they are for slavery, are being dashed to pieces, may Abolitionists never forget the secret of their power--i. e., uncompromising fidelity to liberty-uncompromising hostility to slavery. Liberty and Slavery! the two great antagonistic ideas and institutions of the continents of Europe, Asia, Africa, as well as of America! There can be no truce between them. Seventy years of effort, on a national arena, by the greatest intellects of the world, to blend and harmonize these two moral contradictions, have proved utterly ineffectual. For a time, it seemed as if slavery was destined to win the day; but” THE LIBERATOR” came to the rescue; and, after revealing to the astonished world the facts and horrors of slavery as they exist under the sanction of the American Church and Republic, called around the standard of liberty the self-forgetting, self-sacrificing and truly heroic of two [continents, and from that day the minions of slavery have been assailed and driven from one hiding place to another, until now they are compelled to appear in their true character-as kidnappers and pirates-as impersonations of the “sum of all villany." And all has been gained, solely, by an earnest and persevering application of the test-Are you for liberty, or for slavery? Slave holders, slave-breeders, slave-traders, slave-hunters, slave-drivers, are on trial before the tribunal of God and humanity, as thieves, and robbers, and kidnappers, and pirates-as perpetrators of rape and incest-as those who sell their own daughters and sisters to prostitution, and grow fat on the blood and tears of the innocent and the helpless. The verdict of God was ever against them. The verdict of humanity is being rendered against them. 
You, dear Garrison, have led the van in this triumph of truth over falsehood, of justice over injustice, of purity over impurity, of liberty over slavery; and, so far as you and your coadjutors are concerned, it has been accomplished without violence, or threats of violence, but simply by the consistent and stern application of the test-Are you for liberty, or for slavery? to the domestic, social, ecclesiastical, political, commercial and literary life of the nation. Helper, in his” Impending Crisis," has truly given, in a brief
<c03>
formula, the secret of your power, and the weapons of your warfare; i.e.- 
"No co-operation with slaveholders in politics. 
No fellowship with them in religion. 
No affiliation with them in society. 
No patronage to slaveholding merchants. 
No guest ship in slave-waiting hotels. 
No fees to slaveholding lawyers. 
No employment to slaveholding physicians. 
No audience to slaveholding parsons. 
No recognition of pro-slavery men, except as ruffians, outlaws and criminals."
Thus applying the simple test, you and your coloborers have laid low in dust the pro-slavery organizations in Church and State, as national institutions; and the people are driven to reconstruct their ecclesiastical and political institutions on the new basis-i.e., WHOLLY FOR LIBERTY, or WHOLLY FOR SLAVERY. The principle of compromise between these two irreconcilable and eternal moral antagonisms can no more be the basis of a religious or political organization. 
For liberty? or for slavery? The issue is distinct. No man, no church, no government, no god, can be for both. All in heaven and earth must be wholly for one, or wholly for the other. No god, no man, no Bible, no constitution can befriend both, and succeed. Wholly for liberty, or wholly for slavery! No man can serve God and Mammon. No man can be for Christ and against him. All that is for liberty must be the undying foe of slavery; all that is for slavery must be the eternal enemy of liberty. 
Yours, HENRY C. WRIGHT.
P. S. Dear Garrison, I am with your friends James and Abby Hutchinson. You will not be forgotten in this family amid the Green Mountains, where you, as a most welcome guest, have been entertained. They only wish you to come again, accompanied by Mrs. Garrison. I hope you will do so, should another summer find you battling for liberty in bodily form. It is a beautiful world amid these snow and forest-capped mountains; and James and Abby Hutchinson nobly and personally battle for the rights of man among the sons and daughters of Vermont. 
There is great and general satisfaction throughout the State, so far as I can learn, that the Legislature so promptly refused to repeal her Personal Liberty Bill. Can it be that the dear Old Bay State will repeal her laws for the protection of personal liberty on her soil, at the bidding of kidnappers-even though the alternative be the entire dissolution of the Union? If she does, her infamy will be complete. 
How about the Annual Meeting? Will the Bell-Everetts, headed by Fay, attempt to mob it? Thousands would go down from the Green Mountains, I believe, to save the Old Bay State, and New England's metropolis, from such a deed of infamy, if they believed the attempt would be made. 
This is Buchanan's Fast! It is truly refreshing, “real relishing," to hear that traitor to his God and country, after, by his imbecility, cowardice and treachery, guiding the ship of State amid rocks and breakers, call on the nation to pray to God to keep it from being dashed in pieces. The call is treated with much contempt in Vermont, and those who do fast and pray, fast and pray that God would remove speedily the cowardly traitor who has led the nation into its peril. I thank God the slaveholding Republic has reached its doom, though no thanks to the imbecile, slave-hunting President doomed it. 
At the close of next Sunday, Jan. 6th, I shall have lectured in Vermont twenty times in sixteen days- besides attending three conferences. All ears are open to hear-all hearts open to feel. Consternation is in all the land. At what? At the downfall of a Government which has been, from its beginning, the friend of slavery and enemy of liberty-an insult to God, and an outrage upon humanity-A COVENANT WITH DEATH, AND AN AGREEMENT WITH HELL. No consternation is felt over four millions of men and women turned into chattels, and bought and sold as brutes. Over this crime of the nation, with its attendant horrors, there is no moral indignation, no consternation; but over the downfall of the Republic that perpetrates the deed, all hearts quail, all faces are paled. With thanksgiving and the voice of melody do I behold this consummation, for which I have so long preyed and labored. H. C. W. 

ESSEX COUNTY A. S. SOCIETY.
LAWRENCE, Jan.3,1860. 
MR. GARRISON: 
DEAR SIR-The Essex County Anti-Slavery Society held its quarterly meeting at Lawrence Hall in this city, on Sunday, 30th ult. It held three sessions, at all of which Mr. A. T. Foss spoke. Mr. Charles L. Remond spoke briefly in the afternoon. There was a very good attendance in the morning, the hall was well filled in the afternoon, and crowded in the evening; and mostly by those who, seemingly, were ready and anxious to hear the real truth-and the truth was candidly and fearlessly spoken. There was much good anti-slavery seed sown, and, I trust, some of it, at least, fell on good ground. At the opening of the meeting, Mr. Foss said the meetings were free to all. If any had a thought to utter for or against the cause he was advocating, they would have liberty and opportunity to utter it. If any wished, they could ask questions at any time, or dissent from any thing he might say, only that their questions should be confined to the points under discussion, and they should make no display of rowdyism. 
He then said slavery was like a pyramid standing on its apex, supported on either side by the Church, the Constitution, and commercial interest; and his work was to knock away these props, and let the wicked institution fall to the ground. And this he went about doing with a vigorous hand. He showed, in a clear and forcible manner, sustained by many facts, the complicity of the Church with slavery, pointed out the compromises in the Constitution supporting the” peculiar institution," and closed by saying that, if we could induce men to obey the voice of God speaking in their own souls, instead of these outward authorities, there would be a speedy end to slavery. His thorough examination of the so-called” Christian church” caused some of the birds, in the theological nest to flutter, but, I think, on the whole, it did some good, as it showed that the knife penetrated to the quick, and that there is life away down beneath the outward crust. 
In the afternoon and evening, he discussed the following resolutions:-
Resolved, That the Union of these States was formed by a compromise of the rights of man, and was therefore wrong in its inception, and could only be disastrous in its progress, and sure of an ignominious end.
Resolved, That a union of liberty and slavery is impossible, and we rejoice in the prospect of the destruction of the abortion, called the “American Union." 
In support of the resolutions, he referred to the articles in regard to representation, and the importation of such persons as any State should think proper and the rendition of fugitives, &c., and claimed that therein was a compromise of the rights of man. 
He said the demoralized state of the press, the pulpit and political parties, showed that its progress had been disastrous; and the fact that South Carolina had seceded, and that other States were about to do so, for the purpose of continuing slavery, proved that it must come to an ignominious end. He said it was as impossible to unite liberty and slavery as it would be to unite fire and gunpowder-that the struggle that had been going on between them since the formation of this government proved this to be true, and that we should rejoice at the prospect of the destruction of the American Union, for in its destruction we have every reason to hope for the abolition of slavery. 
After the discussion, the resolutions were passed by a large majority. 
Mr. Remond's remarks were confined chiefly to the present crisis in political affairs. He said the ab-
<c04>
olitionists had no reason to cease from their labors, at the seeming approach of the dawning of that day for which they have so long looked, but that they should work on until their hopes were fully realized. 
At the close of the meetings, a vote of thanks was unanimously passed, tendering the thanks of the audience to the speakers for their faithful, earnest and eloquent addresses. 
Yours, for the cause of humanity, 
H. L. S.

Selected Articles.
THE “CONVENTION" AT ST. JAMES HALL.
According to previous announcement, this convention met at St. James Hall, yesterday afternoon. A very limited number of persons were in attendance, most of whom had been drawn to the place by curiosity. Miss Susan B. Anthony called the meeting to order, after which the Rev. Beriah Green proceeded to deliver an address at some considerable length.
In the evening, an audience, very little larger than that in attendance in the afternoon, assembled, among whom were to be noticed several colored men, and a few ladies. Susan, as usual, opened the ball, called the house to order, and introduced Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton. Elizabeth immediately drew her manuscript, and forthwith proceeded to inform those present of the horrible state of things which now and always had existed in the world generally, and in this country particularly. She had derived her first impressions in regard to slavery from a little “nigger gal;" and that little” “nigger gal," she, Elizabeth, considered as well posted in regard to the horrors of the peculiar institution, and as well qualified to give an opinion as to its injustice, as the most eminent theologian or jurist. The Fugitive Slave law, of course, was duly” tackled,” -Jefferson was accused of very unhandsome things. Neither did the Dred Scott decision escape. She avowed that, after all the labor and talent bestowed upon it, the cart had been placed before the horse. Any woman in the house, she thought, could have given a better opinion. She thought it would be best to let South Carolina slide, in which case the rest of us could live harmoniously together, after the manner prescribed by her, Elizabeth. The lady continued her address at length, much after the same style; but we have not the space or inclination to follow her. She was listened to with respectful attention, and no inclination to disturb her was manifested.
At the conclusion of her remarks, ex-Justice Hinon arose, and expressed a desire to offer a resolution. Birdseye Wilcox, Esq., objected, and moved that the meeting adjourn, accompanying his motion by some very emphatic remarks. Here followed much confusion, during which Mr. W. favorite expression, “Augh!” was frequently heard. The ex-Justice finally obtained a hearing, and proceeded to take the sense of the meeting as to their approval or disapproval of the sentiments advanced by Mrs. Stanton. Those who coincided with the lady's ideas were requested to” manifest the same by saying aye." An impressive silence followed. Those opposed were desired to say no; and they said “No!” most emphatically, and with almost absolute unanimity. Things here began to assume rather and uproarious look, and Miss Anthony appeared to be getting angry, and attempted to preserve silence, but without much success. Mr. Wilcox wished to be heard; so did Mr. Hinson-neither gentleman seeming to be well posted in regard to parliamentary usages. Tolerable order having been restored, Rev. Beriah Green was introduced. He spoke vehemently for some time, in the course of which he was frequently interrupted by groans, hisses, and applause, and at one time, the police were obliged to interfere. Most of the ladies who were present got up to leave, but at the request of Miss Anthony, several of them resumed their seats.
After Mr. Green had finished, a young gentleman, who was introduced as Geo. W. Taylor, of Erie Co., came forward and attempted to speak, but the confusion was so great that he was obliged to desist. He was called upon by some one for a song, and, making a virtue of necessity, commenced to sing a hymn, in a low, almost inaudible voice. This, however, did not please, some dissatisfied persons, who struck up” The Star Spangled Banner," and sang it with such volume as completely to drown the voice of Mr. Taylor.
The confusion here became so great, that Mr. Taylor was no longer heard, and Miss Anthony, after announcing the programme for to-day, and expressing her disgust at the treatment she and her associates had received, declared the Convention adjourned.
Mr. Hinson moved a re-organization of the meeting, and proposed Mr. B. Wilcox as chairman. Mr. B. Wilcox was elected, and proceeded to mount the stage, where he seated himself with much dignity. He was followed by Mr. Hinson and others, but just as proceedings were about to commence, the person in charge of the hall shut off the gas, and those who were yet in the hall were left in almost total darkness.
We hope never to see the proceedings of last night repeated. To speak of the whole thing in its mildest form is to say, it was a disgrace. While Susan B. Anthony and her coadjutors have an undoubted right to express their opinions, and that without molestation or hindrance, the policy of holding these miscalled “conventions" is very questionable. We hope, for the credit of the city, that those who were in attendance, and by their inexcusable conduct brought about a miniature pandemonium, will either keep away, or, if they must needs be present, will go prepared to observe the common decencies of life.-Buffalo Commercial Advertiser, 4th inst.

THE ABOLITION CONVENTION AND ITS FINALE.
The Abolition Convention held its second day's session yesterday, in St. James Hall. It did not assemble till late in the afternoon, nor was there apparently any stronger show of Abolition strength than was manifest on Thursday. Miss Anthony, as before, was the executive. Rev. Beriah Green again took the stand, and delivered, in great part, a repetition of what he had said the previous day. The meeting was continuously interrupted by shouts and shuffling of feet on the part of the audience, and was adjourned finally amid much confusion. 
In the evening, about two hundred persons assembled in the Hall. Chief of Police Best, with twenty policemen, stood in readiness to repress any attempt to break up the meeting. His Honor the Mayor, though suffering from sickness, was also present. Miss Anthony called, or attempted to call, the assemblage to order, and introduced Mr. Green again. His appearance was the signal for renewed turmoil, which the police tried in vain to quash. George Hinson rose, and wanted order, saying that” Susan" couldn't be heard. Then the audience clamorously elected Mr. Adding ton as” extra Chairman," and Mr. A. trotted up on to the stage, and went through the motions of a speech. Then George Hinson nominated J. K. Tucker as Vice President, and Tucker was elected, and made a speech to the effect that he didn't know, and didn't want to know, what the objects of the meeting were, and the people might make as much noise as they liked, for all of him. Then there were cries for” Hinson”; first, for a speech from Hinson, and then for a song from II. Then Burt Scott was elected, on George Hinson's nomination, to a chair on the stage, which he declined, and somebody made a motion to put Hinson out, which Miss Anthony declared was carried, calling, at the same time, on the police to carry the motion into effect. Then three lusty cheers for the Union were given, and somebody struck up the” Star Spangled Banner." 
All this while, Rev. Beriah was proceeding with the pantomime of a speech, and the main body of the audience kept swaying to and fro from one part of the Hall to another. At last, there were loud cries for ”Bristol," and Cyrenius C. accordingly mounted the platform. The Mayor at this stepped out, and declared that Mr. Bristol should not speak. Mr. Bristol” guessed he would try it on." The Mayor then called his force up, and was speedily surrounded by the police, when Mr. Bristol retired to the green room. To the close of Mr. Green's speech, the babel continued undiminished.
Miss Anthony, after the speech was over, addressed the crowd with all the sarcasm and stinging invective she could command, and at the close of her remarks announced that she would proceed to take up a collection to defray expenses, which she did. Returning to the stage, she introduced Mrs. Elizabeth
<c05>
Cady Stanton, a venerable looking lady, with gray hair in curls, who proceeded to read from a manuscript. The uproar was redoubled, and she was at last obliged to retire. Susan B. again took the stand, amid the howls and stamping of the crowd. At last, somebody found the way to the gas meter, and in a moment shut the meeting off into total darkness. Miss A. stood her ground till lights were procured, and then declared the convention adjourned. The connectionists were afterwards safely escorted out of the Hall by Chief Best.
After the Abolitionists had left, the bulk of the audience still remaining, George Hinson proposed a reorganization, and nominated H. E. Howard as Chairman. Mr. Howard accepted on condition that the meeting should keep perfect order. R. D. Ford was chosen Secretary.
It was moved and carried that a Committee of five be appointed to draft resolutions.’ E. R. Jewett and John L. Tallcott were named among others, but peremptorily declined. The following gentlemen accepted: Chas. Sherman, Horatio Seymour, Thos. Trueman, Wm. Monteith, and C. S. Macomber.
The Committee retired, and loud calls were sent up for Tallcott. Mr. Tallcott wished to know the objects of the meeting. The Chairman told him it had been got up on the spur of the moment, and was pledged to discuss no question which would bring on disturbance. That was all the object he knew of its having. Mr. Tallcott professed himself unable to fulfill these conditions, and so declined speaking.
George Hinson was appointed a committee to go round with a hat for subscriptions to pay for the Hall. He collected $3.34.
Horatio Seymour, Esq., reported from the Committee on Resolutions. They had thought proper to express, in few words, the sentiments of the community, in view of such an inopportune gathering of fanatics as had just been witnessed. He offered the following:-
Resolved, That in view of the deep feeling and solicitude of our people, and the threatening aspect of our national affairs, we regard the calling of a meeting at this place to give utterance to the wild theories of fanatical Abolitionists, with unqualified disapprobation.
Resolved, That if this class of people are desirous to utter their treasonable sentiments, we trust that they will in future select some other locality than the city of Buffalo. 
The resolutions were adopted vociferously and unanimously, and the meeting forthwith adjourned. -I bid.

THE A. S. CONVENTION-ANOTHER DIS GRACEFUL DISTURBANCE. 
St. James Hall was the scene of another tumult, last evening, even more disgraceful to our city and more outrageous than that of the night before. We shall not describe it in detail, for we feel too much shame on its account to be willing that more publicity than is necessary should be given to the occurrence. The disturbers of the meeting were more numerous and more rowdyish than on the former occasion, and carried their performances to a length little short of mob-rioting.
We care not how obnoxious a meeting may be; there can be no warrant for such proceedings, in order to break it up, or manifest disapprobation of its objects. None but those whose self-respect is very low, and whose instincts incline to rowdyism, would demean themselves by becoming instigators of, or participants in, any such movement. If decency and common sense (the latter to recognize, the folly of persecuting and treating with violence whatever ultraism may be deprecated') cannot suffice for the preservation of order and the right of speech, it is a pity that our laws cannot be made to bear upon disturbers as well as rioters.
The uproar broke out, last evening, in the greatest violence during the address of Mrs. Stanton. Entire control of the meeting was taken by the disorganizers, who elected, on motion of ex-Justice Hinson, S. H. Addington, Chairman, and John K. Tucker, Vice-President. Of course, it will be understood that Mr. Addington was not of their"” crowd." C. C. Bristol was called upon, and proceeded to the platform to speak. At this stage of the proceedings, the uproar being tremendous, Mayor Alberger, who has been ill unfit to perform any, of the energetic functions of his office, appeared, and attempted to get a restoration of order. After an, altercation with Mr. Bristol, the latter subsided- subsequently, however, obtaining permission to state that he had no intention of instigating or encouraging the disturbance of the meeting, when he took the stand in response to calls.
The Mayor regained a considerable degree of order, which lasted, however, only for a short period, as he was unable to remain and impose the restraint of his presence upon the disturbers. The speakers of the” convention” soon had to give up to the impossibility of carrying on their proceedings in such a bedlam, and Miss Anthony declared the meeting adjourned.
On the adjournment of the “convention," its opponents organized a meeting, on motion of ex-Justice Hinson, by electing E. H. Howard, President, 
and Oscar Ford, Secretary. The President imperatively insisted that reporters had no business to make the proceedings public. We maintained our right, bat but we now waive it, inasmuch as nothing occurred for which we are disposed to take space from other matter. —Buffalo Express, 5th inst.

FREE SPEECH IN BUFFALO.
To the Editor of the. National Anti-Slavery Standard:
The Union is saved! The danger of secession is passed, if you can only let Carolina know as speedily as possible that our Northern Buffaloes have come forth in their might, trampled the right of free speech in the dust, and cut the jugular vein of Abolitionism, by mobbing one slender gray-haired man, and two” strong-minded" women. These wild bovines, in defiance of law and order, tramped into the hall of St. James, and worried the three helpless “fanatics" with their hideous bellowings through two entire days. The Mayor came to the rescue, and looked the herd bravely and steadily in the face, made a noble, manly speech, and ordered his police (some fifty or sixty in number, admitted free, for the express purpose of preserving order) to do their duty, and drive these inhuman interlopers back to their burrows. But what could he do more than utter brave words? His police, being Democrats, would not obey the orders of the newly elected Republican Mayor; so far from it, they actually joined the mob themselves, encouraged by respectable men from the Democratic and Bell-Everett ranks, among them the distinguished juniors of Millard Fillmore and Horatio Seymour. The speakers, through much tribulation, said their say, and at 10 o'clock the meeting adjourned. Whereupon the bovines took possession of the Hall on a lease of ten dollars an hour, and with great efforts raised three dollars and forty-five cents. They then proceeded to organize, and with difficulty found a man willing to assume such grave responsibilities. Mr. Talcott, a member of the bar, rose and asked the Chair to state the objects of the meeting,” but they were too momentous for utterance and fairly stuck in his throat. Whilst he was in the process of deglutition, a Committee retired to draft resolutions. The Chairman, recovering, said, he” didn't exactly know the object of the meeting," but he “supposed it was for free discussion about anything that wouldn't make disturbance." Mr. Talcott replied, that he was” wholly incompetent to discuss that subject," and sat down.
The Business Committee then reported that they had no paper (they meant ideas) to draft resolutions, but proceeded to read some incoherent nonsense from the back of an old letter. Just then, not knowing for what they met, or how to do it. some rogue closed their drunken vagaries by turning off the gas. And thus ended an Anti-Slavery Convention in one of the largest cities of the Empire State, on the Fast day of our pious President the immortal” platform," James Buchanan in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and sixty-one. 
Free Speech in South Carolina is tarred and feathered, exiled and hung. In Washington it is subject to bluster, threat, insult and ridicule. In Boston, the very sprigs of fashion choke it. down with perfume and soft resolutions in favor of what it suffers south of the line. But in the” City of the West," within the sound of Niagara's roar, in the presence of such solemn majesty, rude Buffaloes are let loose to trample on the constitutional rights of freemen—-to insult and ridicule the daughters of Pilgrim Fathers, standing in the forum to plead for justice and mercy for an outraged race.
Buffalo, Jan. 5,1861. E. C. S.
The ship Lesbia, under French colors, (supposed to be the ship Montauk of New York,) was recently taken by a Spanish steamer of war, and brought into Havana, with 900 negroes on board. 
<c06>
CHEATED OUT OF A ROW.
The lecture which was to have been delivered by Hinton Rowan Helper, of North Carolina, the author of” The Impending Crisis," on the Two Systems of Labor, did not come off, but was postponed on account of the weather. At about 8.30 P.M., however, when the hall was deserted, a company began to come in-first among them the editor of the Day Book, who was very anxious to find a place where he could pay an entrance fee. Dr. Lewis A. Sayre, Dr. W. K. Cleveland, Capt. Wiley, and a number of gentlemen who used to congregate about the Breckinridge Headquarters,. came in by 9 o'clock, making in all twelve or fifteen people, beside our reporter. There was lively conversation in relation to the black and white races for twenty minutes, most of which was too indecent to be even hinted at in this journal. The janitor then turned down the gas, whereupon they begged him to desist for a few minutes, and Dr. SAYRE was called to the chair-a window seat near the door.
Dr. CLEVELAND then read the following resolutions:-
Whereas, certain fanatical and misguided people in the northern States for a number of years attempted to inculcate doctrines subversive of the best interests of our common country, and have drawn after them numbers of ignorant and thoughtless persons who were not aware that such doctrines were in violation of the Constitution; and, whereas, parties embracing these heretical notions have grown to such political power in some of the Northern States as to have passed laws which are in violation of the Constitution of our common Confederacy, and therefore unjust toward the Southern States; and, whereas, a large portion of the pulpit and the public press have been perverted from their legitimate pursuits to the dissemination of slander, falsehood, and detraction against the Southern people, and treason against the Government; therefore,
Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize with our Southern brethren in their just complaints.
Resolved, That the misguided fanatics who have spread by their treasonable doctrines the discord that is now imperiling our condition as a united people, are traitors to the country! their teachings heretical and unconstitutional, and their influence fatal to the preservation of the Union.
Resolved, That it is the duty of the President of the United States, bound by his official oath, to use every constitutional means to effect the immediate repeal of those obnoxious and unconstitutional laws passed by many of the Northern States.
Resolved, That the doctrines of Horace Greeley, William H. Seward, Henry Ward Beecher, Charles Sumner, Wendell Phillips, and others of that fanatical stamp, are treasonable in their nature, disturbing to the general peace, calculated to mislead the ignorant, and should be held up to the just indignation, condemnation, and suppression of every community in which it is endeavored to express them.
Capt. WILEY moved their adoption, and they were unanimously adopted.
Mr. F. L. TALCOTT moved that when they adjourn, they adjourn to meet at the next lecture of Mr. Helper in New York, and this motion was carried.
A young man suggested that the last resolution did not agree with the others, because they said: ”We will come peaceably."
Whereupon followed a consultation in regard to the propriety of reconsidering the propriety of reconsidering the last vote.
Dr. SAYRE said that the object of the meeting was not hostile to Mr. Helper; it was to gain information. He found nothing in Helper's book but detraction, falsehood, and slander, calculated to do great harm. He would like to hear him compare the two systems of labor, and if he argued that with-out touching the Constitution of the United States, he would give him the right to speak and preach from now till doomsday, simply giving them the privilege of review. The great damage that had been done had been from this speech having been published as a campaign document, containing the doctrines of the Republican party. Horace Greeley knew this was wrong; but the South believed that it was the programme of the Republican party, and so could do no better than they had done, although Seward and Morgan had come out and denounced it.
Mr. HORTON-Did Morgan denounce it? I never heard of that.
Dr. SAYRE-Then I say that he ought to. But I say the people of New York should get up a meeting to compliment There low Weed, for he was more of a patriot and statesman than any and all of the Republican party. He deserved to be sustained by all patriotic, Union-saving citizens of the United States. When the South saw men like Andrew, elected to be the Governor of a great State, after having glorified John Brown, they might well believe, that we were all alike.
Mr. HORTON-Don't you believe that every Republican wants to pen Slavery in?
 Dr. SAYRE-Yes.
Mr. HORTON-I think you are giving them too much credit.
Dr. SAYRE-It is not a proper time for a discussion of their real crimes, and their real sins. The Grammar Schools and the Sunday Schools teach children that Slavery is a sin, which is in violation of the Bible; and they have become infidels, all of them.
Mr. HORTON-Yes, sir; I agree with every word of that.
Dr. SAYRE-A man tried to answer Mr. Van Dycke, and he worked three weeks at his sermon, and the day before he was to deliver it, his brains were taken away from him so conspicuously that even his abolition" friends thought he was a fool.
Capt. WILEY moved a reconsideration of the last vote; but, after consultation, withdrew his motion.
 Mr. HORTON-Better let it be as it is. We don't want to hurt Mr. Helper.
Dr. SAYRE-Only it may be possible that a Metropolitan Police, who are paid by the City of New York, in violation of the Constitution and of the State, and who were originally intended to defend the Constitution, are now paid to protect the traitors to the country, to club down honest citizens who meet to sustain the Constitution. In the Cooper Institute, they swarmed to defend the traitors, and after the Chief of Police gave me his pledge that we should have the room afterward to pass resolutions denouncing the meeting, instead of keeping his oath, formed a line of his police, and marched us all out of a building dedicated by its sign to the Union!
Capt. WILEY-I want to know if, in this great metropolis of New York, there are not more people than the police? I think the Union-loving people, when they are invited to attend the next lecture, will be delighted to come, if they have an opportunity to know what is to take place. I think they are the sovereigns, and the police are their servants; and I think it is possible that they might come before the police, and that the literati might be crowded out sof doors by the bone and sinew, who don't get an opportunity very often. If they should get here before, why, then, what would the servants of the people do when they saw the yeomanry here?
A GENTLEMAN-Take a back seat.
Capt. WILEY-They would take a back seat.(Laughter.)
The meeting then adjourned.

COST OF SLAVE TERRITORY.
As our dear Southern brethren are about to break up the Union because they cannot rule it forever, and as they complain that we of the free States. have not done our duty to the slave States, we have thought it might be interesting to call attention to the following figures, showing how much money has really been paid by the United States Government really been paid by the United States Government to extend the area of slavery on this continent.
COST OF TERRITORY PURCHASED.
Louisiana, (purchased of France.) 		$15,000,000
Interest paid,					8,385,353
Florida, (purchased of Spain,) 		5,000,000
Interest paid, 					1,430,000
Texas, (for boundary,) 				10,000,000 
Texas, (for indemnity,) 			10,000,000
Texas, (for creditors, last Congress,) 	7,705,000
Indian expenses of all kinds, 		5,000,000
To purchase navy, pay troops, 		5,000,000
All other expenditures, 			3,000,000
Mexican War, 					217,175,575
Soldiers'pensions and bounty lands, 	15,000,000
Florida War, 					100,000,000
Soldiers'pensions, 				7,000,000
To remove Indians, 				5,000,000
Paid by treaty for New Mexico, 		15,000,000
Paid to extinguish Indian titles, 		100,000,000
Paid to Georgia, 					3,082,000
$832,764,933
This is certainly a nice little sum to pay for the increase of slavery. Three-fourths of the entire amount has been paid by the free States; and yet slavery has not had its rights in the Union, and going out to get its rights somewhere else!
