THE LIBERATOR.
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221, WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT. 
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance. 
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters suiting to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed. (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents in three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms. 
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, AND WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YEFFINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 40. BOSTON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1704.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>

A RUMPUS IN TOPHET
NORTH RIDGEVILLE, (Ohio,) Jan. 27.
HON. S. MEDARY: SIR-I send you the following lines comprising a leaf in history which I think has never yet been published. Should you think them worthy a place in The Crisis, you will please give them an insertion:-
Come, gentle Muse, and touch a strain;
’Twill echo back the sound again;
On scenes that passed we now must dwell,
When Old John Brown arrived in hell.
When Pluto heard Old Brown was hung, 
Old Tophet with hosannas rung;
For well they knew the lying thief
Would make for them an honored chief.
Brown to receive they did prepare, 
All eager in the joy to share;
Old Satan from his throne came down, 
And left his seat for old John Brown.
Not long, indeed, for him they wait,
For soon he thundered at the gate:-
"Come in!" said Pluto, "quickly come,
You’re welcome to your fiery home!"
Three cheers rolled forth in accents brief,
To hail the Abolition chief!
Old John chim’d in, and thanked the Fates
He’d safely passed the pearly gates.
While Arnold held him by the hand, 
Old Satan took the Speaker’s stand-
"Silence!" cried he; "now, all sit down,
And hear me welcome brother Brown:-
"You’re welcome, John, to your reward;
You've cheated Riddle and the Lord;
Though pearly gates wide open flew,
They did not catch my servant true.
"As oft you’ve murdered, lied and stole, 
It did rejoice my burning soul;
You’ve run your length in earth’s career,
And we are pleased to see you here.
"You’ll take your seat at my left hand-
Why I do this you’ll understand;
Be not surprised when I tell you
Old Abraham is coming too!
"There on my right, that vacant chair 
Long since for him I did prepare;
And soon I know that he will come-
His earthly race is almost run.
"John at my left, Abe at my right,
We’ll give the heavenly hosts a sight;
A triune group we then shall be-
Yes, three in one, and one in three.
"Abe's Cabinet, ‘tis very true, 
Will soon knock here as loud as you;
In short, the negroizing clan
Are travelling here unto a man.
"I shall protest, most long and loud, 
‘Gainst taking in the motley crowd;
For well I know they’d me dethrone,
And swear that Tophet was their own.
"Let Sumner, Stevens, and their host,
When they on earth give up the ghost,
Unto a lower hell appear;
We have no room for them up here.
"The Clergy, too, I much do fear,
Attraction’s law will draw them here;
Their earthly teachings, though I tell,
Are doctrines long since preached in hell!
"They, too, must find a lower home,
For hither sure they shall not come;
We’re crowded now in every spot,
Save here and there a vacant lot.
"These I’ve reserved through all our fights,
For those who have pre-emption rights;
That corner lot’s for Backbone Tod,
A renegade accursed of God.
"The traitor here from his own place
Can view the scenes at Fortress Chase;
Laugh at the woes of his old friends,
Till his cursed life in horror ends.
"There’s other traitors I could tell-
They are too mean to come to h-ll!
So let each go, and hunt his hole,
For greenbacks here won’t pay their toll!
"And now, O John, on earth oppress'd,
You are with us a welcome guest;
On earth you played your part full well,
So now with us forever dwell!"
P. GRIMES.

FAREWELL TO BEECHER.
TUNE-"Jeanette and Jeannot,"
You are going far away,
Far away from the nigger folks;
They’ve no one left but Cheever now 
Their white breth’ren to coax
Into the abolition scheme
And amalgamation dire,
Which he preaches from his pulpit’s height
With true Ciceronean fire. (Repeat.)
But his eloquence is lost
On New York’s arid soil;
We recognize the niggers’ usefulness
When in cotton fields they toil.
We’re sorry, too, to hear
That sometimes they're misused;
But marry our daughters to the blacks
We’d rather be excused. (Repeat.)
Then farewell, parson Beecher,
You spotless, stainless man;
Just stay away in foreign lands 
As long as ever you can.
Our derision will be with you,
Wherever you may go,
And we only wish that you had taken
One Harriet Beecher Stowe. {"Yes," repeat.)
That nigger worshipper,
That rabid Republican,
Who’d be a second preacher Beecher
If she had been a man.
Now tell us, reverend parson,
And be sure you tell us true,
Does Harriet always talk in Greek,
And are her stockings blue?
Does she really talk in Greek,
And what’s her stockings’ hue?
I suppose we shall hear often
Of what you’ve done and said;
You’ll write letters to some paper
That’ll pay you nary red.
I hope a strong sea breeze
Will you o’er the waters waft,
(And- "lay the unction to your soul"-
You have escaped the draft.) ("Yes," repeat.)
‘Tis true the New Yorkers
Do heartily despise
All your abolition sermons,
And your canting set likewise.
Oh! If I were uncle Abe,
<c02>
Or, still better, William Seward,
I’d keep such men as you at home,
Nor let them go abroad.
For, if preachers will leave the Gospel,
And in Politics take delight,
Why, then, they that made the quarrel
Should be the only ones to fight;
Yes, Beecher, and Cheever, and all the crew
Should be the only ones to fight.
By rights I ought to finish;
But a question I’d like to ask;
And I pray you, sporting Beecher,
Your feelings to unmask:
‘Tis true, I have no right
Thus to interrogate you;
(For in your church I do not own
Nor even rent a pew.) ("No," repeat.)
I never sent you tea,
Nor anything nice to eat;
And never worked you slippers gay 
To decorate your feet; 
But some men do declare,
And I believe they’re right,
That you’ve steered your bark to England’s isle
To see the Heenan fight; 
Yes, you’ve thrown the black man overboard
To see the Heenan fight. 
—New York Herald.

Selections.
THE CONDITIOHS OF RECONSTRUCTION.
Letter to Hon. Wm. H. Seward, Secretary of State.
BY ROBERT DALE OWEN.
[Concluded.)
The ninth section of an Act of Congress, commonly called the "Confiscation Act," approved July 17, 1862, reads thus:
"That all slaves of persons who shall hereafter be engaged in rebellion against the government of the United States, or who shall give aid or comfort thereto, escaping from such persons and taking refuge within the lines of the army; and all slaves captured from such persons or deserted by them, and coming under the control of the government of the United States; and all slaves of such persons found or being within any place occupied by rebel forces, and afterwards occupied by forces of the United States, shall be deemed captives of war, and shall be forever free of their servitude, and not again held as slaves."
By the decision of the Supreme Court, already cited, all the inhabitants of the insurrectionary States are, in law, persons "engaged in rebellion." Therefore, all refugee slaves from insurectionary States are, by this statute, declared free. 
Further: as all the insurrectionary States have been "occupied by rebel forces," and as we may reasonably conclude that, if we prevail against the South, all these States not already "occupied by forces of the United States" will hereafter be so occupied, it follows that, by the operation of this law, all the slaves in the insurrectionary States, even if no Emancipation proclamation had ever been issued, would, before the end of the war, have probably been entitled to freedom.
Strictly in the spirit of the above statute, and going only so far beyond it as to declare slaves in portions of the insurrectionary States not yet "occupied by forces of the United States," to be free in advance of such occupation, has been the President’s action in the premises. Let us glance at that action. 
On the 25th of July, 1862, the President, in pursuance of the act just quoted, issued a proclamation warning all insurgents to return to their allegiance within sixty days, on pain of certain forfeitures and seizures.
This warning proved ineffectual, the President, when the sixty days notice had expired, issued a second proclamation declaring that the slaves held within any State which, on the 1st of January then succeeding, should still be in rebellion against the United States, "shall be then, thenceforward and forever free."
On the 1st of January, 1863,"by virtue of the power in him vested as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States," he declared certain States, namely, Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia-certain parishes in Louisiana and certain counties in Virginia excepted-to be then in rebellion against the United States; and he further declared that all slaves in the said ten States, with the exceptions aforesaid, "are, and henceforward shall be, free."
Were these proclamations legal? Had the Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States the right to issue them?
Our Supreme Court, in the decision already alluded to, thus endorses a well-known law of war: "The right of one belligerent not only to coerce the other by direct force, but also to cripple his resources by the seizure or destruction of his property, is a necessary result of a state of war." (Cases cited. "Claimants of schooners Brilliant," etc.) Or, as Vattel has it: "We have a right to deprive our enemy of his possessions, of everything which may augment his strength and enable him to make war." (Vattel’s "Law of Nations," Book iii., sec. 161.)
Such seizure or destruction must, of course, take place through the proper military authority. Nor are we to harm an enemy from malice or revenge, but only so far as is "necessary for self-defense and reasonable security for the time to come." (Work cited. Book iii, sec. 201.)
Humanity bids us respect the private property of non-combatants. It is barbarous to burn or pillage dwellings, to lay waste farms, to destroy public edifices not military. But if property of an enemy be of a dangerous character, so that its existence imperils the success of the war, or if it be such as has been, or may be, used with effect against us, to prolong the war, we violate the clearest dictates of prudence if we neglect any opportunity to deprive the enemy of it. Thus of ammunition, of quartermaster's and commissary stores. Thus, also, of forts, entrenchments, and the like. Let us apply these principles in the present case.
Certain of our public enemies, with the same rights (and no other) as alien enemies have, held on the first day of January last, within the above named insurrectionary States, claims to the service or labor for life of some three million persons. 
This class of claims is, beyond all else, such property as imperils military success, such as "augments the enemy’s strength," such as "enables him to make war," nay, gives him aid on a scale so vast, that without it the war would already, in all reasonable probability, have been brought to a close. It is not, indeed, quartermaster and commissary stores, but it is that which supplies both. It is not forts or entrenchments, but it serves to build the one and throw up the other. We cannot more effectually "cripple the resources" of the enemy than by destroying it.
Nor is this all. The dangerous character of this property is attested by the enemy himself. He acknowledges that Jefferson prophesied truly when he
<c03>
predicted that this was the rock on which the old Union would split. The owners of these claims themselves declare them to have been the immediate cause of the war. What chance have we of domestic tranquillity while they exist? There is-in the nature of things there can be-no security for peace or loyalty from a slave State.
Does international law exempt such claims from seizure? Are they not to be reckoned as part of an enemy’s property? Vattel expressly tells us: "Among the things belonging to the enemy are likewise incorporeal things-all his rights, claims and debts." (Vattel's "Law of Nations," Book iii., sec. 77.)
Therefore the Confiscation Act, including its ninth section, already quoted, is in strict accordance with the laws of war.
Therefore, too, our Commander-in-Chief was in his right when he took and canceled the claims to service and labor in the insurrectionary States. The law of nations sanctions the Emancipation proclamation. By that instrument three millions of slaves were legally set free. The deed is done; righteously, lawfully done. It is true that many of these people are working as slaves still; but, in the eye of the law, they are freemen. Our own right to freedom is not better than theirs.
This deed, demanded alike by prudence and justice, forms an era in our national history. It severed the past from the future. It substantially changed, of necessity, the policy of the government. In the early stage of the war, Congress proposed, and the majority of the nation expected, as the issue of this contest, a mere rehabilitation, with Southern laws and Southern institutions re-acknowledged in their pristine form. Again and again warning was given, and the return of the insurgents to their loyal duty on these conditions was urged upon them. But their hearts were hardened, and they would not. By their obstinate perversity they closed the door against themselves. They persevered in their conspiracy against public law until Emancipation became an imperative measure of self-defence. Let us not take credit to ourselves for generous philanthropy. The South, reckless and blind, was the unwitting agent of human liberty. And thus, in the providence of God, the very effort, by armed treason, to perpetuate an abuse has been the means of effecting its eradication.
That which might have been can no longer be. When politicians talk now of reconstruction, with the "peculiar institution" of the South left intact, the words are nothing else but a mischievous mystification. If the South conquer, she may, by superior force, hold as slaves the negroes who shall remain to her, though by our laws they are free. But for us, there is no longer a peculiar institution in any of the insurrectionary States to be left intact. We can build up anew that peculiar institution; not legally, it is very true, for neither the President, nor Congress, nor any judicial tribunal in the land, has any more authority to consign a freeman to slavery than they have to hang him without crime or trial; but we may build it up, if we have power enough, or connive at it, if we are shameless enough; just as a highwayman may seize a purse, or a burglar carry off a basket of silver-ware.
Whether, when we shall have suffered vanquished treason to dictate her own terms; whether, when we shall have stooped to purchase-not peace, for God’s best blessing cannot be so purchased-but a worthless truce, as brief as treacherous-by an act of usurpation that assumes to assign away the liberties of three million of free people; whether, when we shall have done this great thing, we shall have any right to set up for more honest or more virtuous than the felon-trader who makes a midnight descent on the Congo coast, and steals thence three or four hundred wretches to crowd the hold of his slave-ship, that will be a question to be settled, at our leisure, with our own consciences.
"The way of the transgressor is hard." It is better to lose fortune than fair fame; and national disgrace is worse than national disaster. A convict, where he is known and remembered as such, may, because of the stain that attaches to him, toil faithfully through half a lifetime, ere men take him again by the hand. And a people, stamped by their own public records as lawless and forsworn, may travel a long and a weary road-a reproach, the while, and a by-word among nations-ere they can take their stand, once more, among the civilized powers of the earth.
Assuming, what seems probable, that we shall remain victors in this war, suffer me, in conclusion, briefly to group together the main positions that have been advanced.
The inhabitants of the insurrectionary States have, at present, no constitutional right to elect a member to Congress.
We, the inhabitants of the non-insurrectionary States, may, by law, restore to them that right; and with us it rests to decide upon what conditions it shall be restored.
The preliminary condition ought to be some sufficient guaranty that the Emancipation proclamation shall never be repudiated, and that the institution of slavery shall never again, in any part of the insurrectionary territory, be revived.
Our own national faith, already pledged before the world to three million of suffering people, demands this. The law of nations permits and enjoins it. We had a right, by that law, to destroy slave-property belonging to a public enemy. It was a national duty to destroy property so dangerous, in order to render that enemy "incapable of doing mischief with the same ease in future."
We offended against no principle of humanity in destroying this property; in other words, in cancelling life-long claims to service or labor. The inhumanity would have been to refrain from cancelling them.
Nor do we actually harm the slave-claimant by cancelling his claims. In point of fact it is greatly to his advantage, socially and pecuniarily, to be without them. Are we impertinently interfering in his business-arrogantly and improperly assuming to judge what is best for him-when we determine this? Not at all. The business is emphatically our own; for it intimately concerns our national safety. In deciding it as we see fit, there is neither impropriety nor arrogance, but proper precaution and prudent foresight. If he had refrained from levying war against his government, he would have had the undoubted right to judge and to act in this affair. As it is, he has lost it; and we have now the right and the power to decide the matter; not he.
Before the vacant chairs in Congress are filled, let us make the decision. Failing in this high duty, we sacrifice at once the public honor and the public safety.
New York, Aug. 27, 1863.
The demand for the labor of contrabands by the farmers of the Northwest largely exceeds the present supply. Very few contrabands have arrived at St. Louis lately, and the negro regiment business on the Mississippi river interferes with the accession of many able-bodied negroes to the laboring population of the Northwest.
<c04>
A PRIVATE’S LETTER FROM THE ARMY.
There are, I believe, somewhat over three hundred thousand stout negro slaves in the rebellious States, who are eager and anxious to give all their help to the Republic as soldiers. Shall we take them into the ranks, and bid them charge upon the lines of Jeff. Davis's armies, or shall we drive them back when they come to our lines, and declare that we will perish before we will accept their assistance? 
But, as many professedly loyal men deny that negro soldiers could be serviceable, let us briefly inquire whether or not such troops would be an element of national strength. The first objection is, that they are an inferior race, and hence it would be inhuman to use them. They certainly are not inferior to the white man in physical power, or in readiness to submit to discipline; and these points constitute the valuable common soldier. Nor is the objection of inhumanity more valid, for the most polite and humane nations have set numerous precedents for the employment of them as soldiers: Great Britain employed them during the Revolutionary war, General Washington did the same, and the legislatures of many of the colonies made provisions for their enlistment; Spain employs negro troops; Napoleon not only employs negro troops, but keeps an African guard as an Imperial Body Guard to the Prince in his rides through the streets of Paris. The rebels are stopped from objecting to their employment by the Government on the ground of inhumanity, for they raised regiments of negroes in New Orleans at the commencement of the rebellion, and disbanded them only when they found reason to suspect their sympathy for the cause of the Union; and no doubt you are familiar with the fact, that the rebel vigilance committee of Memphis called for the organization of black troops. General Jackson, whose sagacity and practical good sense, as well as patriotism, none will question, called for black troops during the war of 1812, and used them victoriously. 
If this question is to be settled by precedent, it is already settled. But suppose it was a new question-its solution need not be difficult, if we discard prejudice, and examine it in the light of common sense, without any help from precedent at all. There is no reason why a negro should not make an effective soldier. He is human, and possesses all the physical endowments, at least, of a man. Grant him to be oppressed and degraded, both politically and socially, this is far from disproving that he possesses good soldierly qualities. To plan a fight requires intellect, but to do the fighting requires physical power and discipline. We all know that the negro, habituated all his life to out-door labor, possesses good physical powers; and we know, too, that his training from his infancy tends to make him an easy subject of discipline. I do not deny that high moral and mental cultivation is of advantage to its possessor in every walk of life, but it is also true that many brave and distinguished soldiers never enjoyed this advantage. The rebel soldiers fight well, and yet the training of the great mass of them has been in no respects better than that of the most ignorant slaves. An experienced officer would hardly go to the offices of professional men, or to college halls and lyceums, or to the parlors of fashionable society, to procure the best fighters. He would much prefer obtaining recruits among miners, woodsmen and boatmen, who possess powerful physical developments, and who would not be laid on the shelf after a few hours’ hard fighting. Negroes are men, with the same passions that white men possess, and, like them, will fight when impelled by sufficient motives. They fight furiously when engaged with one another, with all the terrors of certain death before them, and with no hope of escape whatever. The criminal records of the Slave States attest the fact that they not infrequently turn upon their masters. So great, in fact, is the fear of insurrection in these States, that, in Virginia, old John Brown, with a band of only twenty negroes, threw the whole State into a ferment of excitement and terror for the space of near six months; and the whole South stood aghast at the thought that this raid of an old gray-haired enthusiast was the portentous shadow of a coming event! To repress the passions of slaves and terrify them into submission, the States not only for hade them the use of arms, but adopted a distinct code for their punishment, remarkable for its cruelty and bloodthirstiness. If the slave were the spiritless, timid being that Butternuts at home would persuade us he is, no such laws would be necessary. A sheep code or a chicken code would be as good and as safe as a slave code. None knew as well as slave-owners, that the negroes in the South are the red lava imprisoned in a volcano, eager to leap forth and punish their oppressors. Look at Port Hudson, Milliken's Bend and Helena, where the slaves closed in upon their rebel masters, fought them hand to hand, and drove them in utter panic from the field. It is always advisable to weaken an enemy. The negro is now the main support of the rebel army. He is compelled to raise meat and bread-stuffs for the commissary department. He builds forts, digs trenches, and renders many other services in the army which white men would have to do in his absence. By appropriating his services to the use of the government, we cut the sinews of the rebellion. If Slavery be the "chief cornerstone" of the rebellion, let us undermine it, and blow it to atoms. If the slaveholders are fighting for the divine right of King Cotton, let us dethrone him, tear off his crown, and divide his kingdom among loyal men; and then the slave oligarchy will have neither a cause to fight about, nor means to carry on the war.
But a distinguished conservative traitor says that it would be cruel to expose the negroes to the perils of war! Would it be more cruel than to expose those of our own race to the same perils? Is the negro so precious that his life must be sedulously protected, while thousands of white citizens are slain in battle, starved in dungeons, and butchered in cold blood by guerrillas? So says Butternut.
Another conservative traitor says, it would be a degradation to call upon the negro to help the nation in this war! I might reply that General Jackson did not feel this degradation; and his sense of honor was quite as high as that of any traitor conservative in the land. But, to be consistent, let us carry out this conservative idea in other matters. "Begone, slaves!" shouts Mr. Conservative, while his house is burning over the heads of his family. "No negro shall save my wife and daughters from the flames! If we white men cannot save them, let them burn up!" "Away!" exclaims the drowning Butternut to the negro who is about to draw him ashore; "I’ll never have it said of me that my life was saved by a negro!" If we are too proud to accept the proffered help of slaves as soldiers, should we not scorn, also, to owe our daily bread and clothing, and all our comforts and luxuries of life, to their unrequited labors? Which is the more manly: To compel the slave to feed us, clothe us, educate as, and serve as in all the menial offices without recompense, or to call on him for help in time of peril, and then grant him pay for his services? Let common sense answer DAVID WILLIAMS,
Co. C., 115th Reg’t Ill’s Inft.
<c05>
SPEECH OF HON. HENRY WILSON,
AT THE STATE REPUBLICAN CONVENTION, IN WORCKSTER, MASS., THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1863,
Mr. President and Gentlemen of the Convention:-I came here to-day to meet many old friends whom I was accustomed to meet in other days in convention, and to-day I have had the pleasure I shall not soon forget, of taking many of those old friends by the hand. I am glad to be here to-day to look into the faces of the men before me who hold in their hands the political destinies of old Massachusetts. (Applause.) Before me sit the representatives of the higher sentiments, the opinions, the aims, the aspirations of this glorious old Christian Commonwealth. (Applause.)
In all the struggles of the last nine years against the aggressive policy of that slave-power which has plunged us into the flood of revolution, you, gentlemen, have kept old Massachusetts firm to the faith of the republican fathers. In sunshine and in storm, in victory and in defeat, you have held the Old Bay State firm on the side of human liberty, on the side of humanity, on the side of the Constitution, on the side of the unity of the Republic, on the side of all the noblest aspirations of a Christian nation. (Applause.) 
You have not contributed to bring this bloody revolution upon this land by word, thought or deed. You have stood firm by the faith of the republican fathers, and you asked, in words as earnest as ever came from human lips, your erring countrymen to be true to the sentiments of the fathers, to preserve the institutions of the fathers and the unity of the Republic. But the slave-power seized a great political power, ruled it, and by it controlled the government, and when you no longer would bow to its decrees, when you marched to the ballot box in November, 1860, and made Abraham Lincoln President of the United States, (applause.) then it was this slave-power you had defeated plunged the nation into the flood and fire of civil war. Thanks be to God, the brave sons of Massachusetts, on the soil of a slaveholding State, were the first to meet the shock of battle, to stain the streets of Baltimore with patriotic blood. (Applause.) And through all this terrible contest the sons of Massachusetts, on the battle-fields of this war, on the soil of the Old Dominion, on the shores of the Carolinas, and away on the Father of Waters, have, borne your flag bravely and proudly, and won honor for Massachusetts and renown immortal for themselves. (Applause.) To-day you come here and nominate by a unanimous and enthusiastic voice, John A. Andrew, who has guided the government of Massachusetts during 
this unparalleled rebellion with distinguished ability.(Applause.) You pronounce the will of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. In November next she will utter at the ballot box her verdict by an overwhelming and crushing vote over him who calls himself Daniel Webster's disciple.(Laughter and applause.) 
Gentlemen, we are engaged in a bloody revolution. Patriotism demands that we should rise above the mere requirements of partisanship, and give all we have and all we hope to be to our perilled country. He who gives anything less in this crisis of the country withdraws so much from our bleeding country, and flings it into the scale of the rebellion. You are here to support Abraham Lincoln's administration without qualification or reservation. (Applause.) You are here to stand by it, to let him feel that he can lean upon old Massachusetts, and find that every throb of her heart is true to the Constitution and the Union. (Applause.) And, gentlemen, let me say here to you now what the observation of more than two years has taught me-that we have in the President's chair as ardent a lover of human liberty as treads the soil of North America.(Applause.) We have in that chair a true and honest man, a statesman who takes no backward steps. He has promised the negroes who will rally around the old flag of the Republic liberty and protection, and he tells the world we must keep that pledge. (Loud applause.) He has issued a proclamation making free more than three millions of the slaves of rebels, and he tells the world that this proclamation cannot be withdrawn any more than the dead can be brought to life. (Applause.) That is the position of the President of the United States-grand and glorious-and it is the duty of the Christian patriots of America to stand by him, and gather around him, and bear the cause of the country on to a sure and final triumph.(Applause.)
The other day there met here in Worcester a convention of citizens of Massachusetts, and they came not here to give the thoughts of the heart, the convictions of the soul, all they have and all they hope to be, to the government now struggling to suppress this rebellion. They came here rather to lay the foundations of hoped-for partisan triumph in the future. They came here not to arraign Jefferson Davis-not to denounce this Democratic rebellion-but to arraign the government of this country, and the Christian men of Massachusetts who are upholding and maintaining it. They tell us that our institutions are assailed by the rebellion, on the one hand, and by the assumption of unconstitutional power on the other, and that they "are equally opposed to both." Equally opposed to both! Here is a slaveholders rebellion, the most wicked that the sun in his course across the heavens ever looked down upon. A rebellion against this democratic, Christian republic, a rebellion that has immolated two hundred thousand of the young men of the country; and men born on the soil of Massachusetts, educated in these schools and instructed in their churches, come into, this hall in this hour of trial and peril, and tell the world that they are no more opposed to that rebellion; than they are to what they are pleased to call assumptions of power by the government of the United States for the suppression of the rebellion. (A voice-"Shame!") The declaration is infamous, (applause,) and the man who utters it has but a step more to take, and that is to join the rebellion in overthrowing the government of the United States. (Applause.): The government declares free slaves used for military purposes, the slaves of rebels coming within the lines of our advancing armies; uses black men to save the lives of our own white brothers, proclaims slaves free in the rebel States and suspends the writ of habeas corpus to strengthen the military force; and to these acts, sustained by some of the most accomplished Constitutional jurists, of America, these men of Massachusetts declare that they are as hostile as they are to this wicked and bloody insurrection-this gigantic effort to blot the republic from the map of nations. God in his abounding mercy may forgive this declaration, but American patriotism will do so never.
These men thank the soldiers who are fighting our battles. God bless the soldiers! They thank them, but they tell them that they could not express half their thanks were they not to censure "the cruel delay and refusal to hold out the olive branch of peace to erring States." Cruel delay! Why, every man of them knew that there has not been a moment since the standard of civil war was raised by South Carolina, when the government of the
<c06>
United States could have offered terms to the rebellion. The moment the word "peace" should be spoken-that moment this Republic is severed forever, and this nation of United America disappears from the map of the world. (Applause.) Every patriotic man in America knows that the government of the United States, to speak such a word in the ear of Jefferson Davis, means nothing more and nothing less than that Jefferson Davis's slaveholding Confederacy must be acknowledged as an achieved fact, and the Republic broken forever. Yet Massachusetts men come into this hall, here in the heart of the Commonwealth, and censure the government of the United States because it continues to fight for the unity of the Republic, for the suppression of the rebellion, and has never offered terms of peace to the traitors whose hands are red with the blood of thousands of the sons of Massachusetts. Gentlemen, do these men expect to win victories on the soil of Massachusetts with such sentiments as these upon their lips? Do they expect the Christian and patriotic people of this Commonwealth to respond to their appeals, and vote for the party that thus arraigns their government for not tendering peace to traitors? I tell you never, never. They arraign the government for arbitrary arrests. Who has been arrested in Massachusetts? No one-many ought to be. (Loud applause.) Does not that apostate, Franklin Pierce, tread the soil of New England? (Vociferous applause.) Does not that man who told Jeff. Davis before November, 1859, that if an army was sent into the South for subjugation, it would have a battle to fight on the Northern soil with doubtful results, go free here in New England? Does not that man, who, in January, 1860, when Democratic traitors were pacing the halls of Congress, like caged tigers, ready to spring at the life of the nation, wrote to Jefferson Davis that if it came to blows, the battle was not to be on Mason and Dixon's line merely, but was to be here on the soil of New England, continue to insult the patriotism of the people? Did not these words of treason encourage Jefferson Davis and his traitor compeers to raise the standard of revolt against the country? (Applause.) Does not this government, this reviled administration, permit that traitor to walk free here in the sunlight of our own New England? Does not the government allow these men of Massachusetts to slander it as much as they please? Who has harmed them? Who? And yet the government is arraigned for making a few arrests of men who are plotting against the life of the nation. I say to you, gentlemen, here to-day, what I have said on the floor of the Congress of the United States, and if God gives me liberty I mean to say it again, (applause,) that the government is to be blamed less for making the arrests than for not making more of them.(Renewed applause.) If I had the power, I would take those men who are plotting against the life of the nation, whenever they are of consequence enough to do so, and I would hold them in the gripe of American patriotism until they ceased to be dangerous to the country, when I would fling the worthless things away. (Laughter and cheers.) They arraign the government for arbitrary arrests; for arresting the Vallandighams, who, in the language of Commodore Maury, in the London Times, "is watching over the border," and if elected, he means to put the State of Ohio against the administration of the nation. It was an unpardonable crime to arrest him, and send him to his friends, (laughter), "away down in Dixie." Gentlemen, our fathers arrested Tories in the Revolution. Washington arrested the Vallandighams of his day; he tried them, shut them up in prisons, and respectable, conservative Tories didn't like it, and no doubt passed resolutions against it. Have you ever heard anybody denounce Washington and the patriots of the revolution for arresting the Tories of their day?
After this rebellion shall have been crushed, you cannot find men bold enough to arraign the government of the United States for arresting these men who are plotting treason against the country. The patriotism of the nation will blast, wither and consume the men who should arraign the government for putting their hands upon plotting traitors. Men are anxious about the freedom of speech. Yes, men who have shot down those who are in the service of the United States, who have raised rebellions in the city of New York, who have dragged out and roasted negroes, and burned the houses of patriotic men, are anxious about freedom of speech. These Massachusetts men made a beautiful illustration of free speech, that shows how much they care for it. Free speech for Vallandigham, free speech for the men who are arraigning the government at all hazards; but free speech for a one-armed soldier never! (Tremendous applause.) They have no free speech for the brave man who arose with an empty sleeve to ask if they were in favor of putting down the rebellion with the hand of war. They could close his lips, but they had free speech to assail the government. 
Gentlemen, I would give more for the patriotism in the empty sleeve of that brave soldier than for the patriotism of every copperhead in that Convention.(Vociferous and long-continued cheers.) Gentlemen, I hope you will go home, and in your various portions of the State appeal as you have in the past to the hearts, the consciences, the reason of the men of Massachusetts. I am proud to know that there are thousands of men who have voted with the Democratic party of Massachusetts, who feel as felt the loyal Democrats who gave eighteen thousand majority in Maine the other day. These patriotic men, some of them, came to the Convention, and wanted this Democratic Convention to pass resolutions in favor of a vigorous prosecution of the war. But they were voted down by the men whose sympathies are against our struggling country. 
These men who love their country more than a dishonored party will vote with us and stand with us in this great trial, if we welcome their cooperation. Do not be outdone in liberality toward them: not that we need their votes, thank God, to keep Massachusetts true to the country, for we are dependent on the action of nobody upon earth. But we want men like Shepley, of Maine, like sturdy Ben Butler, of Massachusetts, (applause,) like John Cochrane, and George Bancroft, and Daniel S. Dickinson, of New York, (applause,) like Rosecrans and Grant , and Andrew Johnson and John Logan, and men in the field and in the councils, who give all they have of blood, of treasure, of heart, of soul, to the cause of their perilled country. We want these men with us, and, gentlemen, they are taking their places along side of us. The nation is beginning to understand the position of the Democratic organization of the United States. Look at that organization this day. One portion of it stands in open rebellion against the government of the United States; another portion of it is in sympathy with the rebels, giving them aid and comfort by word and deed. Thousands of others are, I thank God, battling for the country in the field, or supporting the cause of the country at the ballot box, and the ballot is almost as important in this revolution for the salvation of the country as is the ballet of the soldier. Welcome to the true and tried men; but whenever
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of thing, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTEREFER WITH, from claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, in a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection. Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory." J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
a copperhead hisses against the country, let him know there is a God in Israel, and that the patriotism of the nation will rebuke him. (Applause.)
I have undoubting faith that we shall triumph. I have never entertained a doubt for a single moment through all the dark and troubled nights we have passed since this rebellion broke upon the land. I have had undoubting faith in the American people, in Democratic institutions, and in the God of our Fathers. We shall triumph-we shall save the country-we shall overthrow human slavery that has brought all this suffering and dishonor upon the nation. We shall sustain the proclamation of Abraham Lincoln. (Applause.) We shall make that proclamation a living faith on every foot of the rebel states. (Renewed applause.) We shall give our voice, our sympathy, our God’s blessing to the men who are struggling to make Delaware and Maryland and Kentucky and Tennessee and Missouri free commonwealths. The cause of emancipation is progressing in the border States with wonderful rapidity. I saw, with emotions of delight I cannot express, the speech of Andrew Johnson, the other day, in favor of emancipation in Tennessee. (Applause.) That glorious old Roman who has stood by our country, by the unity of the republic, with unsurpassed courage and fidelity, now proclaims to the men of Tennessee that Tennessee must become a free commonwealth.  I saw a day or two ago a letter from Gen. Grant, the hero that has fought fifteen battles for our country, and won them all (Loud cheering.) Said that gallant soldier, “I am not an abolitionist, I was never an anti-slavery man, but I try to judge everything honestly and fairly. I am satisfied that the North and the South can never live together in peace except as one nation, and that a free nation.” (Applause.) Rosecrans (God be with him and bless him in the storms of battle through which he is now passing!) tells us that slavery is going down to rise no more, and that no Christian can do anything to arrest its fall. Everywhere the sentiment of hostility to slavery is spreading-in the army and among the people. All we have to do is to be true and firm, inflexible, prudent, careful of word and speech, but as inflexible as destiny itself. (Applause.) We owe it to the country to carry this nation triumphantly out of this revolution, inaugurated by slavery, and to bring it out a united and free country- and by God’s blessing we will do it. We shall have the proud consciousness, living or dying, of knowing that we were ever for and with our country-for its unity and perpetuity-for its republican institutions-for the rights of human nature-and for the progress of Christian civilization in the Western World. (Applause.)

LETTER FROM EX-PRESIDENT PIERCE TO JEFF. DAVIS.
Some weeks ago, we announced the fact that the library and a collection of private papers of Jeff. Davis had been captured near Jackson, Miss. We had no doubt that, in the collection of letters thus unearthed, there would be found something over the sign-manual of one Franklin Pierce, a peripatetic Ex-President, and familiarly known in these latter days as “the Mausoleum-Builder.”  We were not mistaken, as the following communication and its enclosure, received from an officer stationed at Natchez, attests:—

CAMP 15th ILL. INFANTRY,
NATCHEZ, MISS., August, 29th, 1863.
EDITORS DEMOCRAT—DEAR SIRS: Happening to find a number of your paper lying in camp, a few days ago, my eye caught sight of an article in relation to the capture of the Library and Papers of Jeff. Davis near Jackson, Miss., a short time ago. I there saw a desire expressed by yourself to know whether there was any correspondence found there between Jeff, and Ex-President Pierce. In answer I have to say that there were a number of such letters found. I was fortunate to secure one as Late as Jan. 1860, written by Mr. Pierce to Davis—a verbatim copy of which I take the liberty of sending you. You can make such use of it as you may deem proper. I have no other object than an earnest desire to show up the doings and sympathies of prominent men at the North, who I fear are not as loyal as they might be. The original is still in my possession. Its publication may serve to throw some further light on the origin of this rebellion, and may perhaps be useful to the Ex-President in building that “Mausoleum of Hearts.”
Very truly yours,
WILLIAM H. GIBBS,
Capt. Co. H, 15th Illinois 2d Brigade,
4th Division 17th A. C., Army of Tenn.

PIERCE’S LETTER.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Jan’y 6th, 1860.
MY DEAR FRIEND:—I wrote you an unsatisfactory note a day or two since. I have just had a pleasant interview with Mr. Shepley, whose courage and fidelity are equal to his learning and talents. He says he would rather fight the battle with you as the standard-bearer in 1860, than under the auspices of any other leader.  The feeling and judgment of Mr. S. in this relation is, I am confident, rapidly gaining ground in New England. Our people are looking for “the Coming Man,”—one who is raised by all the elements of his character above the atmosphere ordinarily breathed by politicians,—a man really fitted for this emergency by his ability, courage, broad statesmanship and patriotism. Col. Seymour (Tho’s H.) arrived here this morning, and expressed his views in this relation in almost the identical language used by Mr. Shepley. It is true that in the present state of things at Washington and throughout the country, no man can predict what changes two or three months may bring forth. Let me suggest that in the morning debates in Congress, full justice seems to me not to have been done to the Democracy of the North. I do not believe that our friends at the South have any just idea of the state of feeling hur ying at this moment to the pitch of intense exasperation between those who respect their political obligations, and those who have apparently no impelling power but that which fanatical passion on the subject of domestic slavery imparts. Without discussing the question of right—of abstract power to secede, I have never believed that actual disruption of the Union can occur without blood: and if, through the madness of Northern Abolitionists, that dire calamity must come, the fighting will not be along Mason and Dixon’s line merely. It will be within our own borders, in our own streets, between the two classes of citizens to whom I have referred.  Those who defy law and scout constitutional obligations will, if we ever reach the arbitrament of arms, find occupation enough at home. Nothing but the state of Mrs. Pierce’s health would induce me to leave the country now, although it is quite likely that my presence at home would be of little service. I have tried to impress upon our people, especially in N. H. and Connecticut where the only elections are to take place during the coming spring, that while our Union meetings are all in the right direction, and well enough for the present, they will not be worth the paper upon which their resolutions are written, unless we can overthrow political abolitionism at the polls, and repeal the unconstitutional and obnoxious laws which in the cause of “Personal Liberty” have been placed upon our Statute books. I shall look with deep interest, and not without hope, for a decided change in this relation.
Ever and truly your friend,
FRANKLIN PIERCE.
Hon. JEFF. DAVIS, Washington, D. C.
There we have it, and it will do for once! Pleasant was it, doubtless, to Jeff., while busily maturing the long-laid plot of rebellion, to snuff the incense of such epistolary adulation; pleasant, to learn from his friend, the Compromise Breaker, that he (Jeff.) was the “coming man” for the Presidency of a nation which he had already sworn in full conspiracy to ruin, if he could not rule. Imagine the grim satisfaction he must have felt as he read the following tribute of affectionate appreciation, which the Ex-President so liberally bestows upon him, as “one who is raised by all the elements of his character above the atmosphere ordinarily breathed by politicians; a man really filled for this emergency by his ability, courage, broad statesmanship and PATRIOTISM.”  Possibly, the arch-conspirator may have deemed the climax allusion to his ”patriotism” as cutting the slice of praise rather thick, but then, affectionate admiration is always more or less hyperbolical, and must be excused.
On the whole, however, Jeff. must have been pleased, especially when the Ex-President gives him such pleasant assurance of a “divided North” whenever he (Jeff.) and his co-conspirators should conclude to make the final appeal to rebellious arms. He must have felt fresh encouragement to work out the hellish scheme to overthrow the Republic, when assured by his Northern friend and
<c02>
ally that “if, through the madness of Northern abolitionists,” “that dire calamity”- the actual disruption of the Union”- must come, the fighting will not be along Mason and Dixon’s line merely. It will be within our own borders, in our own streets, between two classes of citizens,” namely, “those who respect their political obligations,” (meaning the Pro-Slavery Democracy,) “and those who have apparently no impelling power but that which fanatical passion on the subject of slavery imparts,” (meaning, of course, all those opposed to the extension and aggressions of slavery whom the Ex-President, politely adopting Southern parlance, styles “Abolitionists.” “Those who defy law and scout constitutional obligations will, if we ever reach the arbitrament of arms, FIND OCCUPATION ENOUGH AT HOME,” adds the Ex-President, ominously, warning with his theme, or something else, into teeth-clenched wrath against the “Abolitionists. Rose not even then upon his mental vision that “mausoleum of hearts” which, in these “latter days” of rebellion, he has signified an intent to build? Not a word of rebuke or remonstrance, even the gentlest, had the recreant Ex-President to say against the Secession treason, which he couldknew Jeff. Davis and his crew were plotting; but he could and did give the traitors the encouraging assurance, that if the war came, the “Democracy of the North” would he their allies, “fighting” for them “within our own borders—in our own streets”! It was with such encouragement as this, that the abominable conspiracy against Liberty, against Christian Civilization, against our Nation’s Unity and Existence, was hatched into flagrant and bloody Rebellion. O, false prophet of evil, recreant son of a Revolutionary sire, how has the patriotism of the Freedom- loving North given the lie to your treason-begotten predictions! But proceed to erect your “mausoleum of hearts”—proceed—let go ill-omened vaticinations, and proceed to build—the Rebellion is tottering to its fall—put up the “mausoleum”! One, at least, of your epistles to Jeff. Davis is at your service for deposit beneath the corner-stone thereof!— Independent Democrat, Concord, N. H.
The New York Evening Post contains the following sensible remarks upon this disgraceful letter of Franklin Pierce:-
“There are several things to be noticed about this most extraordinary production besides the fact of its date, or that it was written at the very time when the plot of the rebellion was maturing—January, 1860. One of the first of these is the nauseous and servile spirit of adulation in which a gentleman who has been President approaches one of the most unscrupulous of the southern agitators as “one who is raised by all the elements of his character above the atmosphere ordinarily breathed by politicians; a man really fitted for this emergency by his ability and courage, broad statesmanship and patriotism.” Davis had been the leader in the most flagitious scheme for repudiating public obligations that ever disgraced a civilized state, he was a mouser and a trickster at best, full of conceit and arrogance, and ever ready to put down the free expression of opinion by violence! And yet Pierce has the unspeakable baseness to slaver this most commonplace mortal with flatteries and epithets that a mind of any self-respect would only apply to such a character as Washington. But this is his affair.
What we wish to remark on is this, that after inflating Davis’s self-importance, not with a whiff but a tubful of incense, he proceeds to impress upon the exalted mind of his correspondent two things.  In the first place, he lets Mr. Davis know that the quarrel of the fire-eaters with the North, i.e., the majority of the North, was altogether a just quarrel, or, in other words, that the North had been regardless of its solemn constitutional obligations, was prompted thereto by no convictions of duty, but the merest passion of fanaticism, and, moreover, intended to injure the South, both in her interests and honor, with a deliberate malice; provocations enough, we should think, to work upon the blood of a man made of turnips, much more upon men proverbial for their jealous susceptibility and quickness of temper; but the Ex-President having peppered and salted the old sore of the South in this wise, adds, in the second place, that if the South retaliates by declaring war, it will be resolutely seconded by a large party in the North. Pierce says not a word against the principle of secession, utters no syllable of rebuke to those who were contemplating the measureless evils of disunion, does not look with pale terror at the mere suggestion of civil war, but with the coolness and malignity with which Satan contemplated the Eden he was about to ruin, remarks that “disruption will certainly end in blood; but then the fighting will not be south of Mason and Dixon’s line, but within our own borders, in our own streets, between our own citizens”! In other words, the “Democratic” party will assist you; it will fall upon the Republicans; it will put fire to the houses and knives to the throats of those that offend you; and a new La Vendee will be acted over again in all our free States.
With such assurances from such a source, with such instigations we may say, it is not surprising that the rebellion was ripened into war. All the ringleaders wanted, to be sure of success, was northern aid and approval, and that was vouchsafed them by Pierce and other allies and agents. The story went, a little later, indeed, that they were to be furnished thirty thousand men from this city alone; that the army and navy were to be turned over to them; Mr. Lincoln assassinated on his way to his inauguration, and Jefferson Davis permitted, without more ado, to walk into the executive mansion. It was all a mistake, it is true; these sycophants of the slave lords knew nothing of the hearts of the northern people; themselves destitute of patriotism, of loyalty, of honor and the love of liberty, they supposed the masses no less degraded; but the mistake, nevertheless, wrought its mischief. Those deluded, arrogant, reckless men were induced to open the war, which, for two years now, has not filled the streets of our northern cities with blood, but has wasted nearly every southern field and desolated nearly every southern hearth.
Mr. Pierce and his coadjutors ought to look upon the ruin they have helped to make, and be warned. But they will not. They are still playing the same game, and with the same hands as of old. Their peace cries now are just as delusive as their proffers of help were in the beginning, and are doing no less injury.  They are encouraging the rebels to prolong a hopeless resistance by the same false representations of a possible Northern support which encouraged them to begin that resistance in the outset. Nothing apparently has been learned by experience; no impression made upon them by that grand burst of enthusiasm on the fall of Sumter, which consecrated the whole North to Union: none by the gigantic preparations, the steady progress, the patient endurance, the noble heroism, the ten thousand sacrifices of the war; but they still imagine, and still represent, that the people will yet be brought round to the worship of that Moloch of slavery, which for nearly eighty years has eaten up their children. Worse than that, the leaders of the South are frenzied or foolish enough still to believe their words!”
The correspondence found among Jeff. Davis’s effects will serve very essentially to illustrate the history of the Rebellion. That the rebel leaders would never have gone to the extremity they did had not their contemptuous opinion of the character of Northern men been encouraged and fostered by their political associates in the North is daily more and more evident. They did not believe the Yankees would fight, except among themselves in our own streets; they thought their task would be an easy one; and hence their surprise when the Great Uprising after the insult to the flag at Fort Sumter proved the manhood and patriotism of the North.
The letter of Frank Pierce shows how the conspirators were misled. It is doubtless only a specimen of multitudes of others of a similar character which are yet to see the light. The whole of Frank Pierce school of politicians were accustomed to indulge in similar expressions of sentiment.
Those who remember the great Faneuil Hall meeting of Dec. 8, 1859, may also recall the speech of Gen. Caleb Cushing, in which he said, “a band of drunken mutineers has seized bold of the political opinion of this Commonwealth.” In the same speech, Gen. Cushing intimated that, in case of a disruption of the Union on account of the slavery question, “there will be for us the more terrible and dismal spectacle of civil war upon our own soil in Massachusetts”—that “the war will not be upon Mason and Dixon’s line, but it will be here upon the soil of New England.”—Salem Register.
Mr. Hawthorne’s last book is dedicated to ex-president Pierce, and contains an endorsement of Mr. Pierce’s thorough loyalty. Mr. Hawthorne is good at fiction. —Salem Register.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1863.
ONE MILLION SIGNATURES!
CIRCULATE THE PETITION!
The Loyal Women of the Republic, through their National Association, resolved in May last to attempt to procure a MILLION signatures of loyal women to the following petition:-
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:
The undersigned, Women of the United States above the age of eighteen years, earnestly pray that your honorable body will pass, at the earliest practicable day, an Act emancipating all persons of African descent held to involuntary service or labor in the United States.
Let the loyal women of Massachusetts see to it that they are not outdone by their sisters in any other State in the number of names appended by them to this petition—a petition which goes to the very root of the rebellion and all our national troubles, by asking Congress to terminate what remains of slavery outside of the President’s 1st of January Proclamation in such manner as to that body may seem advisable.
The Central League will bestow their badge and membership as a gift upon any boy or girl under 18, who, being by their age prevented from signing the petitions, shall collect and forward fifty or more names, and as many cents to help defray general expenses.
They will also bestow a handsomely bound copy of each of the two celebrated and recently published works of Augustin Cochin, on -Slavery and Emancipation, as follows:-On the person who shall collect and send the largest number of signatures from any city of the Union, having a population of over twenty-five thousand; also, on the person who shall collect the largest number of signatures outside of the said cities, from any State in the Union.

ADDRESS TO THE SOLDIERS.
SOLDIERS OF OUR SECOND REVOLUTION:—
BRETHREN: A thousand of your sisters, in a Convention representing the Loyal Women of the Nation, greet you with profound gratitude. Your struggles, sufferings, daring, heroic self-devotion, and sublime achievements, we exult in them all.
To you, especially, whose terms of service have expired, or are soon to expire, we desire to speak of the shifting scenes now acting in the Nation’s Tragedy.  This war of slavery against freedom did not begin with the first shot at Sumter; it did not begin when the slavocracy broke up the Charleston Convention, in order to secure the election of Mr. Lincoln, and thus palm upon the Southern masses a false pretence for rebellion. It did not begin with nullification in 1832, nor in the Convention that framed the Federal Constitution; nor yet in that which adopted the Articles of Confederation; but it began in 1620, when the Mayflower landed our fathers on Plymouth Rock, and the first slave-ship landed its human cargo in Virginia, Then, for the first time, liberty and slavery stood face to face on this continent. From then till now, these antagonisms have struggled in incessant conflict. Two years since, the slavocracy, true to their instincts of violence, after long and secret plotting, crowned their perfidy by perjury, by piratical seizures of government property that cost $100,000,000, and then burst into open rebellion.
This war is not, as the South falsely pretends, a war of races, nor of sections, nor of political parties, but a war of PRINCIPLES; a war upon the working-classes, whether white or black; a war against Man, the world over. In this war, the black man was the first victim; the working-man of whatever color the next; and now all who contend for the rights of labor, for free speech, free schools, free suffrage, and a free government, securing to all life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, are driven to do battle in defence of these, or to fall with them, victims of the same violence that, for two centuries, has held the black man a prisoner of war. While the South has waged this war against human rights, the North has stood by, holding the garments of those who were stoning liberty to death. It was in vain that a few at the North denounced the system, and called the people to repentance. In vain did they point to the progress of the Slave-Power, and warn the people that their own liberties were being cloven down. The North still went on, throwing sop after sop to the Cerberus of slavery that hounded her through the wilderness of concession and compromise, until the crash of Sumter taught her that, with the slavocracy, no rights are sacred. The Government, attacked by assassins, was forced to fight for its own life. The progress of the war has proved that slavery is the life-blood of the rebellion.  Hence the necessity of the President’s Proclamation of Freedom to the slaves.
The nation is in a death-struggle. It must either become one vast slavocracy of petty tyrants, or wholly the land of the free. The traitors boast that they have swept from the national firmament one-third of its stars, but they have only darkened them with clouds, which the sun of liberty will scatter, revealing behind them the eternal pillars of Justice, emblazoned with LIBERTY, EQUALITY, FRATERNITY.
Soldiers of this revolution, to your hands is committed the sacred duty of carrying out, in these latter days, the ideal of our fathers, which was to secure to ALL “life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness,” and to every State “a republican form of government.” To break the power of this rebellion calls for every available force. You know how extensively black men are now being armed. Some regiments are already in the field; twenty more are now under drill.  Will you not, in this hour of national peril, gratefully welcome the aid which they so eagerly proffer, to overthrow that Slave Power which has so long ruled the North, and now, that you spurn its, sway, is bent on crushing YOU? Will you not abjure that vulgar hate which has conspired with slavery against liberty in our land, and thus roll from the sepulchre, where they have buried it alive, the stone which has so long imprisoned their victim? The army of the North will thus become the angel of deliverance, rescuing the nation from the shifting sands of compromise, and refounding it upon the rock of justice.
Some of you have been mustered out of service; many more are soon to return to your homes. All hail to you! Honor and gratitude for what you have done and suffered! Enough if you have only been fighting for the Union as it was. But is it enough, if the work for which the war is now prosecuted is not accomplished? Your country needs your power of soldierly endurance and accomplishment, your hard-earned experience, your varied tact and trained skill, your practised eye and hand—in a word, all that makes you veterans, ripe in discipline and educated power. Raw recruits cannot fill your places. Brave men! your mission, though far advanced, is not accomplished. You will not, cannot, abide at home, while your brethren in arms carry victory and liberty down to the Gulf.
With joy and admiration we greet you on your homeward way, while your loved ones await your coming with mingled delight and pride. When, after a brief sojourn, you go back again, convoyed by the grateful acclaim and God-speed of millions, to consummate at Freedom’s call her holy work, the mightiest of all time, and now so near its end, with exultant shouts your brothers in the field will hail your coming to share with them the glory of the final victory. It will be the victory of free government, sacred rights, justice, liberty, and law, over the perfidies, perjuries, lying pretences, and frantic revelries in innocent blood, of the foulest national crime that ever reeked to Heaven—the overthrow of the most atrocious, yet the meanest despotism that ever tortured the groaning earth.
In behalf of the Women’s National Loyal League,
E. CADY STANTON, President.
SUSAN B. ANTAONY, Secretary.
<c04>
SOIREE IN HONOR OF GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
In February last, a Soiree was given in honor of GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., and an Address presented to him,” in grateful recognition of his long and earnest services in the cause of Negro Emancipation, and of Commercial, Political and Social Reform, at the Whittington Club, London,—the Right Hon. Lord TEYNHAM in the chair. We copied from a London paper, soon afterward, a sketch of the highly interesting proceedings; but we have now before us a pamphlet in which they are reported in fall. Among the speakers were Mr. Washington Wilks, Lord Teynham, Acton Smee Ayrton, M. P., for the Tower Hamlets, Rev. J. Sella Martin, Francis W. Newman, Esq., Rev. J. Rylance, and John Noble, Esq.
The address, which was not exquisitely written upon vellum by the most talented caligrapher of the day, John Lane, Esq., of King street, Westminster, and framed and glazed in a style of the highest art and beauty, was as follows:-
DEAR AND HONORED SIR—We, who offer you this address, are but a fraction in number of the many who, in this country, in America, in India, and in the British Colonies, have long admired your abilities, esteemed your character, and felt grateful for your invaluable public services.  Wherever our English language is spoken, your name is familiar, and in only one quarter is it not beloved. The exception is, in those “habitations of cruelty” where oppression has ripened into treason and rebellion. Yet, even there, the victim of unutterable wrong has learned, if only from the denunciations of his tyrant, that you are the friend of the slave. If anywhere else you have enemies, their enmity is softened by the honest admiration felt in all free countries for the zealous, persevering, consistent asserter of opinions that do not reward their advocate with wealth or power.
In early life, when the love of pleasure is usually stronger than the love of labor, you gave yourself to studies and pursuits that obtained for you unexpected distinction. When the great cause of negro emancipation was represented by the most illustrious of living men, you, the youngest of its champions, divided with them the renown of eloquence and devotion. When, a little later, the path of riches and station was opened to you in the profession of the law, and you were at an age when the cares and joys of domestic life might fairly have claimed from you the profitable employment of your great powers, you turned aside from the alluring prospect, to consecrate those powers to the new-born cause of freedom in America. In such service there was peril as well as loss; and you bravely risked even life itself in an enterprise that, to all—save those endowed with unfaltering faith in the ultimate triumph of justice—seemed as hopeless as it was hazardous. On your return to England from this heroic and disinterested mission, you bore away with you the loving thanks of men and women, the noblest in the world, who had shared your toils and dangers in the “Martyr-Age” of the American Anti-Slavery struggle.  Fifteen years later, by renewed exertions in the same field, you enlarged your claim upon the affections and undying gratitude of that devoted band.
In the interval, your public life had run side by side with the history of reform in your own country. Lord Brougham, in the House of Lords, declared that to your labors, in conjunction with those of the philanthropist, Joseph Sturge, belonged the honor of bringing to an end the system of negro apprenticeship in the West Indies. By a visit to British India, yon learned the wrongs to which both the princes and people of that country were subject, and returned to England to agitate for their redress. By your able lectures, delivered in Manchester and throughout the kingdom, you were the first to urge upon our manufacturers the wisdom and necessity of looking to India for their supply of cotton, and to point out a course which, if it had been adopted, would have averted the calamities from which the sublimely patient operatives of the North are now suffering.
But the special work of that period was the overthrow of the Corn Laws, and to it you lent the resources of an oratory as convincing as it was fervid and fearless; yet no other good cause lacked your aid, even in those busy years when you were demanding “Justice to India,” and “Freedom to Commerce.” In the movement for the liberation of the Church from the power of the State—for the independence of Education from Government control—for the reconstruction of Parliamentary Representation upon the basis of Manhood Suffrage—for the Abolition of Capital Punishment—for the reduction of Armaments, and the establishment of International Tribunals—you were a valued and untiring coadjutor. It was a fitting acknowledgment of such efforts, that you should be returned to Parliament for the Tower Hamlets, the largest of the Metropolitan constituencies, and by one of the most overwhelming majorities that ever proclaimed the popularity of a candidate. In the House of Commons, you were the steady, fearless, and zealous vindicator of the people’s rights. But you were not content to limit your sympathies to England, or your duties to the Tower Hamlets. -The Anti Slavery annals of the United States will record the results of your second visit in the year 1850, when you were welcomed on your landing by the Friends of Freedom, in an address presented to you in the “Cradle of Liberty,” in the city of Boston. For nine months, subsequently, you labored incessantly in the same cause for which you had jeopardized your life fifteen years before. Ever since, you have continued faithfully to serve the cause of freedom and of humanity.
Especially have you renewed the admiration and esteem of countless friends on both sides of the Atlantic by the orations that, during the last two years, have so greatly helped to revive, in England, the old Anti-Slavery ardor, and to vindicate-the great American people from the charges by which it is sought to gain British sympathy for the Southern slaveholding rebels. You have by these labors shown yourself the equal friend of both nations, and alike of Liberty and Peace. We earnestly trust you will live to enjoy the fullest reward of these priceless and disinterested services;—live, not only to represent once more the British people in their National Council, but to receive, in Washington, the thanks of Congress gathered from all quarters of the Republican territory, and legislating for a Commonwealth that contains neither a rebel nor a slave.
In reply to this happily expressed and justly merited address, Mr. Thompson made an autobiographical speech, in which he modestly referred to the various reformatory and philanthropic movements to which he had devoted thirty-five years of his life-a speech of great value, which will be read with the liveliest interest by his numerous friends and admirers on this side of the Atlantic, as published on our fourth page. The eloquence and success of his efforts have been surpassed only by his disinterestedness and moral heroism.
Among those who had the good fortune to be present at this Soiree was JOHN P. JEWETT, Esq. of Boston, the original publisher of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.” We give below his feeling and hearty tribute to Mr. Thompson, for the eminent services rendered by him to the cause of freedom and humanity, especially in the United States.
SPEECH OF JOHN P. JEWETT, ESQ.
MR LORD TEYNHAM—I thank you and the members of the Committee for the kind invitation to be present, and take part in the interesting festivities of this occasion. I know our friend, Mr. George Thompson, well, or think I do, and if there is a man on earth whom I honor, esteem and love, he is that man. I therefore most cordially and heartily endorse the address which has been presented to him this evening; and if it were three times as long, and three times as strong, I would still stand sponsor for it.  If I mistake not, it was Mary, Queen of Scots, who said, referring to one of the reformers, I think John Knox, that he that day kindled a fire in her dominions which would not be extinguished in her reign. With equal truth may it be said of our illustrious guest, that he kindled
<c05>
a fire in America-an Anti-Slavery flame—which still burns, and will continue to do so until the last shackle shall fall from the last slave, all over that land, and every sable son of Adam be acknowledged as a man and a brother.
My first acquaintance with the eloquent champion of human rights whom we have assembled to honor this evening was during the years 1884-5, on the occasion of his first visit to America. Never shall I forget with what rapt attention I listened to the eloquent words which flowed in such liquid, silvery, gushing cadences from a soul all on fire with the great truths which his eloquent lips uttered. I was then but a boy, or in that transition state between boyhood and manhood, and such eloquence was overpowering. I had never heard the like before, and I must, in truth, say, that I have rarely, if ever, heard it excelled in my more mature years. My Anti-Slavery baptism I received then, and it was thoroughly done; it struck through, and permeated my whole being, and has never needed a repetition. And mine is not a solitary case; hundreds, and thousands of the most efficient laborers in the great movement in America, men and women, civilians, politicians, physicians, lawyers, clergymen—the boys of the academies and the students in theological seminaries—can trace their first convictions of the truth of the great principles which for so many years they have held so dear, to the labors of our noble friend. Verily, he has not labored its vain, or spent his strength for naught.
Perhaps all present may not be familiar with the treatment which our friend received on his first visit to the United States. I will therefore say a word on that point. Many were disposed to listen, and you may be sure that those who did were deeply impressed with his message. The masses, however, as was the case eighteen hundred years ago, cried, “Crucify him! crucify him!” Why? What evil had he done? None whatever, but simply to reiterate in the ears of a guilty nation the same sublime truth which his Master had uttered before him, “As ye would that others should do to you, do ye even so to them.” “Break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free.” Thou shalt not oppress the hireling in his wages.”
These truths, aimed at our particular national sin, were more than the guilty could bear; so interwoven was the system with every ramification of society.  What an almost universal shout went up. “Away with this pestilent fellow!” This hue-and-cry was joined in by men of all classes—by politicians, clergymen, and the churches; by tract, Bible and missionary societies, until they succeeded, by mob violence, in driving him from the country; but not, thanks to a kind Providence, until he had scattered broadcast so much good seed that to this day it has yielded a perpetual harvest.
Well do I remember the first mob that I ever saw. It was in Salem, a town about fourteen miles from Boston. Our friend was invited to lecture there, and, fearing for his safety, my noble aunt, who sympathized most fully with him, invited him to the hospitalities and protection of her house. As was feared, after night’s sable mantle had been spread over the earth, the mob came, armed with bludgeons, stones, brickbats, and with eggs odoriferous from their antiquity. Prepared, also, with heated tar and feathers, to immolate their victim, could they but seize him, I had the honor, in company with a few others, to be used as a sort of decoy duck on that occasion; and, while we rushed out of one door and down one street, and the mob after us, our friend made his escape in another direction, and arrived in safety at the house of another good Samaritan, Mr. Thomas Spencer, who protected him until an underground railroad took him safely to Victoria’s protection. This mob was not made up of the scum, the mud-sills, the hoi polloi of society, but of men of property and standing, men who lived in splendid mansions, and wore fine broadcloth. Disguised by turning their overcoats, and coloring or masking their faces, with their dark lanterns they sallied forth on their diabolical errand; and, had they been successful as they hoped to be, it is questionable if this meeting would have been held here this evening. So, you see, that there was a real foundation for the statement with which I commenced my remarks, that I know our friend well, and have known him long.
I have said that our noble friend kindled a fire in America thirty years ago. Perhaps, with more propriety, I should say, that he fanned into a conflagration a fire which had already been kindled by that lion-hearted, whole-souled philanthropist, William Lloyd Garrison. Would that he, or the eloquent Wendell Phillips, were here, instead of myself, this evening! How gladly and heartily would they respond to the strongest encomiums which have been uttered! I am most happy to see that, although the frosts of thirty winters since his first visit to us have somewhat silvered our friend’s locks, yet, that his natural force is but little abated, and that the same rich voice which then startled a sleeping nation still rings out, clear and emphatic, in behalf of earth’s oppressed poor. The day of American jubilee draws on apace; God grant that our noble friend may live to join in the triumphal song! I beg to conclude by offering to the meeting the following sentiment:-
Modern Apostles of Liberty,—George Thompson, of the Old World, and William Lloyd Garrison, of the New, co-laborers for a generation in behalf of Enthralled Humanity. May their self-sacrificing labors be crowned with speedy and complete success, and, in concert, may they echo the Song of the Redeemed on the spot where the spirit, of John Brown ascended to heaven!
HARPER’S MONTHLY MAGAZINE, for October, presents the following table of contents:-
1. The First Cruise of the “Monitor” Passaic— (with numerous spirited illustrations.)  2. Abide in Faith.  3 Scenes in the War of 1812-IV. The Niagara Frontier—(with illustrations.)  4. The Fiery Colliery of Fiennes.  5. The Army Correspondent. 6. The Small House at Allington. 7. Romola, by the Author of Adam Bede—concluded. 8. Anti-Herodism. 9. The Little Heiress. 10. October. 11. The Religious Life of the Negro Stave. 12. Agatha and the Exile. 13. The Battle of Bennington.  14. Aroostook and the Madawaska. 15. Tableaux Vivans. 16. Alice B. Haven—In Memoriam. 17. Monthly Record of Current Events—Editor’s Easy Chair and Drawer—Fashions for October.
A. Williams & Co., 100 Washington Street.
SONS OF TEMPERANCE ANNIVERSARY. The twenty-first anniversary of the formation of the order of the Sons of Temperance was celebrated at the Tremont Temple on Tuesday evening. The friends of the cause attended in large numbers, and the hall was completely filled. The divisions of this city, Chelsea and Dorchester were represented. The meeting was conducted by Mr. S. A. B. Bragg, of the Shawmut Division. The Hutchinsons opened the services with one of their favorite temperance songs. Addresses were made to a crowded house by Mr. Alanson Hawley and the Rev. Mr. Peck. The latter said he believed that intemperance was the strongest ally that slavery had, and we invariably found that the men who threw up their hats and hurrahed for Jeff. Davis were the largest drinkers of bad whiskey.
Wendell Phillips closed the meeting with a pungent and pointed speech. He spoke of the organization as one whose power extended from the Atlantic to the Pacific; which raised 5,000,000 of dollars, and received a million of men under its banner; which was pre-eminently finely planned, pre-eminently successful, and pre-eminently necessary. There never could be a free or a self-governing people but by temperance. He agreed with the preceding speaker that intemperance was a great incentive to secession. In thirty-four temperance States rebellion could not have existed. Mr. Phillips said the power of the order was not so strong as it was ten years ago; the only way in which they could regain their position and annihilate intemperance was to stand aloof from politicians, and be uncompromising until they acceded to their terms. Mr. Phillips cited the success of Abolitionism as showing what had been accomplished by a similar measure.
<c06>
MRS. HATCH AND THEODORE PARKER.
MR. GARRISON—Every one’s light is seen if it brings more day; and at this distance, I have witnessed with interest the torches which your correspondents have flared about the vexed question of those trance war discourses by the alleged inspiration of Theodore Parker. If woman is the unknown quantity, thanks are surely due to Mrs. Hatch for being a study to the readers of the Liberator. But I was surprised and pained at the effort of the two anonymous critics, climbing into notice on the shoulders of a great reputation, to disparage and deride what seemed to me the real merit of those discourses. They have many very marked characteristics of Mr. Parker’s style, which I thought fit to acknowledge to his own Society in my last address there. Their internal evidence is the most convincing argument in support of the prevalent theory of spirit communication I have ever met with. Mr. Parker’s exact method; his trenchant analysis; his ready wit; the vigor and point, the robust strength and occasional beauty of his style, are all there. The peculiar ideas of war, and the intense spirit of freedom and reform, are strikingly identical with those which everywhere meet you in his extant works.
Thus much I wanted to say, since Mr. “Truth” doubted, last week, if any three impartial judges would dissent from his view. Now, as I am not a Spiritualist-though I desire to concede that their theory is the only one I know of which approaches an intelligent explanation of these interesting and marvelous phenomena-“delusions even are only truth gathered before it is ripe”—and as I dissent utterly from the war philosophy of Mr. Parker expressed in these speeches, it is not apparent how my impression can be biased. But I could bring several times “three” of Mr. Parker’s followers, theologically, non-Spiritualists, and non-resistants also, to whom the claim for the origin of these discourses is equally unanswerable. The criticism, whether just I know not, that Mrs. Hatch’s addresses often want nerve, are discursive and spiritless, strengthens this case; for here she incarnates resolute masculine strength, as would be expected. But didn’t Homer sometimes nod? This charge against “mediums” generally seems to me quite unfair. Granting that these trance discourses at times are shadowy, unpractical, “trash” even; yet, though often the utterance of mere girls, they have a breadth of learning, a depth of thought, and beauty and power of expression, which range far above the average performances of the pulpit, in town or country. Of how many languid “great” preachers we might say with the lady asked to extol her minister’s expression—his eyes—
“I cannot praise the Doctor’s eyes,
I never saw his glance divine;
For when he prays he shuts his eyes,
And when he preaches he shuts mine.”
Mr. Anonymous thinks this a connivance of Mrs. Hatch with the editor of the Banner to “make money.” I would like to do my friends the service of inducing them to buy and read those discourses. No sermons which floated to me from the pulpit of Music Hall ever paid the reading better. For myself, I got my money’s worth; and if Mrs. Hatch and the Banner are again moved to such a “connivance,” I shall be glad to make a further investment. “But Theodore Parker was not a Spiritualist.” Yet he was a learner, full of earnest questions, never doubting answers were to be found; “all the space between man’s mind and God’s mind is crowded with truths waiting to be discovered,” as he phrased it. That divine woman and poet, who ascended almost with him from the banks of the Arno, may have told him new things on this matter. Would not Theodore Parker as soon study Spiritualism in heaven with Elizabeth Barrett Browning, as with Mr. Anonymous in his “slough of despond” in 1850? I guess so.
But it is urged that Mrs. Hatch read Mr. Parker’s works, and reproduced them in imitation. Well, suppose Messrs. ”Truth” and Anonymous—is it because they are attacking a woman that they hide behind anonymous signatures?-take a few weeks or months to“cram,” and then deliver themselves. We will listen! Why, there is not an orator in America, not the orator, “who has a heart, and gets his speeches by it,” committing every page of Mr. Parker’s works, who could stand forth, and, off-hand, reproduce him with such exactness and power. Whence comes it! Let something, besides personal slanders, sneers and tossing of empty heads, at discourses, the ability and eloquence of which every impartial mind will concede, answer.
I hope the stirring events of the hour will not be excluded from your columns by the intrusion of these few words I was moved to send in vindication of a truly gifted and noble woman, and a cause which, whatever captions critics may adventure, is a power among us, the livest religious fact of this age, and, I doubt not, charged with a great and beneficent mission to the future.  Good speed to every honest effort to serve it!
EZRA H. HEYWOOD.
Princeton, Mass., Sept. 28, 1863.

REMARKS BY THE EDITOR.
Mr. Heywood says he is “not a Spiritualist,” yet his letter evinces the zeal and warmth of a new convert; and why, after writing it, he is not ready to acknowledge himself as such,-especially if he is disposed to “concede to Spiritualists that their theory is the only one he knows of which approaches an intelligent explanation of these interesting and marvelous phenomena,”—we are unable to understand. He is at least so much of a partisan that the rejection of the assumption, that the recent discourse of Mrs. Hatch was actually the utterance of the late Theodore Parker, is made by him the occasion of contemptuous and sarcastic personalities towards two of our correspondents.  That they wrote “anonymously” is not deserving a fling, for very few who write for the press append their names to their communications: it is enough that we knew who our correspondents were. One of them wrote as an old Spiritualist, stating that he had been active in getting up Spiritual conventions, in which he had officiated as recording secretary, and prepared the minutes of the same for the press. As for “Mr. Anonymous,” as he is styled, it would have been simple-fairness for Mr. Heywood to have remembered that he has offered in our columns to disclose his name to the editor of the Banner of Light, and to have his name disclosed to its readers, if the aforesaid editor would publish his criticisms in that paper, and evince the same willingness to let all sides of the question of Spiritualism be impartially heard as has ever been shown by us in the Liberator in the discussion of Abolitionism. We allowed his strictures to appear in our paper, not because we are not believers in Spiritual phenomena, but for no other reason than that he had been refused a hearing in the columns of the Banner. Nor is it the first time that the Liberator has been open to those who have been treated unfairly by other journals. We endorsed nothing that he wrote, as we do not hold ourselves responsible for the sentiments of any of our contributors; and, of course, we allowed Mrs. Hatch and her “inspirational” discourse-or the discourse of Theodore Parker through her as a medium-to be promptly and fully defended in the Liberator by her friends and admirers. As we had already published three or four communications in her behalf, as an offset to two on the other side, we should have been warranted in declining to publish this additional eulogistic approval by Mr. Heywood; for we are satisfied that our readers have had quite enough of this controversy, and deem it quite time to let Mrs. Hatch and her discourse-or his discourse, if it was not hers but Mr. Parker’s-retire from the arena of public criticism.
Mr. Heywood says-”I was surprised and pained at the effort of the two anonymous writers, climbing into notice on the shoulders of a great reputation, to disparage and deride what seemed to me the real merit of those discourses”. Well, he must remember that he also is fallible, and console himself by repeating the old adage, “many men of many minds,” and also the proverb, “what is one man’s meat is another
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
man’s position.” It is certainly surprising that every one does not see things exactly as we do, and painful that any one should “disparage and deride” what we particularly admire! But such is the perversity of ”all the world, and the rest of mankind”; and we must exercise all possible philosophical forbearance, content to be oracular in our own estimation.
How those, who are taunted because they withhold their names and hide behind anonymous signatures, can be rationally accused of trying to “climb into nonce
on the shoulders of a great reputation,” requires elucidation. We do not see it.
Mr. Heywood says he is powerfully impressed as to the authenticity of the Parker-discourse through Mrs. Hatch. It has, he thinks, “many very marked characteristics of Mr. Parker’s style-his exact method, trenchant analysis, ready wit,” &c., &c. Our “anonymous” correspondents have a different estimate of it, and see nothing to warrant the belief that is emanated that emanated from Theodore Parker. Our judgment coincides with theirs; and we frankly declare, that we have never yet seen a communication purporting to come from Socrates or Plato, Milton or Byron, Swedenborg or Wesley, George Washington or Benjaman Franklin, or any other distinguished personage, that we could accept as genuine. The mass of verbiage that is published on the authority and in the name of such luminous minds serves greatly and necessarily to bring Spiritualism into disrepute. We only wonder that more ridicule has not been expended upon it. At the same time, we avow with equal frankness that, aside from these pretentious and common-place communications, we have no doubt of spiritual agency in many of the multitudinous “manifestations” which have attracted so much attention, awakened so much curiosity, and induced so much conflicting theorizing as to their real origin. We can come to no other conclusion after the evidence we have had presented to us, which has been of a cumulative and demonstrative character. But the apostolic injunction is-as pertinent to-day as it was when it was uttered:-“Beloved, believe not every spirit; but try the spirits.” Credulity ever fails to be discriminating, and readily swallows every dish that is presented as equally nutricious and palatable. There has been no end to the absurdities believed and promulgated by weak and deluded persons in the name of Spiritualism. True, Spiritualism per se is not to be held responsible for any of the follies or excesses of its devotees, any more than is Christianity for the ten thousand monstrous perversions and ridiculous conceits on the part of its professors; but its friends and advocates should take special care to vindicate it in a manner to show that there is no divorcement between faith and common sense.
In his last address delivered before Mr. Parker’s Society, June 14, Mr. Heywood says he recognized the characteristics of Mr. Parker in Mrs. Hatch’s discourse; particularly because Mr. Parker is reported as declaring that, if he were again in the body, while he should “fight for liberty and justice, he was not quite certain on which side he should fight,” whether that of Abraham Lincoln or Jeff. Davis!!
We do not perceive the coherency of a statement like this:-“Granting,” says Mr. Heywood, “that these trance discourses at times are shadowy, unpractical, trash even; yet, though often the utterances of mere girls, they have a breadth of learning, a depth of thought, and beauty and power of expression, which range far above the average performance of the pulpit in town or country.” How what is “shadowy” can evince “breadth of learning,” what is “unpractical” exhibit “depth of thought,” and what is “trash even,” can impart “beauty and power of expression,” are paradoxes beyond our ability to reconcile or interpret. What is shadowy, unpractical, trashy, had better be discarded; for by no legerdermain of reasoning or sophistry can it be transformed into living reality, profound erudition, or sterling excellence.
In this connection, we deem it proper to notice the conduct of the Banner of Light, in reference to the discussion which has taken place in our columns concerning the Parker-discourse of Mrs. Hatch, but about which we have been silent until now. Who the editor of that paper is we do not know; we only know that he has treated us very abusively, and left his readers falsely to believe that we have assailed Spiritualism; nay, that he has had the brazen effrontery to charge us with having written the original communication which has caused such a fluttering, and in that sneaking manner attempting to do covertly what we did not dare to do openly-attacking Mrs. Hatch in special, and Spiritualism in general; and, still further, that he has spitefully called upon Spiritual associations not to invite us to address them on any subjects —as if we had ever sought an invitation from them, or it would be a condescension on their part to extend one to us! He has sneeringly referred to us as “the Liberator man,” and shown an aptness for scurrility characteristic of a low nature. He basely keeps from his readers the fact, that where we have allowed one correspondent to criticise Mrs. Hatch adversely, we have permitted two to come to her defence; so that the balance has strongly inclined in her favor, without the present attempt of Mr. Heywood to make her censors kick the beam. Of course, not seeing the Liberator and being ignorant of these facts, many of them must be strongly prejudiced against us, supposing the Banner to be reliable in its statements.
We have no prejudices to indulge adverse to Spiritualism; on the contrary, we have tested it in various ways, for the last twelve years, and have never hesitated, in public or in private, to state the grounds of our belief in it as furnishing the only satisfactory solution of the wonderful phenomena which everywhere abound on both sides of the Atlantic. Hence, we could have had no hostile motive in publishing the original communication on this subject. We were induced to print it-we repeat-because the writer of it assured us that he had been excluded a hearing in the columns of the Banner; and, as a friend and admirer of Theodore Parker, he had a right to be heard, himself alone being responsible for the manner of presenting his views. The editor of the Banner has yet to learn that, if Spiritualism be true, the best service he can render it is to open his columns impartially to a free discussion of its merits, pro and con. Nor is an adverse criticism to be suppressed because it may be better in spirit or slanderous in impeachment: it will react upon its author. There is not a number of the Liberator published in which the Abolitionists are not caricatured or villified by their opponents; yet no department of our paper is so illustrative of the excellence of their cause, and the baseness of those who assail it, as the “Refuge of Oppression.” We commend the example we have set to all who profess to have faith in the truth.
It is due to Mrs. Hatch to say, that we believe she is deservedly esteemed by a very large circle of friends and acquaintances; that we do not believe she is intentionally practising any deception upon the public, but speaks as she must in the abnormal condition which characterises all her lectures; that she attracts and interests large audiences; and that her case is a remarkable one, challenging fair treatment and just consideration. We do not see, however, how it is any reflection upon her character or ability as a medium to doubt or deny any of her utterances as emanating form from the particular source claimed for them.
In conclusion, the case stands thus:-Mr. Heywood, who is “no believer in Spiritualism,” avers that Mrs. Hatch’s Parker-discourse contains the highest evidence that Mr. Parker was its author:-while we, who believe in Spiritualism, properly defined and duly guarded, are unable to see any such evidence. What then? “Let every one be fully persuaded in his own mind.” It is not a question of moral principle, but only a difference of judgment; and hence, crimination and recrimination had better he dispensed with-remembering that what is phenomenal warrants the largest catholicity of opinion as to its origin and
origin reliableness, and therefore calls for no impeachment of personal integrity.
But enough of this discussion. Both sides having been fairly heard, it must be terminated here.
<c02>
WORTHY OF PATRONAGE.
The Globe Hotel, or Colored Sailor’s Home, No. 2, Dover street, New York city, under the direction of the American Seamen’s Friend Society, having been 
greatly damaged by a lawless mob, its inmates driven out of the house at the peril of their lives, and plundered of all its property, and its business suspended for nearly three months, by the riot of 13th July last, has been thoroughly repaired, freshly painted, and refurnished with new furniture, beds and bedding. It is also heated with hot air, and abundantly supplied with hot and cold water baths for daily ablution. Its sanitary arrangements are admirably adapted for such an establishment, calculated as it is for a large number of boarders.
Although this house was ostensibly established for the accommodation of colored seamen on strict temperance principles, and also for their moral and social elevation, in which four hundred and fifty seamen have boarded during the first eleven months of its opening before the riot, many clergymen, and the better class of transient travellers, have made this house their stopping place during their visit to New York city.
Mr. WILLIAM P. POWELL, the proprietor, is well known throughout the country, for the last thirty-two years, as an enterprising worthy colored citizen; and 
is certainly entitled to great credit for his persistent determination to re-open his house in the same place. We therefore earnestly hope that he may be sustained and protected in his useful and lawful concerns, in common with other fellow-citizens.
Helps to EDUCATION in the HOMES of our COUNTRY. 
By Warren Burton, author of “The District School as it Was.” Boston: Crosby & Nichols.
The author of this work is known to all our readers for his interest in the cause of Home Education, upon which subject he has delivered numerous lectures, from time to time, here and elsewhere. The following recommendation of Mr. Burton’s new volume carries with it an authoritative weight which will be duly appreciated by parents and teachers:—
The undersigned would heartily invite attention to Rev. Mr. Burton’s new work—” Helps to Education in the Homes of our Country.” It abounds in valuable counsels on mural and religious culture. But connected as we are with our public schools, we desire as special service to them, particularly to commend his “Suggestions on the Discipline of the Observing Faculties.” Object lessons, for the first time, are now being introduced as an authorized and regular study. This division of the book will be of great use to parents, in preparing them to cooperate with school teachers in this department, hitherto almost entirely neglected, but which is of exceeding practical utility. Indeed, parents themselves quite generally need the same discipline for their own best success in their every day concerns. The suggestions are peculiarly adapted to give them profitable direction on the subject. Most, we think, would be led by a perusal to an interest before unimagined in this part of their children’s education. Thus they would exercise in the matter a very beneficial influence on their progress at school. We therefore earnestly commend Mr. Burton’s work to parents, not only for the sake of their children, but for the better qualifying of themselves for their own affairs.
GEORGE B. EMERSON, Treasurer Massachusetts Board of Education.
BIRDSLEY G. NORTHROP, Agent of Massachusetts Board of Education.
JOHN D PHILBRICK, Superintendent of Public Schools, Boston.
SAMUEL K. LOTHROP, Chairman of Committee on High School, Boston.

LETTER FROM AARON M. POWELL.
VALLEY FALLS, (R.I.,) Sept 29th, 1863.
DEAR MR. GARRISON: —
I spoke twice in Providence on Sunday, and in the evening to a full house and a very appreciative audience in the Roger Williams (Rev. Mr. Day’s) church. Our friends, Mr. and Mrs. Fairbanks and daughters, were very kind and hospitable. They are nobly active, and alive to the vital issues of the hour. The misses Fairbanks have already made a good beginning in securing signatures to the important petition of the Women’s Loyal League, and if others will do as well, the “MILLION” voices for freedom will be heard in the next Congress.
This evening I am to speak at Manville, and for the first time in my antislavery experience in an Episcopal church!
On Thursday last, I attended, as a spectator, the State Republican Convention at Worcester. You, of course, have read its proceedings. Though very largely attended, and more radical and thorough than any similar convention (I venture to say) ever held in this country since the formation of the Union, in its sentiments relating to the present and future of slavery, there was a very unusual and remarkable unanimity—not a single negative voice being heard from the opening to the close. There were none of the “Hittites,” nor “Hammerites,” or other of the “Phernandiwud” and Gov. Seymour school of politicians present; but I observed one very intelligent, gentlemanly colored man on the floor as a delegate, hand in hand with his white “black” Republican brethren. This convention, it was intimated to me “by authority,” had a significance, adding to its importance that of sounding the “key-note” of the approaching presidential campaign. It foreshadowed, to my own mind, the time when, other considerations than governmental complicity, with slavery aside, respectable men may touch politics without being defiled as with the black pitch of three-quarters of a century past.
We—Abolitionists—need now to press with inflexible, religions earnestness, still in the sphere of public opinion, for a general Act of Emancipation by Congress, and, as security for the future, for a prohibitory amendment of the Constitution, in a single, explicit clause, prohibiting forever slavery or involuntary servitude in the now Southern territory, and all States of the Union, as slavery was prohibited in the territories of the great Northwest.
Yours, cordially,
AARON M. POWELL.
LECTURER. Mr. Edmund Kirk, author of “Among the Pines,” has prepared, as we understand, a lecture on the “Southern Whites; their social and political characteristics,” which he will give the coming fall and winter before any literary societies that may desire his services. He can be addressed, “Care of Continental Monthly. New York.”
FREE LABOR IN LOUISIANA. The system of free labor adopted by the planters of Louisiana is working admirably. The New Orleans Delta says one year will show a wonderful change in the condition of affairs on the banks of the Mississippi. In those sections where there have been no interruptions from guerillas, the negroes have performed wonders in bringing forward the crops. In many cases, a crop of cotton has been secured, of a good average yield an acre, in addition to sugar and corn, enough to nearly pay the expenses of the plantation. Not the slightest difficulty has been experienced in getting plenty of hands, and they are easily stimulated to work faithfully with-out applying corporeal punishment. The Era is certain that more energy and more profitable results will attend the new system.
Miss DICKINSON AT THE HALL. We had the pleasure of listening to the discourse of this young lady at the Odd Fellows’ Hall, for the space of two hours, on Saturday evening last. She is said not to be eloquent, and perhaps she is not, but from her matter or her manner, or somehow or other, she managed to enchain an audience a little longer than any person who has ever held forth in that hall. Perhaps it was her truthfulness, her vivid portraiture of events, her skillful array of facts, which none could dispute, that gave her sway over the audience, but whatever it was, if that young girl is any indication of what a woman can do out of her “proper sphere,” we trust that woman will hereafter decide herself as to what is her “proper sphere,” instead of leaving it to be determined by persons who have not brains enough to know what is their own. Traitors and copperheads were of course not pleased with her discourse, but we 
have the satisfaction-of knowing that many democrats who were present were very much gratified. —Norris-town Herald.
<c03>
STATE REPUBLICAN CONVENTION,
The Worcester Convention, at Worcester, last week, was a large gathering-312 towns being represented by 1674 delegates. Many leading men of the State 
were present, among whom were Senator Wilson and Hon. George S. Boutwell. Senator Summer was not present, owing to the dangerous illness of his brother, George Summer. The preparatory meetings on Monday evening were very spirited, and took high ground.
Hon. J. H. Duncan, of Haverhill, was made temporary Chairman; and Hon. T.D. Elliott, of New Bedford, was elected President, with a suitable number of Vice-Presidents and Secretaries to support him. He opened with an eloquent speech in favor of the total abolition of slavery.
Gov. Andrew was unanimously renominated by acclamation; and, afterwards, all the present State officers were added to the ticket:—Joel Hayden, of Williamstown, for Lieut. Governor; Dwight Foster, of Worcester, for Attorney General; Oliver Warner, of Northampton, for Secretary of State; Henry K. Oliver, of Salem, for State Treasurer; and Hon. Levi Reed, of Abington, for Auditor. There is no doubt expressed that they will all be elected by from thirty to forty thousand majority.
Hon. George S. Boutwell, from the Committee on Resolutions, submitted the following report:—
Resolved, That we pledge ourselves anew to an unwavering and unconditional support of the national government in its efforts to suppress the wicked rebellion against its authority.
Resolved, That this ancient Commonwealth, ever jealous for the rights and liberties guarantied to her citizens by her own Constitution and that of the 
United States, has no apprehension whatever that, in a contest like this, between slavery and liberty, any of the rights of the citizen will be lost, or any of the old landmarks of personal freedom destroyed.
Resolved, That we express our hearty thanks to the soldiers and sailors of the Union for their services; we congratulate them on their successes, and promise 
them our sympathy, encouragement and support in their heroic hardships and sufferings. Resolved, That the Proclamation of January 1, 1863, by which the President of the United States decreed the absolute and perpetual freedom of all slaves within the States and parts of the States then in revolt, and pledged the whole power of the General Government to maintain their rights, has the approbation of the people of this Commonwealth. As a matter of military necessity, it has been justified by its fruits, which are an almost uninterrupted series of victories, after long periods of disaster; as a measure of security for the future peace and tranquillity of the re-united nation it was indispensable and must be maintained inviolate and as a guaranty to the world that our contest is for Civilization and Christianity, it removes from us a reproach under which we labored, and, as we reverently believe, it assures us of the favor of Almighty God.
Resolved, That we join issue with those who believe that a permanent peace and benficent settlement of our national difficulties can be obtained negotiating with the conspirators who have subverted State organizations to their ambitious purposes, and attempted to build up a nation on a despotic basis, with slavery for its corner-stone. When the time arrives for settlement, let it be made with the unconditional Union men of the South, who alone have any right to voice or vote upon the condition of re-union, and not with rebels, who have no rights but the right to submit. And to this extent we extend our cordial sympathy and support to all the men of the South who desire to reconstruct their political and social fabric upon a free basis, compatible with the new order of things established by the decree of emancipation.
Resolved, That the secession of a State under our political system has no legality and no legal meaning whatever. It is but another name for rebellion; and rebels are not entitled to the privileges of the Union, while they are still liable to all its obligations and duties. And inasmuch as much as slavery was the sole cause of the revolt, as while slavery exists there can be no permanent peace in the Union, it is the duty of Congress and the Executive to insist that the practical extinguishment of slavery throughout the rebel Confederacy shall follow as fast as possible upon its legal and official death. Let the restored nation be made prosperous and glorious by a union of Free States under a republican form of government, which is guarantied to them by the Constitution, and with which experience has proved the existence of slavery is wholly incompatible.
Resolved, That Massachusetts is for the prosecution of the war to the entire suppression of the revolt. In this cause we extend the hand of fellowship to loyal men of all political parties, and we recognize as political enemies all men who make this issue subordinate to their own partisan dogmas, or who seek to make peace with the rebels on any terms short of their submission to the national authority and the suppression of their pretended Confederacy.
Resolved, That the policy of employing colored soldiers is wise and just, and should be enlarged and liberalized by putting such soldiers on a perfect equality with whites as to rights and compensation while in the service. The nation has a right to the services of all its subjects in every part of its domain, and no pretended or real claim to service on the part of master or employer, in the South or the North, should be allowed to interfere with that primary allegiance which is due to the country itself.
Resolved, That the administration of the State Government by John A. Andrew and his associates upon the State ticket has been eminently satisfactory to the people of the Commonwealth, and that we unhesitatingly recommend them for reelection to the posts which they now hold.
These were adopted by acclamation.
The name of Governor Andrew called forth the most emphatic expressions of approbation—and justly. His energy, familiarity with affairs, ability and willingness to meet all the extraordinary demands of the time, and his incorruptible integrity, could not be well spared, and the people will delight to honor him. He has lived down the sneers, abuse, and ill-tempered and unjust criticisms of political opponents, and at this hour the name of no chief magistrate throughout the loyal States elicits higher tributes of commendation or is more honored than that of John A. Andrew. The voters of the old Bay State will give their untiring and patriotic Governor a more triumphant endorsement than ever.
A correspondent of the Springfield Republican says of the Convention—
“They were Republicans and War Democrats, remarkably well united in a hearty advocacy of emancipation and a vigorous prosecution of the war. I cannot give you a sketch of the speeches, but the resolutions, which will reach you with this, will give you their key-note. Without a single dissenting voice, John A. Andrew was renominated for Governor. The same was true of the remaining State officers. In the organization, the appointment of Committees, making the nominations, and upon the adoption of the resolutions, it was a noticeable feature that from the opening to the adjournment of the Convention there was not one negative vote cast. It will be borne in mind that there were nearly 1,700 delegates in attendance, and that resolutions, radical, without a precedent in the political history of the State, were under consideration, and thus unanimously adopted.
In their admirable speeches, Wilson and Boutwell, Dana and Elliott, ranged themselves fully alongside of Phillips and Garrison, and the Convention, with united, enthusiastic voice said, Amen! The subject of the future political relations of the insurgents was under consideration. Gov. Boutwell’s remarks upon this point were exceedingly well-timed and important. The opinion, that impartial freedom alone would furnish a secure basis for future Union, was unanimously and very heartily approved. Massachusetts leads the way. God grant that she may guide the nation through the pathway of liberty to enduring prosperity and permanent peace.”
EARL RUSSELL ON NEUTRALITY. In his speech at Dundee, Earl Russell thus replied to a congratulatory reference to his foreign policy:
“As Secretary for Foreign affairs, it has been my object to preserve peace with honor. (Hear, hear, and cheers.) You may rely with confidence in the administration of Lord Palmerston, who is so justly and universally popular, (cheers.) for maintaining a line of strict impartiality in the lamentable conflict in America. (Cheers.) The duties of neutrality between parties violently hostile are not easily performed. (Hear, hear.) It has been, and it will be our endeavor to exercise the powers now intrusted, or which may be intrusted, to the crown by Parliament, in such a manner as at once to defeat every attempt to engage our people in enterprises inconsistent with our neutral position, and to preserve for ourselves, our persons and our property, those safeguards of British law and British justice to which alone they are indebted for the security they now enjoy.” (Loud and prolonged cheering.)
GEN. BANKS ON THE EDUCATION OF THE BLACKS. A letter has been shown us, says the New York Evening Post, from Gen. Banks to Rev. T. W. Conway, Chaplain of the Seventh Regiment of the Corps d’ Afrique, on the subject of the plans of that gentleman for the education of the colored race in the Department of the Gulf. He says:
I appreciate as you do the importance of this matter, and I shall be glad to adopt any measures which shall lead to a successful solution of the problem involved lead in the education of the blacks. I should be very glad to give to a competent person endowed with common sense, as well as sympathy for the negroes, a commission as major or lieutenant colonel, according to the exigencies of the service. I should be glad to hear from you now and at all times upon this or any topic relating to the welfare of the negroes.
<c04>
ARRIVAL OF CONSCRIPTS FROM NEW HAMOSHIRE. About350 conscripts from New Hampshire reached this city yesterday afternoon. Many of them were substitutes. belonging to this city and New York, and hard class of men. On the way down, over the Maine railroad, they did considerable damage to the cars, smashing windows, &c. Three men jumped from the cars while the train was in motion, and escaped. The party were taken to Long Island in the steamer Bellingham.
The number of persons on board, including a guard of fifty men, was nearly five hundred, and the boat sat quite low in the water. Observing this, the men made efforts to swamp the steamer, by rushing from side to side. Fights were going on constantly while on the passage. Some of the guard were attacked, and one of them was badly beaten by the ruffians. One of them assaulted Capt Lovell, and was knocked down so quick that he was content to keep quiet.
Another of the number attempted to burn the boat by placing a lighted newspaper against the dry woodwork beneath the boiler. They obstructed the boat so much by their efforts to swamp her, that she was four times as long as usual in making the passage. Attempts were made to escape, before the boat left the wharf, and liberal offers were made for assistance, but neither were of avail, and all who reached the wharf were safely taken to the rendezvous. Boston Traveller, Sept. 25.
THE 54TH REGIMENT. The Boston Traveller has a letter from the 54th, stating that for over 40 days the regiment fought against Fort Wagner with the spade, losing 4 killed and 7 wounded. The letter says, “The fort was taken by the spades and shovels of the 54th,-deny this who dare.”
The prejudice against negro troops still exists, however. On the 3d of September, “on dress parade, one company came on line under the command of a 
sergeant, (we are short of officers,) and when the parade was dismissed, he marched to the front with the other commanding officers of companies. The next day, on dress parade, three companies were in command of non-commissioned officers, but they were informed by an order, (without any signature,) that they need not march to the front. When the lines were opened, they took the line with the other officers, but when the time arrived to march to the front, they had to take their places in the ranks. The next day they did not even come upon the line.”
The official list of names of the missing, in action, of the 54th Mass. (colored) regiment, on James Island, July 16th and at Fort Wagner, July 18th, has been received by Adj. Gen. Schouler.
The New York Tribune’s despatch says the President has directed Gen. Gillmore to demand from Beauregard a list of the officers and men of the 54th Mass. (colored) regiment, who were taken prisoners on Morris Island, and a statement of their present status. If the list be furnished, an equal number of the rebels of the same rank or higher who are now in our hands, will be set apart for such treatment as our men receive.
It is understood that if Beauregard refuses to furnish the list, or pleads ignorance, as he is reported to have done in answer to inquiries on the subject from Commissioner Ould, our government will presume that the rebels have carried out their threats, and will act accordingly.
Lieut. Col. Powell, of the 12th loyal Virginia Infantry, is now treated as a traitor by the rebels, and imprisoned in a felon’s dungeon at Richmond.
The rebel authorities have been notified that a rebel prisoner of equal rank will be subjected to a similar treatment, unless he be at once put on the same footing with other prisoners of war.
CONFISCATED SOUTH CAROLINA LANDS FOR SALE. New instructions for the sale of the confiscated lands in South Carolina have been issued. Certain portions of the lands are to be reserved for school and benevolent purposes, and the balance will be sold at auction, the minimum price fixed being $1.25 per acre. Twenty-acre lots are to be laid out for the negroes to purchase, and the balance of the lands will be divided into farms of not over 120 acres each. The town of Beaufort is to be sold according to the present divisions of town property. These sales are to be made for cash, except to persons in the naval or military service, who are entitled to purchase, and who are to receive certificates upon paying a quarter of the purchase money, and the residue in three years from the date of sale. There will be good chances for investment. Springfield Republican.
THE DURATION OF THE WAR. Henry Clay once said, in discussing the nullification question:
“When war begins, whether civil or foreign, no human foresight is competent to foresee when, or how, or where it is to terminate. But when a war shall be lighted up in the bosom of our land, and armies are marching, and commanders are winning their victories, and fleets are in motion on our coast, tell me, if you can-tell me if any human being can tell its duration?”
And in the same speech the great Kentuckian said, speaking of South Carolina:
“Let me tell you there is another consequence, an inevitable one; she has a certain description of persons recognized as property South of the Potomac and West of the Mississippi, which would be no longer recognized as such.”
ARE THERE TRAITOR INCENDIARIES ABOUT? The burning of the Globe machine works at South Boston, following in less than a fortnight the destruction of the Atlantic works at East Boston, demands unusual attention.
At both places, Monitors were being constructed for the government, and by these conflagrations the work is very seriously delayed. Is it possible that both fires could have been accidental? If so, it was a very singular coincidence. It certainly looks as though there was design, and that design to delay the government in the work of building iron-clads. Rebel emissaries could easily have occasioned this destruction, if unusual caution and watchfulness were not exercised at these works—and can they not do it? Without the evidence is clear and indisputable that these fires were accidental, the matter demands an investigation.-Springfield Republican.
MR. SEWARD NOT POSTED. In his circular the other day, the Secretary of State, in recounting the progress of the Union cause, speaks of an ordinance of emancipation having been adopted in Missouri which terminated slavery in seven years, when in point of fact the ordinance alluded to does not even pretend to give a slave his liberty short of thirteen years, and leaves at least half of the slaves now in this States slaves for life.
Occupying the position he does, Mr. Seward ought to understand this matter better than he does, or should say nothing about it—St. Louis Democrat.
The Convention of the War Democrats of Wisconsin held on the 17th ult., issued a patriotic address, and adopted strong resolutions in support of the government, of which the following was one:
“Resolved, That, as Democrats, we support the government in this war, prosecuted against it by the rebel States, with no purpose either to protect or destroy the institution of slavery; but as the slaveholding States have causelessly and recklessly attempted the subversion of our common government, if, in the foray, that government is unable to protect either their lives or their property, upon their own heads must rest the blame.”
Bragg telegraphs to the rebel War Department, Sept, 21, as follows:
“The enemy retreated on Chattanooga last night, leaving his dead and wounded in our hands. His loss is very large in men, artillery, small arms and colors. is heavy, but not yet ascertained.
The victory is complete, and our cavalry are pursuing.
With the blessing of God, our troops have accomplished great results against largely superior numbers.
We have to mourn the loss of many gallant men and officers. Brigadier Generals Preston Smith, Helm and Deshler are killed; Major General Hood and Brigadier Generals Adams, Gregg and Brown, wounded.”
LOUISVILLE, KY., Sept. 26th. Gen. Burnside was at Knoxville yesterday.
The military authorities here say that Burnside did not know of the impending battle between Rosecrans and Bragg, and could not have reinforced Rosecrans if he had. The battle had been long concluded before the news reached Burnside. A Kentucky ex-official left Morristown on Monday night. Gen. Burnside was then forty miles east of Knoxville.
NEW YORK, Sept. 26th. The Times’ Washington dispatch says, it appears now that all three of General Rosecrans’ grand divisions were engaged in the battles in front of Chattanooga, two of which were driven back in considerable disorder. General Rosecrans, in his despatches, imputes the loss of the battle to disobedience of orders on the part of General McCook, who failed to occupy an important position assigned him by General Rosecrans. Had he done as ordered, General Rosecrans’ opinion is that the battle would have resulted in a splendid Union victory.
THE STATE ELECTIONS. The next election in the loyal States will be those of Pennsylvania, Ohio Indiana and Iowa, which take place on the 18th of October. Florida, Georgia and Mississippi hold their elections on the 5th of next month, and South Carolina on the 12th.
<c05>
ARREST OF A RIOTER CHARGED WITH THE MURDER OF THE NEGRO COSTELLO. Capt. Walling, of the Twentieth Precinct, aided by officer Irving, on Friday night succeeded in arresting a German named Matthew Zweick, aged 33 years, charged with the murder of the negro Costello, on the 15th of July last, during the riots of that week. Mr. Theodore S. Wilcox, residing in West Thirty second street, testifies that about five a. m. on the 15th of July, he saw the prisoner at the corner of Seventh avenue and Thirty-second street, engaged in leading a band of rioters, all of whom were armed with hatchets and large iron wrenches. He was urging the crowd to burn buildings, and kill all the negroes they could see. Soon after this, a negro named James Costello came that way, and was immediately set upon by the crowd, but managed to elude them at first by taking refuge in the house No. 92 West Thirty-seventh street. Zweick, however, went into the building, and soon brought out the poor victim, and handed him over to the tender mercies of the of the infuriated rabble. He was seized, thrown to the ground, and beaten on the head with wrenches, hatchets, and other weapons, until he was nearly insensible. During this scene, the witness saw the prisoner jump upon the body, and strike it repeatedly with an iron wrench. Afterward the crowd, by direction of the prisoner, dragged their victim by the legs to a cavity in the street nearly filled with water, and into this they thrust him. Zweick and another man then emptied upon the head and body of Costello a barrel of ashes, and three or four of them pressed the empty barrel down upon him. The victim soon died from the effect of this treatment. The prisoner then procured a rope, and after digging the body out of the ashes, the rope was tied around its neck and then dragged along the pavement to a tree, to a limb of which he was hung, the prisoner all this time directing the operations. This testimony was also corroborated by several other respectable witnesses. Justice Kelly committed the prisoner to answer without bail.-N. Y. Tribune.
A NOBLE SENTIMENT. A Washington correspondent of the New York Independent says that in a private note written in the hurry of official business by Secretary Chase to Mr. Stanton, the following noble sentiment occurs:—
“We cannot afford to wrong any class of our people. One poor man, colored though he be, with God on his side, is stronger, if against us, than the hosts of the rebellion.”
THE ARMY TESTIMONIAL TO GEN. MCCLELLAN. The proposed testimonial to Gen. McClellan by the Army of the Potomac meets with opposition in the 60th New York regiment. The officers and men of this regiment have adopted resolutions characterizing the movement as a scheme for the political aggrandizement of Gen. McClellan, whom they do not believe to be deserving of political preeminence.
A CONTRABAND IN PURSUIT OF HIS MASTER. George Washington Glascoe Wiggins, a smart contraband, who accompanied the 53d Massachusetts regiment on its return home from Dixie, writes from Ashburnham to a gentleman of this city, desiring information of his late master, who, he says, skedaddled and left him to take care of himself, and who, he learns, is in Boston.
General Grant writes that General Banks is entitled to the full credit for the fall of Port Hudson, irrespective of the fall of Vicksburg. “My success at Vicksburg,” he says, “may have expedited the surrender of Port Hudson a day or two, but no more. The garrison was starving, and under no circumstances could hold out another week. Let General Banks, a noble fellow, have all that belongs to him.”
A Richmond paper illustrates how our prisoners are insulted and martyred by the rebels, when it announces the demise of a newspaper man at the Libby prison, heading the article, “A Yankee prisoner gone home to write up his reports by the fire.”
A son of James E. Murdoch, the actor, was killed near Chattanooga, on Saturday, the 19th ult. He was a Captain on Gen. Van Cleve’s staff.
Among the wounded in Rosecrans’ army is Adjutant Henry W. Hall, of the 5lst Illinois regiment, who has lost a leg. Young Hall is the oldest son of Rev. Nathaniel Hall, of Dorchester. Mass. He was at the West preparing to enter upon his profession as a lawyer, when the war began.-Transcript.
Samuel Haynes Jenks, for many years editor of the Nantucket Inquirer, and recently editor of the South Boston Register, died at his residence in South Boston on the 24th ult., at the age of 74.
A FIZZLE. The Tribune says that on Thursday night R. S. Tharn of Alabama undertook the extraordinary task of demolishing Hon. Chas. Summer’s oration on Our Foreign Relations at the Cooper Institute, New York. His audience was one female and forty-seven men, and the orator refused to waste his breath on such a very small number of hearers—so Mr. Sumner still lives.
If Frank Pierce really wrote the letter to Jeff. Davis that is going the rounds, then Frank Pierce deserves to be hanged. The writer of the letter wished to get up a war in the North, in order to help the slaveholding interest establish its power over the whole country. We have seen no denial from Pierce or his friends that the letter was written by the Ex-President. Traveller.
Among the captures at the evacuation of Fort Wagner were five negro soldiers, two of whom were fully armed and equipped as rebel sharpshooters. One of them—a rebel at heart was the owner of several slaves.
The Bermuda Gazette states that the Sumter, alias Gibraltar, was fired into by Fort Moultrie, the rebels probably mistaking her for a Federal man-of-war. The same authority says there were 630 persons on board at the time, all but 20 of whom were saved.
CONSCRIPTION MONEY. The New York Times says the Conscription Act has yielded about $5,600,000 in money, which will be effective as bounties for volunteering.
SNOW STORM IN SEPTEMBER IN INDIANA. Michigan City, Indiana, Sept. 19. It commenced snowing here last night at 9 o’clock, and fell to the average depth of an inch. We have no means of ascertaining the extent of country visited by this storm. Its effects will be disastrous in the extreme. But little corn is grazed, and that which is not is of course destroyed. Fruit of all kinds is seriously damaged.
CINCINNATI, Sept. 26th. Brigadier General Frazer and one hundred and sixteen rebels, officers captured at Cumberland Gap, by Gen. Burnside, have arrived at Johnson’s Island.
THE STRENGTH OF THE REGULAR ARMY. The new Army Register is completed, and shows that in April 1, 1863, there were 2423 commissioned officers of the regular army and 40,909 enlisted men—total, 43,332.
Gen. Garfield, in a letter called out by Vallandigham’s statement of the desire of the rebels to return to the Union, says:
“In a full and frank conversation between himself and Governor Harris, (the rebel Governor of Tennessee,) the latter, after hearing Mr. Vallandigham’s statement of his own opinions and policy, said in the presence of many witnesses: You totally misunderstand us. We have resolved to listen to no terms short of the total separation and absolute independence of the South, and we will accept no boundary south of the line of the Ohio and the Potomac. Negotiating on any other basis is utterly useless.”
That gallant officer, Gen. Herron, says in a recent letter: “Although formerly identified with the Democratic party, yet I deny now any connection whatever with it, even in name.”
PRENTICEANA. What we want to do in this war is to subjugate the South’s subjugators, and restore the subjugated section to freedom. 
The rebel government still threatens to raise the black flag inscribed with the skull and cross-bones. Well, skull and cross-bones would be a very expressive emblem of the Confederate government, as being about all there is left of it
BUFFALO N. Y., Sept. 26th. This afternoon a steam boiler exploded in the establishment formerly known as the Swarts Iron Works on Chicago street. The building was nearly destroyed. Thirty persons are supposed to be buried in the ruins. Several have been taken out, one of them dead, and others seriously wounded.
HARVARD COLLEGE. The last triennial catalogue of Harvard College contains the names of twenty-one delegates to the American Congress under the Confederation, and also two Presidents and two Vice Presidents of the United States, twenty-seven senators and a hundred and ten Representatives in Congress, three Justices of the Federal Supreme Court, six Cabinet Secretaries, two Attorney Generals, fourteen Ministers or Envoys Extraordinary to foreign countries, (six of whom were to England,) ten Governors of Massachusetts and six of other States.
The Atlanta Southern Confederacy has raised its price to $36 a year. “This,” says an Atlanta paper, “is not as high as the articles of subsistence and price of paper would authorize.” All the Atlanta papers have adopted these rates.
William Lloyd Garrison spoke at Lyceum Hall, Milford, on Sunday, the 20th ult., on national subjects. The very candid, impartial and concise manner in which he treated the subject under discussion was commended by all loyal men who heard him. It must be very gratifying to Mr. Garrison, who has spent a lifetime in combatting public opinion with reference to an evil in our social system, to find himself all at once in perfect sympathy with the great mass of society.- Milford (Mass.) Journal.
<c06>
GRAND CONCERT AND READING at Meionaon, (Tremont Temple,) on Monday evening, Oct. 5.
The Hutchinsons having kindly granted the hall for one evening, a Concert and Reading will be given by the COLORED MARIO, a gentleman of rare musical ability. He will be assisted by Madame Dutton, the pleasing vocalist, and Madame Josephine St. Pierre Ruffin, a lady reader. Mr. Frederick will preside at the piano.
MARIO- Mr. BOWERS, of Philadelphia-is an accomplished vocalist, who, in connection with Miss Greenfield, the famous “Black Swan,” has acquired 
a high reputation for his musical talents. We hope he will have-as he well deserves-an overflowing house; especially as it is his first appearance in Boston. The entertainment cannot fall to be an agreeable one.-ED. LIB
THE HUTCHINSON FAMILY—“reorganized, reconstructed and augmented,” by the union of the “House of John” and “Tribe of Asa” will continue their series of spirit-stirring Concerts in the cause of Freedom.- Humanity and Reform, on Friday (this) evening. Sept. 25th, and on Saturday afternoon and evening, at the Meionson. Tickets of admission-evening, for adults, 25 cents; children, 15cents. Afternoon, adults, 15 cents, children, 10 cents.
The character and object of their concerts, and the superior excellence of their singing, should secure the most liberal patronage. Go and hear them! [Ed. Lib.
NEW ENGLAND FEMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE.—The Sixteenth Annual Term will commence on Wednesday, Nov. 4, and continue seventeen weeks. Lecture fees, $55. Aid will be afforded to a limited number of students needing it. Any person or persons paying to the College $100 can send a student free of tuition through its course of education. Address or apply to the subscriber, at the College, No. 10 East Canton street, Boston.
St. SAMUEL GREGORY, M. D., Sec’y.
WORCESTER NORTH A. S. SOCIETY.-There will be a meeting of the Worcester North Anti-Slavery Society at EAST PRINCETON, Sunday, Oct. 11, day and evening. PARKER PILLSBURY, E. H. HEYWOOD and others will speak.
The passing months are fraught with the most momentous issues to the cause of freedom and humanity, and it is earnestly hoped there may be full delegations of friends from the adjoining towns.
JOSHUA T. EVERETT, President.
MOSES H. MIRICK, Sec’y.
WORCESTER SOUTH A. S. SOCIETY.-A meeting of this Society will be held at Milford, on Sunday. Oct. 18.
PARKER PILLSBURY, ADIN BALLOU, SAMUEL MAY, Jr., and S. S. FOSTER are expected to attend.
It is hoped that all the old members and friends of this Society will make special efforts to attend this meeting, and that all others interested will gather, and make this one of the most earnest and high-toned of all the meetings of this early Society.
JOSIAH HENSHAWHENSGHAW, President.
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Sec’y.
ESSEX COUNTY A. S. SOCIETY.-A quarterly meeting of this Society will be held in the Town Hall at Danvers, (Danvers Plain,) on Sunday next, October 4th, commencing at ELEVEN o’clock in the forenoon, and continuing through the day and evening. E. H. Heywood and Parker Pillsbury are among the speakers who will be present.
Are not the events of the present hour of such fearful moment as to ensure a fall attendance of these who are always alive to the interests of Humanity?
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will address the Free Church at Lynn, on Sunday forenoon next, Oct. 4th.
He will also lecture twice in Milford, N. H., on Sunday, Oct. 11th.
SABBATH NOTICE.—Rev. L. A. SAWYER, translator of the Scriptures, will preach at Hospitaller Hall, 593 Washington street, not Sunday, at half-part 10, A. M., on Personal Improvement considered as the subject of Christian culture.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D, has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References-Luther Clark, M. D. David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4. P. M.
DIED—In Seabrook, (N. H.) Mr. JOSEPH PHILBRICK, aged 67 years, 4 mos, and 8 days. A truly honest man, and devoted friend of human rights. He was a brother of the late Samuel Philbrick, Esq. of Brookline, Mass., long the faithful Treasurer of the Mass. A. S. Society.
 
BEYOND THE LINES;
OR,
A YANKEE PRISONER LOOSE IN DIXIE.
A New Book of Thrilling Interest.
BY REV. CAPT. J. J. GEER,
Formerly Pastor of George Street M. E. Church, Cincinnati, and late Assistant Adjutant General on the Staff of Gen. Buckland. With an Introduction by Rev. ALEXANDER CLARK, Editor of the School visitor.
THIS is one of the most thrilling accounts of adventure and suffering that the war has produced. Capt. GEER was wounded and captured at the great battle of 
Shiloh; tried before several prominent Rebel Generals for his life, among whom were Hardee, Bragg, and Beauregard; incarcerated in four jails, four penitentiaries, and twelve military prisons; escaped from Macon, (Georgia,) and traveled barefoot through swamps and woods, by night, 250 miles; was fed by negroes in part, and subsisted for days at a time on frogs, roots and berries, and was at last recaptured when within thirty-five miles of our gunboats on the Southern coast.
The particulars of his subsequent sufferings as a chained culprit are told with a graphic truthfulness that surpasses any fiction.
The work contains a fine steel portrait of the author, besides numerous wood engravings illustrative of striking incidents of his experience among the rebels. Every Unionist—every lover of his country—every man, woman and child should read this Book of Facts on they actually occurred.
The author has not only succeeded in making a narrative of exciting interest, but has ingeniously interwoven in the book many original and eloquent arguments in favor of a vigorous prosecution of the war against Rebellion and Oppression.
Just published on fine white paper, and handsomely bound in cloth. 385 pages.
Agents wanted in every county and township in the Union, to whom extraordinary inducements will be offered.
Specimen copies will be sent to any person for $1at, post paid, with particulars to Agents.
NOTICE OF THE PRESS.
No narrative of personal adventure which has been published since the war begun, equals this in interest. The account he gives, of the treatment of himself and his fellow-prisoners exceeds anything we have heretofore read.—Philadelphia Evening Bulletin.
The Captain’s graphic account of affairs in the South, during his long captivity there, will be read with great interest. The Introduction is by Rev. Alexander Clark, which is sufficient in itself to warrant a large sale.-Philadelphia Daily Inquirer.
Address all orders to
J. W. DAUGHADAY, Publisher,
1308, Chestnut street, Philadelphia.
Sept. 11—1t

A GREAT WORK!
EVERY MAN HIS OWN PHYSICIAN.
THE NEW ILLUSTRATED HYDROPATHIC ENCYCLOPAEDIA: ENCYCLOPHADIA:
A Complete System of Hydropathy, embracing the Anatomy and Physiology of the Human Body Illustrated; Hygienic Agencies and Preservation of Health; Dietetics and Cookery; Theory and Practice of Treatment; Special Pathology and Hydro-Therapeutics, including the Nature, Causes, Symptoms, and Treatment of all known Diseases:; Application to Surgical Diseases, to Midwifery and the Nursery. With 300 Engravings, and nearly One Thousand Pages, including a Glosser and Index complete. By R. T. TRALL, M. D. Sen prepaid by FIRST MAIL for $3.50. Address FOWLER & WELLS, 308306, Broadway, New York.
Sept. 18—2w

M. H. HARDY.
DRESS-MAKING ROOMS,
No. 10. Oliver Place,
Out of Essex Street, between Oxford and Edinboro’ Sts., BOSTON.
Sept. 23.




 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
VOLUNTARIES.
BY RALPH WALDO EMERSON 
I. 
Low and mournful be the strain,
Haughty thought be far from me;
Tones of penitence and pain, 
Moanings of the Tropic sea;
Low and tender in the cell 
Where a captive sits in chains, 
Crooning ditties treasured well 
From his A fire’s torrid plains.
Sole estate his sire bequeathed
Hapless sire to hapless son—
Was the wailing song he breathed,
And his chain when life was done. 
What his fault, or what his crime?
Or what ill planet crossed his prime?
Heart too soft and will too weak 
To front the fate that crouches near,—
Dove beneath the vulture’s beak;—
Will song dissuade the thirsty spear?
Dragged from his mother’s arms and breast, 
Displaced, disfurnished here, 
His wistful toil to do his best 
Chilled by a ribald jeer.
Great men in the Senate sate,
Sage and hero, side by side, 
Building for their sons the State, 
Which they shall rule with pride. 
They forbore to break the chain 
Which bound the dusky tribe, 
Checked by the owners’ fierce disdain, 
Lured by “Union” as the bribe.
Destiny sat by, and said, 
“Pang for pang your seed shall pay,
Hide in false peace your coward head, 
I bring round the harvest day.”
II.
Freedom all winged expands, 
Nor perches in a narrow place,
Her broad van seeks unplanted lands,
She loves a poor and virtuous race.
Clinging to the colder zone 
Whose dark sky sheds the snow-flake down,
The snow-flake is her banner’s star, 
Her stripes the boreal streamers are.
Long she loved the Northman well;
Now the iron age is done,
She will not refuse to dwell 
With the offspring of the Sun,
Foundling of the desert far, 
Where palms plume and siroccos blaze, 
He roves unhurt the burning ways 
In climates of the summer star.
He has avenues to God 
Hid from men of northern brain,
Far beholding, without cloud,
What these with slowest steps attain. 
If once the generous chief arrive 
To lead him willing to be led,
For freedom he will strike and strive, 
And drain his heart till he be dead.
III.
In an age of fops and toys,
Wanting wisdom, void of right,
Who shall nerve heroic boys 
To hazard all in Freedom’s fight,—
Break sharply off their jolly games, 
Forsake their comrades gay,
And quit proud homes and youthful dames,
For famine, toil, and fray?
Yet on the nimble air benign 
Speed nimbler messages, 
That waft the breath of grace divine 
To hearts in cloth and case
So nigh is grandeur to our dust,
So near is God to man,
When Duty whispers low, Thou must,
The youth replies, I can.
IV.
Oh, well for the fortunate soul 
Which Music’s wings infold,
Stealing away the memory 
Of sorrows new and old! 
Yet happier he whose inward sight,
Stayed on his subtile thought, 
Shuts his sense on toys of time,
To vacant bosoms brought
But best befriended of the God
He who, in evil times, 
Warned by an inward voice,
Heeds not the darkness and the dread,
Biding by his rule and choice,
Feeling only the fiery thread 
Leading over heroic ground,
Walled with mortal terror round,
To the aim which him allures,
And the sweet heaven his deed secures.
V.
Stainless soldier on the walls,
Knowing this,—and knows no more,—
Whoever fights, whoever falls,
Justice conquers evermore,
Justice after as before,—
And he who battles on her side,
God—though he were ten times slain—
Crowns him victor glorified,
Victor over death and pain;
Forever: but his <illegible> foe,
Self assured that he prevails,
Books from his victim lying low, 
And sees aloft the red right arm 
Redress the eternal scales.
He, he poor foe, whom angels foil,
Blind with pride, and fooled by hate, 
Writhes within the dragon coil,
Reserved to a speechless fate. 
VI. 
Blooms the laurel which belongs 
To the valiant chief who fights;
I see the wreath, I hear the songs 
Lauding the Eternal Rights,
Victors over daily wrongs:
Awful victors, they misguide 
Whom they will destroy,
And their coming triumph hide 
In our downfall, or our joy:
Speak it firmly,—these are gods, 
All are ghosts beside.
—Atlantic Monthly for October.

The Liberator.
SPEECH OF GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
At a Soiree given in grateful recognition of his long and earnest services in the cause of Negro Emancipation, and of Commercial, Political and Social Reform, at the Whittington Club, London, Feb. 26th 1863—the Right Hon. Lord TEYNHAM in the chair.
A complimentary Address to Mr. Thompson (for which see our inside form) having been read, and unanimously adopted by the meeting—
The Noble Chairman rose, and said:—Mr. George Thompson,—Allow me to say, that no intelligent, patient labor is without its fruit. It always receives a blessing from on high. Ladies and Gentlemen,—the very records which are contained in this address testify to our friend and to ourselves, that the most blessed fruits of his labors at borne and abroad have resulted from the seed which he has been enabled to sow. I have only now say, in addition to what is expressed here, that we hopes it may please you, Mr. Thompson, to accept this address at our hands, representing to you, as it does, the ripe fruits of friendship. No doubt, you have in your heart feelings which make you glad; and, with God’s blessing strengthening you, we hope that you may live to see the consummation of your fervent wishes for the emancipation of the negro.
Mr. Thompson rose amidst loud and prolonged applause, which having subsided, he spoke as follows:—
My Lord, Ladies, and Gentlemen; kind and partial friends—On this occasion, I have to discharge a duty which, of all others, I am most unfitted to fulfill; for I have never yet learned how to utter, appropriately, the 
<c02>
language of deep-seated gratitude. But, even if I had mastered that language, the obligations I am under to those now present, as well as to many others in this and foreign countries, for kindnesses received, for help afforded, and for consolation and encouragement in hours of darkness and perplexity, would overpower me at this moment, and render me unable to express, in suitable terms, the feelings of my heart. My lord, the address which, on behalf of the ladies and gentlemen who compose this assembly, you hare now presented to me in this truly elegant form, seems to have been intended to comprise an epitome of the chief labors of my public life; and it may, therefore, be my warrant for furnishing on this occasion some explanation of the motives by which I have been actuated throughout my career, as the exponent of various great questions. In common with other public men, the principles which have governed me have often been greatly misunderstood, or at least greatly misrepresented. Let me say, then, once for all, in the presence of him who reads all hearts, and for the satisfaction and assurance of those who may come after me, that I have never in a single act of my public life been decided in my course by any mercenary feeling, or any consideration of pecuniary reward. At the commencement of my public career, I was, if not without a purpose, certainly without a plan. My purpose, even from my boyhood, was to employ any ability with which God had endowed me, for the advancement of the happiness, and especially the freedom, of mankind. This purpose I was first enabled to carry out in connection with the cause so prominently placed at the heading of the address before me—that of Negro Emancipation. I cannot remember the time when my heart was not deeply penetrated with a sense of the injustice and wrong done to the negro race by the prosecution of the African slave trade, and the maintenance, in the British Colonies of the unchristian and inhuman institution of slavery. In my infancy, I had listened to the recital, by my father, of the horrible scenes common on board slave ships, during the “middle passage,” and had conceived a rooted detestation of the accursed traffic. I had early committed to memory Cowper’s beautiful vindication of the claims of the negro, commencing with the well-known lines:
“Forced from home and all its pleasures,
Afric’s coast I left forlorn, 
To increase a stranger’s treasures
O’er the raging billows borne.”
As I grew up, I became familiar with the records of the labors of pious missionaries who had devoted themselves to the work of preaching the Gospel to the black population of the West Indies. I had read the writings of Wesley, Whitfield, and Coke, describing the degraded condition of the negroes on the plantations of America and in our Colonies; and still later, I had filled a situation in the Wesleyan Mission House, in London, where I had an opportunity of seeing the correspondence between the society’s missionaries abroad and the committee at home. In the year 1828, when I was twenty-four years of age, I was associated with a number of young men, who met weekly at the house of a gentleman in the city, for the purpose of improving themselves by the discussion, in the way of debate, of questions of public interest. Slavery was one of these questions, the disputants advocating, respectively, measures of immediate or gradual emancipation. Our debate continued through eleven nights, and ended in the adoption of a memorial to Lord Bathurst, who was at that time the Secretary for the Colonies, praying for the introduction of a bill into Parliament for the abolition of Negro Slavery. At a period somewhat later, I introduced the subject, as one for discussion, into the debating class of the Literary and Scientific Institution in Aldersgate street, of which I was one of the earliest members. Our debates took place in the theatre, and were attended by the members generally, and their friends, and our audiences often numbered 600 or 700 persons of both sexes, and were of a highly intelligent character. The speakers were young men, several of them of remarkable talent, and a few have since distinguished themselves in public life. Then, as ever since, I maintained the duty, necessity, and safety of immediate emancipation. We bad an animated discussion for three nights, at the close of which, after a speech of more than an hour in length, I obtained a decision in favor of the proposition I had laid down. The majority in my favor was very large, and I regarded the result as the first great triumph I had achieved in the cause of truth and justice. At this time I was a clerk in a mercantile house, and though fond of reading and of exercising my talent as a speaker, and often congratulated upon the victories I obtained in debate, I had not the most distant expectation of employing my gifts beyond the arena afforded within the walls of a popular institution. As for my almost invariable success at that period, I ascribe it less to the skill with which I was able to conduct an argument, than to the fact that upon every question I ever debated, I espoused, with earnestness and enthusiasm, that side only which I believed could be sustained by an appeal to the principles of justice, and was in accordance with the rights and liberties conferred by God upon the human race. Prior to the year 1830, even the best and most earnest advocates of the negro’s cause had ventured to ask no more from the government and legislature than the enactment of measures for the mitigation of the evils of slavery, and the gradual abolition of the system, accompanied during the process by educational means of preparation. In that year, however, the cause received a powerful impulse from the speeches delivered by Henry Brougham, during his canvass of the electors of the great county of York. It was in the course of one of those speeches that he uttered the memorable words:-
“Tell me not of rights—talk not of the property of the planter in his slaves. I deny the right; I acknowledge not the property. The principles, the feelings of our common nature rise in rebellion against it. Be the appeal made to the understanding or to the heart, the sentence is the same that rejects it. In vain you tell me of laws that sanction such a claim! There is a law above all the enactments of human codes—the same throughout the world, the same in all time. Such as it was before the daring genius of Columbus pierced the night of ages, and opened to one world the sources of power, wealth, and knowledge; to another, all unutterable woes; such it is at this day; it is the law written by the finger of God on the heart of man; and by that law, unchangeable and eternal, while men despise fraud, and loath rapine, and abhor blood, they shall reject with indignation the wild and guilty fantasy, that man can hold property in man.”
As this speech was delivered in the month of July, another, equally distinguished by lofty eloquence, masterly reasoning, and irresistible power, was, delivered in Edinburgh by a popular divine, the late Rev. Dr. Andrew Thomson. At a great meeting, at which the Lord Provost presided, a petition to parliament was proposed, praying for the abolition of slavery, at the “earliest practicable period.” Dr. Thomson moved as an amendment, that the word “immediately” should be substituted. The amendment was seconded; but because the speakers took for their motto, “Fiat justitia ruat calum,” the Lord Provost rose and left the chair, declaring that he could not, as chief magistrate of Edinburgh, countenance a meeting where such sentiments were uttered and applauded. The meeting, however, was not dissolved before it was decided by acclamation that another meeting should be held in the same place to support an energetic petition to parliament for the total and immediate abolition of slavery. That meeting was held, and it was then that Dr. Thomson delivered the grand oration to which I have referred, in which he met every objection urged against immediate emancipation, and moved a petition to parliament, of which the following is a part, and which I quote as one of the most just and comprehensive, as well as eloquent expositions of the nature and evils of slavery:—
“The voice of a disappointed and impatient nation now calls loudly for some prompt and comprehensive measure to redress the bondsman’s wrongs; and your petitioners, as a part of that nation, can now no longer repress the full and earnest expression of their conviction that man cannot hold property in man; that slavery is a violation of the principles of natural right and the laws of revealed religion; that it involves severities on the part of the slaveholder, and sufferings on the part of the slave, which no laws can prevent;
<c03>
that to keep up by taxation a system so essentially iniquitous ought to be felt as an intolerable burden, both by the legislature and the people; that all attempts at palliative and preparatory measures, while the unjust and immoral principle of the system remains, must be delusive, and have hitherto only mocked the sufferings of the slave, riveted the prejudices and consolidated the opposition of the slaveholder, and left upon the nation the unmitigated guilt of these flagrant wrongs; and that nothing less can satisfy the demands of eternal justice than the full, and absolute, and immediate termination of the evil.”
Let me also quote the magnificent peroration of the Doctor’s speech, in which he boldly confronts the danger of insurrection, in the event of immediate emancipation:—
“But if you push me, and still urge the argument of insurrection and bloodshed, for which you are far more indebted to fancy than to fact, as I have shown you, then I say, Be it so. I repeat that maxim taken from a heathen book, but pervading the whole Book of God, ‘Fiat justitia ruat caelum!’ Righteousness, sir, is the pillar of the universe. Break down that pillar, and the universe falls into ruin and desolation. But preserve it, and though the fair fabric may sustain partial dilapidations, it may be rebuilt and repaired it will be rebuilt and repaired, and restored to all its pristine strength and magnificence and beauty. If there must be violence, let it even come, for it will soon pass away—let it come and rage its little hour, since it is to be succeeded by lasting freedom and prosperity and happiness. Give me the hurricane rather than the pestilence. Give me the hurricane, with its thunder and its lightning and its tempest; give me the hurricane, with its partial and temporary devastations, awful though they be; —give me the hurricane, with its purifying, healthful, salutary effects;—give me the hurricane, infinitely rather than the noisome pestilence, whose path is never crossed, whose silence is never disturbed, whose progress is never arrested by one sweeping blast from the heavens; which walks peacefully and sullenly through the length and breadth of the land, breathing poison into every heart, and carrying havoc into every home, enervating all that is strong, defacing all that is beautiful, and casting its blight over the fairest and happiest scenes of human life; and which, from day to day, and from year to year, with intolerant and interminable malignity, sends its thousands and its tens of thousands of hapless victims into the ever-yawning and never-satisfied grave!”
These speeches, which I read at the time, produced a powerful effect upon my mind, and inspired me with a strong desire to render myself, if possible, useful in some way in promoting the great work of the abolition of a system so destructive of the happiness, and op-posed to the rights, of nearly a million of our fellow subjects; at war, too, with the genius and maxims of British law, and with the principles and precepts of Christianity. In the summer of the year 1831, and when I had been about six months married, I offered myself to the Agency Committee of the Anti-Slavery Society, and by that committee my services were accepted as a lecturer, and I went forth to advocate the abolition of Colonial slavery, upon the principle which I had myself adopted in the more humble efforts which I had made for the furtherance of the same object. The principle laid down for my guidance was one which I had already adopted and advocated, and which I could, therefore, with confidence promulgate and defend. It was this “That the system of colonial slavery is a crime in the sight of God, and ought to be immediately and forever abolished.”
The object of the Agency Committee was to prepare the way for a general expression of the public feeling, when the proper time should arrive, by widely disseminating an accurate knowledge of the nature and effects of colonial slavery. I shall never forget the fear and trembling with which I entered upon my new and important duties, nor how much I owe to the kindness and encouragement I received at the hands of those who cooperated with me at the commencement of my public labors. I continued in this work until the middle of 1833. While prosecuting it, I was called to encounter the opposition sent against me by the West Indian party, who engaged a gentleman of considerable oratorical powers to follow me to the various places in which I held meetings, and there either lecture in reply to me, or meet me on the plat: form for public debate. My most memorable conflict with this champion of the pro-slavery cause was in my native town of Liverpool, where our discussion took place in the spacious amphitheatre, which was crowded for six nights by audiences made up alike of the friends and opponents of the abolition of slavery. A similar discussion afterwards took place in the city of Glasgow. Though both these places were, at the time when these discussions were held, the strong-holds of the supporters of West Indian Slavery, the verdict, nevertheless, was in favor of the immediate extinction of the system. In the cities of Glasgow and Edinburgh, my successful advocacy of the claims of the oppressed were recognized by the presentation of valuable testimonials, which I hope will remain as cherished heir-looms in my family.
In the year 1832, my labors were increased by the efforts necessary to induce the newly enfranchised constituencies to pledge their candidates to the support of a measure for the total and immediate abolition of slavery. The success of the government measure for the abolition of British Colonial Slavery seemed to bring to a termination the labors of the friends of the negro, so far as his personal liberty was concerned, and my “occupation,” as his humble champion, appeared to be “gone.” The friends whom I had made during my anti-slavery labors were kindly solicitous respecting my future welfare, and were anxious to enable me to embark in some career, at once lucrative and honorable. They chose for me that of the law, believing that as a barrister I might successfully employ the abilities I had already exhibited as the vindicator of the claims of the colonial bondsman. They generously proposed, not only to provide me the means of acquiring the necessary qualifications for my new profession, but also of supporting my family in the meantime. An unexpected scene of labor, however, was about to open itself before me. During the discussion in Parliament of the Abolition Bill, there arrived in this country the representative of the New England Anti-Slavery Society. That representative was William Lloyd Garrison, to whom I was introduced immediately after he reached this city, and with whom I have been on terms of the most intimate friendship ever since. I was able to render Mr. Garrison some service in the attainment of the object which brought him to our shores, which was the exposure of the true character of a society, largely patronized by the slaveholders of America, for the colonization of the colored people of that country;’ a society which, through the plausible representations of its agent in England, had found favor in the eyes of some of our leading philanthropists. After holding meetings in London, I accompanied Mr. Garrison to Bath, to see the venerable William Wilberforce, who, a few weeks afterwards, was removed by death from the scene of his labors, but not before he had witnessed the achievement of the great work to which in early life he had consecrated his powers. In company with Mr. Garrison, too, I followed the remains of that good man to their final resting place in Westminster Abbey. In the course of my many conversations with Mr. Garrison, I acquired an intimate knowledge of the state of the anti-slavery cause in America, and felt an earnest desire to become a missionary to that country, for the proclamation of the same great truths which had wrought so salutary and decisive an effect upon the majority of my own countrymen. Mr. Garrison was urgent in his entreaties that I would become his coadjutor, and promised on his return home to send me an official invitation: from the; society he represented. Before his departure, I gave him a pledge that, if I could induce the Emancipation Societies of Great Britain to make themselves chargeable with the expenses of my mission, I would follow him to the United States, and join him in the effort he was making to awaken the minds’ of his countrymen to a just conception of the shame and guilt attached to their toleration of the enslavement of one-sixth of their entire population. On making known to the committees in Edinburgh and Glasgow my wish to visit America, they generously undertook to support the expenses of my mission for a period of three years, or longer, if my labors should continue beyond that terms. Amongst those who entered most warmly into my design was the late noble-minded and philanthropic, Joseph Sturge,
<c04>
who not only offered to contribute to the expense of the passage of myself and family to America, but rendered me important aid in the formation of a society in London, for the abolition of slavery and the slave trade throughout the world. I need scarcely say, that my determination to enter upon this new field of exertion put an end to the project which had been formed for assisting me to become a member of the British bar.
In the autumn of 1833, I received a communication from the New England Anti-Slavery Society, seconding the request which Mr. Garrison had made, and I wrote in reply to say, that after occupying myself until the 1st of August, 1884, in lecturing upon American slavery, and in the formation of societies to aid its abolition, I would embark for the United States. This assurance I fulfilled, and after uniting in the celebration of negro emancipation on the 1st of August, in the cities of Edinburgh and Glasgow, I left Liverpool on my anti-slavery mission to the United States, carrying with me addresses to the President of the Republic, and to the people of America, from the London Society for the abolition of slavery and the slave trade throughout the world. My labors in the United States extended from the 22d September, 1834, when I landed at New York, to the 28th November, 1885, when, at the solicitation of those who were concerned for my personal safety, I consented to take passage from Boston in a brig bound to New Brunswick in the British Possessions.
I must be forgiven, if I say no more regarding my labors in America during my first visit, than that I was treated with the most abounding kindness by the friends of the abolition cause, and received their warm thanks for the services rendered by me to that cause while sojourning amongst them. As for any sacrifices I made, or perils I encountered, by my visit, I count them as less than dust in the balance, and thank God I had a share in sowing that precious seed which is now bearing such abundant fruits. From the time of my return from the United States until the autumn of 1837, I was unceasingly employed in visiting various parts of the United Kingdom, for the purpose of lecturing upon the subject of American Slavery, and promoting the transmission to America of memorials and protests on that subject. During that period, I maintained a discussion in Glasgow of five days’ duration, with the Rev. Robert J. Breckinridge, of Kentucky, in the course of which I vindicated the policy and measures of the American Anti-Slavery Society, unveiled the hideous deformity of American slavery, and exposed the complicity and guilt of the American churches. This debate was published and widely circulated, and there is reason to believe that the facts it made known caused the character of American slavery to be better understood.
The system of negro apprenticeship, which had taken the place of slavery in the British Colonies, had been found to be, in its practical working, but a modified form of the system which it had superseded; and those who had always advocated the bestowment of absolute and unconditional freedom felt it their duty to demand an abridgement of the term of his apprenticeship. In the movement for this object, the late Mr. Sturge took a leading part, and was joined by me in the autumn of 1837. At a conference of friends of abolition, it was agreed to petition Parliament in favor of the termination of the apprenticeship on the 1st of the ensuing August. In the prosecution of this object we had not the benefit, in the first instance, of the cooperation of the Committee of the Anti-Slavery Society, or of any of the distinguished parliamentary supporters of negro emancipation. At a later stage, however, we had the aid of the all-powerful voice, both in the House of Lords and in public meetings, of Henry, Lord Brougham, whose accession to our ranks communicated a mighty impetus to the cause, and greatly contributed to the victory which crowned our efforts. Though to the last opposed by the administration, and on every occasion but one outvoted in both Houses of Parliament, such was the over whelming force of public opinion, that the government was compelled to address despatches to the Governors of the Colonies, directing them to issue measures for the abolition of the system on the day to which our petitions pointed. Accordingly, on the 16th July, 1838, the West India mail brought the intelligence that in the Local Assemblies and Courts of Policy, bills had been introduced, intended to confer entire freedom upon the negro on the 1st of August. By these measures, the colored population of our dependencies were delivered two years earlier than the time fixed by the Abolition act, from the oppressions and cruelties which had been inflicted upon them during their transition state.
About the time that we were called upon to celebrate the abolition of the last remaining vestige of slavery within our own West Indian dominions, the attention of the public of this country was drawn to the sufferings and mortality occasioned by a drought prevailing amongst the inhabitants of the Northwest Provinces of British India. About the same time, also, I was solicited by the late Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton and other members of the Aborigines’ Protection Society, to present the claims of that benevolent and excellent body to the notice of the people of this country. In the mean time, I had become acquainted with several gentlemen who had spent their official lives in India, and had returned to their native land with a sincere desire to improve the condition of the people amongst whom their public duties had been discharged. Sharing in the laudable wish cherished by these worthy persons, and anxious to serve both the general object of the Aborigines’ Protection Society, and the cause of good government in India, I consented to act as a lecturer for the Society, on condition that I might give prominence, to the claims of India, and the condition of the natives of that country.
I soon found, however, that the subject of India engrossed all my thoughts, and was sufficient of itself to occupy all my time, and to command all the strength I was able to bestow upon it. I obtained leave, therefore, from the committee, to relinquish my engagement, and to devote myself exclusively to the work of disseminating information relating to the government of India, and the treatment of its native subjects. A provisional committee for the formation of a British India Society was soon after established in London, and on the 6th of July, 1839, that Society was inaugurated at a great meeting held in Freemasons’ Hall, under the presidency of Lord Brougham. Towards the close of the same year, I delivered a course of six lectures in Manchester, “On the Condition, Resources and Prospects of British India, and the Duties and Responsibilities of Great Britain to do justice to that vast empire.” In those lectures I endeavored to impress upon the minds of the people in the cotton manufacturing districts, the necessity of looking to India for a supply of the raw material so essential to their prosperity. These lectures were attended by large and influential audiences, and were subsequently published in a volume, which contained also an able essay on “The Past and Present Condition of the Cotton Trade of India,” by General Briggs, and a colored map, indicating the different soils upon: which all the varieties of cotton brought into the British market had been successfully cultivated. I continued to lecture in connection with the British India Society until June, 1841, when, with the consent of the committee, I made an offer of my services, gratuitously, to the Council of the National Anti-corn-law League, during their struggle for the abolition of all taxes upon the food of the people. My offer was accepted, and the members of the Council, in return, pledged, themselves, as far as competent to cooperate with the British India Society (upon the settlement of their own question) for the attainment of the great object of the Society-Justice to India.
On the termination of the labors in which I had been engaged for the extinction of the system of Negro Apprenticeship, the friends of that object were pleased to recognize my services by the presentation of a testimonial in money, amounting to a very considerable sum.
On taking up the cause of India, I thought I could
<c05>
not better apply the generous gift of my warm-hearted friends, than by purchasing with it a portion of East India stock, the holding of which would entitle me to a voice in the Court of Proprietors. On entering that Court, my first speech was in favor of the revision and amelioration of the Land-tax of India; a tax operating to the serious depression of agriculture, and the impoverishment of the cultivators of the soil. I next took a very active part in the debates relating to the dethronement of a distinguished Hindoo Prince, the Rajah of Sattara, and in the exposure of the iniquitous means which had been employed to dispossess that virtuous sovereign’ of his dominions. In conjunction with the committee of the British India Society, I originated a periodical, entitled The British Indian Advocate, the motto of which was, “Justice to India, Prosperity to England, Freedom to the Slave.” This publications, which was in the form of a newspaper, was continued at intervals until the end of 1849.
In uniting myself to the Anti-corn-law movement, my principal object was to awaken the attention of the religions and philanthropic portions of the people of Great Britain to the vast social and moral evils generated by the laws restricting the supply of food. I therefore obtained permission to invite by circular ministers of religion, of all denominations, to meet in conference in Manchester, and pronounce a judgment upon the corn-law monopoly. Nearly seven hundred ministers assembled, and were occupied in deliberation for four days. The result was, a unanimous condemnation of the Corn-laws as unjust in principle, pernicious in their operation, and at war with the beneficent dispensations of Divine Providence. A similar meeting of the ministers and office-bearers of the various religious bodies in Scotland was soon afterwards held in the city of Edinburgh, at which a similar decision was arrived at. During the latter part of the year 1841, and the greater part of 1842, my time was spent in attending public meetings in company with Mr. Cobden, Mr. Bright, and other eminent friends of free trade. I have not unfrequently been subjected to the imputation of having aided the movement for the abolition of the Corn-laws, with a view to pecuniary advantage. Such was not the case, as the leaders of that movement who are now living can testify, and as the records of the Council of the League will show. My labors were as independent and free as those of any nobleman or gentleman who took part in the agitation. Let me on this occasion, however, say, what I have never publicly stated before, that, previously to my offer of gratuitous assistance to the Anti-Corn-Law League, I had been proffered by the protectionist party of this country a handsome provision for life, and an elevated position, on the simple condition of declaring my adhesion to the principles maintained by that party. After considering the proposal made to me, I returned for my answer, that if I ever expressed any opinions on the subject of the corn-laws, they would be in condemnation of them, and in favor of their unconditional and absolute repeal. So much for the justice of the charge to which I have been exposed of having been swayed in my actions on the question of free trade by mercenary considerations. Let me add, that neither on the question of free trade, nor on any other question I have advocated, have I ever in my life stipulated for pecuniary compensation. There is not a document in existence that will show that I ever entered into a money bargain for my services.
Towards the close of 1842, an opportunity presented itself for my visiting India, and spending a year in that country in the investigation of the actual-condition of the people, and the character and effects of the government under which they lived. That opportunity I gladly embraced, and landed in Calcutta, in January, 1843. Reports of my humble efforts in behalf of India had gone before me, and I was soon call ed upon to undertake the official representation in this country of his highness the Rajah, of Sattara, and his majesty the king of Delhi. After visiting both those princes, and enjoying extensive means of acquiring a knowledge of the wants and wishes of the people, I returned to this country in the spring of 1844, and forthwith devoted myself to the management of the important business committed to my hands—laboring at the same time, occasionally, to promote the Anti-Corn-Law movement and other objects in which I had been previously interested. 
The year 1847 saw me returned to Parliament. My votes, during the time that I was a representative of the people, will show that I was not unfaithful to the principles for the sake of which I had been returned.
During the Parliamentary recesses of the years 1848-9, I labored assiduously, in conjunction with Sir Joshua Walmsley, in seeking to establish the principles and promote the objects of the National Parliamentary Reform Association. In pursuance of these ends, we travelled extensively, and addressed great public meetings in various parts of the kingdom.
During the recess of 1850, I crossed the Atlantic a second time, for the purpose of witnessing the progress of anti-slavery principles during the fifteen years which had elapsed since my first visit. I soon found myself overwhelmed with invitations to deliver speeches on the all-engrossing question of slavery; and that I might, to some extent, comply with them, and thereby render some additional service to the cause for which I had labored when it was in its infancy, I protracted my stay beyond the period of the reassembling of Parliament in 1851, and, for so doing, incurred the serious displeasure of some amongst my constituents who did not share my feelings of attachment to the great struggle for freedom in America. In 1852, as you all know, I was unsuccessful in my attempt to be a second time returned as representative, of the great metropolitan borough of the Tower Hamlets; but I am glad that my place has been so well supplied by the election of my honorable friend, Mr. Ayrton, who sits beside me, and who, I trust, will long continue to deserve and receive the confidence and support of the vast constituency which I once had the honor to serve.
Acting from a sincere conviction of duty, I felt it incumbent upon me to oppose, during the years 1853-54-55, the war between Great Britain and her allies, and Russia. The advocacy of the views which I then entertained, and have seen no reason to alter, brought me neither profit nor popularity; but I can reflect with satisfaction upon the course which I was at that period led to pursue, and have since met with not a few persons, who, though they were amongst my most strenuous opponents, are now frank enough to admit that their sentiments have undergone a decided change.
During the years 1856-57-58, I was, as many of you are aware, a second time a resident on the plains of India, engaged during that time in investigations connected, with the adaptation of certain native products to the manufacturing purposes of this country. While there, I witnessed the outbreak and culmination of the Sepoy Mutiny, respecting the causes of which I might say, much, were this the time or the place. I returned home in the middle of 1858, but so prostrated by the effects of the climate, that it was not until the commencement of 1860, and then; but very feebly, that I was sufficiently recovered to be able to stand once more before an audience of my countrymen. I then divided my time between the advocacy of the cause of Parlimentary Reform, based upon the principles of the Northern Political Reform Union, and the discussion by lectures and public addresses, of the American., question; my object, as regarded America, being, to enable the people of England rightly to understand the issues involved in the straggle then going on in the United. States between the Republican and Democratic parties. I deemed it, also, my duty, when, occasion seemed to require it, to explain and vindicate the principles and measures of the American Anti-Slavery Society—a body which has been much misunderstood, and often willfully misrepresented, in this country; but to the purity and fidelity of which I have at all times, and at any temporary sacrifice, borne my humble but sincere and unqualified testimony.
During the year 1860, I endeavored as far as I was able, to gratify the very general desire to learn the 
<c06>
particulars respecting the career, especially through the later years of his life, of that heroic champion of the slave, and noble martyr in the cause of freedom and humanity—John Brown. I have delivered many lectures, in various parts of the kingdom, descriptive of the anti-slavery labors, the prison life, the sublime death, and funeral honors of that illustrious man, who fell at last a victim to the guilty fears and fiendish revenge of the slaveholding tyrants of Virginia. When the second great political conflict between the Republican and Pro-slavery parties of America took place, I did what I could, by public addresses and otherwise, to give correct information in regard to the real merits of the question between the supporters of Mr. Lincoln and the political organizations with which they had to contend. During the years 1861 and 1862, I have been constantly lecturing upon the subjects of the slaveholders’ rebellion, the prospects of the war and the bearing of events upon the question of emancipation. No man, more than myself, had either regretted or condemned the course taken by the majority of the public journals of this country on the subject of the disruption in America; nor has any one rejoiced more than I have done in the recent manifestations of that sound anti-slavery feeling for which this country was honorably conspicuous thirty years ago.
My lord, ladies, and gentlemen, I have now, at the risk of exhausting your patience, gone through “The story of my life, from year to year,”—not so much with a view of imparting information to you, knowing, as I do, that many of you are familiar with the events in my history—as of furnishing to those who may hereafter read the address you have presented to me, the facts which will enable them to fill up the outline which that address has so ably but flatteringly sketched. A few more words, and I have done. On every question which, in the course of my public life, I have brought before the attention of the people, I have always sought the support of some great principle which could not be successfully assailed, the justice and importance of which the people would perceive and appreciate. On the question of slavery, I early satisfied myself that it was impossible that man could rightfully become the proprietor of his fellowman; and that all questions relating to mere treatment—of few or many stripes—of much or little food— of this or that kind of clothing —were questions of secondary, and comparatively insignificant consideration. That the essence of slavery and its stupendous guilt consisted in reducing a man to the level of a chattel—in invading his natural and divine right to be personally free. That no man could be come a slave-owner without usurping the authority and prerogative of the Creator,
Who gave us only over beasts, flesh, fowl, 
Dominion absolute: but over man
Made us not lords; such title to himself 
Reserving, human left from human free.
On this rock I planted my feet when I commenced the discussion of the anti-slavery question, and I ascribe any measure of success which followed my labors to the fact of my uncompromising fidelity to the eternal and immutable truth, that man cannot hold property in man. When my attention was called to the nature and operation of the corn-laws, I endeavored to discover some principle upon which I might found my opposition, and defy assault. I did not, in the first instance, enter upon a particular inquiry into the effects of those laws upon a special branch of British manufacture. My examination was directed to the principles by which the intercourse of nations and communities should be governed, in exchanging with each other the various fruits of the industry of their hands, the ingenuity of their heads, and the fertility of their soils. I read in that book which we al reverence, that God had given for the benefit of man “every herb bearing seed which is upon the face of the earth, and every tree which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed,” and I came to the conclusion, that all laws tending to intercept the food which is necessary for the sustentation of man, or to raise it to an artificial value, for the benefit of a particular class, were at variance with the arrangements of Divine Providence, and ought to be immediately abolished. In seeking to obtain better government for India, and other dependencies of the British Crown, I have been guided by the principle, that sovereignty is a trust for which we are responsible, and that we can scarcely be guilty of a greater crime than to make the happiness of the millions we have conquered subservient to the interests of the conquerors. I have been guided by the principle, that to those from whom we expect allegiance we should render protection—that we owe them just laws, together with every effort to ameliorate their condition. In my efforts to promote the enfranchisement of my countrymen, I have been guided by what I believed to be the principle of the British Constitution, namely, the right of every man called to pay taxes to have a voice in the election of those who shall in the first place levy the taxes, and then dispose of the money raised by them. I have therefore, advocated the doctrine of manhood suffrage, protected by the ballot. I have never had any serious apprehensions of the consequences that would flow from the largest extension of the franchise, if accompanied by proper safeguards. If I wanted any proof of the intelligence of the working-classes of this country, and their fitness for the political power I would confer upon them, I would point to the state of things in our manufacturing districts, and to the conduct of our unemployed operatives. I trust the admirable demeanor they have exhibited will not be forgotten when representative reform shall again be under consideration. As a proof of their clear-sightedness and understanding. I would refer to the course they have pursued in reference to the great struggle in America. As regards the press of this country, its sympathy generally has been decidedly on the side of the Southern slaveholding rebels; and, doubtless, our newspapers have represented, with tolerable accuracy, the feelings of the upper, monied, and mercantile classes of the community. But there has been no sympathy with the South, or, very little, amongst the masses of the intelligent working-classes of Great Britain. Their hatred of slavery, and their desire for emancipation all over the world, have remained unchanged, and as strong as ever. All honor to the half-million operatives of the north of England, who have borne with such heroic fortitude their grievous privations. The fettered millions of America have no more sincere or hearty friend, than the pale-faced working-men and women of our manufacturing districts, who are reconciled to their scanty fare and gloomy prospects by the thought that their sufferings are working out the deliverance of the oppressed. The sublime resignation and self forgetfulness of these people—their scrupulous observance of law-their whole-souled attachment to the cause of human freedom their quick and clear perception of the real merits of the contest between the North and the South—their superiority to the arts of those who have been sent amongst them to mislead and delude them their appreciation of the labor question involved in the contest,—these things should excite the admiration of all classes of the community, and teach a valuable lesson to our rulers and the nation at large. It now only remains for me, before sitting down, to express, out of a full heart, my thanks to the friends around me for the testimonial of their regard which I shall carry from this place. As long as I shall live, this address will be to me a source of gratitude, pride, and encouragement; and I hope it will animate those who may come after me, to show a similar devotion to the cause of truth, justice, and human freedom, convinced by the results of my humble labors, that they will not labor in vain; and assured, by this night’s proceedings, that they will, at last, win the respect and confidence of those who have been the witness of their fidelity. My lord, ladies, and gentlemen, with best wishes for your personal and domestic happiness, and for the triumph of every good cause in which you are engaged, I now bid you farewell.
Mr. Thompson resumed his seat amidst enthusiastic and prolonged cheering.
