THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL. 
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
 TERMS- Three dollars per annum, in advance.
 Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
 All remittance are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
 Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
 The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
 The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO.40. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7. 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1501.

<C01>
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
From the Marshall (Texas) Republican, Sept, 3.
SLAVERY EXCITEMENT IN TEX AS.
 Dallas, in the State, has recenty been the scene of considerable excitement, owing to the presence of one of those Abolition emissaries connected with the Northern branch of the Methodist Church, who, not taking the necessary warning from the summary dismissal of several others of his brethren in the adjoining countries, had the temerity to proclaim his incendiary doctrines in Dallas and other localities. A public meeting was held in Dallas on the 12th ultimo, at which Col. J. M. Crockett presided, and T. C. Hawpe acted as Secretary.
 The Chairman addressed the meeting in a brief but pointed manner, explanatory of the object of the meeting; and after the voluntary declarations and evidence of highly respectable citizens of the county were head, upon motion the Chairman appointed the following Committee to draft suitable resolutions: Chas. R. Pryor, A Moss, W. H. Hord., A. M. Moore, T. C. Hawpe, and A. J. Witt.
 After a few remarks by Gen. J. J. Good, followed by Col. Crockett, the meeting adjourned to meet again at 1 o' clock, P. M., Saturday, Aug. 13, 1859, at which time the Committee reported a preamble and resolutions-among them the following:-
 Resolved, That we deny the existence of any state of affairs among us that would warrant the effort on the part of Northern churches, benevolent or aid societies to send us those 'wolves in sheep's clothing,' who, with Bible in hand and evil in their hearts, go forth preaching the most dangerous and insurrectionary doctrines; and that we do not accord to any such societies the privilege to interfere with out rights and institutions, manners and customs. That we are opposed to the presence of such persons among us, and will expel them from our borders as a public nuisance.
 Resolved, That we would recommend to the different churches in our country, for which we entertain the highest respect and veneration, the importance of purifying their pulpits from the presence of such persons as come under public condemnation, for perverting the pulpit from its legitimate purposes, and making it subservient to their unholy designs.
 Resolved, That we believe the safety of our families, our homes, and our property is endangered by the presence and preaching of these men; and that we feel justified in adopting the most stringent means to restrain and prevent such things.
 Resolved, That, as law-loving and law-abiding citizens, we look to the laws of our country to protect us in our rights; and in the event that the law cannot reach such offenders, of whose guilt we are morally certain, then we will resort to other means to protect our lives and property, and will expel such offenders and intruders from the soil they defile by their presence.
 Resolved, That we particularly have reference to one Parson Solomon McKinney, against whom we have ample testimony to warrant us in believing him guilty of disseminating doctrines of the tendency above referred to, and we take this means of protesting against the dangerous sentiments he has preached to our slaves; and that we take this opportunity of warning him to seek a field where the sentiments of the people are more congenial to his own, and not again attempt to preach in this community.
 The meeting then adjourned sine die.
 The resolutions were adopted with but one dissenting voice. The reverend gentleman alluded to was present, and heard the resolutions read. The Herald advises him to leave, and intimates very strongly that if he fails to do so, the consequences to him will be quite unpleasant. Other localities have also, it appears, had Parson McKinney's case under consideration. The citizens of Lancaster held a meeting , and passed resolutions that he should not fill his appointment at that place, and furnished him with a copy. The county, in a word, is getting too hot to hold him.
 Dallas is situated in the heart of one of the richest landed districts in the State; emphatically the wheat and stock-raising region of the South. Thousands of acres of land, of almost unexampled fertility, invite settlement and enterprise. Owing to its remoteness from navigation, it had been settled mainly by small farmers, many of whom, coming from the non-slaveholding States, have been supposed to be inimical to Slavery. This country has settled up very rapidly within the last eight years, and is at present the heaviest voting portion of this Congressional District. The exports of flour, wool, and cattle are by no means inconsiderable, and are yearly increasing. Steam flouring mills are established in various localities. There is not a day, scarcely, in the Winter season, but wagons transporting machinery for this region of country may be seen passing through our streets. It is a slow and expensive process to transport by oxteams such heavy articles a distance of from 200 to 250 miles. Even under these unfavorable circumstances, hundreds, perhaps thousands, of men are getting rich in this productive region.
 The editor of The Herald, who is himself, we are persuaded , a thorough Southern State Rightsman says the 'cow country,' as it is familiarly called, is sound on the Slavery question. It seems, however, that the Abolitionists have taken a very different opinion, inasmuch as this seems to be the spot in which they have commenced their pioneer movements to sow the seeds of fanaticism. Perhaps they thought the prospect better from the fact that, in the northern countries, there were comparatively few slaves. For this reason (the absence of a considerable slave population), there is more danger to be apprehended of unsound sentiments getting a foothold. Hence it is, the press and the public men of this section of the State should labor to inculcate proper sentiments, and expose those who are seeking political preferment by courting Free-Soil influence.
 Hear what Gov. Wise's organ-the Richmond Enquirer-says of Senator Douglas's copyright manifesto on Popular Sovereignty in Harper's Magazine:-
 'Mr. Douglas's essay can be regarded in no other light than as an incendiary document, calculated to produce nothing less than a repetition of the anarchy and bloodshed which has lately disgraced the soil of our territories. We publish it only for the purpose of pointing out its errors, and of warning the conservative men of the whole country against this last and most dangerous phase which anti-slavery agitation has yet assumed.'
 Mrs. E. J. Tracy, writing to the Memphis Appeal, from Holly Springs, (Miss.) having seen some negroes going to meeting on Sunday, says: 'As with the rapidity of thought, I glance from such a scene to benighted Africa, sunk in moral degradation, over whose millions of human souls the darkness of heathenism folds her sombre wings in rayless light, my heart swells in gratitude to the Great Father of all for the institution of American Slavery'!!!  
<C02>
SELECTIONS. 
From the Leeds (Eng.) Mercury.
ANTI-SLAVERY MEETING IN LEEDS. 
 The Rev. S. J. May, one of the earliest founders of the Anti-Slavery movement in America, having made a tour on the Continent of Europe, has recently visited Leeds. On Friday evening last, a highly respectable company of ladies and gentlemen assembled, at the instance of the Leeds Anti-Slavery Society, at the residence of Wilson Armistead, Esq., Beech Grove, to welcome him, and to hear from him a short account of the American Anti-Slavery movement
 Joseph Lupton, Esq.. presided, and, in introducing the Rev. gentleman, informed him that the reason some more public demonstration had not been made was because of the present time of the year being unfavorable to the numerical success of public gatherings.
 The Rev. S. J. May thanked the audience for their welcome greeting and presence, and then proceeded to give some information respecting the labors of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and the success which had thus far characterized those labors. He introduced the name of William Lloyd Garrison (as one of the leading members of their Society) with the deepest respect and esteem, and highly applauded his anti-slavery labors. Formerly the subject of shivery was scarcely a question that was debatable in America. Now it was the question which most occupied the attention of the Senate, their justices, and the minds of the people. But they had much to contend with. The present general government is wholly opposed to anti-slavery effort; and when it is remembered that they have fifty thousand to sixty thousand officials distributed, throughout the States and dependent upon their patronage, it will be immediately seen that the influence they exert must be very considerable. In Congress, too, the anti-slavery party labored tinder great disadvantages. Representatives from the South continually retained their seats, while the North, delighting in rotation of office, were continually sending new men to Congress. This proved detrimental,' as the new representatives have to contend with experienced politicians, who cause them to suffer in every attempt they make to convince the House of the errors and evils of slavery, by a species of political dodgery against which there seems to be no present help. The unity of slaveholders generally in the , South is a great power in sustaining slavery, while in the North there exists no perfect unity in laboring to abolish it. Another difficulty arises from the fact that foreigners (more especially Irishmen) coming to America are generally elated on their first arrival, with high inflated notions of Democracy, and unhesitatingly join the Democratic party, not knowing that it is that very party which is most assiduous in support of slavery. For this reason, elections generally prove most adverse to the anti-slavery party. The Rev. gentleman then dwelt upon the religious aspect of the question, and gave his most emphatic testimony to the truth of the utterance of the Rev. Albert Barnes, when be said, ' The American Churches are the bulwark of American Slavery.' He then concluded his practical and interesting address by asking any gentleman present to make any inquiry which might elucidate any point of interest. Mr. J. A. Homer asked if the return of a Republican President would have any beneficial influence upon the anti-slavery movement.
 In reply, it was stated that such an event would only tend to introduce very injurious compromises of principle, and illustrated the fact by reference to the last election, in which, during their endeavors by canvass to secure the return of Fremont, several unwise and very injurious compromises of principle were made. The Republican party were not yet so thoroughly imbued with anti-slavery sentiment as to be safely placed in power. But it mast be understood that the American Anti-Slavery Society will be ever willing to come to a fair settlement of this question upon a true, secure and honorable basis
 Several other questions having been asked and answered,
 Mr. W. Armistead moved the following resolution which was seconded by Mr. William H. Pullen: 
 'That this mooting, consisting of the representatives of the Leeds Anti-Slavery Association, and the Leeds Young Men's Anti-Slavery Society, being desirous of expressing its deep interest in the welfare: of the American Anti-Slavery Society, takes this opportunity of tendering to the Rev. S. J. May, of Syracuse, U. S., its warmest sympathies, assuring him that the cause in which he and his indefatigable fellow-laborers are engaged is one which we . highly value and appreciate. That in welcoming the Rev. S. J. May to our shores, we wish to acknowledge the long-tried and valuable services which he has rendered to the abolition cause, and we hope; and trust that God, in His bountiful mercy, may long spare him and his worthy colleagues, who, amid scornful reproach and open malignity, have proved themselves the heralds of liberty for the American Slave.' 
 
 From the Manchester ( Eng.) Examiner of Sept. 15. 
AMERICAN SLAVERY.
 Last evening, the Manchester Athenaeum was crowded—and hundreds unable to obtain admission—on the occasion of a lecture being delivered by Miss Sarah P. Remond, a lady of color, from Salem, Massachusetts, U. S., on American Slavery. The mayor, Ivie Mackie, Esq., presided, and introduced Miss Remond. She delivered, in good English, an eloquent and touching address. In the early part of her discourse, she gave a general outline j of the extent to which slavery prevailed in America. She read extracts from the laws, showing it to be penal to teach the slaves to read, and mentioned the names of persons suffering imprisonment for the violation of such laws. Deep regret was expressed the England had ever given up too right of search, as the African slave trade was fast reviving in consequence. Various details were given, which frequently elicited cries of ' Shame!' from the audience, especially at the fact of slavery being supported by the different religious (?) denominations. She urged her audience to use all their moral influence against the iniquitous system, by speaking strongly against it. Heart-stirring appeals were then made by Mr. Henry Vincent, Rev. S. J. May of New York and others, in favor of the Society for the Abolition of Slavery. Thanks were voted to Miss Remond and the Rev. Mr. May for their addresses. On the motion of the Rev. Mr. Steinthal. seconded by Mr. Shuttleworth, the following resolution was carried unanimously:— 
 That this meeting deplores the continued existence of slavery in the United States, proclaims its sympathy with the anti-slavery cause, and resolves to spare no effort to put an end to as evil, baneful alike to slave and slaveholder, and perilous to the safety of the commonwealth. 
 His worship, in responding to a vote of thanks for presiding, said there was not one present who felt more strongly than himself for the total abolition of slavery, and he hoped that they would all live to see that iniquity removed from America. 
<C03>
GIDDINGS AND BANKS.
 The lecture last week at Burlington, by Mr. Giddings, was largely attended, and among others by Gov. Banks, who, at the close, was called out and made a speech, in which he paid a high and deserved compliment to Mr. Giddings. We copy from the pooch as follows:— 
 'I am very glad that I have bean privileged to hear a part of the discourse of my friend, Mr. Giddings, this evening. I am more pleased that you have heard the whole, for no one knows these scenes who was not present. It is right we should present he relations of these controversies, not so much for he formation of opinion, as to understand the character of the men who should represent us, the qualities of which enabled them to stand the fire. It is very easy for us to see that a man may be a gentleman, a Christian, and a scholar, and yet not be the best man for a Representative. It is not these qualities alone which enable him to exert a controlling influence in Congress, but the man of indomitable courage, like that of the gentleman who has spoken to us this evening. When you get a good man there, keep him there. The people of Ohio have committed a fault in not retaining Mr. Giddings. I rose to say, that the reputation which has been given of Joshua R. Giddings is a wrong one. He has been called a Radical, but no man has been more reasonable, sound and cool than this same gentleman, who has been trumpeted throughout the country as a fanatic. It is impossible for me to represent how much strength such a man may lave in the country. When great questions come before Congress, they come up and are decided in instant; there is not time to make up an opinion. Then these men of long experience and cool judgment gather others around them, and lead to victory. When victory is won, it is not all; you want a man whose name carries with it the idea that the measure is wise, humane and good. Such a man was the gentleman before you. Therefore, as I had occasion to say a short time since, in Massachusetts, it is wrong to take such men from Congress; and I trust her people will improve by this lesson, and hold on to good Representatives.
 The controversy in which the country has been so long a time engaged is one of great importance, and it is still far from being settled; all parties are alike interested in this matter. It changes the civilization of the land. By the policy which has lately been introduced, all men suffer alike. It is not that slavery is to be extended, it is that the adjuncts of slavery change the civilization of the country, and the character of its history.
 Wherever slavery exists, it throws a blight upon free labor, and intelligence has to bow to despotism; the rights of men, as individuals, are denied.
 It is the fight which we make for the right of man to labor for the support of his family, to make that labor respectable—it is the contest of intelligence with non-intelligence; and this contest is not near its end, nor will they allow this controversy to cease. Men may cry, Peace! Peace! year after year, but whoever sees peace? After one great question is settled, new ones are presented, and we are required to surrender. 
 Contrast this with the fulsome eulogy bestowed by Gov. Banks, recently, upon Daniel Webster, upon the inauguration of his statue! How inconsistent! 

 SENATOR CRITTENDEN. 
 The speech of Senator Crittenden at the National Agricultural Fair at Chicago, is chiefly noteworthy for the timidity and feebleness with which it attempts to debauch Northern sentiment. The reckless daring with which Douglas labors to effect the same result, is to be admired when contrasted with the watery weakness of the Kentucky senator. His speech is a dilution of that which Gov. Seymour delivered at St. Pauls a few weeks since; and for vapidness and insipidity it equals the first production of some freshman who has just become saturated with that whining piety which obfuscates the intellect, and extinguishes whatever manliness he might have possessed.
 He says, he ' came from home to avoid politics, and forget there was such a thing in the world;' and then proceeds with a political speech, in which the leading idea is that slaveholders are very good people, and slaveholding not a very bad custom— and that we of the North ought not to endanger the Union by bard talking against the peculiar institution. 
 'These matters of party politics are very transitory affairs,' says the venerable Kentucky statesman, and therefore we Northern people ought not to attach much importance to them, is the logical inference.
 We quote a few sentences from this speech, that the reader may sec its general drift, and its wishy-washy character:— 
 'Preserve the Union, and that is all we want— that is all our people need. Preserve the Union, and the Union will preserve you, and make you the mightiest people in the world. [Great applause.] Now, there are times when the passions of the people are disturbed. There are times when prejudices are excited, and the people of one section of the country, far removed from another section, get it into their heads that those distant people are their enemies—that they have evil designs and wicked purposes—that they are bad people. Perhaps those distant people have the some sort of prejudices instilled into their minds against you. If we took half as much pains to inculcate- aid teach good feelings one to another in every section of the country, as is taken to separate the people, and alienate their feelings, what a different state of things would exist in the land! We are prejudiced against each other, and therefore we do not know one another a we ought to do, and, therefore, we are prejudiced. We won't know one another, and, therefore we are prejudiced, and we are prejudiced simply because we do not know one another.' 
 Then he calls upon us, almost in the precise language of that famous speech delivered by Webster on the steps of the Revere House, to do something with our prejudices. He says:
 'Let us forget our prejudices, and teach our brethren to forget them. Let us endeavor to be rid of all such feelings, and when our brother is accused demand the testimony, and refuse to believe on , word against him until it is proved beyond cavil or dispute. Let us be 
 'To their virtues very kind,
 To their faults a little blind.' 
 Now concentrate this milk and water stuff into plain, direct, Anglo-Saxon language, and what it is it? Just this—' You Northern men have no just grounds of complaint against the South. Your opinions and your feelings about slavery and its extension, your sentiments concerning slaveholding and its effects, are mere prejudices which yon shoo not only conquer, but entirely forget, and then you will co-operate with, and no longer oppose, those beneficent schemes of your Southern brethren for the extension of Slavery's area. It may be that we are sufficiently demented and sufficiently demoralized to endorse such Sunday school statesmanship—but we doubt it.
<c04>
‘A CITIZEN OF THE UNITED STATES.'
 Nothing more strikingly shows the downward progress of Modern Democracy than its efforts to decitizenize and de-humanize the African. With the leaden of the Democratic party, nothing is more common than to speak of 'persons held to service ' under State laws, as being 'property under the Constitution of the United States.' Even the Supreme Court have reached that democratic nadir where it can solemnly adjudicate that not only a slave is not a citizen, but that no African, nor any person having African blood in his veins, can be a citizen of the United States. Not so thought ,the early judges of that court. Not so thought the early Presidents. 'It will be recollected,' says the Portsmouth Journal, 'that in 1806 the celebrated John Randolph, of Roanoke, visited Europe, attended by his slave. In these days, if the principles of the administration were carried out, that slave would have been marked like Randolph's trunks, 'J. R.,' or like his dog, with his master's name on his collar, showing whose property it was—and that name would have been claimed to be the same security to that chattel, as to any other. But there was too near an alliance between the property and its owner to be labeled as a chattel, and so the SLAVE goes abroad bearing his Passport that he is a CITIZEN of the UNITED STATES, and in the name of his country all persons are commanded to let him pass freely, without any molestation or hindrance.
 We copy the following Slave's Passport referred to above, from a collection of autographs which we have recently mat with. It is headed with a seal, bearing the National Eagle, surrounded by the inscription, ' Legation of the U. S. of America to G. Britain.' 
 'JAMES MONROE, Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Court of Great Britain. 
 These are to desire all whom it may concern to permit ESSEX WHITE (a domestic of the Honorable John Randolph, a Member of the House of Representatives of the United States from Virginia,) A CITIZEN OF THE UNITED STATES, to pass freely, without giving or suffering any molestation or hindrance to be given to him, but on the contrary affording him all requisite assistance and protection.
 The said Essex White is forty-three years of age, five feet six inches in height,. . . . eyes,. . . . mouth, . . . .nose, . . . .forehead, . . . .chin,. . . .complexion,. . . .hair and eyebrows,. . . .face. . . .
 In witness whereof, I have delivered to him this Passport, to be in force for,. . . .
 Given under my hand and Seal of the Legation this fifteenth day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and six, and of the Independence of the United States the thirtieth.
JAMES MONROE.' 
 Here we have an official protection granted, half a century ago, to a Slave as being 'a citizen of the United States.' Now, by the doctrines of the Democratic party, this slave can only be certified to as a piece of' property,' and a free colored man or mulatto can receive no ' protection ' at all. And yet modern Democracy claims James Monroe as one of its great founders!—Independent Democrat. 

 GERRIT SMITH'S LETTER. 
 Some of our readers will be surprised to see the letter from Gerrit Smith which we copy this week. It exhibits a natural disgust for the hollow pretensions of partisans, who, under the momentary impulses of humanity, did a deed, or sanctioned it, unmindful of the disapproval of Church or State, but presently fell down again below the ' Jerry level,' and practically gave their endorsement to the enslavement of many Jerries. Nor is his tone of despondency to be wondered at, and his distrust of what he would perhaps call the power of truth, but which is in reality his own admixture of truth with false political premises and erroneous conclusions, and which has led him to believe that in this land, the cause of Anti-Slavery and Temperance are both dead. Neither the Anti-Slavery nor the Temperance reform can be killed either by the opposition of enemies, the defection of professed friends, or the mistaken policy of real ones.
 Much as we honor Gerrit Smith for his great and good heart, for his generous impulses which are always seeking out and striving to save the downtrodden of God's children, we do not regard his intellectual perception, his clearness of mental vision, as comparable with his philanthropic instincts. The first we knew of him, he was endeavoring to so arrange the moral machinery of the American Colonization, and the American Anti-Slavery Societies, that they would work harmoniously together; and from that day to this he has seemed to us to be given to some such harmonizing of moral antagonisms. His theory of the Federal Constitution is something of this kind; and the fact that the common sense of nine hundred and ninety-nine men out of a thousand rejects as false what seems to him to be true, I must certainly tend to discourage him in his efforts Not only did men think his theory wrong, but when they saw Gerrit Smith himself associate upon terms of gentlemanly courtesy with those whom he hat denounced as robbers and pirates, when they saw him sitting in the Legislative Hall, and recognizing as lawgivers under the Constitution those whom he declared to be traitors to it, when in all his Congressional life they could find no evidence that he designed to act as ho had theorized, it is no wonder that conversions were few and far between. He has preached both the ballot and the bullet as the means by which slavery is to be destroyed, and men have refused to employ either the one or the other, and the preacher has become discouraged. Let him discard both the ballot and the bullet, and as the , best agent for the enfranchisement of man, wield the sword of the spirit, which divides Truth from Error, which separates between the Right and the Wrong. Then, when the weapon falls from his hand in death, be will be able to say with a cheerful tone and exulting heart, ' By this have I conquered.'—Ohio Anti-Slavery Bugle. 

 From the Lawrence (Kansas) Republican. 
NEGROES THE STRENGTH OF DEMOCRACY.
 The Democracy of the nation has its stronghold in the South. Thence comes its numerical strength in Congress. Did it ever occur to our readers, that twenty-one Southern members of Congress represent a pure negro constituency? That result com from that arrangement whereby the South offsets her negroes, her slaves, her human chattels against the Free Men of the North, and gives to these fierce slave-propagandists a representation in our halls of national legislature, twenty-one members of Congress more than there are free men in the South to vote for them under the Congressional ratio.
 In the last Congress, of the bitter pro-slavery Democratic crew who sought to force the chain of Lecomptonism upon the unwilling necks of the people of Kansas, twenty-one Congressmen represented the non-voters, the slaves, the negro population. Twenty-one Democratic votes in Congress against Free Kansas cast by men representing the lashed and toiling slaves of the South! Twenty one Democratic votes to force a hated and odious
<c05>
constitution upon a free people. Twenty-one negroes represented, but not negro-elected. Democratic votes con always be had to aid any foul design upon the rights of a free people! And yet this party, which profits so largely by this negro vote, which uses that vote, relies upon it, gets its Southern strength by it, is foisted into power by it, dares to charge its opponents with ' negro equality.' This party, that represents in Congress Sambo and Cuffey, without letting Sambo and Cuffey possess any rights or privileges which 'they are bound to respect,' seeks to flood the country with these human chattels, who can be represented without voting. More wild Africans, cheaper negroes, more members in Congress representing a sable, band-cuffed constituency, is the Southern war cry to-day. The chief men of the Southern Democracy, from the ' stump, paper, magazine and essay, swell the loud j and imperious demand. 'Repeal the piratical Slave Trade laws,' shout they. Why? answer our indignant free people. For two reasons, is the reply.
 1. Negroes, slaves can be represented in Congress as well as free men. We get our Congressional seats without being voted for.
 2. We want cheaper and more negroes. 
 To this arrogant demand, many a Northern Democrat will bow in humble submission. Many of them ore already preparing to take this last deep and disgraceful plunge into the ever dark pool of slavery's demands. Some of them are already inventing excuses for their contemplated disgrace.
 But what we wish to note is the utter hypocrisy of the Democratic party who profit by all the negro-equality there is in this country, who hold twenty-one Congressional seats, as many as Indiana, Illinois and Iowa have, as the Representatives of the imbruted and chattelised slave, in charging African equality upon their opposers. Was there ever anything so brazen, so boldly and badly base? 

 MALIGNANT DEMOCRACY.
 It throws the Democratic papers into extacies whenever they find a case of marked cruelty outside of slavedom. If they stumble upon such an occurrence whose locality lies North of that historic line which separates the two civilizations of this country, or which has transpired in England, forthwith they embellish it with their intense rhetoric, and present it as an unanswerable argument against anti-slavery agitation. Yesterday's Post furnishes an example of this kind of pro-slavery argument. Copying an account of the cruel chastisement inflicted at Woolwich, England, upon two deserters from the British army. the Post exultingly exclaims—' How does this strike the negro philanthropists of England or America? ' We'll tell the Post. It strikes them in the same manner as do the inhumanities and brutalities of that Southern slave system which the Post so heartily upholds. The truth of this statement is a matter of unquestionable history. The leading anti-slavery men and women of England, and the leading anti-slavery men and women of this country, have been foremost, earnest and unwavering in their efforts not only to ameliorate the condition of the suffering victims of social wrongs, but to reform the systems out of which they grow. Indeed, their labors in this department of philanthropy have been equalled only by their devotedness to the American slave. These men have stood forth so conspicuously for the poor and unprotected, that the conservatism of the world has denounced them as wild visionaries and sentimental fanatics. The Duchess of Sutherland, Thompson and Webb, of England, Garrison, Phillips and Sumner, of America, are well known in modern history as eminent laborers in every species of philanthropy.
 But suppose these men, as the Post insinuates, overlooked or disregarded the sufferings of those outside of American slavery—what then? Does it follow that they should be either condemned or ridiculed for confining their labors to this one sphere of philanthropy? If an excuse were needed for the limitation of their sympathies and their labors to this sphere, it is easily found in the fact that slavery is the mightiest enormity of the age, inflicting on humanity more woe and wretchedness than all other oppressions combined. But the truth is, that these men and women, upon whom he strives to fix the charge of hypocrisy as well as inconsistency, are not ' deaf as marble images to the cries of agony and despair that go up to heaven from Woolwich.'
 If the Post desires cases of cruelty to describe, or inhuman rascalities to rebuke, we refer him to Southern Democratic journals, where he will find horrors and atrocities enough recorded in one week to fill a page or two of his paper. Suppose he should treat his readers, now and then, to a Democratic chopping up of a live negro in Kentucky, or the Democratic slow roasting of another in Mississippi, or the Democratic murders in behalf of slavery in Kansas, and then exclaim—' How does this strike' the defenders of the American slave system?—Providence Tribune.

KANSAS A SLAVE STATE. 
 ' Kansas is to-day, by virtue of the Constitution, a slave State as much as Georgia or South Carolina.' —JAMES BUCHANAN, Democratic President. 
 When this startling proposition was announced, many Northern Democrats repudiated it, and scoffed at it—many men to-day who are locked in ' foul embrace' with the bitter pro-slavery faction of the Democratic party utterly scout this assertion of the Democratic head and chieftain. These men insist that Kansas is a Free State, that slavery does not exist upon her soil. How do they reconcile this with the fact slavery is already here—exists in fact, whether legal or not, in Douglas county,' the hot-a bed of abolitionism,' as the pro-slavery men term it? 
 A friend has just handed us the following handbill, issued by a Dr. Roberts of Lecompton, in which , it will be seen he advertises his human chattels in real slave-driving language:— 

 ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS REWARD.
 I will pay the above reward to any person who will return to me, or lodge safely in jail, giving me notice thereof; a NEGRO WOMAN AND FIVE CHILDREN. (!) The woman is black, heavy set, weighing about 160 pounds, and has a black spot between d the eyebrows. The children are as follows: Lewis, s h boy about nine yean old, a mulatto; Limus and Cyrus, both Mack, and younger; Ellen and Ann—one of them, Ellen, about two yean old, the other about five months old—both mulattoes. 
 Lecompton, Sept. 2. E. D. ROBERTS, M. D. 
 Another fact we call attention to: There is this black negro woman, with three half white, and two of black children by her side. She has been the slave of this Roberts for years. Now, how happens it to that so large a portion of her children are half-white? Is it not because the institution of slavery? is a practical amalgamating negro equality system? And it was just this system that the Democracy of the Wyandot Convention sought to fasten on Kansas for at least one year, and which one Democrat wanted to entail upon as for all time.
 We give Mr. Roberts the benefit of a wide circulation of his anxiety to lodge in jail his black woman and three half-white and two black children. The advertisement is gratis, and we doubt not some
<c06>
valiant woman-hunter will soon be in full pursuit of this extraordinary human chattel, that has the audacity to take herself and five children towards a land of freedom.
 One thousand dollars is a tempting bait. From the price of slaves, however, we presume Mr. Roberts, runaway children with their black mother are worth four times that amount.—Kansas Republican. 
 
THE REIGN OF DIABOLISM. 
 We see it stated in several of our exchanges, that at the recent session of the General Assembly of the Cumberland Presbyterian Church, held in Evansville, Indiana, ' an official report was made of the sale of a lot of negroes, under an execution to satisfy a judgment m behalf of the Missionary Society of the Cumberlands! THE MONEY OBTAINED IS TO GO INTO THE MISSIONARY TREASURY!! Thus slavery Christianizes twice at ones. It Christianizes the negro by bringing him under the influence of the Gospel—(such a Gospel!)—and then by selling Christian negroes, (the grace of God in a negro is always merchantable; a converted negro sells for more than an unconverted one,) money can be raised to convert heathen negroes and heathen white folks! 
 Is it possible that such an example of absolute heathenism has been exhibited by a professed Christian assembly as is here stated? Although the statement seems to be reliable, we hope there may be a mistake, favorable to the Assembly concerned. Such a transaction has so much of cola-heartedness and unfeelingness in it, that we could hardly expect an act like it from the most depraved wretches that live. There ore no doubt graceless reprobates, that would pocket the money from such a source. But to use it for Missionary purposes is too monstrous to be thought of.— Wesleyan.

 WILL THEY BE FAITHFUL?
 The Rev. Dr. Edgar and an asssociate from Ireland are now making their appeals to the American evangelical churches for aid to promote the cause of Protestantism in their own country. Alluding to this fact, the New York Independent says:— 
 In thus seconding the appeal of the Deputation, we may be pardoned a suggestion to the respected brethren who compose it. The Presbyterian Church in Ireland has often lifted up the voice of affectionate and earnest remonstrance against American slavery. Indeed, if we mistake not, it was the fidelity with which the Irish Church reproved this sin, which led the Old School Presbyterian Church to threaten a suspension of correspondence between the bodies. There is even greater need of such fidelity now than there was ten years ago; and words of affectionate remonstrance from human lips are far more effective than the formal and elaborate appeals of the pen. We trust, therefore, that these brethren will remember that they now stand in the presence of that giant iniquity which they have denounced from a distance of three thousand miles. There is little danger from Popery in a country which does not yet boast a single cardinal; and since certain religious and secular journals have monopolized the cheap and easy denunciation of ' the Man of Sin,' our Irish brethren may well spare themselves any effort in that direction. Let us hear from them in America upon oar national sin, as freely as they are accustomed to speak of it in Ireland. 
The amiable and excellent Frederick Monod, a little while before his visit to this country, signed an address of the Protestant Christians of France to all their brethren in the United States, which declared that' there was not in France a solitary Christian who could reconcile with the law of love and of piety the holding of man by man as property;' which pronounced slavery to be ' a scandal which the age could not endure;' and which called upon all American Christians ' to hasten the abolition of slavery.' This worthy brother, in seeking aid for his chapel in Paris, fell chiefly among the apologists and supporters of slavery; and though he witnessed the shameless riot of 'evangelical Christians' incited by the Tract Administration at Lafayette Place, he became an apologist for the Nassau street Society, and has recently in Edinburgh apologized for 'Christian slaveholders.' We fear Mr. Monod has lost the respect of many of his brethren in France and in this country, and has greatly damaged the financial prospects of his cause, should he return to prosecute it here. We trust that Irish Christianity is made of sterner stuff; that the Deputation will not come under the moral obscuration of this system of iniquity, and be dumb before that moneyed power which so largely does its bidding. Better go back without a dollar, than go back with the wages of oppression purchased by a silent connivance with crime. 
 
 From the Wakefield (Eng.) Freeman.
THE REV. BARON STOW AND SLAVERY.
 To the Editors of the Freeman: GENTLEMEN,—The American Abolitionists have long complained of the reception given by Englishmen to Ministers of Religion from the United States, who, as joy aptly phrase it in this week's Freeman, ' have roundly denounced Slavery in general terms, but who at home have sympathized with practices and views very painful to us.' William Chambers, one of the calmest and most philosophic writers on the subject, has remarked that, 'but for the selfish compromises of the North, Slavery would have long since been extinct.' This opinion shared by all the leading Abolitionists in Europe and America; and it is a matter of which there can be no doubt, that if the ministers and churches of the free States were to disfellowship all slaveholders, the advent of Freedom would not long be delayed in the South. There may be some palliation for the man who has been bred and born a slaveholder, and who resides in a Slave State, where opportunities of discussing the merits of the ' peculiar institution' are rare and hazardous; but there can be no excuse for him who, living in a Free State, where light and knowledge are widely disseminated, has the wickedness to that his eyes to the truth. Holding these views, which I have from time to time seen represented in your columns, I was exceedingly surprised to and, in your impression of this week, a recommendation to English Baptists to hold out 'the right hand of fellowship ' to the REV. DR. BARON STOW, of Boston, U. S. Surely you cannot bat be aware that this man presides over a church which, in order to exclude the black man from participating in its devotions, has inserted in its Pew Deeds a clause which provides that they shall be held ' by none bat respectable white persons.' Let a man be ever so accomplished, or eloquent, or leaned, still if the Rev. Baron Stow, D.D., finds him 'guilty of a skin not colored like his own,' he shuts what he (Dr. Stow) calls ' the gate of heaven' in his face, and talk him that 'none but respectable white persons are allowed to enter. This may be considered eminently Christian conduct in America; but as an Englishman, I do not hesitate to characterise it as base in the extreme: and I hope the great Baptist denomination will hold aloof from intercourse with men who can thus disgrace the religious professions they make.
JOSEPH A. HORNER.
Wakefield, July 23, 1859.
<col 7>
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS. 
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'

 The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. . . . There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they expouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuses in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. . . . No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for talking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
[Phonographically Reported for the Atlas and Daily Bee.]
Fraternity Lectures.
ADDRESS BY
WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
POEM BY
RUFUS LEIGHTON, JB. 
Tuesday evening, the second course of lectures, under the direction of the Fraternity Association of the Twenty Eighth Congregational Society. (Rev. Theodore Parker's), commenced at Tremont Temple with the most flattering auspices. The audience was one of the largest, most intelligent and brilliant ever gathered in the vast hall.
At 7 1/2 o'clock, John C. Haynes, Esq., President of the Fraternity Association, in a few remarks, announced the opening of the Course. He concluded by introducing the poet of the evening, RUFUS LEIGETON, JR., of Boston.
The poet took for his theme "Character," and treated it in an admirable manner.
In the development of his theme, the poet of course has occasion to refer to different types of character, as they apear in the men about us, or exemplified in great men, now departed. The reader will be at no less, we think, to supply the name to which the following lines refer:
But hark! the echo of a tolling bell
Yet haun's the ear! the music's mournful swell,
The minute guns, the muffled drum's low beat,
The long black train slow wending up the street,
And all the pageantry of death, to-day
Are fresh within the memory. But say,
Whose honored dust was that consigned to earth?
What man was he? what life was his? what worth?
Used he the gifts God gave to serve his race?
Had love for man within his heart a place?
Plead he for righteousness and truth's dear sake?
Strove he the tyrant's cruel rod to break?
Was he a patriot--one who never denied
The sacred cause for which our fathers died?
In times of peril stood be in the van,
And battled nobly for the rights of man?
In God's best service were his laurels won?
And did he help the car of progress on?
The record in the book of truth must show,
Alas! these answering words--'Not so! Not so!"
A son of Massachusetts--far away
On foreign shores his spirit left the clay.
They brought it home for burial. Oh, well
The waiting voices of the sea might swell
In threnody, and all its spirits mourn,
As that cold form across its waves was borne;
Ay! heavenly spirits weep their saddest tears
That all his wealth of mind and length of years
No fairer record traced upon the scroll
That went to God with that immortal soul.
An extended and fervent tribute is paid to the virtues that made up the exalted character of another son of Massachusetts, recently deceased, which concludes as follows:
"While Massachusetts keeps her well-earned fame,
And wreaths with honor every patriot's name,
While Plymouth Rock and Bunker Hill shall be
To freedom sacred, while her sons are free,
While learning, justice, truth and love abound,
And hearts to honor lofty aims are found,
And manly worth and generous deeds revere,
The name of HORACE MANN shall still be dear."
An allusion to JOHN AUGUSTUS follows, and then the poet passes to consideration of the evils that abound in the land, and rebukes the Church, in that she is
"A Church without humanity, and lends
Oppression all her aid, for foulest ends."
Further on, he says:
"They put their ban on heretics, and lo!
They think they've banished error. Ah! not so--
They've banished thought, and when the churches die, 
They lift their hands, in holy horror, cry,
'Suspense of Faith!' and then propose, as sure
To work a speedy, satisfactory cure,
The broad and liberal church, in whose embrace
All men--save heretics--shall find a place."
In times like these, sings the poet--
"Let us thank God for every glorious star
Which charms our eye with beauty from afar,
And every sweet-faced flower that lifts its head
Along the dusty paths we daily tread."
For men like Beecher, "scorning shams and cant";
Whittier, Sturge, and Emerson, and women like Florence Nightingale and Dorothea Dix--
"For men like Sumner, who, thank God, restored
To manhood's strength, and power of will and word,
We soon shall welcome home, once more to stand
On Freedom's height, a giant in the land,
To call the recreant nation back from shame,
To win and wear a proud, immortal fame,
More fair than shines in record or in song,
By doing justice in the place of wrong;
Like Louis Blanc and Victor Hugo, who,
In exile, still to France and Freedom true,
With patriot scorn fling proudly back the grace
A tyrant proffers, traitor to his race;
Like him whose golden words your heart shall thrill
To-night, and sway you at his own sweet will,
Whose speech of poetry and eloquence
Both ever still express a lofty sense
Of right and duty, shaming all pretence;
Whose character and life show how sublime,
Amid the shallow virtues of the time,
Is that integrity which never falls,
That bravery of soul which never quails,
That truth which every evil thing defies,
That justice which knows nought of compromise;
Like him whose voice, alas! in crowed halls,
No more on man for love and justice calls,
Or takes the people in his arms o prayer,
And lifts them up to Heaven with tender care,
Whom Bigotry and Cant in vain assailed,
Whose love of man and God have so prevailed,
And made his life so true, so brave, so grand,
That he too stood, a giant in the land,
And who God willing, yet again shall stand, 
To pull down ancient error, wrongs overthrow
And build God's kingdom in the world below."
Address of Wendell Phillips.
Mr. Phillips was then introduced, and greeted with enthusiasm. He said:
Mr. President and Ladies and Gentlemen: I feel half inclined to borrow a little wit from an article in a late number of the Atlantic Monthly,--"My Double, and how he undid me," and say, "I agree entirely with the gentleman who has just taken his seat." (Laughter.) "So much has been said, and so well said, that I feel there is no need of my occupying your attention." (Renewed laughter.) But then I should lose the hearty satisfaction it gives me to say with what delight I stand upon this platform, and how sincerely I appreciate the honor you do me, Mr. Chairman, in allowing me to aid in opening this course of lectures. I know, sir, that you hoped, as I did, that this post would be filled by our great Senator, who seeks health on a foreign soil. No one laments more sincerely than I do, that he felt it impossible and inconsistent with his other duties to be here. It is no too much to my that the occasion was worthy of a word even from CHARLES SUMBER. (Hearty applause.)
Appreciating the Lyceum system as I do, looking upon it as one of the departments of the National school, truly American in its origin, and eminently Republican in its character and end, his voice would have done it justice. For this is no common evening, Mr. President. The great boast of New England is, liberal culture and toleration Easier to preach than to practise! Many lyceums have opened their doors to men of different shades of opinion, and some few have even granted a fair amount of liberty in the choice of subject, and the expression of individual opinion. But you go, gentlemen, as arrow's flight beyond them all; for, recognizing the essential character of civilization, you place upon your platform the representatives of each sex and of both races. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you will listen to consummate eloquence, never heard in Boston, before, from the Lyceum platform, because, "guilty of a skin not colored like our own." (Applause.) And you will listen, besides, to a woman, gracefully standing on a platform that boasts itself the source of national education. For decent justice has never been done to women, in regard to her influence, either upon literature or society; and I welcome with inexpressible delight the inauguration of a course of lectures, national and American, in the proper sense of the words.
There are men who prate about "Nationality," and "the Empire," and "manifest destiny"--using brave words, when their minds rise no higher than some petty mass of white States making money out of cotton and corn. My idea of American nationality makes it the last, best growth of the thoughtful mind of the century, treading under foot sex and race, caste and condition, and collecting on the broad bosom of what deserves the name of an Empire, under the shelter of noble, just and equal laws. all races, all customs, all religions, all languages, all literature, and all ideas. I remember, a year or two ago, they told us of a mob at Milwaukee that forced a men to bring our the body of his wife, born in Asia--which, according to the custom of her forefathers, he was about to burn--and compelled him to submit to American funeral rites which his soul abhorred. The Sheriff led the mob, and the press of the States vindicated the act. This is not my idea of American civilization. They will show you at Rome the stately column of the Emperor Trajan. Carved on its outer surface is the triumphal march of the Emperor, when he came back to Rome, leading all nations, all tongues, all customs, all races, in the retinue of his conquest; and they traced it on the eternal marble, circling the pillar from base to capital. Just such is my idea of the Empire,--broad enough and brave enough to admit both sexes, all creeds, and all tongues in the triumphal procession of this great daughter of the west of the Atlantic. (Loud applause.) That is the reason why I hail this step in Boston--the brain of the Union--saying to the negro and to the women, "Take your place among the teachers of American Democracy." (Applause.)
I said justice had never been done to woman for her influence upon literature or society. Society is the natural outgrowth of the New Testament, and yet, nothing deserving of the name ever existed in Europe until two centuries ago, in France, woman called it into being. Society the arena where character is formed and studied the cradle and the realm of public opinion--the crucible of ideas--that unmasks pretension and stamps real merit--the power that gives government leave to be, and outruns the lazy church in fixing the moral sense of the age,--who shall fitly describe the lofty place of this element in the history of the last two centuries. Who shall deny that, more than anything else, it deserves the name of the most controlling element is the history of the two centuries just finished? And yet, this is the realm of Woman, the throne, which, like a first conquerer, who founded and then filled.
So with literature. The literature of three centuries ago, is not decent to be read; we expurgate it. Within a hundred years, woman has become a reader, and for that reason, as much or more than anything else, literature has sprung to a higher level. No need now to expurgate
<c02>
all you read. Woman, too, is now an author; and I undertake to say, that the literature of the next century will be richer than the classic epochs, for that cause. Truth to one ever, absolute; but opinion to truth filtered through the moods, the blood, the disposition of the spectator. Man has looked at creation, and given us his impressions, in Greek literature and English, one-sided, half-way, all awry. Woman now takes her stand to give us her view of God's works and bar own creation; and exactly in proportion, as woman, though equal, is eternally different from man, just in that proposition will the literature of the next century be doubly rich, because we shall have both sides. you might as well plant yourself in the desert, under the changeless gray and blue, and assert that yon have seen all the wonders of God's pencil, as maintain that a Male literature, Latin, Greek or Asiatic, can be anything but a half part, poor and one-sided; as well develop only muscle .shutting out sunshine and color, and starving the flash from your angular limbs, and than advise man to scorn Titian's flesh and the Apollo. since you have exhausted manly beauty, as think to stir all the deaths of music with only half the chords. (Applause.) The diapason of human thought was never struck, till Christian culture summoned woman into the republic of letters; and experience as well as nature tells us. "what God hath joined, let not man put asunder." (Applause.)
I welcome woman, therefore, to the platform of the world's teachers, and I look upon the world, in every Important sense, as one great school. As Humboldt said, ten years ago. "Governments, religion, property, books, are nothing but the scaffolding to educate man. Earth holds up to her Master no fruit but the finished man." Education is the only interest worthy the deep, controlling anxiety of the thoughtful man. To change Bryant a little: 
--'the hills 
Rock-ribbed, and ancient as the sun,
The venerable woods, rivers that move
In majesty, and the cemplaining brooks 
That make the meadows green, and, poured round all
Old Ocean's gray and melancholy waste,
Are but the solemn decorations all
Of the great school of man."
It is in that light and for that value that I appreciate the lyceum. We have four sources of education in this countryï¿½Talk, Literature, Government, Religion. The Lyceum makes one and the most important element of each . It is a church, without a creed, and with a constant rotation of clergymen. (Applause.) It teaches closer ethics than the pulpit. Responsibility teachesï¿½ nothing else. That is God's great motor power. Give the masses nothing to do, and they will topple down thrones and cut throats; give them the government, as here, and they will make pulpits useless and colleges an impudence. It is the best part of literature, too, for it is the only part that is vital. I value letters. I thank God that I was taught for many years; but I was taught enough to see inside the sham. 
The upper tier of letters is mere amateur; does not know its own business William H. Prescott would have washed his hand twice over, had Walker the fillibuster grasped it. unwittingly, in shaking his hand, but he sits in his study and writes of filibusters, respectable because dead 300 years ago. He did not know that he was the mere annalist of the Walkers and Jefferson Davises of that age. (Applause.) 
In this connection Mr. P. referred to Bunyan and to Shakspeare, by way or illustrating his point that the literature which is of use is the literature that is not honored as such when it is written. 
So it is with government. Government arrogates to itself that it forms men. As well might the man down here in the Court House, who registers the birth of children, imagine that he was the father of all the children he registers. (Loud laughter.) Everybody knows that government never began anything. It is the whole world that thinks and governs. Books, churches, governments are what we make them. France is Catholic, and has got a Pope, but she is the most tolerant country in the world. New England is Protestant, and has toleration written all over her statute-book, and she has a Pope in every village, and the first thing that tests a boy's courage is to dare to differ from his father. (Applause.) Popes! why, we have got two as signal Popes as they had in Europe three centuries agoï¿½there is Bellows at Avignon, and Adams at Rome. (Great merriment, followed by loud applause.) So with government. Men think government forms. Let us take an example. 
Take Sir Robert Peel and Webster as measures and examples;ï¿½two great men, remarkably alike. Neither of them ever had an original idea. (Laughter.) Neither kept long any idea they borrowed. Both borrowed from any quarter, high or low. North or South, friend or enemy. Both were weathercocks, not winds; creatures, not creators. Yet Peel died England's Idolï¿½the unquestioned head of the statesmen of the age; Webster the disgraced and bankrupt chief of a broken and ruined party. Why? Examine the difference. Webster borrowed free trade of Calhoun, and the tariff of Clay; took his constitutional principles from Marshall, his constitutional learning from Story, and his doctrine of treason from Mr. George Ticknor Curtis: (laughter,) and he followed Channing and Garrison a little way, then turned dough face in the wake of Douglas and Davis (applause and a few hisses); at first, with Algernon Sydney, (my blood boils yet as I think how I used to declaim it,) he declared the best legacy he could leave his children was free speech and the example of using it; then of Preston S. Brooks and Legree he took lessons in smothering discussion and hunting slaves. In 1820, when the world was asleep, he rebuked the slave trade; in 1850, when the battle was hottest, he let Everett omit from his works all the best anti-slavery utterances! 
 Sir Robert Peel was just like him. He " changed every opinion, violated (so says one of the Reviews), every pledge, broke up every party, and deserted every colleague he ever had," yet his sun went down in glory. Why? Because his step was ever onward; he lived to learn. Every change was a sacrifice, and he could truly use, in 1829, the glorious Latin Webster borrowed of him, " Vera pro gratis''ï¿½" I tell you unwelcome truth " But Webster's steps, crablike, were backwards. (Applause and hisses.) " Because thou art virtuous, shall there be no more cakes and ale?" Because you have your prejudices, shall there be no history written? Our task is unlike that of some meetings of late ï¿½ History, not flattery (Applause.) Webster moved by compulsion or calculation, not by conviction. He sunk from free trade to a tariff;ï¿½from Chief-Justice Marshall to Mr. George Ticknor Curtis;ï¿½from Garrison to Douglas;ï¿½from Algernon Sydney to the slave overseers. I read in this one of the dangers of our form of Government. As De Toqueville says so wisely, " The weakness of a Democracy is, that unless guarded, It merges in despotism." Such a life is the first step, and half a dozen to the Niagara carrying us over.
 But both " builded better than they knew." Both forced the outward world to think for itself, and become statesmen. No man, says D'lsraeli, ever weakened government so much as Peel. Thank Heaven for thatï¿½so much gained. Changing every day, their admirers were forced to learn to think for themselves. In the country once I lived with a Democrat who never had an opinion on the day's news till he had read the Boston Post. (Laughter.) Such close imitation is a little too hard. Webster's retainers fell off into the easier track of doing their own thinking. A German once sketching a Middlesex county landscape, took a cow for his fixed point of perspective; she moved, and his whole picture was a muddle Following Peel and Webster was a muddle: hence came the era of outside agitationï¿½and those too lazy to think for themselves at least took a fixed point for their political perspectiveï¿½Garrison or Charles Sumner, for instance.
 Mr. Phillips continued by remarking that all the people had ever asked of government was, not to take a step ahead, but to take Its foot from off its victim, take away its custom-houses, abolish its civil legislation and free the slave. He then proceeded to urge upon his hearers the importance of free, individual thought,ï¿½the questioning of whatever came before us, with an honest desire and effort to reach the truth. He said: 
We shall have enough to do, if we do our duty. The world is awakeï¿½some wholly, and some only half. Men who gather their garments scornfully and close about them when their fellows offer to ex press sympathy for the bravest scholar and most Christian minister, the liberal New England sects knowï¿½ these timid little souls make daily uproar in the marketplace, crying for a broad church, a BROAD churchï¿½and one who lives by venturing a bold theory to-day, and spending to-morrow in taking it back; finding that he has been
 "Dropping buckets into empty wells,
 And growing old in drawing nothing out,"
assures you that it to not cowardice, but lack of candles and a liturgy that makes him useless; and, kind-souled man. he apologizes, and begs us not to be startled with his strange new views, having lived so long in the thin air of his own vanity that he does not know we have had a broad church for fifteen yearsï¿½broad enough for all races and colors, all sects, creeds and parties, for heads and hearts too; broad enough to help the poor, teach the ignorant, shield the weak, raise the fallen, and lift the high higher, to honor God and earn the hate of bad menï¿½ ministered to by one whose broad diocese is bounded on the north by the limits of habitable land, runs west with civilization, and east with the English language, and on the south stretches to the line where men stop thinking and live only to breathe and to steal. (Loud applause.) 
This Broad Church reformer knows his place so little, that he sneers at Spiritualism and Socialism, as " vices entitled to no terms." One, an honest effort, however mistaken, to make all men wholly and really brothers in He, property, and thought; and the other, that reaching into the land of spirit, which has stirred the heart, and roused the brain, of the best men of all ages, and given to literature its soul. Does he give no heed to that profound maxim of Coleridgeï¿½" There are errors which no wise man will treat with rudeness, while there is a probability that they may be the refraction of some great truth still below the horizon"?
 Yes, this " Broad Church:"ï¿½humanity would weep if it ever came, for one of its doctrines to that the Statute Book is more binding than the Sermon on the Mount, and that the rights of private judgment are a curse. Save us from a church not broad enough to cover woman and the slave, all the room being taken up by the grog-shop and theatreï¿½provided the one will keep sober enough to make the responses, and the other will lend its embroidered rage for this new baby house. (Laughter and applause.)
<c03>
 The honors we grant mark how high we stand, and educate the future. The man we honor and the maxims we lay down in measuring our favorites, show the level and morals of the time. Two names have been in every one's mouth of late, and men have exhausted language in trying to express their admiration and their respect, The courts have covered the grave of Mr. Choate with eulogy. Let us see what to their idea of a great lawyer. We are told that "he worked hard"ï¿½"he never neglected his client"ï¿½"he flung over the discussions of the forum the grace of rare scholarship"ï¿½"no pressure or emergency ever stirred him to an unkind word." A ripe scholarï¿½a profound lawyerï¿½a faithful servant of his clientï¿½ a gentleman. This is a good record surely. May he sleep in peace! What he earned. God grant he may have! But the bar that seeks to claim for such as one a place, among great jurists, must itself be weak indeed--for this is only to make him out the one-eyed monarch of the blind Hot one high moral trait specified; not one patriotic act even mentioned; not one patriotic service even claimed. Look at Mr. Webster's idea of what a lawyer should be in order to be called great, in the sketch he drew of Jeremiah Mason, and notice what stress he lays on the religious and moral elevation. and the glorious and high purposes which crowned his life! Nothing of this now! I forget. Mr. Hallet did testify for Mr. Choate's religion (laughter and applause); but the law maxim is, that a witness should be trusted only in matters he understands, and that evidence, therefore, amounts to nothing. (Merriment.) Incessant eulogy; but not a word of one effort to lift the yoke of cruel or unequal legislation from the neck of its victim; not one attempt to make the code of his country wiser, purer, better; not one effort to bless his times or breathe a higher moral purpose into the community; not one blow struck for right or for liberty, while the Battle of the Giants was going on about him; not one patriotic act to stir the hearts of his idolaters; not one public act of any kind whatever about whose merit friend or foe could even quarrel, unless when he scouted our great charter as a 'glittering generality," or jeered at the philanthropy which tried to practise the Sermon on the Mount! When Cordus, the Roman Senator, whom Tiberius murdered, was addressing his fellows, he began: "Fathers, they accuse me of illegal words; plain proof that there are no illegal deeds with which to charge me." So with these eulogiesï¿½words, nothing but words; plain proof that there were no deeds to praise.
 The divine can tell us nothing but that he handed a chair or a dish as nobody else could (laughter); in politics, we are assured he did not wish to sail outside of Daniel Webster; and the Cambridge Professor adds to his pupils, for their special instruction, that he did not dare to think in religion, for fear he should differ from South-side Adams! (Loud laughter and applause.) The Professor strains his ethics to prove that a good man may defend a bad man. Useless waste of labor! In Egypt, travellers tell us that the women, wholly naked, are very careful to veil their faces. So the Professor strains his ethics to cover this one fault. Useless, sir, while the whole person is nude! 
Yet this is the model that Massachusetts offers to the Partheon of the great jurists of the world. I am a Boston boy, and I should like to criticize it.
 Suppose we stood in that lofty temple of jurisprudenceï¿½ on either side of us the statues of the great lawyers of every age and climeï¿½and let us see what part New Englandï¿½Puritanï¿½educated, free New Englandï¿½would bear in that pageant. Rome points to a colossal figure and saysï¿½"That to Papinian, who, when the Emperor Caracalla murdered his own brother, and ordered the lawyer to defend the deed, went cheerfully to death, rather than sully his lips with the atrocious plea; and that is Ulpian, who, aiding his Prince to put the army below the law, was massacred at the foot of a weak, but virtuous throne."
 And France stretches forth her admiring hands, crying "That is D'Aguesseau, worthy, when he went to face an enraged king, of the farewell his wife addressed himï¿½ "Go! forget that you have a wife and children to ruin, and remember only that you have France to save."
 Then England takes up the legend: "That is Coke, who flung the laurels of eighty years in the face of the first Stuart, in defence of the people. This is Selden, on every book of whose library you saw written the motto of which he lived worthy, " Before everything, Liberty!" That is Mansfield, silver-tongued, who proclaimed,
"Slaves cannot breathe in England, if their lungs
 Receive our air, that moment they are free."
This to Romilly, who spent life in trying to make law synonymous with justice, and succeeded in making life and property safer in every city of the Empire. And that to Erskine, whose eloquence, spite of Lord Eldon and George the Third, made it safe to speak and to print." 
Then New England takes up the record, saying, " That is Choateï¿½who made it safe to murder; and of whose health thieves asked before they began to steal.
" Boston had a lawyer once, worthy to stand in that Pantheon; one whose untiring energy held up the right arm of Horace Mann, and made this age and all coming ones his debtors; one whose clarion voice and life of consistent example waked the faltering pulpit to its duty in the cause of temperance, laying on that altar the hopes of his young ambition; one whose humane and incessant efforts to make the penal code worthy of our faith and courage, ranked his name with McIntosh and Romilly, with Bentham, Beccaria and Livingston. Best of all, one who had some claim to say with Selden, "Above all things, liberty," for in the slave's battle, his voice was of the bravestï¿½ROBERT RANTOUL. (Prolonged and hearty plaudits.) He died crowned with the laurels both of the forum and Senate house. The Suffolk Bar took no note of his death. No tongue stirred the air of the Courts to do him honor. "When vice is useful, it is a crime to be virtuous," says the Roman proverb. Of that crime Beacon street, State street and Andover had judged Rantoul guilty. 
The State, for the second time in her history, offers a pedestal for the statue of a citizen. Such a step deserves thought. On this let us dare to think. Always think twice when saints and sinners, honest men and editors agree in a eulogy. (Laughter.) All wonders deserve in vestigation, specially when men dread it.
 No man criticises when friendship moulds the loved form in
 "Stone that breathes and struggles, 
Or brass that seems to speak, 
Such cunning they who dwell above,
 Have given unto the Greek." 
It is a grave thing when a State puts a man among her jewelsï¿½especially one whose friends frown on discussion ï¿½the glitter of whose fame makes doubtful acts look heroic. One paper, a tea-table critic, warns a speaker not born in the State to cease his criticism of the Webster Statue. I do not know why Massachusetts may not import critics as well as heroes; for, let us be thankful, Webster was no Boston boy. But be sure you exercise your right to think now. 
His eulogy has tasked the ripest genius and the heartiest seal. Some men say his eulogist has no heart. That is a mistake and cruel injustice! As the French wit said of Fontenelle, he " has as good a heart as can be made out of brains." (Laughter.) No matter what act Webster did, no matter how foul the path he trod, he never lacked some one to gild it with a Greek anecdote, or hide it in a blaze of declamation! I do not say the deed was always whitened, but surely it was something that the eulogist shared the stain. They say in England that when Charles the Tenth, an exile in England, hunted there, others floundered through mud and water as they could, but the exiled King was followed by a valet who flung himself down in his path and Charles walked over him as indifferently as if he had really been a plank. How clean the King kept, I do not know. The valet got very muddy. A striking picture of Webster and his eulogists!
 His bronze figure stands on the Stale House Green. As I look at it, I call to mind some lines I once saw in an album, written by Webster, when asked to place his name under that of John Adams:
"If by his name I write my own 
'I will take me where I am not known; 
The cold salute will meet my earï¿½ 
Pray, stranger, now did you come here?
"In the printed speech of Mr. Everett you will find three feet, exactly one yard, by newspaper measurement, about the North Eastern Boundary map, with a red line on it!ï¿½ but not a line, or hardly one, relating to the great Treason of the Seventh of March, 1850. The words he dared to speak, his friends dare not repeat; the life he dared to live, his friends dare not describe, at the foot of his statue! To mention new what he thought his great achievement will be deemed unkind! 
Mr. Everett's silence was wise. He could not blame; nature denied him the courage. He was too wary to praise, for he recollected the French proverb, ''Some compliments are curses." So he obeyed the English statesman's rule, "When you have nothing to say, be sure and say nothing." 
But that is the printed speech. It seems some meddlesome fellow stood within reach of the speaker, and actually circulated, it is said, petitions for the removal of the statue from the public grounds. Then the orator forgot his caution, and interpolated a few unpremeditated sentences, "very forcible and eloquent," says the press, for the critic; termed this impudent meddler, "Mr. Immaculate." and quoted for his special benefit the parable of the Pharisee and Publicanï¿½"God be merciful to me a sinner." Singular eulogyï¿½to make out his idol a miserable "sinner"! (Laughter.) Is this the usual method, Mr. Chairman, of proving one's right to a statue! The Publican repented, and was forgiven; but is a statue, ten feet high, east in bronze, a usual element of forgiveness? And, mark, the Publican repented. When did Mr. Webster repent, either in person or by the proxy of Mr. Edward Everett? We have no such record. The sin is confessed, but there's no repentance?
 Let us look a little into this doctrine of statues for sinners. Take Aaron BUT. We will omit his private life, it might suggest comparisons. (Laughter and applause.) Tell of his during in Canada his watch on the Hudsonï¿½ of submissive juries, of his touching farewell to the Senate. " But then there was that Indiscretion as to Hamilton." Well. Mr. Immaculate remember " the Publican." Or suppose we take Benedict Arnold: brave in Connecticut, gallant at Quebec, recklessly daring before Burgoyne? "But that little peccadillo at West Point! " Think of "the Publican," Mr. Immaculate. Why, on this principle, one might claim a statue for Milton's Satan. 
He was brave, faithful to his party, eloquent, shrewd
<c04>
about many a map "with a red line on it!" There's only that trifle of the apple to forgive and forget in these generous and charitable days! No, if he wants an illustration, with due homility, I can give the orator a great deal better one. Sydney Smith had a brother as witty as himself, and a great hater of O'Connell. " Bobus Smith," (for so they called him) had one day marshalled Oï¿½Connell faults at a dinner talk, when his opponent flung back a glowing record of the great Irishman's virtue. Smith looked down a moment. " Well, such a men such a mixture; the only way would he to hang him first, and then erect statue to him under the gallows." A disputed status rising out of a sea of angry contempt, half hearted admiration, and apologetic eulogy reminds me of the old Frenchman tottering up, at eighty years old, to vote for Louis Bonaparte. "Why, he is a scoundrel," said Victor Huge. "Trueï¿½very trueï¿½but he is a necessary scoundrel. "I had rather," says Cato, "that men would ask why I had not a statue, than why I had;" , and the gentle pen of Joseph Addison could record, as he wandered through the poet's earner of Westminster Abbeyï¿½-"I find many a poet without a monument, many a monument without a poet.
" Ah, as the Greek said, "many men know how to flatter, few man know how to praise." These Cambridge professors and fair weather eulogists have no ability to measure Websterï¿½either his capacity or his faults. They were dazzled blind by the splendor of his endowments, they were lost in the tumult of his vices. Theodore Parker's estimate is the truest ever made. History will adopt it as her verdict. His head and heart were the only ones large enough to grasp the subject, and brave enough to plant it truly. (Enthusiastic applause.) The real admirer of Webster turns from these French daubs to find there the cool, truthful tone of Raphael, and feels that the statesman has met there his kindest critic, and the man his most appreciating judge. Accuse us not it we award hint blame as wall as praise. As I said just now, our task is history, not flattery. I know well that every statesman must compromise; but, as Macaulay saysï¿½ 'A public man to often under the necessity of consenting to measures he dislikes, to save others he thinks important. But the historian to under no such necessity. On the contrary, it is one of his most sacred duties to point out CLEARLY the errors of those whose general conduct he approves." If this be true of "errors" how still more sacred this duty when the question is one of treachery to Liberty herself? 
Blame me not that I again open the record, Mr. Chairman. His injudicious friends will not let him die. Indeed, the heavy yoke he laid on innocent and friendless victims frets and curses them yet toe keenly to allow him to be forgotten. He reaps only what he sowed. In the Talmud, the Jews have a story that Og, King of Bashan, lifted once a great rock, to hurl it on the armies of Judah. God hollowed it in the middle, letting it slip over the Giant's neck, there to rest while he lived. This man lifted the Fugitive Slave Bill to hurl it, as at Syracuse, on the trembling and hunted slave, and God has hung it like a millstone about his neck forevermore. (Applause.) While the echoes of Everett's periods still lingered in our streets, as I stood with the fresh-printed sheet of his eulogy in my hand, there came to me a man, successful after eight attempts, in flying from bondage. Week after week he had been in the woods, half starved, seeking in vain a shelter. For months he had pined in dungeons, waiting the slow step of his master. At last God blessed his eighth effort, and he stood in Boston, on his glad way from the Vulture of the States to the safe refuge of English Law. He showed me his broad bosom scarred all over with the branding-iron, his back one mass of record how often the lash had tortured him for him noble efforts to get free. I looked at him, and the empty and lying eulogy dropped from my nerveless hand, and I thanked God that Statue and Eulogy both were only a horrid nightmare, and that there were still roofs in Boston, safe shelter for these heroic children of God's right hand. (Prolonged cheering.)
 But you and I, Mr. Chairman, were born in Massachusetts, and we cannot hat remember that the character of the state to marked by the character of those it crowns. A brave old Englishman tells us the Greeks ' had officers who did pluck down statues if they exceeded due symmetry and proportion. We need such now,' he adds,' to order monuments according to men's merits.' Indeed we do! Daniel Webster said on Bunker Hill, in one of his most glorious bursts of eloquence. "That motionless shaft will be the most powerful of speakers. Its speech will be of civil and religious liberty. It will speak of patriotism and of courage. It will speak of the moral improvement and elevation of mankind. Decrepid age will lean against Its base, and ingenuous youth gather round it, speak to each other of the glerious events with which it is connected, and exclaim, thank God, I also, am an American!'' It is a glorious lesson, and the noble old shaft tells it daily. 
But when ingenous youth stand at his pedestal, what shall they say? "Consummate jurist! Alas, that your latest effort was to sneer at a 'Higher Law!' Most able and eloquent Advocate! could you find no other cause to plead than that of our lowest Instincts against our highest and holiest sentiments? Alas, that your last and ablest argument was the duty of hunting slaves! Sagacious statesman! Fated to die not very old, and yet live long enough to see all the plans of your manhood become obsolete ideas, except just those you have abandoned! Surely you were a great party leader! for you found the which party strong, spent life in its service, and died phecying its annihilation: found it decent, at least in profession, left it despicable in utter shamelessness; found it the natural ally of free labor and free speech, stirred it to a contest with its rival in servile bidding for Southern fellowship and left it despicable for the attempt, and still more despicable and ridiculous for its failure! The curses of the poor have blighted your laurels. You were mourned in ceiled houses and the marts of trade; but the dwellers in slave huts and fugitives along the highways thanked God, when you died, that they had one enemy the less. Wherever that terrible face turned, it carried gloom to the bondman. On how many a humble hearth did it cost the loftiest Christian principle to forbear calling down curses on your head! 
And yet, your flatterers tell us, this was the 'grandest growth of our soil and institutions!' this the noblest heart Massachusetts can offer to the world for a place beside the Phocions and the Hampdens ï¿½the Jays and the Fayettes! Thank God, then, we are not Massachusetts men!" 
When I think of the long term and wide reach of his influence, and look at the subjects of his speechesï¿½the mere shells of historyï¿½drum and trumpet declamationï¿½ dry law, or selfish bickerings about trade; when I think of his bartering the hopes of four million of bondmen for the chances of his private ambition, I recal the criticism on lord Eldonï¿½"No man ever did his race so much good as Eldon prevented." Again, when I remember the close of his life spent in ridiculing the Anti-Slavery movement as useless abstraction, moonshine, "mere rubadub agitation, ' because it did not minister to trade and gain, me-thinks I seem to see written all over his statue DeTocqueville's conclusion from his survey of French and American Democracyï¿½" The man who seeks freedom for anything but freedom's self, is made to be a slave!" 
Monuments, anniversaries, statues, are schools, Mr. Webster tells us, whose lessons sink deep. Is this man's life a lesson which the State can commend to her sons? Professor Felton as usual embalmed his idol in a Greek anecdote. It is a good storehouse. Let us open it. In that great argument which gave us the two most consummate orations of antiquity, the question was whether Athens should grant Demosthenes a crown. He had fled from battle and given counsels that brought the city to ruin. His speech to the masterpiece of all eloquence. Of the accusation by AEschines, it is praise enough to say that it stands second only to that In it AEschines warns the Athenians that in granting crowns they judged themselves, and were forming the characters of their children. His noble burst,
<illegible> &c.,
to worth translating: 
" Most of all, fellow-citizens, if your sons ask whose example they shall imitate, what will you say? For you know well it is not music nor the gymnasium, nor the schools that mould young men; it is much more the public proclamations, the public example. If you take one whose life has no high purpose, one who mocks at morals, and crown him in the theatre, every boy who sees It to corrupted. When a bad man suffers his deserts, the people learnï¿½on the contrary, when a man votes against what it noble and just why, I should think he was just living.) and then comes home to teach his son, the boy will very properly say, 'Your lesson to impertinent and a bore.' Beware, therefore, Athenians, remembering posterity will rejudge your judgment, and that the character of a city to determined by the character of the men it crowns. 
I commend this page of AEschenes to Mr. Felton. 
Has the State, then, no worthier sons, that she needs import such poor material? Within her bosom rests the dust of Horace Mann, whose name hundreds of thousands of children on Western prairies, looking up to Massachusetts teachers, learn to bless. He bears the sceptre of Massachusetts influence to the shores of the Pacific. When at the head of our Normal School, a colored girt was admitted, and the narrow prejudice of Newton closed every door against herï¿½"Come to my table; let my roof, then, be your home," said Mr. Mann. (Hearty applause.) Antioch College staggered under $60,000 debt. One, bearing the form of a man, came to its President and said, "I will pay one-sixth, if you will promise me no negro shall enter its halls." "Let it perish first," was Horace Mann's reply. (Renewed and enthusiastic applause) The Legislature are asked to pat his statue opposite Webster's. Oh, no. When the Emperor makes his horse a consul, honest men decline a share in the consulship. While that ill-used iron stands there, our State is in bad odor to offer statues to anybody. 
At Reval, one of the Hanse towns, they will show you, in their treasury, the sword which, 200 years ago, beheaded a lawless Baron for daring to carry off his fugitive slave from the shelter of the city walls. Our great Slave hunter to beyond the reach of man's sword; but if any noble soul in the State will stir our mother Massachusetts to behead his image, we will cherish the name of that true Massachusetts boy as sacredly as they keep the brave old sword at Reval. (Loud and prolonged applause.)
<c05>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, OCTOBER 7, 1859.
CIRCULATE THE PETITIONS.
The following forms, of Petitionsï¿½the first having reference to slave-bunting in this State, the second to the removal of the statue of Daniel Webster the State House grounds whereon it has been treacherously erectedï¿½have been sent to many long-tried friends of the Anti-Slavery cause in various parts of the Commonwealth, for the purpose of a speedy and through canvassing for signatures in every town and village, without distinction of sex.
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts:
The undersigned, citizens of
Massachusetts, respectfully ask you to put an end to SLAVE-HUNTING, in Massachusetts, by enacting that no person who has been held as a Slave shall be delivered up, by any officer or court, State of Federal, within this Commonwealth, to any one claiming him on the ground that he owes 'service or labor; to such claimant, by the laws of the one of the Slave States of this Union.
To the Senate and House of Representative of Massachusetts:
We, the undersigned, citizens of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, respectfully ask you to remove from the State House groundsï¿½as no honor to the State, and repugnant to the moral sentiment of THE PEOPLEï¿½the STATUE OF DANIEL WEBSTER, whose last years were spent defending the Fugitive Slave Bill, and whose last counsel to the Commonwealth was to 'conquer her prejudices' against Slave-hunting, and to return men to bondage 'with alacrity.'
THE 'CHURCH ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.'
A meeting, called by officers of this Association, and designed to promote its purposes was held in the Meionaon, on the evening of Thursday, September 29th. The number was small, though the 'evangelical' churches of Boston was called to order by the circular. The meeting was called to order by the Secretary, Rev. Henry T. Cheever, of Jewett City, Conn., and the President, Rev. J. C. Webster, of Hopkinton, took the chair, in the absence of Rev. David Thurston, of Maine, who had been expected to preside. Prayer was offered by Rev. G. F. Day of Providence.
The President said that the Church A. S. Society was formed for the purpose of appealing to the moral and religious sentiment of the community on the subject of slavery. It had nothing to do with politics, or with any other organization; the aim was rather to bring out the anti-slavery feeling of the Church.
Rev. H. T. Cheever then spoke, stating the do rings of the Society since its meeting in May. The Society have appointed an Agent [who, however, was not named] to present its claims and objects before the churches, proposing to each to form a church anti-slavery organization, and to hold a monthly concert of prayer for the slave, at which contributions may be made for the cause. At present, $1000 was wanted to pay their Agent, (of which $600 has been obtained,) and further closed by offering the following essays. Mr. Cheever closed by offering the following resolutions, the adoption of which he moved:ï¿½
Resolved, That inasmuch as the leading element in man's nature is the religious element, and an eminent historian (Guizot) has ably proven how religious reformations in the civilization of Europe has preceded every social and political reformation for the last eighteen centuries, it may rationally expected that the late religious reformation in this country, if it be of God, will so increase, unite and strengthen the impartial friends of freedom in all the churches, as to prepare for and ere long achieve, on principle, the noblest triumph yet accorded to Christianity in our world, even the emancipation of the four millions of American slaves.
Resolved, That the converts of the late revivals are they upon whom the hopes of true supporters in the pending conflict between despotism and the self-righteous formalism of the Rabbis, on the one side, hugging together the institution of slavery in the name of God, and Freedom and Reformed Religion on the other side, bearing liberty, light and law for the enslaved, and loosing the bands of wickedness, undoing the heavy burdens, and letting the oppressed go free.
Resolved, That young men in all the churches are called upon to be up and earnest in maintaining the rights of man, as sacred and inalienable, without distinction of blood or races, and that property in man is impossible, as being without grant from the Creator, and equally contrary to natural justice and to revealed religion.
These resolutions were adopted by the meeting, after speeches by Rev. G. F. Day of Providence. Theodore Tilton of the New-York Independent, Hon. Henry Wilson and Gen. William Schouler. We had marked the report of these speeches (in the Atlas) for insertion, but it is crowded out by other matter. Mr. Tilton thought it the coldest meeting he had ever attended. He spoke of the obloquy with which anti-slavery men are met, and proceeded to set forth the obvious deficiencies of the Church, and her equally obvious duties to the cause of the scale. He declared that the Church might, if it would, put an end to slavery, and called upon the young converts in whom is now rejoicing to prove the realty of their change by their labors in this direction. He urged the abolition of the Fugitive Slave Law, and rebuked the idolatry which Boston and Massachusetts have just been offering to Daniel Webster, recommending that all friends of liberty apply themselves to the removal of his statue from the spot which it now dishonors. Gen. Wilson bestowed vague compliments on the Church, and spoke against the extension of slavery, and Gen. Schouler regretted that Mr. Tilton had spoken against the Webster statue, recommending instead that the past should be buried and forgotten!
We learn from another source that General Wilson was received with 'prolonged applause,' and that his remarks were received with 'great applause,' while the applause which followed Mr. Tilton's speech was mingled with hisses. These facts have some significance in connection with the additional one, that General Schouler was applauded for saying that the Webster statute would never be removed from the front of the Statue House. We would suggest to those who circulate the petitions for the removal of that blot upon the honor of Massachusetts, to take special pains to give to members of the Church Anti-Slavery Society the opportunity of giving or refusing their signature.
A few points in regard to this meeting seem worthy of particular notice.
It was a matter of course that the attendance should be small, at a meeting calling the church-members of Boston to anti-slavery work, and the absence of the clergy of Boston generally from such a meeting was a thing to be expected. The attendance of Rev. Baron Stow of the Baptist church in Chauncy Street, and of Rev. Andrew L. Stone of Park Street Church, was of course out of the question, since the Church Anti-Slavery Society oppose proscription of the colored people on account of their color; neither could any one expect the attendance of strenuous a supporter of the American Trace Society as Rev. Henry M. Dexter of the Congregationalist; but the absence of every Boston clergyman is significant and instructive. The failure of three Reverend gentlemen who were addresses, is well suited to remind us of that 'Christian Anti-Slavery Meeting,' last year, which was called and then countermanded, (and finally never held,) because the Reverend gentlemen who had been relied on to address it
<c06>
were pre-engaged to speak for the American Trust Society!
The preliminary remarks of the President, and the purport of the resolutions adopted by the Society, are worthy of careful attention. The President tells us that the aim of the Society is 'to bring out the anti-slavery feeling of the church,' and we suppose this to be an accurate statement (as far as it goes) of the facts. The history of the American church shows it to be destitute of anti-slavery principle; but the Society, taking for granted (not only without evidences but against evidence) that the church possessed some latent anti-slavery feeling, have been trying to excite enough manifestation of this to serve as an answer to the allegation of the abolitionists that the church is the bulwark of slavery. Now let us look at the resolutions which, under this idea, and with this purpose, the Secretary has written and the Society has voted.
The first resolution speaks of 'the late religious reformation in this country, affirming that, if it be of God, it may rationally be expected to increase and strengthen the friends of freedom in the churches.'
We are not aware of the existence of any 'late religious reformation,' but the connection shows that it is 'the great revival of 1858' which is (incorrectly) honored with that name; and the next resolution, mentioning it by its customary title, without either alias or proviso, boldly declares that the converts of the late revivals are they upon whom the hopes of true Christianity centre, as to be her standard-bearers in the conflict now pending between slavery and freedom. Let us see if this be either a fact, or a thing to be 'rationally expected.'
Since Mr. Garrison, thirty years ago, commenced the anti-slavery movement, there have been six a eight 'great revivals' (and small ones without number) increasing and strengthening the popular American church in the same way that the revival of 1858 has done. Not one of these in the slightest degree provided, or tendered to provide, either standard-bearers, or captains, or soldiers, for the army of freedom; not one of them caused, or influenced, the church to be any less than before, 'the great bulwark of slavery.' On the contrary, they expressly shut the cause of the slave out of their prayer-meetings and out of their palpits, as a hindrance, an obstruction, a controverted topic, even while they were rejoicing at the conversion of slaveholders, who were determined to remain slaveholders, but who were not, for that reason, any less welcome additions to 'evangelical churches.' In all the revivals preceding the last,' the converts, is joining to anti-slavery. They maligned and opposed Mr. Garrison's enterprise; they originated no anti-slavery enterprise of their own.
How is it with the revival of 1858,which was unusually extensive and unusually long in its continuance, both North and South? It brought immense numbers of slaveholders into the churches of the popular religion; but we have yet to see the evidence that it caused one of these to free a single slave, or that it occasioned the formation of a single new, or the enlargement of a single old Anti-Slavery Society, either North or South. Fruits like these, of a revival of religion in a slaveholding country, show conclusively that it is not the Christian religion which was revived.
Let us look at the Boston division of this last 'revival.' Of all who were blowing the bellows and turning the crank for it, none were more conspicuous than Park St. Church and the 'Young Men's Christian Association,' and both of these gathered in great numbers of converts. These converts have not had a year or more to mature their plans and take their position. How many of them have made their appearance as 'standard-bearers' in the cause of freedom? How many of them have given the slightest help to the cause of freedom in any way? How many of them were present among the 'small' audience, at the 'cold' meeting, of the Church Anti-Slavery Society? Not even the bribe held out by that Society (that if they will profess anti-slavery there, they will help the church also) will avail to make them touch the anti-slavery burden with one of their fingers! Thus far, there is no evidence that true Christianity has found, among the thousands of converts to the popular American religion in the late revival, a single helper for the slave.
As to the speakers at the meeting in question, Rev. Mr. Day of Providence presented some important truths respecting the directness and energy necessary in attacking slavery, and the thoroughness with which the church and the clergy have identified themselves with that sin. This, however, cannot excuse him for the utterance of so great an untruth as the declaration that 'Hitherto there had been no channel through which the Christian sentiment had found expression on the subject of slavery.' The Christian sentiment in regard t slavery has been continually expressed, for the last quarter of a century, in the columns of the Liberator, and the agents and publications of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society.
Mr. Theodore Tilton of New York seems to have made a very excellent and truly anti-slavery speech, which accounts for his being hissed by some of the audience, and censured by one of the subsequent speakers.
But the paucity of the article called church anti-slavery in Boston was most expressively indicated by the quality of the last two speakers, who were neither church-members nor anti-slavery men, but politicians by professions, hacks of the Republican party, and thoroughly committed to its tortuous and compromising policy. The sentiments above quoted from them speak for themselves, and need no comment. The Church Anti-Slavery Society has shown indications of a readiness to compromise before; but, certainly, it must already have reached its decline, and must be rapidly approaching its fall, when it stoops to solicit, and consents to be publicly patronized by its name as General Wilson and General Schouler.ï¿½C. K. W.
A BOLD, TIMELY AND ELOQUENT LECTURE. The first of the course of the 'Fraternity Lectures; was delivered at the Tremont Temple, in this city, on Tuesday evening, by Wendell Phillips. With what rare ability as a speaker, and sublime fidelity to the needs of the hour, he acquitted himself, our readers can all judge for themselves, as fortunately, we are enabled to give a verbatim report of it made for The Atlas and Bee of Wednesday, by Mr. J. M. W. Yerrinton, who is unrivalled in the line of his profession. It was listened to with the profoundest interest by an immense audience, (scores of applications for tickets being made in vain,) and elicited frequent bursts of applause. It will serve mightily to increase the cry which is beginning to be heard in all parts of the Commonwealth, in regard to the Webster Statueï¿½'IT MUST BE REMOVED!'
The Poem delivered on the occasion by Mr. Rufus Leighton, Jr., of this city, though imperfectly heard by a large portion of the audience, was highly creditable to the head and heart of its author.
THE SEDGWICK CONCERT COMPANY. This troupe gave an excellent concert last Friday evening, at the Meionaon, which, but for the Old Folks' Concert in the Temple, would probably have shown a larger audience than was present. The performances were loudly applauded. A correspondent of the Atlas hopes there will be a repetition; adding that 'the tenor (Mr. Thomas Bowers) possesses a voice of wonderful power and beauty, and with proper cultivation he would become as famous as any tenor now in Europe of America.' The Boston Journal saysï¿½'The "Colored Mario," who made his debut at a Concert given at the Meionaon last night, possesses a veritable tenor robusto voice of rare quality, and well cultivated. He sings several of Mario's songs more to our own liking than his much praised prototype sung them.'
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE TIMES AND THE MEN
A SERMON,
Preached September 18th, 1859, by SAMUEL JOHNSON, Minister of the Free Church at Lynn, Mass.
[Concluded from fourth page]
What, then shall be paid said of these retrograde steps and glances, so manifest of late among those who have stood forth as representatives of Liberal Christianity —these swift recoils into absolute hierarchies and dying traditions —these backward clutches at some old principles of Authority which the world is leaving behind? This surely is to be said of all who are in this condition of mental and spiritual alarm, or whatever else it may be called. If they cannot stand in the foreground, they must go to the background. If they cannot move with the age, and trust its aspirations as the leadings of the Providence which lets not the steps of Humanity falter nor turn back, then they must cut themselves off from the age, and go apart, and dwell in the pleasant old dreams of mystics and of monks. They must denounce its Rationalism, as if the Ecclesiasticism or Bibliolatry to which they are tending were any better, and turn away their eyes from beholding that manly and reasonable worship into which Rationalism is the necessary way. They must satisfy their own needs, in heir own method; but they radically mistake the age, and it will not hear their complaints, or hears them but to pity. But when the delusion is carried to that pitch, that one of these retrogradists fancies the age shares his languors and his fears, distrusts its own tendencies, and is preparing to turn back in its path, and flee with him into the ancient folds of Authority, and hide its head in a ‘symbolic, mystic, ritualized church-organization,’ in which Individualism shall be unknown, and Rationalism impossible by the very principles on which it is constructed, and the ‘exclusively religious' function, distinctly separated from science and art and culture, and social progress, shall alone be exercised and pursued — when this vision haunts the brain of a leader of Liberal Christianity, one hardly knows whether to wonder at the extravagance, or to smile at the simplicity of it. And yet this is precisely what; Dr. Bellows has seriously proposed as a solution of, the perplexities at this age. His Discourse before, the Unitarian clergy at Cambridge is noticeable as representing more ably and fully than any other, statement emanating from that body, the substantial tendencies of many of its leading minds. It is worth your attention for a moment, as a remarkable confession of unfaithfulness, in the name of a religions denomination, and as a still more remarkable inference as to the condition and wants of the community. See, he says in substance how weary the age is of Individualism! It has exhausted the powers of self-assertion and self-culture. We Unitarians have carried the dangerous experiment farthest, led it to its ultimates, and we are grown’ very weary;’ we are in a ’Suspense of Faith,' and do not know, at last, even’ w, what to believe. We trust our leaders, and find! that they have’ lost faith in themselves.' They are’ paralyzed with doubts,' and’ smitten with indifference and’ leave the rank and file to blunder on, and to find out the truth for themselves’ (!) We have achieved our freedom, and know not what to do with’ it. We have discovered the’ absence of any more road the direction we hare been going.' Plainly there is nothing for us but to renounce our Individualism. Plainly we are experiencing the profound necessity of utter self-abnegation before the’ supernatural Church.' Plainly’ the whole age is longing in its despair for a new Catholic Ecclesiastical Organization, where there shall be no more of them bewildering doubts, where a divine Authority shall sit enthroned, not indeed in a Pope., but in mystic Historical Institution, through which alone God shall speak to the Human Race. Let us then set about inaugurating it in such ways as we can find. Let it be first of all affirmed that since Revelations of the Holy spirit cannot come to Individuals, nor to Society as such, but through the Church only, so this our new Church, that it may be the special channel of the Holy Spirit, shall be’ a separate interest aloof from all secular things. Let it put symbols instead of science, and a ritual instead of the preaching of social reforms. Let science and social progress have other protectors.' Let its teachings be purely 'religious,' and’ let all attempts to rationalize them be resisted.' And for a creed, the Athanasian or Nicene would answer well enough, if you rightly understand it. Enough that it stands based on the’ super- natural Christ.' For here is the one thing needful; and a Church which should seek any other foundation would break with History, and be null. In such an authoritative Church, the world is longing to find rest. We will call it the Broad Church, and we will open the catholicizing process by denying it fellowship to the gifted heresiarch' of Boston, and to all who, like him, ’wilfully cut themselves off from the body of Christ.' 
It is hard to believe all this to be seriously spoken; yet I have not misstated its substance. You see it is’ only a very old story put into new words. It explains itself; and the people never understood so well’ so they do at this day what it has always meant. I wish the worst thing in this piece of idle dreaming was that blindness to the essential tendencies of the age which I have brought it forward to illustrate. This disparagement of the practical duties, of the reformatory movements, this’ wilful' attempt to’ cut them from the body' of religion, and to relieve the Church form its from its moral responsibilities, this cool assumption, in such a quarter, of the authority to consign a man like Theodore Parker to outer darkness in the name of Christianity—deserves severer criticism than I care to spend upon k. It sadly vitiates all the good things scattered through the discourse, and forbids you to give high meanings to the well-sounding words which plead for more religious life in the churches. I pass it by. I am concerned only to |ask, what conception have such thinkers of the age they live in, or the processes going on around them? To imagine that at an and in which there is not yet a single sect that dares to encourage free inquiry, and in which a man who has succeeded in delivering himself from associative drill is a phenomenon of special interest is an age which has exhausted the powers of individual self -assertion! And on the other hand, to imagine that an age is turning back from the path of Individualism which everywhere indicates such aspiration towards it, which disintegrates every artificial organization, and which has such representatives of independent thought and position, as the men we have been taking note of to-day! To pretend that God makes no revelations of His spirit to individuals outside an organized visible Church, in face of such facts as our New England 'heresiarchs' and hundreds of earnest laborers in the unchecked paths of social reform! To suppose that the times are hastening into Hierarchies and Ecclesiasticisms, and will consent to forego the right to inquire into the authority on quietly assumed for an official and supernatural Christ — while they are hearing and fermenting with intellectual and spiritual protest, and every scholar knows that the whole ground of the New Testament evidences for such a Christ is shaking under hit feet! And Unitarianism, it seems, has probed to its ultimates and found wanting, a Rationalism which it has never got so far as to confess, or to treat otherwise than with the evil report in its action as a sect! —Doubtless Unitarianism is’ very weary' of the life it has been leading. Doubtless it is in a’ Suspense of Faith.' For fidelity and a faith are correlative. He who sewed the talent in a napkin was not profited. He who doeth not the will, shall not know the doctrine. They who halt between fear and opportunity —Between the sea of study and the shore of blind belief — who have protested against the God of authoritative tradition, and yet never ventured heartily to accept the God of Inspiration, the men whom doubts 'paralyse' and who have lost faith in themselves'— where should they be 
<c02>
but in a Suspense of Faith'? Do they imagine others have found no foothold in the waters of Progress, because they have not dared to go out thither? Shall we admit their claim to measure the duration of the day of 'transcendental' philosophy and piety by their experience of its light, and to affirm weariness of Individualism in the world's name,—they whose spokesman himself has never ventured to leave their ranks, nor to approach the side of the men who do represent Individualism in its noblest form? 
And finally, how curious are these airs of philosophic breadth, these admonitions against breaking the continuity of historical development by setting aside the traditional mediator and official head of the Church, on the part of those who believe that the Bible summed up all other sacred books, and dismissed them from duty' r How much broader that philosophy of providential guidance which the’ heresiarchs' might teach them, and which finds undying uses in every holy book or creed wherein is transmitted’ one accent of the Holy Ghost'! 
But one final word of explanation. The source of these delusions about the age, of these retrograde tendencies, whereof we have seen so many instances in the Unitarian body especially, of the weariness and the mysticism and the ecclesiasticism, in part also of the lapses into Calvinism and Swedenborgianism, and all the other recoils towards the old supernaturalistic systems, of whatever sort, is not far to seek. We must not omit to recognize whatever in them is due to real individual needs, to the consciousness of a lack of the religious sentiment and its outward accessories in Protestant worship, and to the natural longing for religious unity. But when you have made all right allowance for these creditable causes, you will still find in the result a very large element which is due to the absence of genuine trust in the capabilities of the people. Unitarianism has fallen into weariness and suspense, and the consequences thereof, because it has not trusted (he public capacity: because its best thought froze in its brain, instead of forcing itself with warm glad message into the popular heart: because it was undemocratic, and thought the people were there, that they might be protected from too much and too rapid knowledge of theological good and evil, that they might be fed cautiously and sparingly— not there that they might teach thinkers the vital movements of the Human Soul, and by full sharing of their highest belief, quicken them to perpetual progress. How plainly this tells the story—' We have achieved our freedom, and know not what to do with it'! (Surely not, if it was only won for ourselves. What a confession is this for the followers of Churning—'Our leaders are smitten with indifference, and leave the rank and file to blunder on, and find out the truth for themselves'! To men dealing thus with their opportunities and their attainments, well may 'an absence of any more road' be revealed! There are noble men among the Unitarians, men I honor;— and I do not love to think of them as willing members of a sect of which I believe all these confessions of Dr. Bellows are true, nor indeed of any sect. But of the leaders of Unitarianism generally, I believe it may be said, that while their intellectual sight has grown larger, it has but made them more conscious of the great gulf their unbelieving reserve has been opening between them and the people, until this has become alarming. Of such a state of mind, these visionary ecclesiasticisms are a natural product. They are protective schemes, devised to fill the chasm, yet in the old trustless, despairing way; to keep the people safe under the familiar wing of tradition, while the need which more educated minds experience of pursuing their speculative inquiries is satisfied, without recognition of the corresponding duty of open avowal and consequent conflict for the truth: schemes by which the whole purpose of the Church shall be so turned from a practical and progressive, into a ritualistic and sentimental direction, that, without mutual interference, the scholar may be gratified in his desire to think, and the people in their necessity to believe. The creed and the symbols are not always destined for him who proposes them. The chances are that he means them for the masses. If the projected anti-rationalistic formularies and liturgies are ever brought to pass, there will be novel meanings given them in the confessions of their disciples. It will be a new day for the Nicene creed when it finds itself stretched to cover modern doubts of the genuineness of the Gospel of John. In Unitarianism, as in the Church of England, I believe there Is to be found not a little of the policy I have described; and wherever it exists, it is bringing them nearer to each other, placing them upon essentially similar ground. But how utterly it mistakes the American people, and in what entire failure it must end, I need not further suggest. 
Nor is there need of entering more fully, at this time, into the relation of the retrograde tendencies in question to unbelief in the capacities of the people, and indifference to their moral improvement and progress. All the current supernaturalism, denying, as it does, the Divine Immanence in the common spiritual Mature, is largely dependent upon such unbelief: and, surely, to such indifference we must trace the unworthy endeavor to separate the Church from in legitimate function of moral and social reform. 
Of that other element in these tendencies, the longing for more of the Religious Sentiment and its outward accessories, for the recognition of the religious uses of art, and historic association, and all-embracing unity, I would speak with respect. For the need it only too apparent. Let there be all endeavor to supply the lack. But let us not hear of an artificial unity, constructed for these purposes out of theological assumptions which can no longer be accepted by the freedom of the age, and out of the rites, symbols and associations which have significance only from these assumptions. The Church of the Future cannot possibly be build with doors so low and narrow that none can enter who refuse to bow at the name of a supernatural Christ, or who seek to bring in with them the practical liberties and the humane enterprises, and the whole reformatory work of the day The Church that would be separate from this, getting aside work in the name of worship, is an idle pageant and sanctimonious mockery, which cannot be endured by God or man. Its new moons and solemn feast are hateful. Its 'spiritual vigilance committee’ is an impertinence and a nuisance. 
Nor can Church Unity or Church ritual be brought ready made to the age by theorists, weary or unweary and fastened upon it like a preacher's robe. Our forms must grow out of our needs, and, when these speak, they will not call us to cumber ourselves with dead traditions. The Temple and its service will rise in the spontaneous outpouring of the people's prayer and love. It is for us to help these into life and expression in all brotherly and devout ways, wisely, reading the signs of the times, and trusting, above all, the Divine Instinct which leads Humanity forever, onwards.

SALEM STREET CHURCH, AGAIN. 
WORCESTER, Oct. 3, 1859.
EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR:—At the regular monthly business meeting of Salem Street Church, on Fn: day evening last, Mr. Sprague moved, in accordance with notice previously given, that at the next month:; collection for the A. B. C. F. M., (coming in regular order on the first Saturday of each month) be omitted. This motion, after an earnest and interesting discussion, was carried by vote of 14 to 11. And now this Church waits to learn the action of the Board of Foreign Missions at its Annual Meeting at Philadelphia this week, to know its duty as to future contribution 
After the above was carried, the redoubtable Chart White moved that those members who desired on the next Saturday to contribute to the Board, be allowed to hand their contributions to the Treasurer of the Church! Pending the consideration of this motion, the meeting by vote of 11 to 10 voted to adjourn. And, thus the matter stands at last advices. J. A. H.
<c03>
THE TROJAN HORSE.
The statue of Mr. Webster is likely to prove a Trojan bone to those who voted in favor of placing it on the State House grounds, and they may well exclaim, in the language of Virgil,’ Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes.' Shortly after the death of Mr. Webster, two several attempts were made, in two successive Legislatures, to appropriate a sum of money for the purchase of his statue, to be placed in the State House or on its ground. Both of these attempts failed. But the personal adherents of Mr. Webster, who importuned the Legislature to adopt this course at that time, were not in that way to be baffled in the fulfilment of their wishes. They forthwith opened a subscription paper among themselves to procure the sum requisite for the purpose, and when the statue was in this way paid for, they applied to the Legislature for leave to place it on the State House ground, which application was, very unwisely for the Republican party, granted; for by so doing, they have thrown the apple of discord among themselves, which will be likely to prove a serious injury to the party in this State. As a mere matter of policy, setting aside all considerations of justice and public j morals, it was a very short-sighted and unfortunate; move on their part, for they will lose infinitely more than they will gain by it. All they can expect to gain from it is the accession of a few Whigs from that defunct party, while they will lose the confidence and support of very many of their own party. Perhaps the Greeks who made them this present of the Trojan horse foresaw such a result from it, and their wishes are likely to be gratified. HECTOR.

REMOVAL OF THE STATUE. 
Let those persons to whom the petitions for the removal of the statue of Daniel Webster from the State House ground have been sent, and others also, endeavor to obtain as many signatures to them as possible; and then let those persons who sign them attend the primary meetings for the nomination of State officers, and use all their exertions and influence to prevent the nomination of any one who will not pledge himself, if elected, to vote for the removal of the statue. Let them also attend the polls on the day of election, constitute themselves a rallying committee: and vote distributors, and endeavor by every means in their power to effect the election of persons thus’ pledged. The number of petitioners will probably be very large; and if in every town they take these measures, there can hardly be a doubt that a large majority of the next Legislature may be elected in both branches, who will be in favor of the removals and vote accordingly. And Massachusetts will thus be enabled to wipe out the foul blot that now mars her escutcheon, and stand forth the uncompromising vindicator of her own glorious revolutionary fame. The statue will then no longer be suffered to pollute the soil consecrated to freedom, good morals, and true patriotism, but be banished to another and more congenial spot. MASSACHUSETTS.

RECENT EVENTS IN BOSTON. 
My experience as a conductor on the Underground Railroad is eminently calculated to deepen a detestation of the Fugitive Slave Law, and to invoke confusion upon its authors, aiders and abettors. Some of the recent cases, occurring about the time of ex-President Pierce's visit to Boston and the inauguration of the statue of Daniel Webster, are thus invested with a significance more than ordinary. During the delivery of Franklin Pierce's speech at the Tremont House, a voice was heard from the opposite sidewalk exclaiming,’ Fugitive Slave Law!' Some one in the’ crowd, not relishing this exhibition of free speech; with a characteristic mingling of oaths and epithets, commanded him to 'shut up.' The only effect it produced (if, indeed, it produced any at all) was to cause the same words—' Fugitive Slave Law'—to be repeated at intervals, and once it seemed that the ex President noticed the expression, or its results among the crowd, for he laid a special emphasis upon the citizen's duty’ to obey the fundamental law of the land,’ in all its part*.' At the time, my curiosity was excited to learn who this man was who 'spoke right out in meeting,' and perhaps it never would have been’ revealed to me but for a Fugitive Slave case occurring within forty-eight hours after, when we met for vigilant service, and a chance conversation made known the facts. 
This fugitive case was the one recently mentioned in the papers, and from information just obtained, it’ appears that the friends of humanity were just in time to save the man. Both the slaveholders' party and our own were telegraphing at one time from Boston, and both parties boarded the steamer at early daylight, in another city, the one in search of property, the other for a man. Suffice it to say, that the God: of freedom defeated the former, and blessed the efforts of the latter to the salvation of one man from’ the hell of American slavery. 
On the 19th, while a number of friends were discussing the effects of the recent inauguration in reviving Fugitive Slave Law operations, a man was suddenly introduced, who had just escaped from a plantation in Mississippi, having made before seven unsuccessful attempts to secure his freedom. His body was literally covered with marks of the whip’ and branding-iron; but, thank God, he is now out. of the reach of his brutal self-styled owner. 
Who knows how soon the zeal of Northern Union- savers may circumvent the efforts of those who would: save a man, and we shall have upon us another Anthony Burns excitement? Is it not a logical inference from the idolatrous exhibition of this inauguration of Daniel Webster's statue, that the conviction will fasten itself afresh upon many in the community, that if Everett, the eulogist of Webster, volunteers to 'shoulder his musket' to put down an attempt of the slaves to secure freedom by insurrection, and the statue of Webster is elevated as an example to the rising generation, they will endeavor, as a patriotic and Christian duty, to 'conquer their prejudices,' and return the bondman’ with alacrity'? Why may we not reasonably expect a revival of slave-hunting in Boston and throughout New England? 
There is a retribution in store for this supremely wicked nation, which cannot be averted by laudatory speeches or brazen monuments.
Boston, Sept. 30, 1859. W. C. N.

LETTER FROM MISS HOLLEY. 
EASTPORT, (Me.) Sept. 26, 1859. 
DEAR MR. MAY:
There is joy in my heart over the hour that ushered us into Washington county, Maine. Every step of our way has been made light and joyous by the most exquisite friendships and charming hospitality. At Essex, Gouldsboro', Cherryfield, Machias, East Machias, Dennysville, Pembroke, Perry and Eastport, (with Calais, &c. in prospect,) we find anti-slavery walking in silver slippers. 
If we had journeyed to this East land of lovely sea-shore views and delicious breezes, merely for the sake of health and pleasure, we should be very glad; but now these are enhanced an hundred fold by the e love and zeal we discover here fur our noble anti-slavery very cause, and our gratitude and delight are unbounded.
At Machias we were favored to stay with Mr. and Mrs. George F. Talbot, to whose liberal courtesy we is owe much every way, especially for an introduction to a wide circle of appreciative and influential friends, is who have greatly aided our success. 
In the pleasant little village of Dennysville we passed two or three felicitous days with the accomplished families of Theodore Lincoln, Esq. and his brothers. It will always be a happiness to remember their generous sympathy. Like true gentlemen, these did not seem to have any interests that override human liberty.
Now we are spending three delightful days here.
<c04>
in the attractive home of Rev. George Richardson. Sunday evening, I spoke to an audience of several hundred, and speak again Tuesday. Rev. Mr. Edes has just called. I could not forbear sending you these few words. Miss P. will write in detail for the Liberator. In the last fortnight, I have received a dozen subscribers for the Standard. 
In haste, SALLIE HOLLEY.
LECTURE OF MISS HOLLEY. Miss Holley, an agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, lectured in the Methodist church on Sunday evening last. Miss Holley has a full and distinct, yet womanly utterance, her manner is modest and unassuming, her language choice and appropriate. She is an effective speaker, as was evidenced by the close attention of the large audience from the beginning to the close of the lecture. The house was full in every part, and large numbers were unable to gain admittance to the church. 
We cannot forbear expressing our satisfaction in knowing that there is one religious society in town, that does not consider an anti-slavery lecture a desecration of the Sabbath, nor of its church, and that is not so fearful of offending some one as to close its doors to the cause of justice. In two respects the Methodists, as a religious sect, set an example worthy of imitation by other denominations. They preach the gospel to the poor; they are the pioneers in religion; their ministers cheerfully submit to the privations, incident to newly settled countries, in order that the people may have the gospel preached to them; and they are always bold, unequivocal, in expressing their views on all moral questions which agitate the public mind.—Eastport Sentinel.
Miss Sallie Holley, the accomplished agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, lectured to a very crowded and interesting audience in the Methodist Church in this place on Friday evening last. Her manner of enunciation was distinct, emphatic, and impressive, and many of our people learned for the first time how well the clear and musical tones of a woman's voice are fitted for the mild persuasion of eloquence. Her speech was admirable in its presentation of the great moral ideas of justice and equal rights to confront the impious claim which slavery sets up of ownership over man. The thrilling incidents with which she enforced her arguments, and the finely recited poetical allusions with which she! embellished it, held the attention of her audience who gave evidence of a wish to listen longer.—Machias Republican.
EDUCATION OF THK COLORED RACE.—There are at Chatham, in Canada West, and the immediate vicinity, a very large number of negroes, mostly escaped slaves. They are ignorant, yet susceptible of improvement. Their children are, unfortunately, growing up without educational facilities. There are but four small schools for a colored population of over twenty-three hundred, and only two of these receive any assistance from the government. The help from this source is very meagre and trifling, A project is on foot to erect a school edifice, furnish it, and establish a school for these colored children, which shall be adequate to the exigencies of the colored population of Chatham. It is an enterprise which appeals warmly to the sympathies of the friends of education, and an effort is now making in this country to secure the necessary funds. Mrs. A. S. Carey, an intelligent colored lady, a teacher in one of the schools at Chatham, and associate editor of the Provincial Freeman, is now in this city soliciting subscriptions for this purpose. She is recommended to our citizens by the Mayor of Chatham, and by the Surrogate of Kent County, C. W., and has other recommendations which give her a strong claim upon the confidence and assistance of our citizens. We trust her mission will be successful. She will call upon some of our public-spirited citizens who take an active interest in the cause of education. —Boston Journal.
We fully endorse what the Journal says of Mrs. Carey and her mission, and heartily commend them to the liberality of the public—[Ed. Lib.
Our House of Representatives has voted against making any distinction between blacks and whites in the militia service. It has done well. We are always glad to have colored men help us to fight, both ashore and on the sea. They have often done good service for the country, and been true to the flag. Many of them fought in the revolutionary armies, and some of them received pensions. They helped defend Louisiana against the English, and were thanked therefor by Gen. Jackson. It was a negro soldier who, at Bunker Hill, shot the man who gave the first order against us in the war which that year began. We hope the measure will be perfected, merely as an act of justice.— Traveller.
THE FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW. The United States District Attorney has filed, with the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, the mandate of the United States Supreme Court reversing the decision of the State Court, in the matter of Sherman Booth, held for violation of the fugitive slave law, in the rescue of Glover. If the State Court obeys this mandate, Booth will be returned to the custody of the United States Marshal, from which he was discharged by the decision which has been reversed. If the Court does not obey this mandate, then it becomes the duty of the United States authorities to enforce it.
SAD CALAMITY.—The Main Street Canal Bridge, in Albion, New York, fell in on Wednesday afternoon, last week, while covered with an immense crowd of people, who were attending the county fair. Eighteen dead bodies were taken out, and many more remained.
The citizens of Christ Church parish, near Charleston, S. C, have voted to have a grand slave-trade barbecue at that place on the 20th of October, at which all the prominent advocates of the re-opening in the State will be invited to attend. Slave trade barbacue at Christ Church!
The Enfala (Alabama) Spirit of the South states that a young man, recently imported from the North, but of foreign birth, was rode out of town on a rail on Saturday night, on account of repeated expressions of abolition opinions indulged in, after being warned that a persistence in such conduct could not be tolerated.
THANKSGIVING. The Governor and Council of New Hampshire have appointed Thursday, Nov. 24, as Thanksgiving Day in that State.
Anthony Burns, of fugitive slave notoriety, having been called to the pastorate of a colored Baptist church in Indianapolis, the democrats threaten if he comes, to enforce the infamous’ black law’ upon him. 

THE WEYMOUTH ANTI-SLAVERY FAIR
WILL OPEN AT 
Mr. Wales's Hall, Weymouth Landing, on the afternoon of OCTOBEB 25th.
[Hours of starting from the Old Colony depot, Boston, half-past 8 and half-past 2. Hours of return, half-past 10 and half-past 4.]
In the list of contributions, for many of which we are indebted to the kindness of friends in Worcester, Boston and elsewhere, especially in New York State, are a lot of gentlemen's buckskin and fur gloves, ladies' sleeves and collars, children's aprons, drawers, capes, toys. A few of the fine Weymouth-made comforts and basket-bedquilts. A few splendid crochet toilette and table covers, sofa and chair coven, glass preserve saucers to accompany a tea or dinner-service. Needle-books, mats, stands, watch-cases in variety too great to specify.
But above all the rest, is the rare occasion now offered to our friends for the timely selection of New Year's Presents for ornamenting the library, chamber or parlor, or enriching the port-folio, consisting of oil and water-color drawings, framed and ready to hang up, line-engravings, lithographs and mezzotintos, not to be found in the print-shops—the works of distinguished English and French artists. The mere inspection of them will amply repay the, slight admission-fee. 
There will be a social tea-party on the evening of the 27th, and a social dancing party on the evening of the 28th, both to close at seasonable hours. Refreshments will be constantly provided for distant friends at all hours of the day to suit their convenience; and it is hoped that all who hate slavery, (and who in’ this neighborhood does not?) will take advantage of the pleasant autumn season, and come together from the four Weymouths, from Boston, from Abington, from Plymouth, Hingham, and all the towns between, from Brookline, Canton, and throughout Norfolk county,—for invigorating social intercourse and; anti-slavery co-operation. 
The Ladies-Managers are in correspondence with eloquent and distinguished friends of the Enterprise, far and near, with the prospect of being able confidently to invite their friends to a festival of the mini and heart as well as to a series of social meetings tot rest and amusement.
Admittance to the Fair, -12 cents
Admittance to the Tee-Party, -25 cents 
Admittance to the Social Dancing Party, 50 cents
Weymouth, Oct. 5, 1859.
<c05>
WOMAN'S RIGHT TO LABOR,
MRS.DALL'S LECTURERS. MERCANTILES HALL.
Mrs. DALL'S will deliver a course of Lectures at Mercantile Hall, Summer street, on three successive Monday evenings, to commence
MONDAY, Nov. 7, at half-past 7 o'clock. 
NOv.7.—Low Wages and Hard Work. 
Condition of women employed in slop-work. Way of safety, honorable independence. Dress-makers and governesses. Mayhew's Letters. Noble women among the fallen. Women never forbidden to labor, only ladies. Historical argument. Un healthiness of French factory labor. Women sold as beasts of burden’ in England. Metal workers. An absurd fiction in the statement that all men support all women. 
Nov. 14. Practical opposition, and the work now open.
Avocations already open. False ideas of society keep respectable women out of them. Practical opposition not ended, Penn. Medical Society. Census of Great Britain and the United States. Nantucket. Dr. Franklin's sister-in-law. Olive Rose. Baron Toermer and Felicie de Fauveau. 
Nov. 21. New work to be done in Boston.
Drowning of Daughters. New means to prevent it Medical specialties. Dr. Heidenreich. Marian, the Bible woman. Training School for Servants. Knitting factory, &c. &c. Mr. Buckle's position to be questioned. A Labor Exchange. Will you tread out the nettles? 
There will be no tickets. Editors, Reporters, Clergymen and other lecturers will find free admission. Single admission 25 cts. Doors open at half-past 6 o'clock.

THE ORIGIN OF MANKIND. 
One First Pair, or Many?
Dr. WM. SYMINGTON BROWN has prepared a Lyceum Lecture on the above subject, to which he would direct the attention of liberal Committees. This Lecture embraces a fair statement of the pros and corns, with the results of recent investigations.
Address, Wm. Symington Brown, M. D., 15 Congress street, Boston. 8t
WORCESTER COUNTY SOUTH ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY—A special meeting of the Worcester County South Division Anti-Slavery Society will be held in WORCESTER, at B&INLST HAIL, on Sunday, October 23d, commencing at half-past 10 o'clock, A. M., and continuing afternoon and evening.
A general attendance of the members is particularly requested; and all friends of freedom are invited to attend.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON and other speakers will be present.
WILLIAM A. WILSON, Secretary.
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will speak at
Milford. N. H. Sunday, day & eve'g, Oct. 9.
East Wilton, N.H.Tuesday eve'g, Oct. 11.
Amherst, N.H. Wednes. Eve’g Oct. 12.
WORCESTER NORTH.—The Worcester North A. S. Society will hold a quarterly meeting at East Princeton, Sunday, Oct. 16. ANDREW T. Foss and SAMUEL MAY, Jr., will attend in behalf of the Massachusetts A. S. Society. Per order.
PRINCETON.—Mr. Foss and Mr. MAY will speak at the Town Hall in Princeton, Saturday evening, Oct. 15.
A MASS MEETING will be held at Faneuil Hall, on Monday evening, Oct. 10, 1869, at half-past 7 o'clock, to further the efforts now in progress to secure the true welfare of the Indians of our country. The justice of the citizen is appealed to, and the humanity of the man, to aid by their presence and approval this object. Many eminent clergymen, and citizens of distinction, have promised to be present, and aid by their advocacy on this occasion. Seats will be reserved for ladies until half-past 7.

WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY.
NEW PICTORIAL EDITION. 
1500 PICTORIAL ILLUSTRATIONS. 
9000 to 10,000 NEW WORDS in the Vocabulary. 
Table of SYNONYMS by Prof. GOODRICH. 
With other new features. Together with all the matter of previous editions. In one volume of 1750 pages. Price $6 50. Sold by all Booksellers. G. & C. MERRIAM, Springfield, Mass. 
Sept. 9. 6t.

CARPETING.
'All the Year Round.'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c, Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Fellings, Canton aad Cocoa Mattings.
ALSO
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit. 
Sept. 16 tf 

NEW ENGLAND
Female Medical College,
SPRINGFIELD STREET, BOSTON.
THE Twelfth Annual Term will commence on WEDNESDAY, Nov. 2, 1859. and continue seventeen weeks. PROFESSORS: Enoch C. Rolfe, M. D., Theory and Practice of Medicine; John K. Palmer, M. D., Materia Mediea, Therapeutics and Chemistry; Stephen Tracy, M. D., Anatomy and Surgery; Mine E. Zakrzewska, M. D., Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children; Frances S. Cooke, M. D., Physiology and Hygiene; Mary R. Jenks, M. D., Demonstrator. Fee, $5 for each of the Six Tickets, Free tuition from State Scholarships, for students in: Massachusetts. Rooms to be had by students in the College building. The College has now a Clinical Department for the practical education of its students. ENOCH C. ROLFE, Dean of the Faculty, 
Sept. 23. 563 Washington st.

NOW READY. PRICE TWENTY CENTS.
THREE DISCOURSES ON THE RELIGION OF REASON. By GERRIT SMITH. With a Letter to WILLIAM GOODELL. Orders supplied by ROSS & TOUSEY, 121 Nassau street. New York. 
Sept. 16. 5t

BOARDING-HOUSE.
ROBERT R. CROSBY would inform his anti-slavery fiends, and such others as desire pleasant rooms and good board, that having opened house No. 23 Eliot street, a few doors from Washington street, he will be happy to entertain such as may be pleased to favor him with their patronage. 
Boston, Sept. 10,1869. tf
<c06>
IT IS NOT A DYE!
MRS.S.A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER,
The only preparation that has a 
EURPOEAN REPUTATION.
Warranted not to contain deleterious substances.
This pleasant and valuable preparation has been wad for many years by hundreds of the most distinguished and wealthy persons, who have previously tried all the nostrums of the day without success, some even injuring their hair and health. This is entirely different from all others.

IS THERE ANY VIRTUE IN
Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorative?'
'We can answer this question by saving that we have already seen persons who have derived benefit from it. 
'Persons personally known to us have come voluntarily, and told us of good results to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it became* known in St. Louis." St Louis Presbyterian.
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S HAIR RESTORATIVE has given universal satisfaction, wherever it has been used. It can be used with perfect society, and its perfect freeness from all soiling, renders it a very desirable article for the toilet.' 
Ch* Witness and Ch. Advocate, Boston, Mass.
'MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is worthy of confidence.' 
Philadelphia Christian Chronicle
'Incomparably the beat preparation we have ever used.' N.Y. Evangelist.
'All are compelled to acknowledge MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S as the Hair Restorer.' N.Y. Independent.
'MRS. S. A. ALLEN'SM'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER has taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind.' Michigan Christian Herald.
'Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.' Knoxville Presbyterian Witness.
' There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair, published in the Advocate, which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that of Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S.' 
Buffalo Christian Advocate.
'Another objection to dyes is the unlife-like color and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way to have grey hair assume its NATURAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will he effectual and yet not a dye—Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER will do this.' U. S. Journal.
In these times, when every cosmetic is warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day, it is refreshing to come across that which is what it PRETENDS to be. A really excellent article is Mrs. S A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. As an assistant to nature, it is of great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Its properties are perfectly harmless, it being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilitate the natural growth of hair.'
Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston,
'Those of our readers whose hair is turning grey or losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will find in Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER a preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair, POSSESSING NONE OF THE BURNING QUALITIES OF A DYE.'
Philadelphia Mercury.
'There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S' WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. Why is this Simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and moat extensive, and we begin to think that it is denominated most appropriately the’ World's Hair Restorer.' 
Newark Register.
'We have reason to be assured that’ Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrate that its efficacy is generally appreciated.' Rahway Register.
'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. The most successful remedy of the day. We know of instances where its good effects have been remarkable.' Weekly Visitor, Franklin N. Y.
'From individual cases that have come under our own observation, we are satisfied that’ Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' performs all that it promises, and that instead (as is the case with other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless waste of time and money it is just what it is represented to be, and will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform. We therefore moat cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character.'
St. Louis Ledger.
'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.—As we were travelling in Massachusetts a short time since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. After some conversation she spoke of her hair, informing us that two years ago, at least one half of it was grey, and that she had feared that before then the whole would have turned or fallen off. Bat our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair, and at length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen's Restorer. She did so, and applied it according to directions, and before a year had passed, she assured us that she had as luxurious, even and beautiful head of hair, as when she was but sixteen years old. Her statement was confirmed by other members of the family, while we were informed that in the same neighborhood there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produced by applying Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer.' 
Providence Daily Tribune.
'Among the very few preparations that we deem deserving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit * Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' It has been thoroughly tested, and found to be all its inventor claims for it; and to deny to excellence would be to deny the assertion made in its favor by scores and hundreds of the most respectable persons.' Rahway Advocate and Register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is the best preparation extant for the various diseases incident to the hair and scalp, and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers, however grey, to then natural color. It having been before the public for many years, and its efficacy in restoring, invigorating, and beautifying the hair fully established, by hosts of persons throughout the country, has led to the manufacture of many worthless imitations, which have been successfully palmed off in numerous instances, upon the public as genuine.' 
Brooklyn Morning Journal.
'This preparation is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair. It possesses none of the burning, cauterizing powers of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glossy appearance almost instantaneously. The Restorer is easily applied, and will not stain the finest liners. The effect is sure in every instance, if applied according to the directions.' Mercury, Philadelphia. 
We are satisfied that the statements made in advertisements MRS. S.A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER are correct' Boston Olive Branch.
'Its remarkable success is satisfactory evidence.' 
Norfolk Argus.
'Those unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success." 
Boston Transcript,
'It is just what it purports to be Cleve. Leader. 
We might swell this list, but if not convinced, TRY IT. 
We export these preparations to Europe even, and they are superseding all others there as well as in the United States.
It does not soil or stain. Sold by all the principal wholesale and retail merchants in the U.S., Cuba, or Canada.
DEPOT. 355 BROOME STREET N.Y. 
where address all letters and inquiries.
Some dealers try to tell articles instead of this, on which they make more profit. Write to Depot for circular, terms and information. Genuine is signed, Mrs. S. A. Allen, written in ink. Beware of counterfeits.
See next issue of this Paper for <illegible> information, or send to Depot for C
SOLD EVERYWHERE
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
For the Liberator. 
THE LIBERATOR. 
AN ACROSTIC. 
Thou wast, like Jesus, born midst poverty; 
Hast sought, like Him, the world from sin to free; 
Endured the cross—like Him, despised the shame; 
Loved those He loved—been hated by the same. 
In Church and State, sinners in places high, 
By thee rebuked, have sought to crucify; 
Each in his turn at length has quit the field,—
Round thee the Almighty arms have been to shield.
A crown awaits thee, when thy work is done, 
That shall in splendor far outshine the sun: 
On the great day of final, just award, 
Receive the plaudit, ‘FAITHFUL OF THE LORD.' 
Boston, Sept. 20, 1859. JUSTITIA.

For the Liberator. 
HON. DANIEL WEBSTER. 
AN ACROSTIC. 
He had a manly form at e'er we find; 
One scarcely in an age has such a mind: 
Nature to him did special favor show, 
Dealt him such gifts as few men ever know. 
Ambitious, power and place he strove to gain,
Nor scrupled how his end he might attain;— 
In base servility to men he bowed, 
Evoked the tyrant's smile—allegiance vowed. 
Last in the drama of a lengthened life, 
With human freedom he waged open strife, 
Entered the field against Truth's scattered host, 
But soon discovered all his hopes were lost. 
Such sad defeat he never knew before; 
Too much to bear, it grieved his nature sore:— 
Enfeebled, broken-hearted, home he hied, 
Received the wages of his sin—and died! 
Boston, Sept. 24, 1859. JUSTITIA. 

From the Christian Inquirer. 
DEERFIELD, 
BY C. H. D.
A street that stretches a mile or more 
Under the elm-trees' shade, 
In cloistral arches of holy green 
And maple-leaves arrayed.
Just in the centre, the village inn, 
And a square of tender grass, 
The arches broken, that rounded heads 
Of butternuts may pass!
The houses quaint, and dim, and old, 
With forms two centuries gone, 
Are close together along the street— 
Strange things have they looked upon!
Only a garden tells how fair 
The farm's broad acres be, 
That slope away to the river's brim, 
Out of sight of you and me.
The grassy sward stretches over the street, 
Grows thick, and short, and green;
A narrow track is the dusty line 
Where the wheels' faint marks are seen.
The hanging trees are very old, 
And the maple shade is black; 
And northward and southward the meadows bear 
The sunshine's burning rack.
Billowy hills shut in the view, 
Softened with purple and gray; 
And amethystine hues prevail 
Where twilight falls on day.
Plaided with yellow, and blue, and brown, 
Pressed by the heavy wain, 
Cooled by the breezes that wave the corn, 
Or tussle the ripened grain;
Shaded by elms with drooping arms, 
The nurses of all the vale, 
Inlaid with flowers, and flecked by clouds 
That over the azure sail—
The meadows tell not the tales of old; 
As they loiter beneath Pine Hill, 
In bountiful promise they drink the light, 
And hoard their harvests still.
Lazily winds the river along, 
Sparkle the barren sands; 
Speak, O wave, and tell the tale 
That haunts these houses and lands!
Beauty, you come; but only where 
Blood hath been long before; 
Sunlight, you gather your ripened sheaves 
Where Death once stood in the door.
Many a snow-bank piled the plain, 
And banners of crimson swept 
Along the blue of the winter sky, 
When houseless women wept.
Anemones budded, and violets peeped 
All through the blood-stained soil; 
They wrote their lesson of holy trust, 
And prospered the planter's toil.
The summer mellowed under the hill, 
Nor whispered of loss or pain; 
But when grapes hung in the autumn air, 
The spoiler was out again.
Under high noon he clutched his prey; 
And still the children look,  
With longing eyes, for the very grapes 
That clustered at Bloody Brook.
A woman's love for the fair and sweet, 
The lovely meadow land! 
But a man's brave cheer for the true and meet, 
Who fell by the dusky hand! 
Hold their records a solemn trust— 
Not a whimper along the page!
‘Death, and famine, and scouring flame,' 
Their prayerful souls engage.
They fenced their lands, they built their barns, 
They trusted in strength and God; 
But not a wasted word betrays 
That they flinched beneath the rod! 
Men of Deerfield! we honor first
your brave old hearts and true, 
Clothed with a tenderer charm for us 
Than your meadows wet with dew. 
Bradford street, Boston, Mass.

THE WORD. 
O, Word that broke the stillness first, 
Sound on! and never cease, 
Till all earth's darkness be made light, 
And all her discord peace;
Till wail of woe, and clank of chain, 
And bruit of battle stilled, 
The world, with thy great music’s pulse, 
O, Word of Love! be thrilled;
Till selfishness, and strife, and wrong, 
Thy summons shall have heard; 
And thy creation be complete, 
O thou Eternal Word!

A GRAIN OF MUSK.
I dropped a single grain of musk 
A moment in my room; 
When years rolled by, the chamber still 
Retained the same perfume.
So every deed approved of God, 
Where’er its lot be cast,
Leaves some good influence behind,
That shall forever last.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR. 
THE TIMES AND THE MEN. 
A SERMON,
Preached September 18th, 1859, by SAMUEL JOHNSON, Minister of the Free Church at Lynn, Mass.
II. Endras vl.33, 34. ‘Be of good comfort, and fear not. And hasten not after the times that are past, to think vain things; that thou may'st not hasten from the letter times.’
To-day we shall consider some of the Signs of the Times, with special reference to Representative Persons, who, either by life or death, have been brought into prominence before us during the past few months. 
In estimating the tendencies of an age or a people, we have exceeding need of that rare wisdom which judges not according to the appearance. If we look only at the visible expression of public sentiment, even in the most advanced communities, we shall surely despair of Man's future. Take our own Massachusetts—even now, as at the beginning, fertile in great Ideas and great Men: still, beyond question, educationally, morally, theologically, the Nation's Teacher, to us almost the World's Hope. If our democratic philosophy could not go behind the record of the people's acts, to read a finer hand-writing in their substantial purpose, the prospect would be appalling. For what a spectacle have we before us today! A State, upon the perilous path of self-government, following up the timid refusal to protect her own citizens from the kidnapper, by the bestowal of almost divine honors on men whose parricidal hands have fallen heavily upon her morals and her liberties; —now setting up a votive statue, and now pouring out fulsome funeral eulogies, in homage to names identified with moral high treason in the Senate, and unscrupulous advocacy at the bar—holding up to the imitation of her young men, as models in every republican and Christian virtue, the great lawyers whose careers, beginning in the fair disciplines bequeathed by the Puritan to his descendants, have ended in the lap of our American Delilah; who, in the interest of Slavery, have gone up and down, assailing with atheistic sarcasms the popular instincts of Justice and Mercy, or turning the Declaration of Independence into a by-word of scorn; who, at the moment when the Federal Government became identical with Centralized Despotism, and cast ominous shadows over all our free institutions, dropped the precious ark of State sovereignty, and fled into the camp of its deadly foes. In what words shall we utter the infatuation, the shamelessness of such oblations? Is then the demoralised State demented also? Is it at the mercy of every brilliant special pleader, of every powerful magnetizer of men’s minds, swayed by lip or eye, whither it knows not, nor cares, so it but obey the manipulations of some stronger will? Does it recognize no other interest in the wounds of its own conscience and its own liberty, than that of ignoring them as of no moment: nay, rather of opening them wider and deeper by those bad idolatries which wait on death itself, to forbid its slow, sure healing of the great public mischiefs inflicted by perversion of genius and power? Has it then learned so thoroughly the art of suborning for the perpetuation of the evil in men's lives, even that mysterious change, which awaking, we may hope, in the offender some longing to atone for the harmfulness of his life, at least to stay its further increase, would make him grateful for severest criticism, and only mortified and maddened by these base flatteries, as by the scourges of his retribution? And have we learned to defend this art of wronging alike the living and the dead, to the extent of denouncing all honest interference therewith, in the name of ‘charity,’ and of the ‘sanctities of the grave’? Has charity, to the dead become a cover for the debasement of the living? Has the grave sanctity, in order that youth and manhood may have no protection from the corrupt examples of the men they are taught to idolize? 
The indignities offered by these men to what is dearest and best in our New England convictions —their praises of a religion which had no word of message, either to the sinner for reproof, or to the slave for sympathy—their proud revilings of a Conscience which commands disobedience to wicked legislation, in the name of God's Higher Laws—are found no obstacles, nay, are the very furtherances and special recommendations of them with many, to these public honors! I will not believe it is so with the people, in their hearts. But shall we dare to pretend that it is not so in the public manifestations of feeling, in the acts of the State? 
Where is the just self-respect of the community, where the becoming resentment, in view of these indignities? And which is worse,—to make light of them as offering no occasion for earnestness of feeling, or to praise them as patriotism and piety, with faces upturned to Heaven? Is it thus that we are preparing our children for the coming conflict in this day of the Lord? 
Or is all this adulation a farce simply, the people knowing well how poor an honor is one of their votive statues or funeral pomps? Is it a mere creature of the natural craving for excitement, meaning no more than any other public rout or show? An alternative, surely, that lessens neither the danger nor the guilt. 
And in the midst of these ovations to men who have brought shame on the State, who have grown every year into more bitter persecutors of those free principles which are her glory, the life of one of her noblest Benefactors passes away—a life crowded with toils and sacrifices in her service, and crowned with peaceful achievements, in which, if in anything, her name will live hereafter. It passes away so silently that it seems, at first, as if the event had scarcely attracted the public eye. The State, that owes this life a debt never to be cancelled while time shall last, gives no sign of recognition. The people do not gather in public halls, and call on their leaders to proclaim the general grief. Where is the tribute that should spring to every tongue? For the apostle of Common School Education in America; for the vigilant guardian of Liberty in all forms, civil, political, religious; for the swift and strong witness against bigotry in the Church, and cruelty in the School, against every superstition and every vice that threatened the highest welfare of the young; for the ardent believer in their instincts of honor, and their impressibility by the noblest motives; for the unwearied advocate of Temperance, whose life of amazing toil and endurance enforced beyond cavil the creed he taught; for the public officer, who, almost unaided, aroused the State from utter apathy to a lively interest in popular education; who set forth the divine authority of the physical and moral laws, and the inevitableness of their penalties, with a simplicity and eloquence which gave them at once a new meaning for the public conscience, and secured them an ever-increasing recognition in our educational systems; who dared to show the Teachers and Town Committees their short-comings,—and to insist upon stricter examinations and fairer compensations, especially for women, and better school-houses and more rational methods of teaching,—and to do justice to those European systems which were capable of affording us useful suggestions,—and to gather into his single breast the empoisoned spears of all the sectaries and functionaries to whom these things were an offence, and their name was Legion;—for the martyr spirit, who, when the principles for which he had contended in Massachusetts were substantially accepted and embodied in her schools, devoted his declining years, and all his slender means, to the performance of a like service for the great West,—there sustaining, through unspeakable difficulties, pecuniary and other, whereof the world can know only the least portion, an Institution of Learning, in which the sexes should have equal opportunities far advanced culture, and sectarianisms
<c03>
be unknown,-there dying at last in the harness, overborne by anxieties and toils, yet not till the victory was complete;—for such a public servant, faithful not in few things, but in many, and those the most momentous, leaving behind him a line of monuments along all the highways of national good, and each inscribed to universal humanity,—leaving behind him a name, before which the generations of American children, as they ripen to manhood and womanhood, shall rise up, and call it blessed—the State of Massachusetts has no votive statue, no funeral pomp. What is done in his honor mast be done as yet by private affection, by individual endeavor. The statue of the great man whose apostacy he had the valor to rebuke is throned in front of the Capitol with official applause, while his reward is silence!
I do not mean to excuse the shamefulness of this, when I say that I will not judge the inmost hearts of the people by such appearances. The very depth of this silence admonishes me that it means something more than indifference. I cannot but see in it some recognition of a merit which neither needs nor is honored by these cheap displays. I cannot help gathering from it confirmation of the belief that you must look beneath the surface to find what is in the heart and conscience of the people. I do not know how much actual appreciation they have of the services rendered them by Horace Mann. But I am sure that what they have, lies sealed up in fountains, to which the blind guides, the political and literary managers; who control this whole matter of public tributes and testimonials, have no access. Not under their auspices can there be any expression of such genuine emotions. These must continue silent in all such public directions, until the people get courage to speak their truer instincts and nearer experiences to each other, undeterred by mutual distrust, or blind idolatries, or mean and selfish interests. Meantime, the leaven cast by men who seek their true aggrandizement into this unexpressed, half unconscious life, works on unseen. And, by and by, uprises the great secret that has lain heavy on the heart, and finds vent to the confusion of the blind guides, political and literary, and the managers of these public shows generally. 
Great revolutions, bursting out in an hour, overturning royal pomps on which the masses had just before seemed to feed content, come of such secrets long unspoken. Under free institutions, the moment of utterance is not so long delayed—the leaven of noble Utilities works more freely; first, unappreciated, blessing the people they know not whence; next, approving these to their consciousness, so that they look around for their benefactors; and then quickening them to grateful recognition and undying praise of names whose reward had been only silence;-the silence of a progress—sure as the springing of the seed. 
Whatever points to public good, points to public appreciation. The day of ignorance, delusion, interests misunderstood, good instincts stifled, of blind fascinations, of evil counsels, and of diabolical manipulations goes by, and what was meant to cheer and dignify the common life is seen to have been working to that end through all its martyr age, since some solitary enthusiast laid down his life in its service, finding therein his sole reward. Blindest of men is he who thinks that, because it finds no organized expression, being buried out of sight under a thousand glittering expediencies, trick and lies, it is therefore lost or inert. For a people as for a person, there is not only an outer, but an inner life, more or less clear, more or less trusted, more or less honestly followed, but ever open to every word that cometh from the mouth of God. There the vacant chair of a patriot Senator, struck down for his love of the people, speaks louder than a hundred trumpery eulogies. There the sense of great public benefits unacknowledged, of life-long services unrequited, burns slowly inward, till it wakes a noble shame. There has been the confidence of all the great and true ones of the earth. And the hour surely comes in every people, which the elder Cato was looking at, when, on being reminded that, among so many statues, not one had been erected in his honor, he proudly answered, ‘I would rather that the Romans should wonder why I had not a statue, than wonder why I had one.' Nor will a State, which moves in the light of a popular education, such as Rome never dreamed of, fail of finding the self-respect to bid the image that speaks of her dishonor give place to one which she can erect with pride, and at whose feet she can pledge her children to freedom. 
What do we rationally mean by the People in these days? Not a separate class, not a distinct interest, surely: not a fragment of the body politic, to which some other more elevated fragment is to communicate, by measures protective or coercive, the bread of life. We mean nothing less than the Human Mind, the Human Heart itself; Mankind, in its widest scope of capacity and destiny; that Spiritual Essence whereby God speaks and works. And if we speak of the American people, or any other people, it is properly spoken in these days only when we mean thereby the relation of this particular community to Humanity itself, from which its capacity and its destiny cannot be separated. Whoso trusts his best Thought or Act to the people then, trusts it to Humanity—to that common nature from which he received it, and in which alone it has any subsistence. To doubt that a beneficent Idea, or a Life devoted thereto, will fail of its purpose with the people, is to doubt that truth is truth, and that good is good. 
None of us will deny these broad and general statements; and being all of us members of the people, we think it a fine matter to be trusted, and an easy matter to trust. But take the sense first given the word, and see how hard it is to find a genuine trust in the people. How the country rings with these jingling counterfeits of democratic zeal! This current faith in the people, what is it but insult, contempt, deceit, spoliation! How common it is! When the smooth tongued office-holder flatters their prejudices, and takes them to witness the sincerity of his devotion to their interests, he calls it throwing himself into their arms. When the preacher doles out a little truth by piecemeal, mixed with much false tradition, lest it over-stimulate their reason, he calls it dispensing to them the living bread given by a dying Savior for the salvation of their precious souls. When the Expounder of the Constitution would suppress their faith in their own right and power to change the fundamental Law, and bring it nearer Justice, he exclaims, Did you not make it, you the people, through your wise fathers? How, then, can it be improved?’ And when a political schemer would make them his tools, and move them about between his thumb and finger, does he not raise a pet banner of ‘Popular Sovereignty,' and stretch out his hands over their heads, crying, ‘No North, no South, no East, no West, only the People'? So Louis Napoleon claims to have trusted the people. And he did so—to his own keeping. He trusted universal suffrage—to the bayonets of his soldiers, and the vigilance of his police. The thing is hard enough to find, here or in Europe, unless you look where few perhaps will send, you. And yet it is here, in forms as noble, perhaps, as the world ever saw. See this lonely Reformer, working out in patient consecration some great idea of Education, Liberty, Moral Regeneration among the weak and vicious classes, which the community has not yet learned to appreciate. He rebukes the people; he goads them with perpetual criticism—perhaps he is sometimes too sweeping in his censures, unjust to their intentions, making too little allowance for their circumstances, intolerant perhaps of their slow progress. Yet see how he trusts them! His best thought, his best love, his days and his nights, his strength in life, his prayer in death, are theirs. His wrath and his entreaty alike testify of the strength of that confidence that will not be put by. See you not that if he believed not so utterly in their nature, he would not be so severe a censor of their character?
<c04>
They are his pride and his prophecy, the procreant soil where no plant of right setting can fail. Truth is a joy to him, as a sign of their capacity to see, and virtue as the promise of what they can attain. This is trust in the People, and boundless as it is, exhaustive of the man's whole capacity of seeing and attaining, it is never deceived. Its Ideas inevitably grow into Institutions, and its service is crowned with public gratitude and praise.
If you would judge the age and its tendencies, ask what such men as these believe and hope for. Let appearances be what they may, these are the steady fingers that point the way the world is moving. 
It is not likely we shall soon see a better illustration of this trust in the people than Horace Mann. The short history of Free Institutions records but few that approach it. In the very first of those magnificent reports to the Board of Education, he came out unhesitatingly with his whole educational gospel, holding back not one title of the message, for doubt or fear. If you read it carefully, you will find that the great changes which have been wrought in our Public School system during the past twenty years, have merely carried out the ideas and methods proposed in that first frank and trusting confession of Faith. The same singleness of spirit infused into that feeble frame, to which the strictest regimen secured only a moderate measure of health and strength, powers that seem miraculous. Fifteen hours a day of unremitting labor for eleven years, not a day for relaxation, yet not a week's illness in the whole annual visitations of every county in the State for five of those years; examinations, lectures, Teachers’ Conventions, literary labors, reports, abstracts of School Returns in six large volumes, Common School Journal in ten volumes, correspondence without end, amounting to much more than all the rest together-such is the record he has left of his labors in the service of the Massachusetts Board of Education, adding naturally enough, that ‘there is no end to the labor that can be profitably bestowed upon the application to our school system of the immortal principles of human culture.' At Antioch, past three score years of age, his trials and cares were, if possible, greater still, growing and growing, until the flesh proved too weak to be upheld any longer by the spirit's will. Yet no complaint passed his lips. He knew well from the beginning what was involved in this great cause of the people. He had counted the cost of it, and he rejoiced and trusted in it to the end. In the light of this entire consecration, the faults men lay to his charge grow insignificant indeed. If there was something of acrimony in his personal controversies, let the ardor of his temperament be remembered, and the fervor of his zeal for righteousness; also the greatness of the provocation. Daniel "Webster and the thirty Boston school-masters were no light vexations. In his discussion with Wendell Phillips upon the voting question, he seemed to me to evade the point at issue from beginning to end. But who, without something of sophistry, could defend the American voter's oath to a Constitution which forbids private interpretation, yet which, except on his own interpretation, he does not mean to support? Whatever I may think of his argument, I cannot doubt that it was honestly urged. In warnings and counsels to young men he was more at home; and how impressively he set before them their special temptations and duties, and bade them’ orient themselves' at the starting-point before God, their consciences and the world! And what enemy of their welfare did he leave unpunished, what means for their advancement in true manliness did he not spring to aid? A life of genuine chivalry, the Christian knighthood of the Nineteenth Century, stainless and steadfast to its baptismal vows. 
That life has passed—in silence; surely fittest, amidst these noisy pretences of sorrow for those who loved mankind so little, themselves so much. The funeral pageant, steeped as it is in debasement, may well be dispensed with; but in that kind of success it pursued, what life has had larger or speedier harvests? He saw them waving over all the hills and shores of Massachusetts, when he went out from his home in the evening of his days to sow new fields with the time's best seed, where none but he could do it justice. His Ideas are Institutions. The great highway he laid out so patiently and painfully is beaten hard and smooth, and all men press into it. And swiftly shall they pass over it to those mightier and more radical revolutions for which our Prophets of Liberty are toiling, under more bitter opprobrium and heavier discouragements than even he had to sustain. Surety this is an admonition to judge the age by those whose look is forward, not backward, by those who put the fullest faith in the people, and call them to the worthiest tasks. 
And somewhat similar reflections are suggested by the recent Letter of Theodore Parker to his Congregation, detailing his’ Experience as a Minister and a Man’—perhaps as complete an instance, both in substance and form, of this entire confidence in the people, as can be found in history. It lays before us, in simple earnest, a nature that seems to have been unable to separate itself, or any of its experiences, from the common mind and the common interests; living for practical applications and generous communications of Truth; searching the heights and depths of knowledge with steadfast purpose to put all wisdom into forms of goodness, and all faculties to universal uses; so carrying up this fellowship with man into its communion with God, that piety without humanity became to it the one contradiction in terms—giving of its fulness without stint, and knowing no greater sin than to withhold—a life consecrated to this editorial function with the people, if I may so call it, and marvellously successful therein. It has encountered, in that fidelity which was its pure necessity, every stumbling-block, bar and drag-weight that men of old or new time have put in the way of this free communication between man and God, and between man and man. It has gone up and down like lightning through all the passages, with full consciousness of its commission to clear the way. And so he, whose instincts were so largely constructive, has perforce been made heretic of heretics, arch iconoclast, bringing everywhere not peace but a sword. The straightforward story of these experiences, related in a tone, it seems to me, of rare sweetness and entire fairness, has stirred up, especially among those whose bigotry it reports, the old charges of a scornful, bitter and denunciatory spirit. They come with an ill grace either from men who loll over fashionable pulpits, preaching smooth things, or from men who praise the anathemas of Luther, and those scathing rebukes of Jesus, of which Mr. Parker's strongest words are but a dilution. They come with an ill grace from those who, however well-disposed, know nothing of the heat of a Reformer's conflict. But whatever criticism may be passed upon his methods, by friend or foe, at least let their root be recognized in an honest purpose and a noble zeal for God and man, which, if it be not the Christianity of the New England sectary, hath at least the Christianity of Jesus. If he is somewhat largely ‘dowered with the hate of hate, the scorn of scorn,’ let them take note also of what perhaps will help explain these, ‘the love of love.’ Sure it is, that the very least part of his work has been negative, and his chief honor is, that he knows not how to pull down a false foundation without offering a true one in its place. Mythology shall stand aside, only to reveal the universal miracle of Law. And faith in a so-called supernatural, or rather a preternatural revelation shall give way .only that man may trust the intuitions of his spiritual nature as perpetual revelation, and substitute rock foundations for quick-sands and shoals. The hateful Jehovah shall go down, only that the loving Father may enter and dwell in his children's hearts. Of all men in this age, this one has been the preacher of Positive Piety and Positive Morality; probably, preacher also of a larger body of positive Theological Truth than has been heretofore dispensed to the people from any pulpit. And while deal-
<c05>
ing with Slavery in the most revolutionary and destructive spirit, no radical has ever set forth more persuasively than he the constructive principles of Freedom. Here also has been, as in the life I spoke of first, intensest concentration, inconceivable toil, resorting as it must, dangerous prostration, which lately sent much fear and sorrow to all hearts that look for the regeneration the age, Here, in fine, has been manful illustration, both in spirit, position and work, of that genuine Individualism which is the starting-point of culture d communion, and which mast lay the cornerstones of Church and State, in men and women who dare to find their functions, and fulfil them with freedom. 
Here, then, is another of those large believers in the people, of whom I said you must find in their aims the key to the real tendencies of the age. And is it not set here also? All the significant currents set in this direction. The depth and breadth of the direct influence exerted by Mr. Parker, and by many of those, it of the pulpit as well as in it, who substantially coincide with him in their method of inquiry; the rapidity with which the people are breaking away from theological bondage; the disintegration of sects, now generally admitted with much moaning and nervous shuddering on the part of their several scouts and sentinels; the increasing audacity of free inquiry, and its often wild negations, which are but reactions upon blind, authoritative belief; the ‘suspense of faith,’ in which it appears all mere intellectualism, all listless dilettantism in the more advanced bodies hangs bewildered; the evil repute under which the outward institutions of religion are lying, and the flight of the people from them; and the earnest endeavors, of whatsoever degree of wisdom, to establish new centres of free and living growth; and better than all, the con-dent onward looking of consecrated hearts and wills, through all these temporary tendencies, to the opening of a new day of Inspiration, that shall make its own gospel, purifying and expanding all past ones, out of its own yearnings and needs, out of its scholarship and its science, out of its humanities and its adorations, out of whatsoever word, for the hour, shall some to it from the living God. Surely, here are sufficiently plain intimations of the way the age is set to walk in. 
The remainder of this able discourse relates to the Rev. Dr. Bellows and his ‘Broad Church’ Sermon, for which see our third page, inside. ]—Ed, Lib.

From the Temperance Alliance. 
PERSONALITIES. 
A new chapter has been add to the book of lamentations since a distinguished scholar and orator of Massachusetts ventured to his charge grow insignificant indeed. If there was something of acrimony in his personal controversies, let call in question the ardor of his temperament be remembered, and the fervor of his zeal for righteousness; also the greatness right of learned and distinguished citizens,—having an official connection with some of our most cherished institutions,—to wound, by their pernicious example, the great social reform of the age.’ It will never do, sir,' said a citizen of Boston, to an agent of the provocation. Daniel Webster and State Temperance Alliance;’ Boston will neither aid nor sanction your movements while you allow yourselves to deal in personalities, and attack some of the thirty Boston school-masters were no light vexations. In his discussion with Wendell Phillips upon greatest and best men of the voting question, he seemed to me to age.'‘ But what are we to do, sir,' asked the point at issue from beginning to end. But who, without something of sophistry, could defend agent,’ when we find that the American voter's oath to a Constitution which forbids private interpretation, yet which, except on his own interpretation, lie does not mean social drinking habits are being restored, and that the influence and example of our officials and scholars largely contribute to support? Whatever I may think of his argument, I cannot doubt that so fatal a result?'‘ Why, you must argue toe question on general principles; but it was honestly urged. In warnings and counsels will never do, sir, to our best men he was more at home; and how impressively he set before 'them their special temptations and duties, and bade them’ orient themselves' at the starting-point before, their consciences and ' Yea, that is the world! And what enemy of their welfare did he leave unpunished, what means for their advancement in true manliness did he not spring calm conclusion of men who will not lift a finger to aid? A life of genuine chivalry, remove the Christian knighthood of the Nineteenth Century, stainless and steadfast to its baptismal vows curse of drunkenness from a burdened and. suffering community. We may go on and wear ourselves out in that service. We must contribute our time, and money, and heart's best and truest sympathies in a ceaseless war with a gigantic evil,—not an evil sent upon us in the mysterious providence of God, like the whirlwind, earthquake, or pestilence, and, so far as we can see, disconnected with human agency,—but an evil created by the wickedness and thought less new men around us; and when great and otherwise good men throw obstacles across our path more potent than any others we have to contend with, we must be content to argue the question on general principles.' Such a tame and suicidal course is never demanded of any other class of men but temperance reformers. Now we tell the world, once for all, we will not in that particular be guided by the counsel of our opponents, or men wickedly in different to the claims of the temperance enterprise. We shall not violate knowingly the courtesies of life. If governors, senators, members of congress, judges, literary gentlemen, or a rare member of the clerical profession, choose to set wine or liquors on their own tables, and then with friends or their own families choose to muddle their fine brains with those poisons, we shall not invade the privacy of their homes to learn or make public the shameful fact; but whenever any or all of these shall wound our cause by giving our enemies the aid of their example, at public tables or on public occasions, we admonish all parties that we will tell toe shameful story, and in connection with the names of the parties, even though it call forth another chapter of lamentations. The fact is, man; of our fellow-citizens wish, for certain reasons, to pursue a course in relation to the question of temperance, which is utterly indefensible, and which, if known, would damage the reputation of toe parties with good men every where; and that they may be able to do so with impunity, a portion of them must howl down, or at least attempt it, every individual who gives publicity to the facts, and ring a vast variety of changes on the word personalities. Yet let the individual, no matter how learned or distinguished, exert an influence hostile to the party with which they may be connected, or damage a railroad or a bank in which they own stock, and they will attack him personally without the slightest hesitation. Which of our public men has been called to answer at the bar of public opinion, again and again, for his public or private conduct, in relation to every other matter under heaven, but his influence in reference to the great scourge and curse of our country, intemperance, and even there, when it could answer a party purpose? 
Well as we knew, and sincerely as we mourned, the infirmity of the feat Webster, in connection with the matter of personal stimulation, we have had occasion a hundred times to defend his character against the attacks of miserable demagogues and bar-room democrats, who for party purposes often magnified his faults fourfold, and were ever ready to trumpet them to four winds  But a party purpose could be served in that way. The great man mightily in their way, and therefore it would not report , to magnify and gloat over his faults. Now, let a public lecturer or editor speak of the folly or inconsistency of a great man, when he makes a public exhibition of it, and the lamentations of those sensitive pinks of propriety are as the roar of many waters; or, it were more fitting to say, the explosions of their wrath are as the popping of champagne corks at Parker’s or the Revere. It is assumed that we are destitute of respect for learning or public services, because we rebuke the follies of those who possess the one, and have performed the other. But hold, gentlemen! That will not do. With all proper respect for the opinions of others, we must be permitted to express oars, that we do quite as much toward honoring the memory of Robert Burns, when we speak of him lovingly to our friends, or surrounded by a listening family, we alternately laugh and weep over his everlasting verse, as we happen to tarn to Tarn o' Shanter or to Mary in Heaven—aye, quite as much as those who, at a public festival, amid bacchanalian orgies, chant his praises, while they help to perpetuate the curse that ruined aim.
A party of colored persons numbering twenty-one, which recently emigrated to Liberia from Boston and vicinity, have lost one third of their number by that acclimating fever. The names of the deceased were Mr. and Mrs. Enoch Lewis. Mr. Oliver, wife and daughter, an entire family, Mrs. Sylvestor and Mary E. Lewis. The same vessel which carried the above party, also took twenty emirates from Southern States, among whom there had been but two deaths, one a decrepit female, and the other in childbirth. This difference in mortality is ascribed to the inefficiency of the physician employed by the Boston company.
<c06>
Ayer's Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints: —
SCROFULA AND SUROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, ERUPTIONS AND ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL, DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC <illegible> DEBILITY, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION, <illegible> ROSE ON SR. ANTHONY’S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from <illegible> OF THE BLOOD
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that season of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spars themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alternative alterative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed. and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Ex-tract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they act not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according, to directions on the bottle. 
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO.
LOWELL, MASS.
Price, $1 per Bottle; Six Bottles for $5.
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relived on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery, Foul Stomach, Erysipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, Liver Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt Rheum, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Price, 25 cents per Box; Five boxes for $1.00.
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER's, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by 
THEODORE METCALF & CO, BREWER, STEVENS &7 CUSHING, Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N. H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every
where. 6m May 7

LANDS FOR SALE.
ALARGE number of parcels of land are hereby offered for sale to persons of liberal and reformatory ideas and tendencies, sympathizing with the fundamental principles and general objects of the Hopedale Community. These parcels, lying in and contiguous to the village of Hopedale, Milford, Mass., and constituting and constituting a part of the original Community Domain, are of different sizes, ranging from two to twenty acres, and present sizes, ranging from two to twenty acres, and present a good variety of tillage village and pasturage, together with some woodland—most of the tillage being under a high state of cultivation—and are designed either for simple building lots, or for small farms, as may suit different classes of purchasers. Upon some of them are pleasant dwellings, and tenements in the village may be rented by those unprepared to buy orere ct buildings. In the immediate vicinity there is a Foundry, suitable shop room and power, and an unoccupied Mill-privilege, rendering the location a favorable one for mechanics either to commence or continue a business, and especially for those who may desire to combine with their usual avocations such, horticultural employment as health, pleasure, or profit may dictate. Persons also of literary inclinations and pursuits may obtain that quiet retirement, and the opportunity for active, out-door Manual or other exercise necessary to the highest usefulness and success in their chosen field of labor. And any or all of the class to whom the lands are offered, who may desire for themselves and families the superior moral and social influences of Hopedale, or who may wish to secure for their children the advantages of the Hopedale Home School—a flourishing Institution of much excellence, both in its general character and in its methods of instruction, designed to aid in the attainment of thorough, symmetrical, and practical Education-will find here unusual inducements for making themselves at Home.
These lands are within two miles of the Milford Station, on the Boston and Worcester R. R., by which communication may be had three times a day with Boston and the principal thoroughfares of New England.
Prices reasonable, and terms of payment suited to the circumstances of any honest, industrious, economical family.
For further particulars and all necessary information, inquire of E. D. DRAPER, 
Hopedale, Milford, Mass.
June 17, 1859.—tf.
HOPEDALE LANDS OPENED FOR SETTLEMENT.
We bespeak attention to Br. E. D. Draper's advertisement as above, offering for sale sundry parcels of Hopedale land. Some two years since, when most of the Joint Stock property of the Hopedale Community was individualized and divided among the stock-holders, a large portion of the Community Domain went legitimately into the private possession of Br. Draper., He has recently caused his lands to be surveyed into <illegible> of from two to twenty acres each, with a view to offer them for sale to persons friendly to our distinguishing principles, who may choose to settle in our midst. We hope that a goodly number of friends, cherishing a general sympathy with our people, and desiring to give their children the advantages of our excellent select and common schools, will avail themselves of the new opening. Seeing that we must be disappointed in not realizing the Unitary social arrangements, the anticipation of which originally attracted us hither, the next best thing is, to see as good a Neighborhood built up as circumstances will allow. We are therefore pleased with Br. Draper's new plan of offering small homesteads for sale to our friends scattered abroad. May the movement be crowned with success.—Practical Christian.
