THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents -one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, AND WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, Our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 33 BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 19, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1605.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
From the N. Y. Journal of Commerce.
The following straight-forward and unpretending tale respecting the recovery of some fugitive slaves, is creditable to the heart of the writer, and eloquent in the disclosures it makes of the privations and abuse to which fugitives are subjected by their pseudo friends of Chicago. Mr. Frost, in writing the letter appended below, seems to have been mainly actuated by a desire to exculpate from blame those who had been wrongfully charged with assisting in the re­covery of slaves; but incidentally, he has rendered a greater service in the revelations made of Abolition hypocrisy and injustice: 
THE LATE RECOVERY OF SLAVES IN CHICAGO-STATEMENT OF THEIR OWNER.
ST. LOUIS, August 3, 1859.
Editor of the Chicago Times.
DEAR SIR:- I observe from the Chicago papers that considerable excitement has existed in your city, in consequence of my having secretly brought thence my three negro men-fugitives from service and labor.
I regret exceedingly to see the noble sentiment of philanthropy expended upon unworthy objects, and will more regret to see it become the moving cause of injustice and persecution to innocent parties, be they black or white. For these reasons I propose to give you the character of the individuals who have called forth this burst of sympathy, as well as the <illegible> by which they were brought home, trusting that when the facts are known, the reasonable peo­ple of Chicago will see that justice is done to their own citizens.
Some years since, Governor Scott, (now in Chicago and recently a witness in certain proceedings held there,) together with his brother. Henry Scott, and his nephew, Washington Anderson, ran away from my father-in-law, the late Major Richard Graham, and all went to Chicago. Governor, from his boyhood up, was notorious throughout the neighborhood as a gambler and thief. He left behind him when he ran away, three wives-all now living here and within a circuit of three miles, and he has now a fourth if not more in your city. Henry, the bro­ther of Governor, was convicted of larceny and flagged by the civil authorities; he afterwards stole a horse, for which he has not yet been tried, and for which offence I held, when I found him, the requi­sition of the Governor of Missouri; and sometime during the last winter, he was tried for larceny in the Sate of Indiana, found guilty, and sent to the Penitentiary. After about two weeks' sojourn, he broke out of jail, and fled to Chicago as an asylum, where he had doubtless lived by 'pilfering up to the time I brought him away. In every other vice, as well as thieving, he imitated the example of his older brother, (Governor.) but being neither as good looking or intelligent, he did not succeed as well in the matrimonial line.
Washington was a lad, only sixteen years of age when he ran away, and up to that time had distinguished himself only as an expert pilferer of corn­cribs and hen-roosts. As he grew older, he grew bolder, and aimed higher, until at length the inex­orable civil authorities of Indiana seized him also, found him guilty of grand larceny, and sent him to the penitentiary, from which, with much trouble and expense, I obtained his release, through the clemency of the Governor, last spring. Having voluntarily accompanied me home, he remained happy and con­tented with his relatives, without even a harsh word for past offences, until some two months ago, when, having fully established himself in the confidence of his father, mother and owners, he again ran away to Chicago, enticed away with him his younger bro­ther Jim, who was an exceedingly good boy, and the loss of whom nearly killed his mother. " This last act of treachery on Washington's part was con­sidered so outrageous even by the other negroes, that they were unanimous in the hope that he might be caught. Having now been thoroughly convinced that this family, whatever may be said of other negroes, were incapable of living honestly and decently in a free State, I determined to bring them home. I accordingly sent policemen from this city on their trail, who reported them to be in Chicago. I then repaired thither, believing that if I could meet them in person, they would willingly, if not gladly, accompany me home. I employed professional de­tectives to bring about an interview, instead of law­yers and the civil authorities to enforce the Fugitive Slave Law. The interview was had, and, as I expected, the three boys, Henry, Washington and Jim, were perfectly willing to come home with me, told me of all the hardships and troubles they had suf­fered, inquired after their friends and relatives at home, laughed and chatted merrily for half an hour, and then went fast asleep. Within ten minutes after meeting me, Jim communicated to me the fact that since he had left home he had not been able to collect a single dollar for all the hard labor he had done for sympathizing friends, and proved the truth of his statement by turning his empty pockets inside out, exhibiting his toes through his shoes, and his gar­ments in rags, (all of which, by the way, I had given him from own wardrobe a short time prior to his leaving home,) covered with shame that, since he had been in Chicago, he had been forced to do that which he never expected to do-i. e., beg from door to door to keep from starving. Henry had a similar tale to tell, except that, instead of getting verbal, he had received written promises to pay for his labor, and looking upon me as his best friend, he immediately put into my hands to collect for him the following notes, which were all he had received or could ever get for seventeen months of hard labor:
$92. CLIFTON, Feb. 14th, 1858.
Six months after date, I promise to pay to the order of Henry Scott ninety-two dollars, at Clifton; value received. (Signed) HENRY D. WALKER.
Also the following:-
CLIFTON, Feb. 14th, 1858.
Due Henry Scott, on demand. three 50-100 dollars.
(Signed) HENRY D. WALKER.
I have promised Henry to collect the foregoing notes, and give him the money, and I presume that Mr. Walker's sympathy, if not his sense of justice, will induce him to remit to me the above amounts, which I faithfully promise shall be handed to Henry for his own use and benefit. If not, my sympathy for and duty to the poor negro will force me, how­ever disagreeable it may be, to institute suit against him. I would not be at all disposed to press Mr. Walker in his matter, were I not credibly informed that he is a wealthy farmer, who has always <illegible> great sympathy for the negro race.
Washington's circumstances were no better than those of Jim and Henry-his pockets empty, his clothes ragged, reputation buried in the Indiana <illegible>-he was truly a miserable object.
After the foregoing statement, you will not be at all surprised, Mr. Editor, that these boys should have exhibited, as they did, a real pleasure in again meeting with a true friend in their master; one who had never laid, or caused to be laid, the weight of a hand upon them in anger, or even used a harsh expression to them.

<c02>
After a speedy journey by Railroad, they were safely and willingly landed in this city-and I risk nothing in saying, that their experience of life in Chicago has satisfied them, that a good home and a kind master in a slave State are altogether preferable for them to starvation, or the Penitentiary in a free State.
The tale of Bloody Island brutality needs no contradiction here, but as it probably would not have been told in Chicago, unless someone could be found there to believe it, I think it proper to say that it is false from beginning to end, and could only have been invented by a brutal negro, or a still more brutalized white man. Instead of fiendish flogging, they received by the way and on their arrival homo new clothes, new blankets, plenty of money to buy their tobacco, &c., &c.
The question will naturally be asked, why I did not bring Governor home also. My reply is, that I found him with a new wife and a new family, apparently confining his roving affections to them, and trying by honest labor to support them. I knew he would be utterly worthless, as he always had been here; and although I could have taken him at any hour during three weeks' time, yet as he seemed to be eking out an honest living-miserable, it is true so miserable that he could not, or would not, give his nephew Jim, as he is called, a mouthful of bread to keep him from starving (according to Jim's own statement,)-I concluded to leave him there so long as he chooses to behave himself.
In conclusion, l desire in injustice to innocent parties in Chicago to say, that no person whatever used any violence of any kind towards the three negroes in question. It is true that I employed professional detectives to perform their professional duties, and no more. I showed them the requisition of the Governor of Missouri, under the great seal of the State; I showed them the record of jail-breaking from the Indiana Penitentiary, and asked them to bring me face to face with these convicts. I reminded them that if it was a white man I was after with such re­ cords of crime, neither they nor any other detectives in Chicago would make any difficulty about it. They finally agreed that I should have an interview with them, and, (considering that they were negroes,) would do no more. I met the negroes, and asked them if they were willing to go home; they all replied that they were, and then, like children, began to tell each his story of wrongs and sufferings.
I observe from the newspapers of your city that a Mr. Charles Noyes has probably been obliged to flee from Chicago, to avoid personal harm. With regard to him I can say, and will so testify whenever called upon, that he did not' forcibly steal, take or arrest,1 either Henry Scott, 'Washington Anderson' or. 'James Anderson' in the State of Illinois,(or anywhere else,) nor did he carry, or accompany anybody else in carrying, either or all the aforesaid individuals out of the State of Illinois into any other country, State or Territory. Neither did he, or any one else, forcibly take or arrest any one, or all the aforesaid individuals, with a design to take him or them out of the State of Illinois. If there was any 'forcible arresting or conveying,' (which I positively deny, it was done by myself. They came all the way from Chicago in my company, and unrestrained by irons, threats or anything else, they freely walked on board the boat at Illinois town, and transferred themselves from the State of Illinois to the State of Missouri.
Again, I observed that a negro man called Turner, and another who would seem to have been 'most cruelly whipped,' and whose name is not mentioned, are suffering under the imputation of having assisted in sending their colored brethren back to their master. The charge against them is entirely false, and they are unjustly, illegally and unrighteously suffering.
In concluding the already too lengthy communication, I desire to say that I did not have recourse to lawyers and the Fugitive Slave Law, because of a strong objection I entertain, in common with many others, to making my private affairs and losses as­sume the form of public nuisances. I did not then, nor do I now, consider that I had a moral right to place all the good people of Chicago in the dilemma of either endangering their lives in aiding me in a matter of no personal interest to themselves, or else of wilfully violating a law of Congress. Most of your brave and honest citizens, I know, would prefer the first alternative, but it was precisely because I knew they would, that I did not then, nor ever did, willingly ask them to do so.
Thinking, Mr. Editor, that this communication may have the effect of relieving the innocent, and placing all blame, (if any,) where it properly be­longs, on myself, I remain, dear sir,
Very truly yours, D.M.FROST.

SPEECH OP SENATOR IVERSON.
The following passage from a synopsis of Senator Iverson's speech at Griffin, Geo., we find in the Columbus, Ga., Sun:-
The proud and enviable condition of the poor white man in the South, compared to the degraded white slave of the North, is owing to the existence of African slavery at the South. If the question of emancipating negroes were this day submitted to the people of Georgia, nine out of ten who own no slaves would vote in the negative. Slavery must be maintained-in the Union, if possible-out of it, if necessary,-peaceably, if we may-forcibly, if we must, lie was once an advocate of the heresy of squatter sovereignty, but had repented of and
recanted the error. Subsequent investigation had convinced him that the true theory in relation to the territorial governments of the Union is, that it is both the power and duty of Congress to pass laws for the protection of slavery everywhere it exists, or may exist, upon the common soil.
From what had been said, let no one imagine that he was in favor of dissolving the Union from choice. He would surrender it only when convinced it had failed of the great objects of its creation. In a confederated government of their own, the Southern States would enjoy sources of wealth, prosperity and power unsurpassed by any nation on earth. No neutrality laws would restrain our adventurous sons. Our expanding policy would stretch far be­yond present limits. Central America would join her destiny to ours, and Cuba, now withheld from us by the voice and votes of abolition enemies. With a republic larger in extent than all Europe, homogeneous in everything, we should exhibit to the world an example of greatness and power which nothing but the hand of God could ever weaken or destroy.
SWAN AND GROLSON. The Springfield, (Ohio,) News, a stanch Republican paper, thus discourseth:
'If the issue had been the approval or disapproval of Judge Swan's decision, there would have been a majority in its favor. We do not claim that the approval would have been unanimous, but, if there had been an opportunity for expressing it, it would have prevailed triumphantly. In reality, the ac­tion of the Convention, in nominating Judge Ghol­son, sustained Judge Swan; for it is well known, in all portions of Ohio, outside of ' benighted Ash­tabula and the 'skull' of Joshua R. Giddings, that Judge Gholson is just another such a man in sentiment, in talent, and in moral worth as Judge Swan.'
<c03>
SELECTIONS.
EMANCIPATION IN ST. LOUTS.
Correspondence of the New York Tribune.
St. Louis, Aug. 1, 1859.
It may not be a matter of indifference to the readers of the Tribune to know somewhat of the progress that is making in this great city toward disenthralling itself from the shackles of that peculiar institution which in times past has been its pride and glory.
Be it known to them that we, too, have celebrated, on the 1st of August. 1859, the anniversary of the Emancipation in the British Dominions.
Mr. Philip P. Carpenter, brother of Dr. Carpenter, the celebrated physiologist, and the gentleman who recently donated a collection of six thousand shells to the State of New York, and who is now visiting friends in the West, announced to the public, through the Democrat and other papers on Saturday morning, that he would lecture, by consent of the Mayor, on the subject of British emancipation.
On Sunday morning, the following appeared in the St. Louis Republican:
'ABOLITIONISM.-In the Missouri Democrat of yesterday morning (eighth column, second page,) appears the following advertisement:
"NEXT MONDAY EVENING. Aug. 1, being the Anniversary of Emancipation in the British Dominions, an Address will be delivered on the subject (with permission of the Mayor) by Philip P. Carpenter, in the Museum Hall, Market-st., opposite the Court House, at 8 o'clock, p. m. Admission tree. No collection.
jy 30 2t "
'The anniversary referred to is one, of lute years, faithfully observed in those portions of the Northern States where Abolitionism is most rampant, and wears its' most aggressive aspect. At such festivals, it is customary to have an admixture of black and white orators. The advertisement is silent upon this subject, nor does it state whether the meeting is to be for whites or blacks, or if, indeed, both are not invited and expected. The name of " Philip P. Carpenter" does nut occur in Kennedy's excellent directory, and from the circumstances that there is no handle to his name, and that the meeting is " with permission of the Mayor," it is a fair supposition that the meeting is to be for blacks, or for blacks and whites.
'The tenor of the speech to be delivered must be very different from that usual at such assemblages elsewhere held, or the orator will find to his cost that the "permission of Mayor Filley" will not exempt him from the penalties of sec. 10, art. 1, of the statute concerning crimes and punishments. See Revised Statutes, p. 556.
'But are not such celebrations very improper in this city? Can they possibly be productive of good? Will they not certainly be injurious? It is to be hoped that Mayor Filley, reconsidering his permission -obtained, perhaps, by misrepresentation-will withdraw it, and prevent the meeting.
CONSERVATIVE.
On Monday morning, Mr. Carpenter received the following business-like note through the Post Office:
'ST. LOUIS, July 31, 1859.
'MR. P. CARPENTER: A Committee of fifty staunch men, of which I have, been elected Foreman, has been appointed for the purpose of tarring and feathering and riding you on a rail, should you dare attempt the lecture to-morrow night, as advertised.
ZACHARIAH BROWNING, Foreman.
PHIL. P. CARPENTER, Abolition nigger-thieving! Lecturer.'
Mr. C. decided to dare, and at the appointed hour went to the hall, and found that the house he had hired was locked against him. Mr. E. Wyman, through his agent, refused to give entrance to the few assembled, lest a mob should tumble down its walls or break its windows.

Mr. C. took his position as near the door as possible, read his correspondence with Mayor Filley, his letter from the gentlemanly 'foreman' of the 'staunch committee of fifty,' and with the lecture in his hand, offered to read it, if the gentlemen and ladies present desired. Nearly an hour passed, in which he and others made remarks freely on this display of tyrannical spirit; but not one of the 'staunch committee' appeared; the fumes of the tar bucket did not offend our nostrils; and neither the ripping open of pillows, nor the hissing of geese was heard.
The passage was small, with no seats. The friends of Emancipation retired, leaving the boys in their glory.
But I must not forget the beginning of the celebration of this day.
According to the notice given in the following advertisement,-
‘GUARDIAN'S SALE OF SLAVES.-Public notice is hereby given that the undersigned, guardian of Caroline N. Anderson, a minor, will, by order of the Probate Court of St. Louis County, made at the June term, 1859, thereof, on MONDAY, the FIRST DAY OF AUGUST, 1859, at the eastern front door of the Court House of St. Louis County, and between the hours of ten o'clock in the forenoon and three in the afternoon of that day, sell, at public vendue, to the highest bidder, for cash, a FEMALE SLAVE, the property of the said minor, named Emeline, aged about twenty-six years. Also, her four children, a boy and a girl, aged respectively about two and four years, and male twins, aged two months.
WILLIAM G. SALE,
jy 21 Guardian of Caroline V. Anderson.'
The slave Emily appeared, and seated herself on the Court House steps; her two older children, the oldest about four years, crouched at her feet, and her twin babes clasped to her breast. There she sat for' hours, to be questioned and gazed at by the gaping crowd; but no purchaser appearing, she was at length withdrawn by her husband, by the order of his owner, to await in torturing suspense another like ordeal at some future day.
Our election, too, took place to-day, in which the great issue was the defence of the Sabbath by the baby-sellers against the awful desecration of beer drinking and dancing.
The Republican, which advertises and advocates the baby-selling, is the prominent organ of the Sunday party.
The sanctity of the Sabbath was vindicated at 11 1-2 o'clock, Saturday night, by an old and prominent citizen holding the conspicuous place of Dean of the St. Louis Medical College, in this wise:
‘Dr. McDowell, who had just completed a Sunday Reform address in the Mercantile Library, then rose, and delivered a speech, which, for obscenity and profanity, is seldom equalled. In the course of his remarks, he saw a man in the crowd smoking a cigar. He very politely requested the gentleman to desist from the indulgence, and then resumed. Alluding to the results of Sunday beer drinking, he said: 'I never insulted a man in my life, and I'll lick the Firstthat insults me. If the Dutch want to drink lager beer, let them go to the country or else to hell and drink it, but I'll be dd if they'll annoy me with it, and if Mayor Filley won't take care of this city, by the gods 1 will.' Here the eminent Doctor pulled off his coat as an indication that he was ready to fight Mayor Filley, but the latter not

<c04>
being present, Mr. McDowell resumed his speech. He said he was no church member,
and he knew no church would have him, because they would expel him in a week. They would not have him in the Catholic Church, because he would not “wear a cross on shirt.” Here he cried out: “Jim Carlisle, fetch me a toddy.” He was reminded that it was very near Sunday morning11 -2 o’clockbut he said he didn’t care a dn for that. About a dozen glasses filled with various kinds of liquor were now brought him, and be took one in his hand, and was informed that “Frank Blair sent it.” And was requested to drink Frank’s health. But this he would not do, replaying: “Not by a dd sight I won’t drink the health of man who will put an African on the same level with me. Nor I won’t drink to a man who will go to Boston to make Abolition speeches, so as to get a position in Congress. He was whipped here, and then went to Boston. When I am whipped, by Gd I’ll fight on the same soil over again.” The driver of a hackney carriage standing by ventured to say something but the speaker retorted very eloquently, “You drive on out o’ there, or I’ll dd soon make you.” He was asked to say something about “Mitchell,” and replied: “Mr. Mitchell has never said anything to mehe never hurt me any. I was too insignificant for his notice. I never had an office to give; still, I have to be satisfied as to his honesty.” He then commenced to “wade into” all the newspapers in the city, and the Democrat against the Herald, and the Anzeiger against the whole dd lot of them.” In a strain similar to the above, he spoke for three-quarters of an hour, when the meeting adjourned.
I leave the public to make their own comments.
F. D. GAGE.

From the Atlantic Messenger.
THE DEAD, AND WHAT WE SHOULD SAY OP THEM.
Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's-MARK, xi. 17.
The public has lately seen almost the whole king­dom of journalism engaged in emblazoning the name of a fellow-mortal, who has now passed from earth, with next to divine honors; and because some have timidly, and others more boldly, ventured to declare their opinion that these honors were far beyond the measure of praise which justly belonged to the one upon whom they were lavished so profusely and vehemently, not. a few of the public prints have taken it in hand to call them to account for their nonconformity;-because, at the 'sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, and dulcimer' of Custom, they have not fallen down to worship their golden calf, they bitterly reproach and upbraid them, calling them most unhandsome names.
Now, we do not hesitate to say that we utterly repudiate the Roman maxim, De mortuis nil nisi bonum ('of the dead, nothing is to be spoken but good.') Let no man stand over our grave when we are gone, and heap- lying praises upon our dust, to save our name from any infamy which may justly attach to it. Praise thus unjustly bestowed-be­sides the fact that it can do no good to the departed, but, on the contrary, (supposing the disembodied spirit to be cognizant of what is said of him when he leaves his clay,) must tend rather to aggravate his unhappiness-is hateful to God, and injurious to man. It is injurious, because when such men as Rufus Choate, for instance, are held up as models of excellence, and the young and rising generation are instructed to believe that his example has been one which they may safely imitate and follow, we know very well, when we come to look seriously at it, and analyze it carefully, that that life has been far, very far indeed, from being a true copy of what we should wish the youth of our land to be, or to become. All experience proves that the young are just as ready-nay, they are even more likely-to copy the faults and errors of their exemplar than they are to rule their lives by the practice of the more difficult virtues of his mind and heart. The evil that men have done lives after them, as well as the good; and the more transcendent and exalted the genius of a man has been, if, after all, we find it to have been marred and corrupted by mean and unworthy aims, or by knavish and tricky practice, we shall find the example of their lives to be a thousand times more infectious and dangerous than if they had been known upon the lists of fame only as pirates and outlaws. The notorious sinner dies, and is remem­bered only as a terror and a warning; but the man of brilliant and shining parts, who has dazzled the world only to prove how beautiful and alluring false­hood and crime maybe made to seem, erects to him­self a throne of authority even in the grave, and the base will be evermore appealing to the worst points of his character to justify their own sinful passions and practices. Thus it is that the weak and assailable points of every eminent man, (from the earliest times down to the present,) rather than the strong and invulnerable ones-his unjust and unrighteous deeds, rather than those which have reflected true honor and glory upon his characterare seized upon to sanctify the most damnable crimes and treasons the world bas ever known. Thus it is that the apologist for American slavery appeals to the example of Washington as a slaveholder, and thinks the infamous Fugitive Slave Law triumphantly vindicated in the fact that the ' Father of his country' gave his sanction to a similar law in his time, and captured human chattels under it, while he puts all his virtues in the background, making them only secondary to his wrongs and errors. Thus it is that Webster himself,-yea, even the '1godlike Daniel,'-did more mischief to the cause of liberty and humanity by his speech of the 7th of March, 1850, in defence of the infernal slave bill, than all the friends of freedom will be able to repair for years to come. For, just think a moment: Webster is never mentioned now, by his chief admirers, in connection with the very much that he had previously said in favor of human freedom; but all the weight of that mighty intellect which he possessed is made to glorify his last, his crowning deed, that brought damnation on this guilty land.
Now, it is for reasons like these that we feel bound protest against the unwarrantable and guilty homage which has been burdening the press of nearly the whole country from the moment Choate's death was announced, down to the present hour, and the Boston journals in particular. Concerning the dead, we would speak nothing but what is true. It would have pleased as better to have passed over his death in silence; and this we should have done, had the press of the country generally been satisfied with giving such notice of his life and death as would have accorded with the known facts of his history. Not but it was perfectly right and proper, if they saw fit, to make an honest and truthful re­port of the fair side of his character; but, in doing so, they should have been equally honest and truth­ful in dealing with his faults and errors, that the young, taking knowledge thereof, might have been put on their guard against them. This they should have done, or else said nothing.
Speaking of his general lack of candor, integrity

<c05>
and conscience, the New Bedford Standard bears testimony as follows:
‘Looking at Mr. Choate's public career in this light, we cannot think it a model for imitation. We see nothing in him to entitle him to be called great. His was not
'One of the few immortal names
That were not born to die.'
He left behind him no durable work. He made no impress upon his age. He did not help forward the car of human progress a line. He lived in the past, not in the future. His professional course was a brilliant but fatal example. His memory will not outlive his personal attachments, nor is he, in our opinion, a worthy model for those who shall come after him.
The Provincetown Banner does not hesitate to pronounce that he has been 'weighed in the balance, and found wanting,' as the following paragraph from its columns will show:
'We freely admit that Rufus Choate was a brilliant man-a genius-a Great man, in many respects; but that he was all that is virtuous, good and noble, as his eulogists would make it appear, we cannot admit, simply because we do not so believe. With all his talents and force, he did less for the State, or for humanity, than many much humbler men have done, who have gone down to their graves with no outward pomp and pageantry. As a lawyer, and partly as an
orator, he was all that may be claimed for him-or as a citizen and friend; but, tried by the broad principles of universal truth, justice, liberty, after the ebullitions of the hour are over, the age will pronounce him, 'weighed in the balance, and found wanting.' Men will not always be deceived by exhibitions of more learning, and the flash of genius; but will demand that solid virtue which has a purpose, and that purpose the exaltation of human destiny, the triumph, of eternal right.'
The Cape Cod Advocate also bears witness to the same purpose, greatly to the annoyance of several of Mr. Buchanan's government-fed whiffles, one of which (the editor of the New Bedford Times) gets very furious over the matter. The Advocate should repeat to him the admonition of Peter to the jailer, 'Do thyself no harm!'
Thus endeth our chapter concerning 'The Dead, and what we should say of them.'

RUFUS CHOATE.
We have marked, with some surprise, the tone of eulogy which has characterized the notices of this man since his decease. A stranger to his name, on reading our daily papers, would think that one of the just men of the earth had passed away. We should be sorry to undervalue his good qualities: whatever were the merits of his heart as a friend and companion, whatever the reach of his talents, or the extent of his learning, let him have due credit for all; but neither courtesy to his friends, nor due regard for the sacredness of the grave, should make us falsify the notorious facts of his life, and because he had some excellencies, and perhaps many friends, give the name of a Christian, a patriot, and a statesman, to one who merited none of them.
We heard Rufus Choate speak but once, and that was before a library association-an association which did not call out the peculiar talents for which he was known. We were able, however, from this effort to discover, in some respects, the character of his mind: and we noticed-what every other auditor of his has noticed-that he sacrificed everything to effect. This we remarked to be the leading feature of his character. We noticed, also, that whatever other talents this speaker might possess, he was de­ficient in one talent which we consider indispensable to true oratory-moral vision-a sad deficiency in­deed. No man ever attained immortality without it. For this reason, with all his shrewdness, he was no statesman; with all his passionate and imaginative speech, he was no true orator. Compare his efforts -if he ever said anything that could be remembered -with hose of John Quincy Adams, Charles Sum­ner, Horace Mann, or, looking back to his earlier days, Daniel Webster. There can be no greatness without moral principle. Mr. Choate was a one sided characterbrilliant in some respects, lamen­tably deficient in others. He was a meteor, not a star. He has done nothing for his country, nothing for his race worthy of the position he held; and it is the most absurd and ridiculous thing that the press of the country has done for years, to glorify such a character.-East Boston Ledger.

DEATH OF HON. HORACE MANN. The announcement of the death of this eminent man by telegraphic despatch, Wednesday, was received with deep and universal regret by his late fellow-citizens, and in every community where his noble and praiseworthy efforts in the cause of edu­cation and the elevation of men, during the past quarter of a century, are known. The death of this distinguished savan took place on Tuesday afternoon, at Yellow Springs, Ohio, where he has resided several years, since he became the President of Antioch College, which office he has filled with great ability and satisfaction about six years. He died somewhat suddenly of typhoid fever. Horace Mann was born in Franklin, in this State, in May 1796, consequently he was in his 64th year. With very limited means, being a farmer's son, he prepared him­self for college; he entered Brown University in 1816, and graduated in the class of 1819, maintain­ing throughout a prominent scholarship. He was tutor and librarian from 1820 to 1823; he sub­sequently studied law, and commenced practice in Dedham, where he resided several years; and he was elected to the Legislature from that town, where he filled a prominent position. In 1836 Mr. Mann re­moved to Boston, and in that and the following year, was elected to the Senate as a national republican, from Suffolk county, and was chosen to preside over that body each year, where he exerted great influence in promoting those noble and benevolent enterprises which have given his native Commonwealth an un­dying name. In 1837 he was appointed Secretary of the Board of Education, by Governor Everett, where he continued to labor with great zeal until 1848. When he retired from this position, to ac­cept the nomination of representative in Congress, in the place made vacant by the death of John Quincy Adams, Governor Everett said-' I honor beyond all common names of respect, the distinguish­ed gentleman, Horace Mann, who for twelve years has devoted the indomitable energy of his character to this noble cause. He will be remembered till the history of Massachusetts is forgotten, as one of her greatest benefactors.’ A noble tribute to Mann. He served in Congress from the Norfolk district until 1853, with distinguished ability, when he received the appointment which he has filled to the hour of his death; His loss to that institution is irreparable, and it will be sincerely lamented by friends every where in our land. Truly, a good man hath de­parted.
The friends of the late the Hon. Horace Mann held a meeting in Boston, on Thursday, August 11, at the rooms of the American Unitarian Association.
George B. Emerson, Treasurer of the Board of Education, presided.
Remarks eulogistic of the deceased were-made by

<c06>
the Hon. Linus B, Comins, the Hon. Henry Wilson, the Rev. Dr. Gannett, the Rev. Mr. Waterston, Prof. Badger, of Antioch College, and others, in which the labors of Mr. Mann in the cause of education were appropriately and feelingly alluded to.
The following Committee was appointed to carry out a resolve to erect a suitable monument to his memory at Mount Auburn:-Hon. Josiah Quincy, Samuel G. Howe, George S. Boutwell, George H. Emerson, Prof. Crosby, and the Rev. Messrs. E. E. Hale, E. Edmunds, and R. C. Waterston.
It was stated that a fund of $20,000 bad already been invested for the benefit of Mr. Mann's chil­dren.

MANN AND WEBSTER.
The Boston Courier stated, in connection with the death of Horace Mann, that he 'would probably have been continued in Congress many years, if he had not assailed the course of Daniel Webster.' To this the Springfield Republican well replies, that it is as near the truth as the Courier can be expected to hit, when speaking of any man worthy of the honor of Massachusetts. The plain matter of fact is, that those who dishonor the name of Webster, by calling themselves 'Webster whigs,' undertook to defeat there-election of Mr. Mann to Congress, but failed, and he was re-elected by a majority of 2,530 over the 'Webster whigs,' and 260 over both parties of the opposition. And the whole State endorsed Mr. Mann's position, by electing Boutwell Governor, and sending Rantoul and Sumner to the U. S. Senate. Mr. Mann peremptorily declined a second reelection. We do not believe that many, who were in that day 'Webster whigs,' take pride now in their opposition to Mr. Mann, or will thank the Courier for reviving the subject.-Bellows Falls Times.

TRIBUTE TO HORACE MANN. At a meeting of the Board of Education, held at the office of its Secretary on the 5th inst., the fol­lowing resolutions were unanimously adopted, and the Secretary was requested to furnish a copy of the same to the family of the Hon. Horace Mann:-
Resolved, That this Board feel, with all the friends of education throughout the country, the irrepara­ble loss to the cause of education by the death of the Hon. Horace Mann, which they are so suddenly called to deplore.
Resolved, That they acknowledge a debt of grat­itude to the memory of Mr. Mann for his indefat­igable zeal, energy and devotedness, and the com­plete self-consecration and self-sacrifice for twelve years, as Secretary of the Board, with which, he gave himself, with untiring labor and earnest and ardent eloquence, to the work of building up the common schools in Massachusetts; that the fruits of his labors are every where manifest; and that an impulse was given to the cause by his exertions which can never be fully appreciated, and the ef­fects of which will never cease.
Resolved, That the Board desire to express to the family of the Hon. Horace Mann the profound sym­pathy which they and all who know him here entertain.

LAST HOURS OF HORACE MANN.
Extract of a letter from a member of the Faculty of Antioch College to a gentleman in Lunenburg:-
'On Monday morning, (Aug. 1st,) I was allowed to visit him, and my first glance convinced me that the chances were against his recovery. On Tuesday, at 5 o'clock, P. M., the great soul mounted from the fallen tower. I was with him constantly during the last thirty-six hours of his life, and I must say that I never saw the excellencies of his character so fully revealed. All that was craggy, angular and masculine had already died, and what remained was rich indeed. His real greatness never shone out more than in the death-hour. When he was told that he had but a few hours to live, his brain flashed up with all the glow of his best days, and he talked at least two hours in a strain of al­most supra-mortal eloquence. The members of his family, students remaining here during the vaca­tion, were called in at his request, and he had for each some word of warning or cheer. It was par­ticularly note-worthy, that his remarks to each person had some specific pertinency of adaptation.
'His ideas, and the language in which he clothed them, were really grand, and amazed us all to si­lence-nay, melted us all to tears. A signal sweet­ness and tenderness pervaded every word. Not often in one's lifetime does one have the privilege of wit­nessing so great a scene. I am forced to confess that I never before appreciated the softness of the core that this masculine heart contained.'
TWO MEN AND THEIR HONORS.
Hardly had the minute-guns and the knell died away upon our ears, or the out-pouring of funeral orations subsided, [in reference to Rufus Choate,] when on the wings of the lightning came to us the intelligence that another son of Massachusetts had gone within the marble jaws of the tomb. Not a single minute-gun sent forth its lamentation-not a knell was heard-the colors on the shipping were not at half-mast. The newspapers, more just than the public, faithfully sketched the life of the de­ceased, and one or two bodies rested a moment while they passed resolutions. But there was no gathering in the streets, no crowded assemblage in Faneuil Hall. He was the President of a college, and, prospectively at least, an important one; but we have heard of no scholastic mourning from any College Faculty. He was a philanthropist, but there has been no out-gushing from that class. He was a scholar, but there have been no resolutions in Greek idioms. He was an orator, but from the bar nor the pulpit have they brought tributes to their broth­er in that glorious art. He could claim much better than many to whom it is accorded, to be a states­man, but neither from that class, nor from the many who aspire to rank in that class, have we been permitted to hear of the virtues, the genius, or the ability of Horace Mann. Why this silence, dead and sullen as the tomb whither he has gone?
We have already sketched his life, and will not repeat it. But have a generous public forgotten his services to the Commonwealth? Have they for­gotten those monuments which now stand to his memory in the city, the village, and on the hill­side? Have they forgotten to Whom we are chiefly indebted for that system of schools which is the pride of Massachusetts? Is there no recollection of his services in founding the Insane Asylum at Wor­cester, and other institutions of humanity? It is worth our while to recollect now, that there was once in this State an officer, laboring for years at the head of the Board of Education, devoting all the energies of mind and body for years to the perform­ance of his duties, and that on an inadequate sala­ry. Who can remember those years of trial and op­position, and than to-day witness their results, with­out admiration of the man? We throw out of consideration his services in every other depart­ment of action, although they were not without merit, at the bar, in Congress, and in letters. Mas­sachusetts owes to him a debt of gratitude for his services in the cause of schools alone, which, if not

NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with. death, and an agreement with hell.'
The free States are the guardians and essen­tial supports of slavery. We are the jailers and con­stables of the institution… There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for look­ing at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution… No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'
-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
greater than she owes any other man, demand a recognition. If Horace Mann is permitted to sleep without the recognition of his services in some more public and emphatic form, it will be a burning disgrace to the Common wealth, and will be proof conclusive as to the ingratitude of Republics. 
We are not blind to some of the unfortunate traits in the character of Horace Mann. No man ever had more acrimonious controversies, or more bitter hates. But he never wavered in his fidelity to Massachusetts, at a time when it cost something to be true. And his services to the State were of that positive and decided character whose results remains and will remain for ages, whether they are formally recognized or not. They will constantly obtrude themselves upon as, and crop out in the histories and eulogiums of future time, even if prejudice or neglect at the present time deny him what is his right. If we measure the services of these two men in the State and the nation, practically and soberly, we cannot hesitate on whom to bestow the highest prize. If men were not charmed by the fascinations of genius, and captured by tropes and metaphors, while patient and untiring labor is disregarded; if the blaze of oratory did not so blind men that they forget the value of other and more serviceable labor; if, in tributes to genius, however just, we did not forget what is due to philanthropy and humanity and education, there would have been before this some fitting commemoration of the virtues of a son of Massachusetts, who now sleeps under the sod of another State. In one of Choate's orations, there is a tribute to Horace Mann, from which the friends of both or either might receive a suggestion, which would be profitable to their own reputation, and just to the reputation of the dead.-Boston Atlas and Bee. 

CHOATE AND MANN. 
Extract from a cogent and eloquent Sermon, from the text, ' Speaking the truth in love,' preached on Sunday morning, August 7th, by Rev. O. B. FROTHINGHAM, Pastor of the Third Unitarian Society in New York:- 
It is often a duty to speak the truth about people. One of the most solemn duties of life-a duty that we owe to ourselves, to society, and not less, I think, to the person, living or dead, who is spoken of; a duty which no false modesty, or fastidiousness, or fancied propriety should induce us to ever omit; and yet a duty so difficult and so delicate that what is called, in the foolish world, chanty, makes a principle of not discharging it at all. Yet surely it is of the utmost importance that men should know who and what people are with whom they may be dealing-who and what people were whose memory they are blindly revering. No Christian will let prudence or politeness, or a mistaken respect for persons, silence his mouth when unprincipled men are misleading their fellows to their hurt. I have no patience with those excessively amiable persons who make it a virtue never to speak ill of anybody. Are all men and women saints? Or if sinners, is it none of our business to know it? I am fully conscious of the danger of speaking-the danger that one may deceive himself, may injure innocence, may encourage a censorious spirit. One walks here amid dangers all the way. The slanderer claims to speak nothing but the simple truth when he blasts the character of his brother man with reckless wickedness. The gossip professes to speak the simple truth when he undermines reputations for sport. The libeller protests that he utters only what is true when he spits his venom maliciously upon the objects of hie personal dislike. The satirist falls back upon the assertion that he reports evident facts, when possibly contempt is lurking in every line he writes. It is never a duty to speak truth about men just because it is truth, and we happen to know it. It is never a duty to speak the truth about men when it is not likely to benefit in a much greater degree than it injures. If charity leads to the exposure of many sins, it always covers up a multitude. Still, charity does lead us to expose many. Charity imposes this duty -love bids us speak ill as well as good of our neighbors. Let the lover, then, do it; but we must all then become lovers, that we may all do it on occasion. For, verily, few things need more to be done than this; and few things are done so badly. So very badly is it done, that the actual doing of it is one of the curses of the world; so very badly that good men say, ' let it not be done at all-better silence than slander '; so badly that, from time immemorial, there has been a motto, ' Nil de mortuis, nisi bonum '-' speak nothing but good of the dead '; let the telling of bad truth about men stop with the grave, as if all the talk of the earth was nothing but slander, insult and reviling. 
If death could only enforce the maxim it has suggested, and stop slander at the grave, we would call it most blessed of angels. Since lust we met here, the telegraph wires have brought us the report of a noble man's death. Noble he was indeed, loyal and brave, a man devoted to the best interests of his fellow-men, a foe to all iniquity, a friend to all righteousness, a cleaner heart and a holier conscience in a naughty world; but in his life he was misrepresented and abused. If death would exert its charm now over slanderous tongues to silence them forever; if death would just touch 'with persuasion eloquent lips, and make them declare all his great worth as a man, a patriot, a philanthropist, a pure character; to be looked up to and copied by all young men! But HORACE MANN will sleep in an obscure grave, and they who have always spoken the truth about him thankfully, will now speak the same truth in tears. Meanwhile, our ears are even now ringing with the forced lamentations, the decorous groans, the ceremonious and fulsome oratory which but two or three weeks since strained to exalt an unscrupulous advocate, a reckless master of tongue-fence, a man undistinguished by any of the grandest qualities that ennoble humanity, and very much distinguished for some qualities that are not grand at all, into the rank of patriot, sage and Christian. Of him the truth must not be spoken, for the truth would not be flattering, and him men dared only flatter! But why should truth be buried in the grave? What title has death to cast the veil of oblivion over human follies, and change the vices of men into virtues? What title has death to hoodwink our sense of justice, and to lay the finger of silence upon righteous lips? What title has death to canonize sin? The dead are our rulers-nay, they are our idols. A few years pass, and they are taken up into the bright skies of our imagination, to be revered as heroes and demi-gods, or to be execrated as villains and detni-devile. We take them as examples, we appeal to them as guides, we make them the measure of our existence; surely, then, we ought to know the truth about them ere it is too late. It is a serious thing to confuse the standard of virtue, and mislead the veneration of the world. It is a serious thing to let a bad man pass on to immortal fame, and a good man perhaps pass on to immortal infamy-and all because their death-knell has struck. It would be hard to say which has done the most mischief in the world, injustice to the living or misjudgment of the dead. Let us have the truth now at least. The dead cannot be harmed by it, nor grieved by it. Nay, they must wish it to be spoken freely for the instruction and benefit of their fellow-men. It is simple justice that calls for it. The highest love demands it-Christian charity is here the revealer, inspirer and guide; Christian charity that will not speak evil falsely, nor yet will falsely speak well of any. 
AN IRISHH ' PATRIOT' SQUELCHED.
John Mitchel, 'the Irish patriot,' and author of the cabbage-garden rebellion, who, some years since, was transported to Botany Bay far his pains, and eventually reached this country by breaking his parole of honor in the convict settlement, appears to have become a martyr to his peculiar views of human rights. When Mr. Mitchel reached New York for the first time, he was received with an enthusiasm that knew no bounds. There had been nothing like it since Lafayette and Kossuth came here, This popular ovation was conceded him in the belief that he was a man who had fought and suffered for Freedom. In spite of the conservative character of the population New York, such a man invariably lifts our people out of the slough of selfishness, and lets loose the nobler sentiments of their nature. Soon after ha arrival, he commenced a Newspaper, the Citizen, and started with an unprecedented subscription list of nearly 50,000, so heartily did the public love the man, and so fully did they believe in the sincerity of his advocacy of the Rights of man. But ere he had grown warn in the editorial chair, he gave utterance, to sentiments the most opposite to those which, from his past life, he was supposed to entertain. He boldly avowed his belief in the right of African Slavery; 'that it was right to hold slaves, to buy slaves, to sell slaves, and to whip slaves, and he sighed for an Alabama plantation well stocked with fat niggers It is hardly necessary to relate that, after this hold avowal of his real senti-
<c02>
ments, the pinchbeck patriot found himself deserted by those who had so ardently loved him for his supposed devotion to a great principle. His subscription list suddenly fell down to zero, and he went south, where he became a zealous and consistent up-holder of the peculiar institution. His Southern Citizen out-heroded Herod, in its virulent advocacy the revival of the African Slave Trade, and kindred abominations. Disunion was hotly urged upon the South, and Northern laborers were represented as being more degraded and more miserable than southern slaves. The more moderate and sensible statesman of the South were stigmatized by him as fools and knaves, traitors to their country, and allies of Abolitionists. Mitchel has lived to see his pet project, the revival of the African Slave Trade, which we believe he was the first journalist to openly advocate, become a power in the South; before be dies, he may see it legalized. But renegades are always regarded with suspicion; and John Mitchel was no exception. He received so little consideration and support at the South-from those who, while they professed the doctrines which he held and advocated, yet despised their champion for his infamous recreancy-that he was obliged to come to Washington last winter with his paper. Now we see it is announced that the Southern Citizen is to be merged with the New York Day Book, a journal of the same stamp, Mr. Mitchel retiring to private life. He threatened if he did not succeed in his Southern disunion project, that he would come North, and cooperate with Mr. Lloyd Garrison to dissolve the Union. But we very much doubt if he dares to do, this, after being so thoroughly squelched at the South. Rather let us hope that, having perverted its powers, and falsified the glorious promise of his youth, he may spend the remainder of his days in some pursuit where his influence will be less pernicious to public morals, than the profession of journalism.-New York Dispatch. 

JOHN MITCHEL. 
The great Mitchel mystery is at cleared up, or rather it is deepened and darkened. Mr. Mitchel has certainly sold out his journal, in order to leave the country; but as he himself says in his explanatory letter to Mr. L. W. Spratt of Charleston-the philosopher of the new African slave trade-it is a step which cannot at present be fully accounted for.' Meanwhile it is a satisfaction to know, amid all the doubt in which we are plunged by this ambiguous statement, that the family of Mr. Mitchel will still live in the United States. ' The individual disappears, the race survives.' 
In parting from his friend Spratt, Mr. Mitchel naturally indulges an emotion, and asks pardon for any offences he may have committed. He may have, been somewhat peremptory and harsh in dealing with Southern opponents, but he is every day more satisfied that he was right in the main. But as for the precise line of American politics which he has pursued, he desires the world to understand that it has been prompted and governed by Spratt more than by any other personal influence-a revelation which throws a heavy responsibility on Spratt's shoulders. At the same time, he does not wish to deny that he has met, even from opponents at the South, with consideration, respect and forbearance. For the North he cares not. Apparently no community in which free white men form the greater proportion of the population, can have any interest for the Mitchelian mind. But we must be allowed a single quotation: 
'Well, then, my dear Spratt, I vanish from Southern and Northern politics. The Dred Scott decision must take care of itself for a time. Squatter sovereignty and every sort of philanthropy, and the spirit of the age, and, in short, all forms of blatherumskite, will have one enemy the less. I leave at an exciting moment, and could have loved to witness your approaching battle at Charleston. Indeed, I feel in some, degree as if I were quitting an important post-more important, perhaps, in my own eyes than in those of others. Nevertheless, in quitting it just at this moment, and for that stormy Europe, I expect that the readers of our paper will not only hold me excused, but will pray for me.'
We will simply say, in conclusion, that if Mr. Mitchel has really gone not to Europe, but to Africa for a cargo of slaves, as is most probably the case, he would have exhibited more of the chivalric gallantry of an Irish gentleman and a slave-master by boldly announcing the fact, and not seeking to hide it, as if it were something to be ashamed of, and done in sneaking secresy.-New York Tribune.

WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Wendell Phillips, who, from his super-eminent, transcendental stand-point, looks down with blighting scorn or melting pity upon the lower strata of Anti-Slavery men, who in their blindness think that the best thing they can do is to co-operate with the Republican party for the overthrow of the slave power, thus alludes to the Era in a recent letter:
Shall we say Slavery is a sin, and quote Channing on the dignity of human nature? The hearer will say, 'True, but the Tribune or the Era will allow that, and yet show us a royal road to duty, with no thorns in it, and no sacrifices to make.' 
It is not enough that the Era and the Republicans oppose Slavery on every ground of justice, morality, religion and policy, which the fertile fancy of Mr. Phillips could suggest. It is not enough that we combat Slavery, on slave soil, while he keeps at the safe distance of five hundred miles from the hated monster. Our sin is, that we differ from Mr. Phillips. He has written a book, and he will stand by it. He has demonstrated that the Constitution is a pro-slavery instrument, ' a covenant with death, and a league with hell,' and hence all who vote under it, or hold office under it, enter into this covenant. 
We may remark, by the way, that this book of Mr. Phillips is the only one in the whole range of Anti-Slavery literature which finds any favor among the Slavery propagandists. It establishes their theory to their entire satisfaction as well as to his, upon the high abolition authority of the Boston orator. We incline to suspect that many of the more ultra demands of the slave power were suggested to the leaders of the oligarchy by the study of Mr. Phillips's book. He is so intensely Anti-Slavery, that he will not even cast his pure, unsullied Abolition vote into the same poll-box which contains pro-slavery votes! He will not sully his ballot by the foul contact. Mr. P. is so ferocious in his hatred of Slavery and pro-slavery people, that he will have nothing to do with them, or against them. He will not assist the Republicans to put them down by the ballot, nor the Radical Abolitionists by the bayonet. His sole weapons of war are denunciations, winged with transcendental wit and eloquence, and hurled a distance of five hundred miles at the devoted heads of the oligarchs. If they are not completely withered, wilted, or melted into a sense of their guilt, it will not be his fault, but theirs. 
Mr. Phillips's non-voting, non-resistant method of extinguishing Slavery reminds us of the story of the honest anti-bank man, who burnt up the bank bills as an infallible method of destroying the credit of the institution. He says to the friends of Slavery, ' I wash my hands of all connection with you. I will not vote against such a set of miscreants. I am also a man of peace, and will not resist you by arms or otherwise. Go ahead, vote yourselves into Congress and the Presidency, buy, steal or conquer Cuba, establish a slave code for the Territories, revive the slave-trade; but do what you will, I denounce you in the name of God and Liberty!' Such is substantially the platform and the policy of Mr. Wendell Phillips. He is welcome to enjoy, all alone, the harvest of glory it may produce.-National Era. 
The sneering spirit which pervades the foregoing article from the Era deserves no answer, and carries its own antidote with it. To the assertion, ' It is not enough that the Era and the Republicans oppose Slavery on every ground of justice, morality, religion and policy we reply that this is glaringly untrue. It is because they meddle with only some of the legitimate results of Slavery, and not with Slavery itself- because they trim, and compromise, and substitute policy for principle-that Mr. Phillips rebukes them and not for a mere difference of opinion. If it is true that he has DEMONSTRATED that the Constitution is a covenant with death and a league with hell,' then surely, he is not to blame for the deduction, that all who vote under it, or hold office under it, enter into this covenant.' His views of the Constitution, in regard to its pro-slavery features, an those of the Republican party, the Democratic party, and the whole nation without distinction of party. To represent them as peculiar to Mr. Phillips, or his associates, is sheer effrontery. If he refuses to vote, it is because he will not defile his conscience-an act which the new a editor of the Era has no conscience to comprehend. 
<c03>
BOSTON. AUGUST 19, 1859. 
LETTER FROM THEODORE PARKER.
Our esteemed friend, FRANCIS JACKSON, Esq. kindly permits us to publish the following extracts from letter which he has just received from Mr. PARKER, knowing how wide an interest is felt in his welfare, It is most gratifying to believe that his health is really improving. May his days be long in the world! 
MONTREUX, Canton Vaud, Switzerland, July 2, 1859. 
FRANCIS JACKSON, Esq.: 
DEAR FRIEND-It is a long time since I wrote you, although I have sent letters to many others since he 3d of June. The truth is, I am indebted to so many persons for epistolary and other favors, that my gratitude would keep me writing all the time to repay the kindness I have received; but there must be a limit even to gratitude-so I write much less than I would, remembering your injunction, ' not to overdo.' Let me say, that I am a deal better here than ever before since leaving Boston; nay, bating the ill condition of the voice, and a certain ugly cough, I am better than last year at this time. Besides, the cough itself abated greatly after I came here, but I caught cold in a steamboat, and the tormentor came back, but is now quietly going off again. The weather here has been very fine, like our beautiful July weather; thermometer 82 to 84 in the shade, and dropping down to 72 or 70 at night. It has been raining for three or four days, and the mercury stands it 60. It went down to 58 on our passage hence from the West Indies, when near the Azores: that is the lowest I have seen it since we entered the Gulf Stream, Feb.10th!
We are well situated here-a fine house, beautiful situation, and excellent companions. Mr. Lyman, the Hunts, and the Apthorps, are at the same house. 
I meant to write Mr. Garrison a letter, to be read on the first of August, but could not quite bring it to pass. Give him my heartiest regards, and his family also. 
How like the 'Evil One' the American Government does act! The Slave trade with Africa carried on publicly, and with the connivance of the Federal Authorities-no man punished for the most open violation of the law, which was meant to prohibit that foulest of wrongs; the Supreme Court scoffing at the first principles of all just government, and treading State Rights and the Rights of Man under foot; kidnappers in Pennsylvania, Ohio, every where seizing innocent men, and hounding them off to slavery; Circuit Courts putting noble men in jail, for the most common acts of natural charity and instinctive justice, and that too by the verdict of Northern juries; Governors, like Chase of Ohio, allowing the kidnappers full swing in their own Northern States; Legislatures, like those of New York, Massachusetts and New Hampshire, refusing to pass a Liberty Law, which shall prevent the worst crimes against Humanity; the Republican Party crouching down and sneaking off from its most obvious duty and plainest interest- what a sight it is!
America has no good influence in European politics at present. Thoughtful men, friends of the human race, who seek to advance the progress of mankind, look at our diplomatic officers abroad, men like Dallas at London, Mason at Paris, Daniel at Turin, and J. Glancey Jones at Vienna, and ask, ' Is that the fruit of the American tree?' For answer, they look at the tree itself-a Democracy that bears four million slaves, and scatters the seeds of bondage into every Territory and every State! They look at the American Church, and find no leading sect that dares oppose the most monstrous evil in the world! What can an enlightened man hope from a people who tolerate such things? If he is a stranger, his fears overpower his hopes. You and I are Americans-democrats, too, in the deepest depths of our nature,-and we may see through all this wickedness, and foretell a virtuous manhood for this youth prematurely debauched, who now disgraces the Continent; but a European philosopher or statesman cannot judge us in that way. So at this day, I think, our example only aids the tyrant. Of course, men like Caleb Cushing and his gang of atheistic hypocrites rejoice in all this, as preparing for the ruin of the democratic institutions which they hate. 
God bless you and yours! Faithfully, 
THEODORE PARKER. 

FIRST OP AUGUST IN LONDON. 
The twenty-fifth anniversary of the abolition of West India slavery was celebrated on the first of August by a public meeting at the Music Hall, Store Street, Bedford Square, London, over which Lord Brougham presided. The attendance was large, and the proceedings of an enthusiastic character. In the course of his speech, Lord Brougham made the following reference to this country:- 
'I grieve to say, that our brethren, our kinsfolk in America, furnish another exception to our example; but of that I would speak tenderly, from recollecting that America has acted admirably in many respects, and even abolished the slave trade a year before we ourselves did it. Even in Georgia, which is as devoted to the 'institution,' as they are pleased to call it, as any of the Southern States, it teas our fault, and not theirs, that they ever had slavery, for we pressed it upon them, and they refused it. They protested against it, but we defeated them, and it is our fault that that ' institution ' prevails in those States. But it is pleasing to reflect that our reasoning, and the reasoning of our public men, as well as of our diplomatic agents, may probably succeed there, and in Spain also, so that we shall see the end of the abuse, and Slavery will be no more-
Spread, oh! spread thy reign, fair Peace, from shore to shore,
Till conquests cease, and Slavery be no more!
The charity of the noble Lord is misplaced. The Southern States never protested against slavery as such, but in Virginia, as a slave-breeding State, there was an early opposition manifested to the continuance of the foreign slave trade. If England could. not make her American Colonies submit to a three penny tax on tea, it was not in her power to make them swallow slavery, unless they had an appetite for it. 
The meeting was also addressed by Gov. Hincks of Barbadoes, George Thompson, Esq., of London, Hon. Amasa Walker, of Massachusetts, and others, whose speeches were warmly applauded. Mr. Walker sends us the following brief account of it:- 
LONDON, Aug. 1, 1859.
DEAR GARRISON: 
I have just returned from a meeting of the friends of Emancipation, in commemoration of the great event which took place a quarter of a century ago this day. Lord Brougham presided. The room was filled by an interested audience, many speeches were made, and the whole affair passed off quite pleasantly. 
You will have a full account of the meeting, no doubt, and I write this only to notice two facts, which I thought you might like to hear from me. First, that our friend George Thompson made a speech, which for eloquence and power was quite equal to any performance I ever heard him make, in his palmiest days. He spoke, perhaps, forty-five minutes. I do not know as be could now speak for three or four hours, as he used to do, but was quite astonished to find that, after all he has suffered, he was able to make so brilliant an effort. I think all his friends will be very much gratified to learn this, and I am sure we may confidently expect that he will do great service for humanity in the future, as in the past. 
The other fact that impressed me was the great amount of information communicated by Gov. Hincks, of Barbadoes, and other gentlemen acquainted with the West Indies, in regard to the favorable working of emancipation. The evidence was overwhelming that the great experiment is a success. I had, I must 
<c04>
confess, been led to entertain great fears as to the future of the emancipated slaves, but those fears are now removed.
I find a great many persons here who feel a deep interest in the movements of the Abolitionists in the United States, as well as in the political events of the day. I am, ever and truly, yours,
AMASA WALKER. 
Mr. Walker addressed a meeting of the Ballot Society in London on the 23d ult., upon his favorite theme of the independence and the secresy of the a ballot. He spoke particularly of the advantages of, the Massachusetts law of 1852, and delineated the working of the entire system in this country. The, meeting tendered him a vote of thanks for his eminent services in the cause. 

RESIGNATION OF OFFICE
At a special meeting of the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, held at 21 Cornhill, August 10th, 1859, the Secretary read the following communication received from the Treasurer of the Society, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, Esq.:- 
To the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts A.S Society:
MY DEAR FRIENDS-My health is so poor, and its restoration so uncertain, it becomes my duty to resign the office of Treasurer of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society. 
The books, papers and balance in the Treasury will be ready for delivery to any person you may select and appoint as my successor in that office. 
With profound regard, I remain your friend, and the friend of the oppressed, SAMUEL PHILBRICK. 
Brookline, Aug. 4, 1859. 
In reluctantly accepting the resignation thus tendered by Mr. PHILBRICK, the Board unanimously, adopted the following resolutions:- 
Resolved, That this Board, painfully constrained by his failing health to accept the letter of SAMUEL PHILBRICK, Esq., resigning his office as Treasurer of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society,-the duties of which office he has discharged with unsurpassed fidelity, and without any other reward than the consciousness of well-doing ever ensures,-would convey to him the expression of its high regard, its sympathizing feeling, its grateful appreciation of his disinterested and long-tried services in the cause of the oppressed, and its trust that he may yet be restored to health, and his valuable life greatly prolonged. 
Resolved, That in his necessary withdrawal from the office he has so long and so faithfully filled, the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society will be deprived of a wise counsellor and sagacious manager, whose rare integrity, sound judgment, and eminent conscientiousness have largely contributed to commend it to public confidence, and given efficiency and character to its operations. 
This tribute to the character and services of Mr. PHILBRICK is most just deserved. He was, emphatically, ' the right man in the right place,' and that place one of no ordinary responsibility. His labors cover an extended period, as he gave to the Anti-Slavery cause his early countenance and support. His illness will be widely regretted, but we trust he will yet be restored, if not to his former strength and usefulness, at least to a comfortable degree of health., His present consolation must be such as Milton drew from his blindness- 
He also serves who only stands and waits.'
EDMUND JACKSON, Esq., of Boston, was unanimously chosen Treasurer of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, to fill the vacancy occasioned by the resignation of Mr. PHILBRICK. A better selection could not be made. 
ETTORE FIERAMOSCA: or, The Challenge of. Barletta. The Struggles of an Italian against Foreign Invaders and Foreign Protectors. By Massimo D' Azeglio. Boston: Phillips, Sampson & Co. 1859. 
This work-a translation-is dedicated 'to those true Americans, who think justly of Italian virtue; who, alive to Italian misfortune, do not expect Italian social regeneration from blood, stiletto, or conspiracy; but from order, law, mutual respect, and from the revival of Italian wisdom, and of Italian valor.' It illustrates the spirit which existed between Italy and France in the Sixteenth Century, and is full of stirring incidents, narrated with great skill and power. The descriptions of the various sanguinary tournaments is equal to any thing of the kind in the writings of Walter Scott. But the moral tendency of all such, even in romance, is more than questionable. The translator says-' I have an opinion of my own about Napoleon III. I think him honest. He means, I believe, to do good to Italy. The fact of his upholding the government of Piedmont gives rise to misgivings in the minds of many. Perhaps there is some reason for this. But exitus acta probat.' Napoleon is not to be trusted. 
MILCH COWS AND DAIRY FARMING; comprising the breeds, breeding and management, in health and disease, of Dairy and other Stock; the selection of Milch Cows, with a full explanation of Guenon's method; the culture of Forage Plants, and the production of Milk, Butter and Cheese: embodying the most recent improvements, and adapted to farming in the United States and British Provinces. With a Treatise upon the Dairy Husbandry of Holland; to which is added Horsfall's System of Dairy Management. By CHARLES L. FLINT, Secretary of the Massachusetts State Board of Agriculture; author of ' A Treatise on Grasses and Forage Plants,' &c. Liberally Illustrated. Boston: Phillips, Sampson & Co. 1859.
Nothing need be said of the usefulness of a treatise like this on the dairy. The number of milch cows in the country, forming so large a part of our material wealth, and serving as a basis for the future increase and improvement of every class of neat stock, on which the prosperity of our agriculture mainly depends; the intrinsic value of milk as an article of internal commerce, and as a most healthy and nutritious food; the vast quantity of it made into butter and cheese, and used in every family; the endless details of the management, feeding, and treatment, of dairy stock, and the care and attention requisite to obtain from this branch of farming the highest profit, all concur to make the want of such a treatise, adapted to our climate and circumstances, felt not only by practical farmers, but by a large class of consumers, who can appreciate every improvement which may be made in preparing the products of the dairy for their use. 
SPEECH OF MR. DOWNING. We regret that the very creditable introductory speech made by Mr. GEORGE T. DOWNING, President of the recent Colored Convention in this city, as printed on our last page, contains several mistakes, in consequence of our not receiving the proof of it, which was forwarded to him, in season to follow his corrections. The most important of these, however, are the following:- 
In the 4th paragraph, 1st column, read, ' Learning and wealth are powers most potent,' &c., for 'Learning and wealth and power are most potent.' Next sentence, read, It is not necessary that every man and woman of us should be wealthy,' for the passage as it is printed. 
In the 1st line of 5th paragraph, read, source' instead of sense' of power.' In the tame paragraph, 8th line, read ' a moat remarkable one, considering,' &c.
In the 6th paragraph, read, Were it known on election day that every colored man would deposit a vote,' &c.; and two or three lines below, read, Cannot such a vote be cast at the approaching Presidential election? '
In the paragraph commencing, 'Thus yon see,' 2d column of the address, insert the following sentence after ' thirteen independent States':-We have a partnership in these "right of human nature": the disposition to deny the same creates an issue; and we are in this respect the life of the nation's existence.' 
<c05>
THE WHITE MAN'S PARTY. 
The Anti-Slavery Bugle, in an article with the above heading, correctly represents that the difference between Republican Kansas and Democratic Oregon, in regard to their treatment of colored men, is a difference in degree only, not in principle The Kansas Constitutional Convention, which has now completed its labors and made its report, was decidedly a Republican body, having scarcely Democratic members enough to modify or even retard its operations. It has deliberately recommended to the citizens of Kansas to abridge the right of citizenship of the colored people, to deny them the elective franchise, to compel them to obey laws which they had no voice in making, and to perpetuate in their laws and customs as shameful stigma-the direct product of that slavery, the extension of which they make a merit of opposing-upon the weakest and most unfortunate class of our population. The Republican leaders of Kansas recommend this infamous conduct to its people; the leaders and organs of the party elsewhere receive this report with consenting silence, and make no attempt, so far as we have seen, to arouse the people of Kansas to take a higher and better stand than their delegates have thus indicated. Clearly, the Republican party, and especially those among its leaders whose influence availed most to direct its course of policy, are to be held accountable for this infamous movement. 
The New York Tribune, which has published much admirable matter against every department of the wickedness of slavery, when the policy of the party was not in question, has shown an utter disregard of, right and justice, and of its own professed principles, whenever that party seemed likely to gain power or numbers by concessions to pro-slavery prejudice. Mr. Greeley long since declared his readiness to vote for a slaveholder, whenever the Republican party could gain by such a compromise, and, in a letter written early in this year, but only recently published, in reply to questions respecting the attitude of that party towards slavery, he distinctly recommends that white people should not mix with black in the same community; a suggestion-considering the relative proportion of numbers, power, wealth and intelligence in the two classes-equivalent to proposing the expulsion of colored people from the free States generally.
The Atlas and Bee of this city also has often made shameful concessions-beyond the shameful concessions which it necessarily makes as the organ of the Republican party-to that iniquitous public sentiment in this country which admits a right, on the part of slaveholders, to continue to hold that relation until it is agreeable or convenient to them to relinquish it. Its theory of the duty owed by this nation to the black race, as a matter of right and justice, has subsided, in a recent article, from the proposition always maintained by the Republican party, that ' 'emancipation rests with the several States that hold slaves in bondage, and them alone,' to the far worse one, that each State which assumes to hold the bodies and souls of human beings as property should emancipate its slaves, ' provided it can do so with safety'! 
The boast made by the Republicans that the Western Territories are settled by New England men, and that they will continue and put in practice there the sentiments of New England in regard to slavery and its kindred vices, is the very ground on which we distrust them, and expect a pro-slavery policy, far more than anti-slavery principle, from those Western Territories. If those Oregon and Kansas men are no more just or free than the majority of the voters of Massachusetts, if they are no more humane or Christian than the members of Park Street' Church in Boston, how can they be expected either to maintain their own rights against slaveholders, or concede to the negro his rights as a man and a brother? -C. K. W. 

A WEEK IN POUGHKEEPSIE. 
POUGHKEEPAIE, (N. Y.) Aug. 7, 1859. 
FRIEND GARRISON: 
The week just passed has been one of unusual interest in Poughkeepsie. On Monday, the colored people commemorated Emancipation Day by an admirable celebration. Deputations were received from abroad, and an immense assembly gathered in a grove near the city, where brief addresses were made by Messrs. Townsend and Strong, after which came the oration of the day, by W. J. Watkins. This was a masterly effort, embracing home emancipation as well as West India freedom. However much we may differ from him concerning the Republican party, (which I certainly do,) we must concede him the palm of ability on this occasion. In the evening, he addressed the citizens on 'The Ballot for the Negro.' 
On Tuesday, the State Teachers' Association assembled to begin their deliberations. The meetings ran through three days, but the good results, so far as an increased knowledge of teaching, its duties and responsibilities is concerned, are scarcely worth the trouble of calculating. As a business meeting, it was a failure, for almost incessant disorder and wrangling marked its proceedings. As an Association, it denies to woman the privilege of acting as an officer. Attempts were made to exclude her from Committees, and some were so captious as to seek to prevent her from having an honorable hearing. Susan B. Anthony labored diligently to secure the recognition of womanhood in the Convention, and the remarks of Miss E. M. Powell upon teaching declamation to girls, and of Miss Philleo upon the moral qualifications of the teacher, were clearly as able as any thing offered upon these themes. Miss Anthony offered a resolution for the joint education of both sexes, and for the admission of colored children into the public schools, which was tabled. Probably the joint education of the sexes is too unimportant a subject for that grave body to consider, who choose rather to waste an hour and a quarter in selecting a President, which might have been done in twenty minutes. Admitting negroes to schools might prove a thorn in the sides of some, so they took double the necessary time to elect Vice Presidents, and to exclude some ladies from such offices. 
The redeeming traits of the Convention were an address on the ' Model Teacher,' by Mr. Rollo, and the lecture of Prof. Youmans on the 'Chemistry of the Sunbeam.' The last was inimitable, and called forth the warmest praises. Briefly, then, if the object of the Association is to improve the methods of teaching, by consultation and comparison of ideas, in a manner so practical as to benefit actual teachers, I regard the Convention at Poughkeepsie as a failure. Two things were shown: first, its determination to, exclude woman from all show of equality on its platform, despite the noble efforts of a few men to sustain her; second, that the male teachers of the State cannot hold an orderly convention. If ladies were admitted to an equality, they might do better; I should hope so, at least. 
But the crowning affair of the week was the Woman's Rights Convention on Friday. The lawyers of the city seem to have anticipated rare sport with the ladies, as an article appeared in the Daily Press, affirming their intention to furnish the citizens and themselves a rich treat, by taking the platform, and exposing the 'fallacy ' and 'foolishness' of the argument for woman's voting. We shall see how they kept their promise. 
The Convention was called to order by S. B. Anthony, who acted as President, read a brief appeal to the women of the Empire State, with the form of a petition to the Legislature asking the right to vote, after which she delivered a discourse upon the relative position of the sexes; an able document, and listened to with interest. 
Mrs. A. B. Black well was then introduced, and offered the following resolutions:-
Resolved, That women, like men, have a right to do any thing and every thing which is in itself morally right. 
<c06>
Resolved, That we will encourage every woman to do every honorable and good thing which she can do, and that we especially enjoin it upon her, in addition to her already admitted womanly duties to break down the prejudice against her independent action by seeing to it that she pursues some noble and important calling in life, which the world has hitherto pronounced unfeminine.
Resolved, That we assert the complete equality though not the identity of the sexes.
Resolved. That the substance of our petition to the Legislature may be all summed up in our demand for entire legal equality for men and women.
Resolved, therefore, That it is only one plain and easy application of the Golden Rule, 'Do as you would be done by.'
Resolved, That we recommend courtesy, civility gentleness, delicacy and propriety to both men and women.
Resolved, That the amount of education which any rational being can acquire is the only measure of the amount which it is his right to acquire; and; therefore, that no woman should be satisfied until she has disciplined all her powers, physical, intellectual and moral, to the utmost of their capacity.
Resolved, That a great motive is the only great educator, and, therefore, that it is not enough for girls and boys to study in the same great institutions of learning, but they must look forward to the use of knowledge in the same grand callings and pursuits of life, in order to find the only stimulus which can promote a thorough and effectual education.
Resolved, That the right of suffrage contains the germ of all other rights, public and private, and that it is the only guarantee of their inviolability.
Resolved, therefore, That the great work of this Convention is to discuss the right of woman to vote and to be voted for. Now is the especial time for this work, as the citizens of the Empire State must be awakened to this subject before the calling of another Constitutional Convention.
Mrs. Blackwell made a strong speech, ably sustaining her positions.
Miss E. M. Powell was then announced, who delivered a brief, but beautiful and impressive discourse, claiming capacity as the only limit of education; equal capacity for woman, hence equal education, and equal privileges for its use.
Miss Anthony then offered tracts on the subject for sale and for gratuitous distribution, after which the Convention adjourned till 3 o'clock.
In the afternoon, the Convention organized by the appointment of Wm. McGeorge, of Poughkeepsie, Chairman, who made a short speech. Miss Anthony then invited any one, but especially lawyers, to state their objections and maintain them, but no one cause forward. The President then announced Emilie L. Drake, of this country, who spoke at some length, fully endorsing the views of the Convention, and advocating unqualified equality. Miss Philleo was next introduced, who said she spoke to place herself upon the platform of equality, for she respected the cause and the noble women whom she met here. Her speech was brief, but enough to endorse the movement.
Aaron M. Powell was the next speaker. He noticed especially the effect of the movement upon the home circle, and through it, upon the masses. His remarks were interesting. Mrs. Blackwell then took the stand, and having re-read the resolutions of the morning, she took up the legal position of woman, and stated some facts and arguments for the <illegible> of legal gentlemen, who were again and again invited to the platform, but failed to respond.
A collection was then taken up, after which the Convention adjourned till half past seven.
At the opening of the evening session, both the Chairman and Miss Anthony repeated the invitation to any one to oppose them, but still no one answered. Your correspondent then made a few remarks, that he might publicly identify himself with this movement and give it his approval, after which A .M. Powell made a most excellent speech, producing unanswerable reasons why woman should receive the right to vote.
Mrs. Blackwell spoke next, vindicating her right to the elective franchise, and calling upon all to sustain her. Her morning, afternoon and evening speeches were replete with facts and arguments which it would be difficult to refute. Her manner produced an excellent impression.
Mr. Bisbee, of Poughkeepsie, said that as he had heard strong arguments on one side of the question, he hoped some one would present the other side. As no one appeared, Mrs. Blackwell said she supposed them to be in the same position they usually were without arguments. Miss Anthony then stated a part of her experience with the State Teachers' Association, and made a few remarks, when the Convention finally adjourned, the lawyers having, despite their threats and newspapers articles, sneaked behind the folds of their dignity in perfect silence. Peace to their repose! with the hope that a season of quiet will bring their puff-ball threats and bombastic pretensions to a level of common sense before another Convention of the kind. The attendance was very large throughout, and the liveliest interest manifested. So goes the good work on
Yours, in haste, J.M.DEGARMO.
HOW A BRAHMIN IS TREATED BY A YANKEE.
J. C. Gangooly, the Converted Brahmin, who since his arrival in this country, a little more a year ago, has received much friendly attention and notice, in Boston and elsewhere, has written to the Boston Transcript a lively account of his treatment at the White Mountains, where he had arrived at the close of a ten weeks' journey.
Those who know Mr. Gangooly personally, know that he has every quality of a gentleman, except his color, which in Yankeedom, as nowhere else in the world, is proscribed. After a long walk, weary, hungry and thirsty, he arrived at the Glen House, and waited for dinner with a fond eye. The rest we give in his own words:- 
My first inquiry to the porter was, 'What is your dinner hour, six?' and being informed 'one'[I began to fix an ardent gaze upon the clock, and on my own watch. The bell rang, and the ladies and gentlemen, like bees, rushed out of their rooms for the dining hall. My good friend, the clergyman, was then in the 'wash-room,' and I was impatiently waiting for him. He came out, and we directed our steps to the hall. Sad hour! The chief officer whispered to my brother that he would not admit me in the house! Of course, my friend felt bad, and appealed to him in the name of my Boston friends, in the name of humanity; informed him who I was, my county, my worth, &c., and how I was treated respectfully in the first class hotels in New York, Philadelphia,<illegable>St.Louis,at Lake George and Saratoga. In vain he plead. His reasonings and remonstrances effected nothing. The tyrant knew before who I was when I wrote my name and place in the register. His hard heart did not move. I said to my friend, 'Sir, does he want to put me in a separate place?' 'Separate place! 'he said; 'to no place.'
Shame and disappointment filled our hearts, and I, in despair, went near the counter, and drank three tumblers of water as substitutes for the three different heads in the dinner, viz.; the vegetables, pastry, and dessert. Upon this, we both came out to the piazzs, and my friend once more asked them the ground of such an unchristian act. A pale-looking, weak, tail man, with an apron round his waist, heard all that we said, and seeing the passengers had got into the stags, took my friend in the parlor, and said, we might take our dinners then if we chose. 'All aboard!" the driver cried, and we bade farewell to the Glen House forever. We had time enough to buy our tickets at Gorham, as the train took us in right off. However my good friend managed to secure four pieces of sponge cake from the Alpine House, where I had a letter of introduction from Rev. T.S. King. Mr. Editor, you can judge how we two men made our dinner on four pieces of cake.
In the boat there was no tea arrangement, so we had to go to our berths for supper. I would not write any more of this; simply I should say that the man who 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
AUGUST 19.
refused admittance to me, for my oriental color, ought to know that, while complexion is not the standard in the standard in the world, nor in heaven, his Master and Lord was an Oriental-the Apostles were so too; and finally, he ought to know this-that, as far as the civilization and pre-existence of national glory are concerned, as there is distance between a Brahmin and him.
Dear Sir, gentleman recognizes gentleman’s jeweler knows a jewel.' The good host of Congress hall, <illegible>, where the fashions and gaieties of the summer are proverbial, drew an extra chair by my side and entertained me with the sweet words of his lips, besides the dainties of the table before me.
What a humiliating commentary upon American Christianity in this treatment of Mr. Gingerly, and how his statement will read in 'heater' Burma!
THE PLYMOUTH CELEBRATION-RESCUE OF A FEMALE SALVE.
Banks & Co. in the day of the Pilgrims-Mottoes-<illegible> and Private History of the Rescue of the slave Maria Gaskins-Effects of Slavery on the Northern Heart-convention of Spiritualists-Their Declaration of Sentiments.
PLYMOUTH, SUNDAY, AUG.7 1859.
DEAR GARRISON:
I wrote to you a line touching the great gathering in this place to celebrate the laying of the cornerstone of a National Monument to the Pilgrims. It is sad to see the mottoes on the arches over the streets. Nothing is more significant of the utter incapacity of the people of Plymouth, and of the de <illegible> of those martyrs to their own convictions of duty, than these mottoes, and the character of the men who officiated on that occasion. Gov. Banks of Massachusetts, Gov. Chase, of Ohio, Gov. Turner, of Rhode Island. And Gov. Buckingham, of Connecticut. Anson Burlingame, George Sumner, Rev. Richard Storrs, D.D., Richard Warren, and an Mr. Hurd, Grand Master Mason, were conspicuous in that celebration. Their eulogies were ludicrous to me, because I know, had one or all these men appeared among those stern old martyrs to Puritanism and Calvinism, with their present spirit, theology, and religious and political life, and manifested themselves to them as they do to us, every soul of them had been consigned to dungeon, or banished the colony on pain of death. Stern old Puritan, Calvinistic Carver, Brewster, Bradford and Standish would have caged Banks, Chase, Turner, Buckingham, Sumner and Burlingame, as they would wild beasts, or hunted them out of the colony as they did wolves and Indians.
In the most conspicuous place in the town, over Main street, in this motto:-
Our fathers brought with them a Republican Freedom, as perfect the moment they landed on this Rock as it is now.'-Choate.
So, no progress has been made in this nation since 1626-240 years! Yet we are the most enlightened, civilized, educated and Christian people on the globe, choate being witness; for we are a great nation of slave-breeders, slave-hunters, slave-traders, kidnappers, woman-whoppers and baby-stealers! We make it a crime punishable with death to teach a child o read the alphabet and the Bible, and outlaw a man and hunt him with bloodhounds and rifles, for presuming the he is a man, and not a chattel. How could the people of Plymouth parade the name of Choate before the eyes of the Pilgrims of the Mayflower-the man who, as a lawyer, discarded all destructions between good and evil, justice and injustice, truth and falsehood, and who, for nearly ten years, has labored in every way, a politician and a member of in. South-side Adam's church, to identify himself and all the Northern churches with kidnapping?
There was one motto in town that it was good to behold-that was appropriate. It was before the door of Nathaniel and Zilch Spooner, true and tried friends of the slave:-
'The Home of the Puritans. HERE SHALL THE SLAVE FIND PROTECTION!'
This reminds me to send you an extract form letter I received form Plymouth, touching the rescue of the slave Maria Gaskins from the clutches of her Orthodox and Christian (:) owners, who claimed, held and worked her here in Plymouth as a beast and chattel. It is detailed account of the process by which that woman was saved and the conduct of the Christian (:) Orthodox slave-breeders and slave-drivers on that occasion. I give it as it was written, with a few verbal alterations.
'DEAR FRIEND,-While riding with him family and some friends from Boston, Sunday afternoon, July 17, Nathaniel Spooner and those with him were passing the residence of Wm. Brown, a colored man. He called to Mr. Spooner and said, 'There is a slave in my house, who wants to be free.' He requested him to come in and see her. They all went in. The woman told them that she was the slave of wm. and Mary Holmes of New Orleans, and that her name was Maria Gaskins. She said she wished to be free, and wanted to know if her freedom could be secured to her, so that Mr. and Mrs. Holmes could not take her back with them. Mr. Spooner asked her if he should call her the next day, if she thought she would have the courage to say, in the presence of her master and mistress, that she wanted to be free. She replied "Yes, what I say now, I will stick to. I want to be free, and I never will go back into slavery; I will die first." Mr. S told her that her freedom could be secured other, so that she could be as free as sandy person in Plymouth, and that he would call for her next day within officer.
'On returning home, Mr. S. called upon Judge Russell, who happened to be in town from Boston procured a writ of habeas corpus, and placed it in he hands of Deputy Sheriff John Atwood, Jr. He called for Mr. S. at 81/2 o' clock on Monad morning, and they, in company with a gentleman who was visiting Mr. S., took a carriage, and proceeded to the house where Maria was stopping with her mistress. The Sheriff rung the bell, and Alice Bradford, sister of Mrs. Holmes, came to the door. The Sheriff asked if a colored woman by the name of Maria Gaskins was there. Alice looked confused, said "Yes,” and ran up stairs. Sheriff and Mr. S. walked in. They were standing in the room when Mrs. Bradford, mother of Mrs. Holmes, came and asked what they wanted. Mr. Spooner said, "I want to see Maria." "Where is she?" asked Mrs. B. Mr. S. replied, "I don't know, but presume she is somewhere about the house" She then left the room, and Mr. Atwood and Mr. S. sat down. In a few moments, Mrs. Bradford, Mrs. Holmes, and Eudora, a sister of Mrs. H., came in, and seated themselves opposite the gentlemen. Mrs. Holmes asked Mr. S., "What do you want of Maria?" Mr. S. said, "I want to give her freedom." She said "Maria is free. But by what authority have you come for Maria?" Mr. Atwood replied, "I will give you authority." and took out and read to her the writ. She asked, 'Are you a Sheriff?" "I am,” said he.
Maria had, in the mean time, mad hr appearance. Mr. S, said to her, "Maria, if you wish to go with us, get ready.' Mrs. Holmes was in a great passion, and said all manner of insulting and coarse things to Mr. S., and her mother and sister were in great rage. These were Christian women, after the present American Stamp, and Mr. S. was committing the horrible offence of trying to elevate a woman from the condition of a human being. What greater outrage could he commit against American Christianity and American Republicanism? If this is not enough to <illegible> American saints and Christians, what is?
'Mrs. Holmes asked, "What right has you to tell Maria to get ready to with you? I was not aware before that you had become a slave-stealer."
<c02>
ought to know this-that, as far as the utilization and pre-existence of national glory are concerned, as there is distance between him and a negro, <eligible> there is the same distance between a Brahmin and him.
utilization and pre-existence of national glory are con­cerned, as there is distance between him and a negro, <eligible> there is the same distance between a Brahmin and mar are proverbial, drew an extra chair by my side, and entertained me with the sweet words of his lips, besides the dainties of the table before me
What a humiliation commentary upon American 
Christianity is this treatment of Mr. Gangooly, and
How his statement will read in 'heathen' Burma!

THE PLYMOUTH CELEBRATION-BESCUE
OF A FEMALE SLAVE.
Banks & Co. in the days of the Pilgrims-Mottoes-
Farts and Private History of the Rescue of the slave
Maria gaskins-effects of Slavery on the Northern
Heart-Convention of Spiritualisms-Their Declare-
Action of sentiments.
PLYMOUTH, Sunday, Aug. 7, 1859
Dear GARRISON:
I wrote to you a line touching the great gathering
In this place to celebrate the laying of the corner-
Stone of a National Monument to the Pilgrims. It
Is <illegible> to see the mottoes on the arches over the Streets. Nothing is more significant of the utter in-Capacity of the people of Plymouth, and of the de-Ascendants of those martyrs to their own convictions
Of duty, than these mottoes, and the character of the
Massachusetts, Gov. Chase, of Ohio, Gov. Connect-
Tint. Anson Burlingame, George Summer, Rev.
Richard Storrs, D.D., Richard Warren, and a Mr.
Hard. Grand Master Mason, Were conspicuous in that
Celebration. Their eulogies were ludicrous to me,
Because I know, had one or all of these men appeared
Among those stern old martyrs to Puritanism and
Calvinism, with their present spirit, theology, and
Religious and political life, and manifested themselves 
To them as they do to us, every soul of them had
Been consigned to a dungeon, or banished the colony
On pain of death. Stern old Puritan, Calvinistic
Carver, Brewster, Bradford and Standish would have
Pounced upon them as blasphemers against God, 
Against Christ, against the Bible, the Sabbath, the
Church and priesthood, and as traitors to the Gov-
Ornament. They would have ended Banks, Chase,
Turner, Buckingham, summer and Burlingame, as
They would wild beasts, or hunted them out of the
Colony as they did wolves and Indians.
In the most conspicuous place in the town, over
Slain street is this motto:-
'Our fathers brought with them a Republican
Freedom, as perfect the moment they landed on this
Rock as it is now.'-Choate.
So, no progress has been made in this nation since
1626-240 years! Yet we are the most enlightened,
Civilized, education and Christian people on the globe,
Choate being witness; for we are a great nation of
Slave-breeders, slave-hunters, slave-traders, kidnap-
Peers, woman-whoppers and baby-stealers! We make
It a crime punishable with death to teach a child to
Read the alphabet and the Bible, and outlaw a man
And hunt him with bloodhounds and rifles, for pre-
Summing that he is a man, and not a chattel. How
Could the people of Plymouth parade the name of? 
Choate before the eyes of the Pilgrims of the May-
Flower-the man who, as a lawyer, discarded all dies-
Sanctions between good and evil, justice and injustice,
Truth and falsehood, and who, for nearly ten years, has
Labored in every way, as a optician and a member of
In. South-side a dam’s church, to identify himself
And all the Northern churches with kidnapping.

There was one motto in town that it was good to
Beheld-that was appropriate. It was before the
Door of Nathaniel and Zilch Spooner, true and tried
Friends of the slave:-
'The Home of the Puritans. HERE SHALL THE 
SLAVE FIND PEOTECTION!’
This reminds me to send you an extract from a
Letter I received from Plymouth, touching the rescue
Of the slave Maria Gaskins from the clutches of her
Orthodox and Christian <illegible> owners, who claimed,
Held and worked her here in Plymouth as a beast
And chattel. It is a detailed account of the process
By which that woman was saved, and the conduct of
These Christian <illegible> Orthodox slave-breeders and slave-
Drivers on that occasion. I give it as it was written,
With a few verbal alterations.
'DEAR FRIEND,-While riding with his family and
Some friends from Boston, Sunday afternoon, July
17, Nathaniel Spooner and those with him was pass-
In the residence of Embrown. A colored man. He
called to Mr. Spooner and said, 'There is a slave in
my house, who wants to be free,' He requested him
To come in and see her. They all went in. The woo-
Man told them that she was the slave of Wm. and
Mary Holmes of New Orleans, and that her name was
Maria Gaskins. She said she wished to be free, and
wanted to know if her freedom could be secured to
her, so that Mr. and Mrs. Holmes could not take her
Back with them. Mr. Spooner asked her if he should
Call for her the next day, if she thought she would
Have the courage to say in the presence of her master
And mistress, that she wanted to be free. She replied,
"Yes, what I say now, I will stick to. I want to be
Free, and I never will go back into slaver; I will die
First." Mr. S. told her that her freedom could be se-
Cured to her, so that she could be as free as any per-
Son in Plymouth, and that he would call for her next
Day with an officer.
'One returning home, Mr. S. called upon Judge
Russell, who happened to be in town from Boston,
Procured a writ of habeas corpus, and placed it in the
Hands of Deputy Sheriff John Atwood, Jr. His call-
Ed for Mr. S. at 8 1\2 o'clock on Monday morning, and
They, in company with a gentleman who was visiting
Mr. S., took a carriage, and proceeded to the house
Where Maria was stopping with her mistress. The
Sheriff rung the bell, and Alice Bradford, sister of
Mrs. Holmes came to the door. The Sheriff asked if
A colored woman by the name of Maria Gaskins was
There. Alice looked confused, said "Yes," and ran
Up stairs. Sheriff and Mr. S. walked in. They were
Standing in the room when Mrs. Bradford, mother
Of Mrs. Holmes, came and asked what they wanted.
Mr. Spooner said. "I want to see Maria." "Where
Is she?" asked Mrs. B. Mr. S. replied, "I don't
Know, but presume she is somewhere about the
House." She then left the room, and Mr. Atwood
And Mr. S. sat down. In a few moments, Mrs. Brad-
Ford, Mrs. Holmes, and Eudora, a sister of Mrs. H.,
Came in, and seated themselves opposite the gentle-
Men. Mrs. Holmes asked Mr. S., "What do you 
Want of Maria?" Mr. S. said, "I what to give her
Her freedom." She said, "Maria is free. But by
What authority have you come for Maria?" Mr.-
Atwood replied, "I will give you the authority,”
And took out and read to her the writ. She asked,
'Are toy a Sheriff?" "I am,” said he.
Maria had, in the mean time, made her appearance.
Mr. S. said to her, "Maria, it you wish to go with
We get ready.' Mrs. Holmes was in a great passion,
And said all manner of insulting and coarse things to
Mr. S. and her mother and sister were in a great rage.
These were Christian women, after the present
American stamp, and Mr. S. was committing the
horrible offence of trying to elevate a woman from the
Condition of beast and chattel, and place her in the
Condition of a human being. What greater outrage
Could he commit against American Christianity and
American Republicanism? It this is not enough to
<Illegible> American saints and Christians, what is?
'Mrs., Holmes asked, "What right has you to?
Tell Maria to get ready to go with you? I was not
Aware before that you had become a slave-stealer."
<c03>
Her backers and stigmatizing Mr. Spooner. The editor's name is Moses Bates:-
'And thus, after all the sensation that was to be created, the expenses of arrest, fare of old maid and women's rights men to Boston, the fees of two of the ablest members of the Boston bar for counsel, and two days' attendance in court, Maria is not only " discharged" without any living soul appearing to object to it, but she is safely upon the hands of her " friends, " to take the place of their discharged washerwoman or not, as the chooses; and so also is Mr. Holmes "discharged " from any obligations which, under the laws of Louisiana or Mississippi, he might be under for the support and maintenance of said Maria. There is more than one man in this COMEDY to exclaim with Shakespeare’s Romeo-
'"I am an ass, I am a woman's man, and beside myself."
'Perhaps Fat (Mr. Spooner) has now got a woman who will live with him, and perhaps, when Maria finds him out, she will serve him and wife like all the rest, and leave; so that his present effort to get & slave will operate like all the rest.'

Such is the paper, and such the editor, that find supporters among those who profess to be the descendants of the Mayflower Pilgrims, and that glory in their ancestry because that ancestry spoke for freedom. Still, they support an editor and a paper that can thus treat a man and an effort to rescue a woman from the prostitution, the pollution and horrors of chattel slavery! Men and women, martyrs and pilgrims of the Mayflower, pity and weep over your degenerate offspring!
One thing more. A Convention of Spiritualists has just closed a three days' session in this town. It has been well attended throughout, many coming from a great distance. All topics of practical reform have been discussed in connection with Spiritualism. The following Declaration of Sentiments was adopted:-
1. We recognize as Spiritualists all who profess to believe in spiritual demonstrations. We call ourselves Spiritualists, and consider ourselves distinct from those who do not recognize a certain quality of truth, and who may be properly called Spirits.
2. What is Spiritualism? We define the term as the true up building of man's higher spiritual welfare and destiny.
3. We believe that Spiritualism should not be confounded with the harmonica philosophy of Andrew Jackson Davis, the deisms of Dr. Hare, nor the individual theories of any other writer, whether prominent among Spiritualists or not; nor even with the teachings of disembodied spirits themselves.
4. The relations of Spiritualism to specific reform. Since man's spiritual welfare is likely to be retarded by coming in contact with sensual things, we cannot, as earnest and consistent Spiritualists, fail to taken interest in all such objects as the following:-1-Physiological reform, dietetics and tobacco, to the end that our bodies may be made the more fit and useful instruments for the spirits; 2-Educational reform, that the body, mind and spirit may be made individually healthful; 3-Penitentiary reform; 4-The emancipation of woman, in order that she may fulfill her mission by becoming the. mother of capable offspring; 5-The abolition of slavery; 6-The establishment of universal peace; 9-Theological and ecclesiastical reform, because we believe in universal and human progress; 8-Social reform and the reorganization of the principles of brotherhood; lastly, in every other thing, general or specific, which commends itself to our judgment as tending to elevate mankind.
One scene interested the audience much. An emancipated slave woman from the South, and heir young child, came before the Convention, and asked for a contribution to aid in redeeming her husband, still in bonds. About forty dollars were raised for her, and given with a hearty cheer. Spiritualized humanity did her heart good.
It has been a profitable and a pleasant time. The truth, the sincerity, the earnestness, the honesty of this Convention will, I trust, help to save Plymouth and the nation from the falsehood, the insincerity, the unconcerned ness, inconstancy, dishonesty and total indifference to living men and women who are fallen among Christian (?) thieves and robbers, of the celebration of last Tuesday.
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
SALEM STBEET CHURCH TESTED.
WORCESTER, August 7.
FRIEND GARRISON;
I recently reported to you the hopeful anti-slavery action of though Salem Street Church of this city. But to-day I am obliged to report that that Church is I unwilling to stand by this action when applied in practical detail.
The test came in this form:-At the regular Wednesday evening prayer meeting, a few weeks since, Mr. Sprague, (who introduced and sustained the resolution before reported, ) gave notice that at some future meeting, probably at the next prayer meeting, he should move that the church suspend its regular collections for the A. B. C. F. M. while the I Board maintained a pro-slavery attitude; and that the church send in a circular letter, authenticated by I its officers, a copy of the anti-slavery resolutions adapted to all churches in its fellowship, requesting them to take similar action; and, for the full notice and information of all, Mr. Sprague submitted the motion which ho proposed making, in writing, to the clerk of the church.
 Previous to the next meeting, Mr. Sprague, consultation with friends and opponents of the movement, concluded to defer the making of his motion until the regular business meeting of the church, some two weeks later.
When the next prayer-meeting came, Mr. Sprague, and most of those who sympathized in the movement, was, from various causes, detained from attendance. After the opening, Merrill Richardson, the pastor, read from the 14th chapter to the Romans:' Him that air weak in the faith receive ye, but not to doubtful disputations, ' etc., and proceeded to argue there from, that we should allow great latitude of conscience in matters pertaining to the detail of the application of Christian truths, as there must of necessity be great difference of opinion thereupon, and the church must not make arbitrary rules that should control individual action. In relation to the Board of Foreign Missions, there had been great difference of opinion as to its connection with slavery. Some couldn’t tolerate it because of it’s suppose supported of slavery, while other equally good and intelligent men, as strongly anti-slavery as any, did sustain it, believing it wise and consistent so to do. But, whatever its past position might have been, its present one of having taken the initiatory steps to dissever its connection with the missions among the Southwestern Indians would make it clear from all connection with slavery, and so free from all objection on the part of those, who had been troubled about it!
When he had finished his argument, he said, that as the subject was not properly before them fib action without some motion, perhaps some one would make a motion. Whereupon, Charles White, who opposed the previous action, and who was opposed to this whole proceeding, although he has not contributed to the A. B. C. F. M. for many years, on account of its pro-slavery position, moved to take up Mr. Sprague's motion, (which motion Mr. Sprague had not made at all, but only given notice of an intention to make;) and the motion being read by the clerk, it was voted to take it up. After some general remarks upon the propriety of the procedure, and earnest protest against the irregularity and wrong of taking up the matter in Mr. Sprague's absence, the whole subject was, on motion, indefinitely postponed, by a large vote; and the pro-slavery wing of the church, with their professed anti-slavery pastor, went home chuckling that they had so successfully got over the difficulty, and stolen a march upon Mr. Sprague and his anti-slavery coadjutors.
At the regular business meeting of the church, last evening, dead. S. M. Kendall, (in the necessary absence of Mr. Sprague,) made the motion which Mr. S. had given notice of intention to make, and sustained it in some pertinent remarks.
G. W. Allen read a long, but very able and conclusive letter, from Mr. Sprague, to the church, upon the question, and followed it with some arguments
<c04>
and facts, well selected and strongly put in support of the motion, which was also well and ably sustained by S. R. Heywood and W. J. White, and opposed by Charles White, who can't himself sustain the Board, though he argues in behalf of others doing it, by Rev. George Allen, (formerly known an abolitionist, ) Mr. Richardson, and others, mainly on the ground that the Board, by sundering its connection with the Indian missions, had removed all objections that could be urged upon the ground of their pro-slavery position.
This argument was met, by the friends of the motion, by showing clearly that the action of the Board was not predicated on any anti-slavery feeling or purpose, or any change of character, which was as pro-slavery as ever.
The opposers of the action also cited Dr. Geo. B. Cheerer, and his brother, Rev. H. T. Cheerer, as thorough, radical anti-slavery men, who, though opposed to the past pro-slavery relations of the Board, had nevertheless always sustained it, and did now, taking up collections regularly in their respective churches in its behalf. Thus the influence of one sinner, with a supposed good character, destroyed much good. Thus is demonstrated the theory, that the nearly right man, in a single wrong position, is more dangerous to a good cause than a man entirely wrong, whose position cannot be cited as influential to lead astray.
The discussion, which was prolonged till nearly eleven o'clock, was closed by a vote of seven for the motion, and twenty-one against it!
Thus has Salem. Street Church been tested, and shown that its anti-slavery resolutions are not living testimonies, but unmeaning pretences, which they do not intend to live out.
The men who sustained the movement, mainly young men, have shown hitherto a clear perception of truth and duty, and an unflinching adhesion to the right in the face of formidable opposition and popular clamor. May they have strength to meet the coming issues with as much faith and strength as those hitherto! J. A.H.
CONTRIBUTIONS
To the Anti-Slavery Cause, at the ' First of August' Celebration, at Abington, July 30, 1859.
Francis Jackson, Boston, 5 00
Bourne Spooner, Plymouth, 1 00
Samuel May, Jr., Leicester, 1 00
Richard Clap, Dorchester, 1 00
E. Hewitt, South Weymouth, 1 00
T. B. Drew, Plymouth, 1 00
Mary Willey, Boston, 0 25
Wm. Perkins, Lipton, 0 50
Mrs. C. S. B. Spear, Boston, 0 50
Susan Deserve, North Abington, 0 50
J. Leonard, East Abington, 0 50
C. M. Collins, " 0 50
B. W. Loud, Abington, 0 50
Luther White, Reponses, 0 50
Geo. J. Peterson, Duxbury, 0 50
John Jones, Roxbury, 1 00
E. Y. Perry, Hanover, 1 00
H. Dyer, " 0 50
William Ashby, Newburyport, 1 00
Thos. Bicknell, Kingston, 0 25
M. Richards, Weymouth, 0 20
J. N. Buffo, Lynn, 1 00
A. D. Tusker, Biddeford, Me., 1 00
Joshua Perry, Hanson, 0 50
R. Weston, Reading, 0 50
S. C. Beal, North Abington, 0 50
W. L. Reed, Ease Abington, 1 00
J. F. Lowell, " 0 50
Anna E. Sibley, Chelsea, 1 00
Edwin Thompson, East Walpole, 0 50
Joseph Kinsman, West Bridgewater, 0 50
Eliza F. Eddy, Boston, 1 00
Elbridge Sprague, North Abington, 0 50
A. Brett, East Stoughton, 0 50
Mary B. Perry, Hanover, 0 25
S. H. Perry, " 0 25
C. P. Drew, Kingston, 0 50
S. L. Harris, Hanson, 0 25
Watson Bates, Nosh Abington, 0 50
Lewis Clark, Canada, 0 50
A. Keith, Bridgewater, 0 50
Mrs. C. M. Severance, Roxbury, 1 00
Win. H. Adams, Bridgewater, 0 50
J. G. Dodge, Boston, 0 50
Lewis McLaughlin, Pembroke, 0 50
J. B. Yerington, Boston, 1 00
Daniel Holbrook, South Weymouth, 1 00
Lydia Brown, Kingston, 1 00
A. A. Higgins, North Milan, N. H., 1 00
H. W. Blanchard, Reponses, 0 50
Mrs. Deborah Kimball, Hanover, 1 00
Mrs. E. L. Bennett, N. Bridgewater, 0 50
Locus Ford, Arlington, 0 50
Increase S. Smith, Harrison Square, 1 00
Joseph Merrill, Danvers Port, 0 50
E. Burch ell, New Bedford, 0 25
Lewis Ford, Minneapolis, Minn., 1 00
Mary D. Sprague, North Abington, 0 25
T. Bicknell, Kingston, 0 50
Maria W. Chapman, Weymouth, 1 00
W. L. Garrison, Boston, 1 00
Helen E. Garrison, " 1 00
E. H. Heywood, Worcester, 1 00
S. H. Cowing $0 25-Ford $1 00
'Widow's Mite' 0 25 Joseph Adams 1 00
W. F. Temple 0 50 S. Jones 0 25
A. Clap 0 25 S. Keep 0 50
Karen 0 25 Henry Hunt 0 50
Angel Fuller 0 25 'Death to Slavery' 1 00
A. J. Cushing 0 50 Friend 0 25
W. C. Bates 0 25 Mary J. S. Cushing 1 00
Martha F. Jacobs 0 50 A 0 50
L. Stockbridge 0 25 Samuel Leonard 0 50
E. J. Harding 0 25 W. H. Logan 0 25
C. H. Young 0 50 S. Cook 0 50
S. W. Noyes 0 25 Friend 0 25
H. J. Layman 0 50 J. S. Pratt 0 50
Geo. W. Simons 1 00 J. Harden 0 25
J. N. Pratt 0 25 A. J. Alden 0 25
H. S. Shepard 0 50 J. W. Faunae 0 60
Friend 1 00 Friend 0 25
Friend 0 25 Friend 0 25
Reuben Loud 1 00 John L1 00
Friend 0 25 Friend 0 25
S. Chandler 0 50 S. Perry 0 25
Friend 0 25 Freud 0 25
M. Phillips 0 25 Friend 0 50
Charles H. Cook 0 50 Seth Wilbur 0 50
E. 1 00 Cash from others 6 58
Whole amount contributed, including pledges,
$86 58.
PLEDGES.
H. H. Brigham, South Abington, $1 00
Barnum Lincoln, Abington, 1 00
E. S. Cushing, 5 00
John W. Pratt, 1 00
George Staley, Abington, 2 00
BURNING OF THE STATE REFORM SCHOOL. The extensive range of buildings occupied by the State Reform School, at Westbrook', was set on lire last Saturday morning, and almost wholly consumed. The ' west building, ' the towers, and the private rooms in and around them, were alone saved in a damaged state. All the rest was destroyed, including the east and middle sleeping halls, third department, the, four east school rooms, and the wardrobe rooms connected with the school rooms, the hospital, chapel, all the shoe shops, sewing rooms, the entire centre building, with the boys' kitchen, and the central office, the library, dining, and bathing rooms, the chaplain's suite of rooms, and the private rooms at the assistant superintendent, teachers, and overseers. The extent of the conflagration may be conceived, from the fact that the main building was 325 feet in length, and had three wings extending back, each 200 feet, forming two hollow squares, the whole covering an acre and a half of ground. The part left standing between the towers is about 100 by 40 feet.
The fire was first discovered at about half past five o'clock, A. M., in the attic over the east sleeping hall, where some three hundred boys slept. It was traced by the intense heat to the dormitory of Daniel Cretan of Salem, a lad of sixteen yean, who has been at the institution about one year for larceny. It is supposed that he pushed the straw of his mattress, with other combustible materials, through the ventilator, and set them on fire. This ventilator connected at the top of the house with a wooden air box that passed entirely around the building. The draft of air through the box was such as to cause the flames to spread rapidly, accounting for its speedy appearance at the top of the house. Cretan failed to escape from his room, was immediately arrested, and placed in irons. [He has since made a full confession, acknowledging that he committed the act, and implicating three other boys as accessories with him.] The entire loss cannot be far from $100, 000. For lands and buildings, the State has expended about $165, 000. There was no insurance upon the property. There are five hundred boys connected with the institution at the present time.
<c05>
OXYGENATED BITTERS.
A Query. Why will you suffer: Dyspepsia is but a brief and comprehensive term for the numerous diseases which affect the stomach, liver, and, in fact, the whole human system? Until Dr. Green discovered the Oxygenated Bitters, medical science was at fault, and had exhausted itself in fruitless efforts to cure this disease. The dyspeptic need suffer no longer with a disease that is always painful, and frequently a fatal affliction.
This unique and peculiar compound will as certainly cure the disease as the disease exists. Had it not this power, such testimony as follows would not be given in its favor:
VALUABLE TESTIMONY IN FAVOR OF THE OXYGENATED BITTERS. WASHINGTON, (D. C.) June 10.
Having made use of the Oxygenated Bitters, prepared by Dr. George B. Green, of Windsor, Vt., and from knowledge obtained of their efficacy in other cases, we cheerfully recommend them to the public, believing they will fully sustain the recommendation of the proprietor. We hope that this valuable remedy may be accessible to all the afflicted.
SAMUEL S. PHELPS,
WILLIAM UPHAM,
U. S. Senators from Vermont.
JAMES F. SIMMONS,
U. S. Senator from Rhode Island.
J. T. MOREHEAD,
U. S. Senator, and formerly Governor of Kentucky.
L. H. ARNOLD,
Formerly Governor of Rhode Island.
WILLIAM WOODBRIDGE,
Late Governor of Michigan.
Its success in severe cases of DYSPEPSIA, ASTHMA, and GENERAL DEBILITY OF THE SYSTEM, places it among the most wonderful discoveries in medical science, and has given it a reputation far above any remedy known for these complaints in all their various forms.
Prepared by SETH FOWLE & CO., Boston, and for sale by all dealers in medicine, everywhere.
Aug. 12. 4t
FIRST ANNIVERSARY
OF THE 
PHILANTHROPIC CONVENTION.
At the Fifth Session of the First Philanthropic Convention, which was held at Utica, N. Y. September, 1858, Mr. Giles B. Stebbins, of Rochester, offered the following resolution, which was unanimously adopted:-
Resolved, That this Convention become an anniversary, of all who seek wisdom to overcome 'evil with good, ' and that the time, place, and arrangements for the next meeting be left to a Committee consisting of Ira S. Hitchcock, of Oneida, Dr. Robert T. Hillock and Andrew Jackson Davis, of New York, and Amos Rogers, of Utica.
In accordance with the above resolution, the Committee has completed arrangements for the First Anniversary of the Philanthropic Convention, to be held in St. James Hall, Buffalo, Erie County, on the 16th, 17th and 18th of September, 1859.
'Let no one call God his Father,
Who calls not Man his Brother?'
The chief object of those who call this Convention, is to offer an opportunity to the Progressive Friends of Humanity for the deliberate examination and solution of the greatest of problems-'What is Evil<illegible> We believe that a true knowledge of the causes will lead to true knowledge of the cure, of evil in its several forms. Right doing pre-supposes right being. No man, we think, can wisely and unerringly govern himself, or teach the young, unless his mind be elevated and inspired with a just knowledge of human nature. Theological dogmas and religious creeds cannot impart such knowledge. Hands of Families, Teachers, Legislators, Governors of States, Presidents, Popes, Princes and Kings a11 act upon and crucify mankind with arbitrary Laws, Creeds and Institutions. Consequently, the world is indisputably maltreated and everywhere diseased. It is teeming with Discontent, Strife, Selfishness, Intemperance, Slavery and War-with evils physical, social, political, and religious. And the authentic history of humanity is the history of legalized injustice and ecclesiastical oppression.
In view of all this, and much more, we ask the Friends of Progress-What can we do to overcome evil with good? What can we do more than is being done to free mankind from the fetters of Superstition, the tyranny of Church craft, and the bondage of Statecraft, in their diversified forms? What can we further do to secure to ourselves and children the advantages of a truly spiritual life on earth, without infringing, in the smallest degree, upon the sacred prerogatives of individual freedom of opinion and action? Lastly, what can we do in the direction of associated and co-operative efforts, to hasten the Era of Justice and Liberty?
Come! Brothers and Sisters, Fathers and Mothers, come! Let us have three days of deliberate consultation, in the spirit of love and good will, to aid one another in the search for practical truth. We hold that the day for Free Conventions has dawned. The inward fires of Truth and Reason will flame forth from the summit of these volcanic mountains. They agitate and purify public Opinion. A Free Convention is the mouth-piece of Humane Liberty; the platform whence issue the mandates of unlimited Progress. Spiritualists, Materialists, Jews, Christians, Reformers-all, East, West, North, and South-will hereby consider themselves heartily invited. The platform of the Philanthropic Convention, at Buffalo, will be free to any mind capable of throwing light upon the Cause and Cure of Evil.
The Convention will open in St. James Hall, Buffalo, N. Y., on Friday, the 16th of September, 1859, at 10 o'clock, A. M., and continue three days. The following persons, residents of Buffalo, constitute the Committee of Arrangements:
John N. Gardner, Cyrus O. Pool, George Whitcomb, Louise Whitcomb, Alanson Webster, Thomas Ruthful, Sarah Rat bun, E. A. Maynard, Mary F. Davis, J. H. Lusk, Giles Hosted, Lester Brooks, W. G. Oliver, E. G. Scott, Bennie S. Brown.
Any member of this Committee can be addressed by those wishing to secure accommodation in advance, at Hotels and Private Boarding Houses. The Hall procured for this occasion is convenient and commodious, seating comfortably 2000 persons. The friends of Reform in Buffalo and vicinity will do all in their power to entertain strangers, and to aid the objects of
The Convention; and the locality of their beautiful city are so central, that Reformers from all quarters can reach it readily, and at small expense.
The Committee has made favorable terms with Ward’s Line of Steamers, as follows: From Toledo to Buffalo and return, $4, 00; from Sandusky and return, $3, 50; from Cleveland and return, $2.00 (Meals and Berths included.) A corresponding reduction of fare for persons attending the Convention will probably be effected on the New York & Erie Railroad.
A Quartette Club of Singers is engaged to be present, and will enliven each session with appropriate music.
ANNIVERSARY NOTICE.
The Seventeenth Annual Meeting of the WESTERN ANRI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held at ALLIANCE, Stark Co., Ohio, commencing on Saturday the 3d of September, at half-past 10 o'clock, A. M. and will probably continue three days.
Earnestly, then, and cordially, we invite the true friends of the slave to assemble with us at our anniversary for counsel and labor. Let us come together in the name of Liberty, and by our words and deeds so strive to exalt man above institutions, humanity above creeds, that the slave's cause will receive a new impetus at our hands.
Beside our home speakers, PARKER PILLSBURY, CHARLES L. REMOND and H. C. WRIGHT are expected to be present and perhaps other friends from the East. BENJ. S. JONES, Rec. Sac’s.
WILBERFORCE CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION.-A meeting in commemoration of the <illegible>boors of WIIIIAM WILBERFORCE in the great work of Emancipation will be held in FRIENDS' MEETING-HOUSE GROVE, EASTON, Washington Co., N. Y., on Saturday and Sunday, Aug. 27 and 23, 1859.
PARKER PILLSBURY, Rev. ANTOINETTE BROWN BLACKWELL, AARON M. POWELL, LEONARD GIBBS, H. C. WRIGHT, SUSAN B. ANTHONY and others will address the meeting.
Sessions at 11, A. M., and 2, P. M.
Let there be a grand gathering of the friends of the slave.
Should the weather prove unfavorable, the meeting will be held in the meeting-house.
WILLIAM WELLS BROWN will attend the Convention to be held at Easton, N. Y., on Saturday and Sunday, the 27th and 28th inst. He will remain in the State several weeks.
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at Westport Sunday, Aug. 21, P. M. and eve’s.
N. Dartmouth, Monday eves, Aug. 22.
Holdenville, Sunday, Aug. 28, day and evening.
<c06>
STATE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The Abolition Convention of Vermont will hold its first annual anniversary at West Randolph, on Wednesday and Thursday, August 31st, and September 1st, commencing at 10 o'clock, A.M., on Wednesday.
The platform of this Convention allows an equal and just proportion of time to all persons of whatever sect, party or denomination; and all are invited to take part in its deliberations.
Prominent persons are expected from the different parts of this State, and also from New Hampshire and Massachusetts.
Among the earnest and eloquent speakers already engaged to come are C.L.REMONG of Massachusetts, and Rev. ANDREW T. Foss of New Hampshire.
JEHIEL CLAFLIN,
B. W. DYER.
ENOCH HEBARD
N.R.JOHNSTON,
J. M. CO BURN, Committee.
Aug. 5, 1859.
SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture in the State of Maine, for several weeks to come, as follows:-
South Bridgton, Sunday, Aug. 21.
Mechanic Falls, Tuesday, Aug. 23.
Paris, Thursday, Aug. 25.
Bath, Sunday, Aug. 28.
Brunswick, Tuesday, Aug. 30.
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts A.S. Society, will speak at
Alton, N. H., Sunday, August 21.
PARKER PILLSBURY will lecture in
Walpole, Saturday evening, Aug. 20.
East Walpole, Sunday, Aug. 21.
HYANNIS.-J. FRBANK Bailey will speak on American Slavery, in Hyannis, Sunday evening, Aug.21st.
Mr. Bailey will speak also at Blackstone, on Sunday, Aug.28th, at half-past 10, A.M., and 5, P.M. Subjects-'The Natural and the Spiritual'; and ' Regeneration.'
NOTICE.-Rev. JOHN W. LEWIS, of warren, Me., will preach in the Independent Baptist Church, Joy Street, next Sunday evening, and (Aug. 21st.) Subject, an appeal to the Colored People, especially the Young Men, on their duty as to their religious, moral, and intellectual improvement.
DIED-In Northampton, July 22d, Mrs. Esther BRIDGMAN, wife of Mr. JOHN BRIDGMAN, aged 58. Her doors were ever open to the poor and friendless, and she was the ' succored of many.'
STATE NORMAL SCHOOL,
SALEM, MASS.
THE next Term will commence with an Examination of Candidates for admission, on WEDNESDAY, Spat. 14, at 9 A.m.
This Institution is open to young ladies not less than 16 years of age, (without limit as to place of residence,) who wish to pursue a Course of Study extending through three terms, or a year and a half in direct preparation for the work of teaching. To all who intend to teach in the public schools of Massachusetts, TUTION IS FREE. Text-books are mostly furnished from the Library of the School. Good Board can be obtained at from $2 to $3 per week. From the State Appropriation, and other sources, more than $1000 is annually distributed among pupils who may merit and need the aid. For Circulars, or further information, address
ALPHEUS CROSBY, Principal.
Aug.19.
HOPEDALE 
HOME SCHOOL.
THIS Institution is designed to combine thorough instruction in Science, Art, and Literature, with judicious training of the physical and moral nature. To secure the children and youth, resorting to it for educational purposes, such home and neighborhood influences, together with such specific culture as may be primitive of positive growth in virtue and true excellence, is its sacred aim. Thoroughly Reformatory and Progressive in its spirit and character, it must rely mainly upon the patronage of those sympathizing with the better tendencies and movements of the age for support.
The First Term of the Scholastic Year 1859-60 commences on Wednesday, Sept.9, and continues Fifteen Weeks.
For Circulars, containing full information, please address either of the Principals, Hopedale, and Milford, Mass.
W. S. HAYWOOD,
 A. S. HAYWOOD,} Principals
Aug. 10. 3w
WEST NEWTON
English and Classical School.
THIS SCHOOL for both sexes is under the care of NATHANIEL. T. ALLEN. It is situated in the pleasant and healthful village of West Newton, Mass., on the line of the Boston and Worcester Railroad, nine miles from Boston, and about three minutes' walk from the Station. The Course of Study embraces every branch of a thorough English education, together with the Ancient and Modern Languages; and while particular attention will be given to preparation for College, or for mercantile and scientific pursuits, a special aim of the teachers will be to impart instruction in the common branches thoroughly and correctly. A Primary Department is connected with the Institution, into which pupils of the youngest school-age are received. There is connected with the school a large and well-appointed Gymnasium, in which systematic instruction will be given. Particular attention will be given to the subject of manners and morals. [The School-year will occupy forty weeks, and will be divided into two terms of twenty, or four of ten, weeks each.
TEACHBRS.
NATHANIEL T.ALLEN, Principal.
Teacher of Mathematics and the Natural Sciences.
CYRUS PEIRCE
Teacher of Moral and Intellectual Philosophy.
WILLIAM F. ALLEN, 
Teacher of the Classics, History, and English Literature.
GEORGE F. ALLEN,
ANNA C. BASSETT,
B.F.BAKER,} Assistants.
Teacher of Piano and Vocal Music.
E. L. MERRILL,
Teacher of Calisthenics and Dancing.
SARAH R. BASSETT,
Teacher of the Primary Department.
'Father Perce' is at present prevented by ill health from giving Instruction in his department.
The Messrs. ALLEN will receive a limited number of pupils into their families. It is their purpose
To provide for those who may be placed under their charge a comfortable and pleasant home. For further particulars, address N.T.ALLEN, West Newton, Mass.
REFERENCES.
Rev. E. S. Gannet, D.D., Wm. Brigham, Esq., Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Esq., Boston; Rev. George E. Ellis, D.D., Charlestown; Prof. L. Agassis, Cambridge.
Aug, 12. 5t
FEDERAL TYRANNY!
THIRTY-SEVEN MEN, Lawyers, Doctors, Ministers, Legislators and Men of Business, arrested and dragged to FELON'S PRISON; their only offence being a compliance with those divine injunctions, 'Feed the hungry and should do to you, do ye even so to them.'
WE HAVE IN PRESS,
And shall publish about the 20th of July,
A COMPLETE HISTORY
OF THE
OBERLIN-WELLINGTON Rescue,
And the cruel persecution of the noble men who chose to obey God rather than man. A. most infamous chapter in American History, which succeeding generations will wish to have expunged. This volume comprises a full account of the rescue, incarceration and trials.
READ IT, AMERICANS,
And MOURN over your country's degradation; Matter it broadcast over the land, that a SLAVOCRATIC NATION may see the depth of depravity and wickedness into which it has fallen, and arouse, repent and reform.
We want 1000 active, whole-soiled Agents to sell this book. Price, 50 CENTS, $4 50 per dozen,
And $38 per 100 in paper coven, and 75 cuts per 100 bound in cloth.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO.
July 15. 4wis.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
We made a brief visit to Newburyport, a few days since, and had the pleasure of an interview with Miss HANNAH F. GOULD, the poetess, an old and esteemed acquaintance whom we had not seen for a quarter of a century-many of whose effusions we set up in type, in the days of our apprenticeship, as originally communicated to the Newburyport Herald,. Though time is making its impression upon her bodily powers, we found her spirit as fresh and vigorous in the cause of freedom and humanity as when we first knew her. Her writings have always been on the side of virtue and goodness. We believe her first Anti-Slavery effusion was the following, written for the first number of the Liberator, which was published on the first day of January, 1831. It will be new, we presume, to a large majority of our present subscribers.-[Ed. Lib.

THE SALUTATION.
BY HANNAH F. GOULD.
To date my being from the opening year,
I come, a stranger in this busy sphere,
Where some I meet perchance may stop and ask,
What is my name, my purpose, or my task.
My name is 'LIBERATOR'! I propose
To hurl my shafts at Freedom's deadliest foes!
My task is hard-for I am charged to save
Man from his brother!—to redeem the slave!
Ye who may hear, and yet condemn my cause,
Say, shall the best of Nature's holy laws
Be trodden down? and shall her open veins
Flow but for cement to her offspring's chains?
Art thou a parent? shall thy children be
Rent from thy breast, like branches from the tree,
And doom'd to servitude, in helplessness,
On other shores, and thou ask no redress?
Thou, in whose bosom glows the sacred flame
Of filial love, say, if the tyrant came,
To force thy parent shrieking from thy sight,
Would thy heart bleed-because thy face it white?
Art thou a brother? shall thy sister twine
Her feeble arm in agony on thine,
And thou not lift the heel, nor aim the blow
At him who bears her off to life-long woe?
Art thou a sister? will no desperate cry 
Awake thy sleeping brother, while thine eye
Beholds the fetters locking on the limb
Stretched out in rest, which hence must end for him?
Art thou a lover?-no! naught e'er was found
In lover's breast save cords of love, that bound
Man to his kind!-then, thy professions save!
Forswear affection, or release thy slave!
Thou who art kneeling at thy Maker's shrine,
Ask if Heaven takes such offerings as thine!
If in thy bonds the son of Afric sighs,
Far higher than thy prayer his groans shall rise!
God is a God of mercy, and would see
The prison-doors unbarred-the bondmen free!
He is a God of truth, with purer eyes
Than to behold th' oppressor's sacrifice!
Avarice, thy cry and thy insatiate thirst
Make man consent to see his brother cursed!
Tears, sweat and blood thou drink'st, but in their turn,
They shall cry 'More!' while vengeance bids thee burn.
The Lord hath said it-who shall him gainsay?
He says, 'The wicked they shall go away'-
Who are the wicked? Contradict who can,
They are th' oppressors of their fellow-man!
Aid me, NEW ENGLAND! 'tis my hope in you
Which gives me strength my purpose to pursue!
Do you not hear your sister States resound
With Afric's cries to have her sons unbound?
Miss Gould kindly put into our hands the following, as her latest testimony in regard to the awful sin of enslaving our fellow-creatures.

HYMN FOR THE SLAVE.
BY HANNAH F. GOULD.
There is a peaceful home above,
Where all who bear below
The cross of Christ, in faith and love,
As equal heirs may go.
There is a fount, whose waters gush
With life beyond the grave,
Whereof the master will not blush
To drink beside the slave.
The Tree that from that Holy Land
Immortal bloom receives,
Is planted where the Ethiop's hand
May reach its balmy leaves.
When Death unlocks the bondman's chain,
And sets his spirit free,
No hunter on his flight shall gain,
To that all-healing tree!
The hue that marked his mortal vest-
The yoke-the stripes he bore-
In that pure world of light and rest,
Can wring his soul no more!
But, while his grateful song shall flow
To his Redeemer there,
What part is he who wrought his woe-
His earthly lord-to bear?
There is a Law, all-wise, supreme,
With God's eternal seal;
And self-deceivers vainly dream
From this to find appeal.
No powers that pure, supernal Law,
Can weaken or annul;
Nor Conscience thence an opiate draw,
The sense of guilt to lull.
There is an ADVOCATE, who stands
Unwavering and un-feed,
For those with gyved, but guiltless hands,
That Higher Law to plead.
Whoe'er his neighbor robs of rights
Which God with being gave,
Against Omnipotence he fights-
Himself to sin a slave!
Whoso on hand and bosom wears
Fine gold and sparkling gem,
That sprang from drops of sweat and tears,
Where bondmen planted them,
Then boasts of Freedom! rights of birth!
And grasps his trembling slave-.
His mockery taints the air-the earth-
It scents beyond the grave.
And he who wears the Christian name,
To mask an earthly heart;
And puts the cause of Christ to shame,
To prop a human mart,-
The holy flame how shall he face
From God's all-searching eye,
That may the Mene, Tekel! trace,
Which he may not defy!
For there's a throne-a holy throne,
Where Justice holds the scale,
Whilst every soul's concerns are shown,
And many a hope must fail.
The Judge, whose eye unerring sees
Each deed and thought, is He
Who saith, 'What did ye unto these,
Ye did it unto me!'
Newburyport, Mass.

WELL-DOING.
Who blesses others in his daily deeds,
Will find the healing that his spirit needs;
For every flower in others' pathway strewn,
Confers its fragrant beauty on its own.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
NEW ENGLAND 
COLORED CITIZENS' CONVENTION.
Pursuant to Call, a Convention of the Colored Citizens of New England, to take into consideration the best means of promoting their moral, social and political elevation, gathered in the Meionaon, in Boston, on Monday morning, Aug. 1st, 1859.
Large delegations were in attendance from New Bedford, Springfield and Worcester, Massachusetts; from Rhode Island, Connecticut and Maine. New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Canada, and other sections of the Union, were also represented.
The stand of the President and the tables of the reporters were graced with elegant bouquets, presented by the ladies.
Before the transaction of any business, the audience sang a hymn commencing:-
'Ho! children of the brave,
Ho! freemen of the land,
That hurled into the grave
Oppression's bloody band!
Come on, come on, and joined be we
To make the fettered bondman free!'
The Convention was called to order at 10 o'clock, A. M., by Wm. Wells Brown, who read the call. It was then temporarily organized by the choice of Rev. Amos G. Beman, of Maine, as Chairman, and Bela C. Perry, of New Bedford, as Secretary.
The following were appointed a Committee on Permanent Organization:-John W. Lewis, Maine; Lewis Hayden, Henry O. Remington, Mark R. De Mortie, James Jefferson.
Prayer was offered by Rev. J. N. Gloucester, of New York.
A resolution fixing the basis of representation, and requesting each member of the Convention to pay a dollar towards the expenses, was debated and adopted.
A Committee on Roll was then appointed, as follows:—Henry Weeden, Jeremiah Harvey, Edward M. Bannister, J. N. Gloucester.
Charles Lenox Remond remarked that this Convention would be regarded as something of a curiosity, even in old Boston, and many people would look in upon its deliberations from motives of curiosity, and from other motives; but he hoped that colored people would not stand in the doors, and look in upon the Convention as upon a menagerie. If they had no interest here, they had better go somewhere else. (Hear, hear, and applause.) The throng at the door did not diminish.
An original song, by Wm. Wells Brown, was then sung in a fine manner, to the tune of 'Auld Lang Syne.' The following is the first stanza:-
'Fling out the anti-slavery flag
On every swelling breeze;
And let its folds wave o'er the land,
And o'er the raging seas,
Till all beneath the standard-sheet
With new allegiance bow,
And pledge themselves to onward bear
The emblem of their vow.'
In the absence of the Nominating Committee, WM. WELLS BROWN addressed the Convention, as follows:
Mr. President and Fellow-Citizens,-The propriety of holding a Convention of the colored citizens of the New England States has been questioned. Some think that the time has gone by for having such a Convention; others are of opinion that the time has not arrived. I confess that I am unfavorable to any gathering that shall seem like taking separate action from our white fellow-citizens; but it appears to me that just at the present time, such a meeting as this is needed. The colored people in the free States are in a distracted and unsettled condition. The Fugitive Slave Law, the Dred Scott Decision, and other inroads made upon the colored man's rights, make it necessary that they should come together that they may compare notes, talk over the cause of their sufferings, and see if any thing can be done to better their condition. Our old enemy the Colonization Society has taken advantage of the present state of feeling among us, and is doing all in its power to persuade us to go to Africa; the Emigration scheme has new life, and another enemy, under the name of the African Civilization Society, has sprung into existence, and beckons us to a home in a foreign land. Now, Mr. President, if this Convention shall do nothing more than to inspire our people with confidence in themselves, and cause them to resolve never to leave this their native land, it will have accomplished a good work. Our right to live here is as good as the white man's, and is incorporated in the Declaration of Independence, in the passage which declares 'that all men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.' Then let us remain here, and claim our rights upon the soil where our fathers fought side by side with the white man for freedom. Let us remain here, and labor to remove the chains from the limbs of our brethren on the banks of the Mississippi. Yes, let us stay here, and vindicate our right to citizenship, and pledge ourselves to aid in completing the Revolution for human freedom, commenced by the patriots of 1776, and see our country as free as the air we breathe.
We must take a manly stand, bid defiance to the Fugitive Slave Law, Dred Scott Decision, and every thing that shall attempt to fasten fetters upon us. We will let our white fellow-citizens see that we know our rights, and, knowing, will maintain them.
I hope, Mr. President, that this Convention will stimulate our people to self-elevation. 'They who would be free themselves must strike the blow,' means something more than striking at our fellow-man. We must free ourselves from ignorance and intemperance, and show that we respect ourselves, and this will wring respect from our enemies. We must educate our children, give them professions or trades, and let them have a capital within themselves, that shall gain them wealth and influence. We must recommend to our people to become possessors of the soil, to leave the large cities, take to farming, and make themselves independent. And lastly, we must try to stir within them more interest in the Anti-Slavery cause. It is a lamentable fact, that colored men take too little interest in Conventions called by our white fellow-citizens. Had they gone into those meetings and taken part, as they should, this Convention would have been somewhat out of place.
Mr. Brown's remarks were cut short by the return of the Nominating Committee, who, through John W. Lewis, reported the following list of officers for the permanent organization of the Convention:—
President,
GEORGE T. DOWNING, of Rhode Island.
Vice Presidents-Ezra R. Johnson, Samuel Harrison, and John T. Hilton, of Massachusetts; Amos G. Beman, of Maine; Isaac Rice, of Rhode Island; William Anderson, of Connecticut; A. N. Freeman, of New York; William Still, of Pennsylvania; Jared Gray, of Illinois; J. Sella Martin, New York; Lewis Clark, Canada.
Secretaries-Charles H. Gardner, Boston; A. G. Jourdain, Jr., New Bedford; John T. Waugh, Providence; Wm. H. Leonard, New York.
On motion of Mr. Brown, a committee of two was appointed to wait on the President, and conduct him to the chair. He was received with much applause. He was met by the Chairman pro tem., who presented him, in behalf of the ladies of the Convention, with a beautiful vase of white roses, fucias, and other flowers, as a token of their appreciation of his noble labors in behalf of school rights in Rhode Island. The presentation was accompanied with a very neat speech. 
The following Business Committee was then appointed:—William C. Nell, Henry O. Remington, John W. Lewis, George Allen, James Jefferson, Bela
<c03>
C. Perry, Lewis Hayden, J. N. Gloucester, Edward B. Lawton, Wm. Wells Brown, Mrs. Ruth Rice Remond, Mark R. DeMortie, Robert Gordon, Mrs. Eliza Logan Lawton, Henry Johnson.
The President then delivered the following address:-
A few days ago, a friend wrote to me, and said that it was the intention of some of my friends to present my name for the Presidency of this Convention. He urged me to be present. I felt a delicacy, because of a consciousness of my inability to properly discharge the trust that might be imposed; or rather, because I thought that there would be those present who would discharge the same with greater credit to themselves, and to the Convention. But my friends urging, I finally consented to serve, should the Convention manifest a desire that I should do so. So the honor you have conferred upon me in electing me your President is not altogether a surprise. But this unexpected surprise-the bouquet presented through you, kind sir, by the ladies of Boston, is more than I had any reason to expect. You say that they present it as a testimonial in appreciation of my efforts in Rhode Island, in behalf of equal school rights. It is true that I have labored for the same, but I have done no more than my duty. I have labored in this direction, because to me it seemed that in it lay the path of duty; that in it I might not only serve justice and right, but my people and myself-my little ones.
Allow me to assure you, that whilst I have found the path rugged, difficult, and in many cases unpleasant, yet ever and anon I have encountered bright spots. I have ever felt that I had, as my companions cheering me, justice, right and truth; and I am proud to receive these garlands at your hand to encircle their brows; for unto them it is mete to award the praise.
Gentlemen, I have not left the plough to come into counsel, as did some men of old; but I have, I may say, stolen away from engagements in my calling, to have the advantage of being with you to-day, upon matters pertaining to our rights as men, and as Americans.
The great consideration that presses upon me is, What may we do to make ourselves of more importance in community-necessary, indispensable? To sustain such a relation as this to community, (and it is possible,) is to secure, beyond a question, all the respect; is to make sure the enjoyment of all the rights that the most deferred to of the land enjoy. Society is deferential; it defers to power. Learning and wealth and power are most potent in society. It is not necessary that many men and women of us be wealthy and learned, before we can force respect as a class; but it is necessary that we exhibit a proportionate representative character for learning and wealth, to be respected. It is not numbers alone, it is not universal wealth, it is not general learning, that secures to those, known by a distinction in society as whites, that gains them power; for they are not generally wealthy, not commonly learned. The number of these among them, as in all communities, is limited; but that number form a representative character, some of whom excel; hence they have power-the class enjoy a name.
There is another sense of power in community, which, though silent, has its weight-it should be most potent: that power is moral character. This also, like the other powers of which I have spoken, need not be universal to have an effect favorable to a class. I think that I am not claiming too much for the colored people in asserting that we have a decent representation in this respect; a most remarkable, and, considering all the depressing influences which the present and preceding generations have had to struggle up under. Happily, this power on community is not growing less; it is on the increase. An illustration of the correctness of my position as to the power of a representative character for wealth and learning in commanding respect, is forcibly exhibited in the Celts in our midst, who come among us poor and ignorant, and who, consequently, fill menial, dependant positions. They are the least respected of all emigrants. In speaking thus, I am simply dealing with facts, not intending to be invidious. The German element, mingling into the general element which comes among us, representing a higher intelligence, more wealth, with great practical industry, is silently stealing a hold, a power in the nation, because of these possessions, at which native America will yet start. Now, gentlemen, if these be facts, is it not well for us, as sensible men here assembled, to consider our best interest-to have in view these sources of power? Would it not be well to consider these-to fall upon some plan by which we may possess or excite to the possession of them-rather than devote much of our time in a discussion as to the injustice of our fellow-countrymen in their relation to us? Of this they know full well, and we too bitterly. 
The ballot is a power in this country, which should not be lost sight of by us. Were it more generally exercised by the colored people, the effect would be very perceptible. Those of them, residents of the States that deny them the privilege of the elective franchise, should earnestly strive to have the right and the power secured to them; those who have it, should never let an occasion pass, when they may consistently exercise it, without doing so. We know that the government and the States have acted most unfairly in their relation to us; but that government and the States, in doing so, have clearly disregarded justice, as well as perverted the legal interpretation of the supreme law of the land, as set forth in its Constitution; which facts alone require that we exercise the right to vote, whenever we can, toward correcting this injustice. Were it known on election day that any colored man would deposit a vote, that there would be a concert of action in doing so, the effect would be irresistible. Cannot such a vote be passed at the approaching Presidential election? Will the Republican party, (a party which is entitled to credit for the service it has rendered to the cause of Freedom,) put in nomination, in 1860, a man for whom we can, with some degree of consistency, cast our ballots? It has such men in its ranks-prominent men of the party-men who are available.
I would have it noted, that we cannot vote for a man who subscribes to the doctrine, that, in struggling for freedom in a Presidential or any other election, he ignores the rights of the colored man.
There is an increased as well as an increasing respect for us in community. This is not simply because we have friends, (all praise to them,) who speak out boldly and uncompromisingly for the right: in fact, the most of their efforts have been directed towards relieving the country of the blight and of the injustice of slavery; but it is because our character, as a class, is better understood.
I was at school a pupil, when a colored boy was locked-up in a recitation room to produce a composition on a given subject, that the incredulity of the visitors might be satisfied; they doubting the capacity of a colored boy to produce a composition. Such an idea would, at present, be scouted; such a reflection would now, by the boy, be indignantly resented. At that day, if a colored person went to collect a bill, he was inquired of, 'Can you write your name?' Now it is taken for granted. In all of our various marts may be seen colored men and boys, computing thousands without pencil or paper, with the rapidity of thought. These acquirements do not stop here, which fact is beginning to be known; but these are common ones, with which community is becoming familiar, and all of which are creating respect.
I will read some testimony from one of the papers of this city, the Boston Courier, a paper which I have heard styled Boston's pro-slavery organ. Whether it be a misnomer or not, I leave the Boston delegation to say; but this I do know,-I have read in its columns something that looked like a stealing of Anti-Slavery thunder. It said, not long ago, speaking in references
<c04>
to the abolition of caste in the public schools of Boston, that 
'The abolitionists did set this ball in motion, and are fairly entitled to the credit of it. We may here say that we contemplate the change with unmingled satisfaction. We rejoice that colored men are not set apart in our churches from their white brethren, and that children of the two races sit side by side upon the same benches at school.
'This can do us no harm, but only good. If we are the superior race as we claim to be, we can in no way better show our superiority than by helping the inferior race to share in our progress.'
At another time it said that—
'The colored population of Boston, during the last twenty-five years, has made very distinct and decided progress, and such progress is most honorable to them. They lead more moral and reputable lives; they are possessed of more property, and live more comfortably; they are more anxious to improve their own minds, and to educate their children-indeed, their anxiety to have their children well educated, and the honest pains and sacrifices they are at to have them neatly dressed, are most creditable to them. These things show that they are entirely worthy of the boon which has been bestowed upon them, now in every town and city in the State, of having their children educated at the same schools with the whites.
'We are glad of this progress; we are also glad of the gradual melting away of the prejudices once entertained by their white brethren towards them. Certainly there never was any thing more unchristian than the spectacle which we can remember in the parish churches of New England, of a few colored worshippers stuck up in a sort of swallow's nest pew under the eaves, as if they were lepers or pariahs. The man whose devotions are disturbed by having a family of well-behaved and decently dressed colored persons in the pew next to him may know much of the doctrines of Christianity, but is very little imbued with its spirit. We think Massachusetts is honorably distinguished by its bearing towards its colored population, not merely by giving them equal political privileges with the whites, but by the increasing willingness of its people to recognize their social rights, and to deal with them in a spirit of humanity and Christianity.'
Thus you see that we have a hopeful, and I will add, an inseparable, providential identity with this country; with its institutions, with the ideas connected with its formation, which were the uplifting of man-universal brotherhood. The Congress of the Confederation said in April, 1783, 'Let it be remembered, finally, that it has ever been the pride and boast of America, that the rights for which she contended were the rights of human nature. By the blessings of the Author of these rights on the means exerted for their defence, they have prevailed against all opposition, and form the basis of thirteen independent States.' We are the life of the nation's existence; a nation must have issues to exhibit vitality. All of the great principles of the land are brought out and discussed in connection with the negro. But, for him, there would be a sameness; the great principles, the great ethical school of the times, would be closed for the want of a subject. We are the alphabet; upon us, all are constructed. We, the descendants, to a great extent, of those most unjustly held in bondage, whose forefathers in Africa lived through ages of ignorance and superstition, against whom the world has been in arms; these were the most fit subjects to be selected to work out in perfection the realization of a great principle, the fraternal unity of man. THIS IS AMERICA'S MISSION. We suffer in the interim; but we can, as is abundantly proven, endure. We can and do hope. We are not, and cannot be, unmindful of Fugitive Slave Laws, Dred Scott decisions, American Colonization Societies, and of the latest, the African Civilization Society; these we can see through and endure. They may be regarded as sequences; they do annoy, but cannot permanently affect us We will not be driven off; we will rear and educate our children here, in this our native land, around our sacred altars; altars which our children's children will gaze upon here, and, if needs be, reconstruct; in a climate and a home congenial to us, and to the development of mind and manhood. All of the injustice and wrong that has, or may be heaped upon us-and it may come heavier-will not crush out that heaven-giving part of our nature, patriotism, love of home, of our native hills, of our verdant valleys.
The African slave trade will be opened. The effect will be the further introduction into the country of the African element-a needed element. Aside from this providential idea linking us with the country, which forbids our leaving it, even to engage in the Herculean task of going to Africa to take upon our shoulders a hundred and fifty millions of people, residents of another country, of a strange, and to us murderous land, to civilize and enlighten them; I think that we have not yet developed, or even had the chance to develop, the character necessary for such an undertaking. Such a character must grow out of the experience that begets wealth from learning, together with keen moral perceptions. Have we such a character? Twenty-five to thirty years is no unusual length of time for a man favorably situated, after he has begun to realize the true importance of wealth and intelligence, to acquire a reputation in these respects. That which is true of individuals, is most likely to be true of a class. Have we been thus favorably circumstanced? Have we studiously realized the importance of wealth and intelligence? Has not the studied policy of our oppressors been to ignore our manhood, crush out all aspirations? Go back with me twenty-five years. Do we not observe that the colored man enjoyed the advantages that he did, rather as favors than as of right? Did there seem to be a perfect conception of his rights as a man? Is not this even too true of to-day? I know that, in legislation, in administration, when our government was formed, that the government acknowledged the citizenship of the colored man of the country. The Constitution guaranteed it: which citizenship is, or should be, the basis of our national rights. It is further known that the States acted upon the same; as is satisfactorily seen by their having colored citizens along with white citizens, through representatives selected by them, to make laws for the government of the same. It is also true that some colored men, conscious of their manhood, that they were natives of the country, that they had stood side by side with their white fellow-countrymen in the battles that secured the freedom and rights of a common country, felt, demanded and exercised the prerogatives of American citizenship. Yes, as I have asserted, we have not yet developed the necessary character to go among a people, to Christianize, civilize, and teach them the science of government. Nor is the fault entirely ours. We have our men, but not a single representative man to spare. The debased, the indifferent, should not be shipped off to Africa. Africa is crying out already, 'Send us no more of such.'
I wish it to be most emphatically noticed, that WE DO NOT DESPAIR—that we are scanning the bright future. Our hope is in the rising generation. We look to the public school. This is the great tutor, here, where mind jostles with mind, where consciousness of equality is taught; in the public school, where our children are being educated to confident manly contact.
When we shall hare worked out our redemption here, when we shall not be chargeable with cowardice in fleeing from difficulties that can and should be overcome, then may many of us, with our fellow-countrymen, take up the missionary cross, in other missionary fields. But let us first get wealthy, intel­ligent and wise here in our native land. As for slavery, it is doomed. Whether it is to end by peaceful or bloody means, I cannot say-I hope by the former.
A resolution which the famous Committee of Thirteen in the city of New York, composed of colored men, adopted in 1850, now occurs to me. It said that many of the ablest men of the country, both in and out of Congress, were racking their brains to conceive some compromise by which the question of slavery could be settled; but it was their deliberate opinion that it would not be settled, or have any rest,
<c05>
until slavery was abolished. Does not nine years' experience strengthen the conviction which these thirteen colored men entertained in 1850?
A planter in one of the British West India Islands, previous to the abolition of slavery, despatched at night-fall one of his slaves, in great haste, on a commission to a distant plantation. The journey occupied some time. When the slave arrived at the plantation, fatigued and sleepy, and had delivered his despatch, and was waiting for a reply, he leaned against the door-case, and dozed. The planter's slave in attendance chided him for sleeping in the presence of his master, when the slave replied, 'Sleep knows no master.' Since that time, this conception of freedom has been realized universally in every British West India island, not only in its application to sleep, but as a realization enjoyed each wakeful moment. No small share of the interest that attends this gathering is the recollection of the fact, that on this day, twenty-five years ago, eight hundred thousand men and women realized not only that sleep knows no master, but that they should not be obliged to recognize, in any situation, the title as existing between them and any man.
History has its record of living events long ago enacted, which will live through time: this event, this British act, among the brightest of Britain's acts, is to be classed with such; an act reanimating by a decree hundreds of thousands of imbruted beings; an act acknowledging the Divine image in man. This English act, with others as bright, makes England stand out as Humanity's hand-maid, with a Queen guiding. We carry about us in our imagination the sainted forms of those good men and women of Britain, who labored so long, so faithfully and so well for the event which causes a halo of light to encircle the first of August in Freedom's calendar. 'Sleep knows no master.' We hope and believe that, soon, no slave represented in a hypocritical church, or a sycophantic North, licking the dust for office, will stand ready to chide those who would enjoy freedom, either sleeping or awake, on American soil. When this shall be, it will not be long before another glorious day shall be specially set apart as sacred to Liberty.
WILLIAM C. NELL from the Business Committee then reported in part-
Without being wedded to separate Conventions, yet believing that from agitation in various phases grows information, conviction and repentance; and that Conventions do assist in creating public opinion, as well as to concentrate and express that opinion, being a medium through which we can protest against the obstacles retarding our moral, social, and political elevation,-compare notes one with another,-stimulating ourselves each and all to renewed efforts, we have convened to-day in this place, within a stone's throw from the spot where fell the colored man Crispus Attucks, the first martyr in the American Revolution, March 5th, 1770, and within eight rods from his yet unmonumented grave, to do our part in obtaining for ourselves and posterity the full measure of blessings and rights, which the example and influence of his foresight, love of liberty, patriotic leadership and martyr death should long since have secured.
In accordance therewith, the Business Committee respectfully beg leave to submit for the consideration of this Convention the following resolutions:-
Resolved, That this Convention sends its greeting to the multitudes in America, England, West Indies, Canada, and wherever else assembled, whose grateful songs and eloquent words unite in celebrating this, the twenty-fifth anniversary of the day, luminous in the world's calendar, when 'Britannia's Justice, wealth and might,' severed the chains from 800,000 men, women and children in her 'beautiful isles of the sea,' which on that glorious 1st of August, 1834, 'welcomed freedom as an angel from above.' But while we rejoice with those who, although in a monarch's domain, have abundant reason for rejoicing, our joy is mixed with sorrow: we must weep with those who, in Republican America, 'our own loved but guilty land,' this day weep, because slavery's galling fetters yet clank upon their limbs-whose aspirations by day and dreams by night are a blended offering to the God of freedom that they too may soon greet their day of jubilee.
Whereas, The Austrian Empire, whose usurpations against Italy have just caused the fields of Lombardy to be reddened with human blood, yet retains an imperial edict, 'that any slave, from the moment he treads on the soil of her royal dominions, or even merely steps on board of an Austrian vessel, shall be free:' and 
Whereas, Our sister State, Vermont, has, by her last year's legislation, so far emulated Austria, that any slave reaching her soil shall be as secure from the clutch of his self-styled owner as are the bases of her everlasting Green Mountains: and
Whereas, Desirous that the old Bay State shall be as free from the sin and shame of slavery, that never more from Barnstable to Berkshire, there shall be occasion for such scenes as the Latimer war, the William and Ellen Craft excitement, the rescue of Shadrach, the rendition of Thomas Sims and Anthony Burns, and last, but far from least, the recent one of a Cape Cod captain sending back to slavery a man who had escaped in his vessel; therefore,
Resolved, That this Convention do endorse and urge the masses to sign the petition of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, asking the Legislature 'to put an end to slave-hunting in Massachusetts.' 
Whereas, It being the settled policy of the Administrators of the United States Government to keep in chains the millions now held as slaves in the Southern States, and to oppress and degrade the free colored people of this country, and to build up barriers and create distinctions between the different races; therefore be it
Resolved, That we hold it to be a self-evident truth, that all men, irrespective of color or condition, have a natural, indefeasible right to life, liberty, and the possession of property, without proscription or hindrance; and every species of involuntary servitude, except for the punishment of crimes, is in direct contravention to every principle of humanity, justice and patriotism.
Resolved, That it is the legitimate purpose of all governments exercising jurisdiction over men, whether they be State or National, to protect each individual member in the full enjoyment of every natural or conventional right, which is not required or surrendered for the good of society in general.
Resolved, That the decision of Chief Justice Taney and his slaveholding associates of the United States Supreme Court, in the Dred Scott case, is marked by a brutality of spirit, a daring disregard of all historical verity, a defiant contempt of State sovereignty, a wanton perversion of the Constitution of the United States in regard to the rights of American citizens, an audacious denial of all the principles of justice and humanity; and justly calls for the condemnation of the friends of human liberty throughout the world.
Whereas, The Anti-Slavery movement, moral and political, rests upon the basis of equality and of justice to the colored man, bond and free, of the whole country; it can have no other foundation, and can have no success worthy of the name when this principle is disavowed or neglected; therefore.
Resolved, That ever ready to acknowledge the faithfulness of those leaders of the Republican party who have exerted themselves in favor of the colored man's equality, we have had cause to regret many departures from this standard-including the vote given in Congress by Hon. Linus B. Comins and Hon. Eli Thayer for the admission of Oregon into the Union with a Constitution containing prohibitive clauses against the citizenship of colored Americans.
Resolved, That we pronounce such votes to be against justice, against equality, and against the principles by which the Republican party professes to be guided, and by which alone it can be made worth sustaining.
Resolved, That the thanks of the Convention are due, and are hereby expressed, to Hon. Henry L. Dawes, of the 11th Congressional District, for his speech in opposition to the odious and unconstitutional provision of the Oregon Constitution, and to him and those of his colleagues who voted against the admission of that State into the Union.
Resolved, That in view of the fact, that in several States of the Union where the Republican party is in the ascendant, the elective franchise of colored citizens is denied or its privileges abridged, we would earnestly call upon the party to take a manly position upon this and co-relative questions, that they may deserve what they would undoubtedly receive— the suffrages of all voters who love the cause of freedom.
<c06>
Resolved, That this Convention would recommend colored voters to press these claims upon the Republican party, that, if defeated, it may not be by any fault of theirs.
The following were accepted as Committee on Finance:—John J. Smith, Nelson L. Perkins, Lloyd H. Brooks, Ellen Shearman, George W. Lowhter, Anne E. Gray, George Allen.
Committee on Rules and Orders:—Wm. Wells Brown, Nelson L. Perkins, Charles A. Pervis.
The Committee on Rules and Orders reported. A rule limiting speakers to fifteen minutes was opposed by Charles Lenox Remond, who hoped no man would speak who had nothing to say; and in following out another theme, complained that colored men were not sufficiently aggressive when their rights were in question; they smiled when they ought to frown.
WM. WELLS BROWN defended the rule. It was calculated to give a chance to those members of the convention who were usually kept silent by two or three eloquent gentlemen who talked all the time.
The rules were adopted.
A resolution requiring collections in the forenoon and afternoon, and an admission fee to the evening session to all but delegates, elicited more discussion. Mr. Remond complained of the penurious policy of the colored people, and several delegates from abroad objected to the admission fee.
The resolution was adopted. At a quarter before! o’clock, the Convention adjourned until half-past! o’clock.
After the adjournment, the slave Maria, who was taken from Plymouth on a writ of habeas corpus, came upon the stand, and received the congratulations of her friends.
SECOND SESSION. The Convention reassembled at 21/2 o' clock. A song entitled, ‘Free the Bondman,’ by James H. Dean, was sung to the air, ‘Scots who hae wi’ Wallace bled.’
On motion of Mr. William Wells Brown, from the Committee on Rules and Orders, a committee, consisting of T. W. Steamburg, of Boston, and Henry Johnson, of Cambridge, was appointed, to direct those attending the Convention to seats.
Mr. Nell read the series of resolutions which was submitted during the morning session, and the President announced them as before the Convention for discussion.
Mr. Nell then brought forward a rather antiquated looking paper, the Boston Gazette or Weekly Journal, dated Tuesday, November 20, 1750, from which he read the following advertisement:—
'Ran away from his master, Wm. Brown, Framingham, on the 30th of September last, a Mulatto Fellow, about 27 years of age, named Crispos, well set, 6 feet 2 inches in height, short Curled Hair, Knees nearer together than common, had on a light colored Buckskin Coat, brown Fustian Jacket, new Buckskin Britches, blue yarn stockings, and a checked shirt.’
Mr. Nell said—It will be remembered that at the Faneuil Hall commemoration of the Boston massacre, (March 5th, 1858,) Samuel H. Brown, Esq., a grandson of the above William Brown, was present, and narrated to several persons the traditions extant in the family relating to Crispus Attucks,-of his goblet, powder-horn, &c.
It seems that Crispus was imbued with the spirit of liberty in thus declaring independence of his master. He subsequently came to Boston, and worked in a ropewalk at the North end, where he rallied the men to the attack of the English forces in King street, himself being the first martyr, though a slave, in that struggle which resulted in liberty to these United States-securing to them the been they have denied to his race.
It is somewhat remarkable that, although the impetus to the American Revolution was undeniably given on the 5th of March, 1770, and so regarded by the orators and writers of those times, yet by some persons, at the present day, this great fact is wholly ignored. For instance: F. O. C. Darley, a well-known artist, has recently drawn a fine American historical picture of the Battle of Lexington and Concord, with the caption, ‘First Blow for Liberty’; and in the Doric Hall of the State House is to be seen the cannot dedicated to Major John Buttrick and Capt. Isaac Davis for their services at Concord Bridge, April 19th, 1775, on which is inscribed, 'This was the beginning of a contest in arms that ended in American Independence.'
Now, without the least desire to disparage the influence of the battles of Lexington and Concord upon the revolutionary struggle, they cannot with justice be called the scenes of the first blow for liberty, unless the 19th of April, 1775, precedes in the calendar March 5th, 1770.
A motion was made to reconsider the resolution adopted during the morning session, making the payment of one dollar the basis of membership of the Convention.
Mr. Henry Johnson, delegate from New Bedford, objected to the imposition of a tax upon each individual member of the Convention, preferring that those alone who were delegates should bear the expenses as well as the responsibilities of the Convention. The New Bedford delegation had come prepared to do their part.
The Chairman called the attention of the Convention to the call, which did not specify the Convention to be one of delegates alone, but of the colored citizens of New England.
Several other speakers participated in the discussion, which waxed warm. At length, it was terminated, under loud calls for the ‘question,’ which being taken, resulted in a defeat of the motion is reconsider.
Rev. J. Stella Martin, of Buffalo, was introduced by the President. He said this was the anniversary of West India emancipation, and therefore of much interest. He was well aware that many people looked upon this Convention as did the children of Israel upon the people of Babylon, but hoped the members had come up to the Convention with all the solemnity which the subjects to be considered demanded. They should turn to the down-trodden millions of the South, and say to them ‘that when we forget their interests, may our right hands forget their cunning.' He urged with earnestness the establishments of means to elevate individual members of the free colored race, contending that as yet there had been no local, systematized effort to correct the evils which existed in colored communities, or to elevate the individual Something was needed to encourage young men to embark in new enterprises. The only hope existing for the elevation of the colored race was to make the young men feel that they were an integral part of the community. He saw no reason why they should not feel that they were citizens of Boston, and a part of Massachusetts.
Charles L. Remond followed in an earnest speech, directed especially towards the white persons present. He sharply rebuked those who were in attendance, and who dared not come forward, and avow their opinions upon the platform which the Convention had erected. He hoped that no person would feel himself excluded from speaking by the mean processes by which they, the colored people, were excluded from participating in the deliberations of white assemblies. They (the colored people) were to-day in the majority. This was their Fourth of July, and the man was an arrant coward who refused to speak boldly for freedom. Their cause was dragged into the newspapers, the pulpit, on 'change, and every where formed the engrossing topic of discussion. He went for the immediate, unconditional emancipation of the slaves of the South, and the unconditional equality of the white and black races of the North; and, God helping, every slave would yet be free is the South, and he would yet be a free man in Massachusetts.
[Remainder of proceedings next week.]
