THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT,
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz: FEANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
VOL. XXXXI. NO.51. BOSTON, FRIDAY DECEMBER 20, 1861.WHOLE NO. 1617.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE EMANCIPATION LEAGUE,
We have declined to publish among our advertisements a notice of an Address to be delivered by Ex-Gov. Boutwell, before a certain body of persons calling themselves." The Emancipation League." Not long since, we called special attention to this set of associates, and urged the formation of a UNION LEAGUE, the necessity for which becomes every moment more apparent. We do not know that this refusal to publish an advertisement, in the way of business, or that its publication, would have any effect upon such as constitute the "League" in question. But we keep it out, as we would any pestiferous announcement, not choosing to receive the wages of iniquity, since we look upon the whole project with unutterable dislike. And we will not aid it, even by the sanction of a formal publication under protest, because we feel a sober, deliberate, resolved hostility to it and mean to resist it with all the powers at our command. For this nothing more nor less than a scheme of Disunion. Mr. Boutwell does not expect to emancipate the slave but to push the emancipation, which is an impossibility, up to the point which shall make the complete division of the States unavoidable and final. And thus, while the colored race would be doomed to perpetual bondage, and slavery be deprived of all alleviating influences which could result from intercourse between the slave States and the free, in Union, the North and the South would be doomed to perceptual border strife and open war, and to all the renewed horrors of barbarous times.
Such is the scheme of the" Emancipation League, and a slight anticipation of the results of its successful organization and operation. To this end, firebrained zealots and political demagogues, in Congress and out, are wreaking on the country the foam of their frothy madness. To this end, New England has been secretly stirred up by the busy emissaries of the" League and we doubt not a goodly number of weak-minded men and women are already engaged in it. But we shall know better when we get the address of Ex-Gov. Boutwell, what mischievous and yet shallow speculations they have allowed themselves to indulge in. Comparatively weak in numbers and influence, we know they must be; and that they will appear still weaker, whenever the array of their forces is put to the test. It will then be seen which are the traitors in the country, and which the true men. we do not yet know what help they expect from Congress: but we cannot help feeling that Congress itself stands on slippery ground, if it presumes to give countenance to their designs in the face of an outraged and indignant people. Of the spirit of the army we can judge by the declaration of Mr. Stevens of Penn., confirmed also from other quarters, that Gen. McClellan would not fight, on the basis of Mr Cameron's original Report. He ought not to and could not, if he is a friend of the Constitution and the Union. We know well that there are plenty of those high in command near him, who fully agree with him. Yet we do not fear the" Emancipation League." We fear anarchy, confusion, the necessity for military interposition, everything which converts a country which might be so peaceable, into a scene of disorder and lawless confusion. But we know that there are men enough in New England alone, of its best and bravest, and not yet in arms, able to arrest and avert the plans of these evil-disposed men, and to turn to folly all the device of the" Emancipation League,"-Boston Courier.
It occurs to us, that some one of the comparatively few members of Congress who are fit to be in it should meet the whole series of fantastic propositions now before that body in relation to slavery, by asking for the passage of a resolution, namely-
"That each and every State of this Union shall be entirely free to the residence and citizenship of all enfranchised negroes, anything in the Constitution and laws of such State to the contrary notwithstanding."
At present, as is suggested by our correspondent, certain States at the East would be overburdened with this sort of population, since Pennsylvania will not have them, nor Ohio, Illinois, Wisconsin, or even Kansas. In all these States, we think, and perhaps in others, laws are in force excluding negroes from equal privileges, and in some of them even from residence. It is plain that nothing could be more unjust than to liberate the slaves, and subject States in which no such laws exist to such an invasion of pauper population. No, let us have it equal, if at all. To be sure, Congress would have no right to pass any such resolution or act, should it assume that shape; but no more has it to pass the other propositions before it, affecting this subject. In fact, emancipation is the stump, against which the wheels of government have now stuck hard; and there they will stick, until it completely got" over and left behind. Then, and not till then the pathway will be clear.-Boston Courier.
SUSTAIN THE PRESIDENT. It is beginning to be time for the conservative men in the country to demonstrate their adherence to the conservation of President Lincoln. Already, for a week the Abolitionists have been filling the air with their war cries. Petitions for abolition, slave armings, and all sorts of philonegroism have been poured in on Congress. The President seems to be left in the midst of the storm to sustain himself. We are told that there is a conservative majority in Congress. Perhaps it is designed to let the gale blow itself out. But the country should make its voice heard. New York city could send a petition with the names of 50,000 voters at least, and we think it safe to say, with 65,000, against the pet schemes of the Abolitionists, We have said that the President might one day find his firmest supporters in the Democrats. The day seems to be at hand. Conservative Republicans and Democrats must rally to the support of the President, the Constitution and the Union. It may be desirable to have some Union meetings in New York, and express the sentiments of the loyal people of this city on the side of the old Constitution,-N. Y. Jour.com
The noble stand taken by President Lincoln in regard to the abolition proclamation of Fremont, has done much to discomfort the Abolitionists, and engender in the public mind of the North such sentiments as alone can save the Republic from utter ruin and destruction. We long to see the day once more when the Abolition element will be repudiated by all parties, and the finger of scorn pointer at them by all who love peace order and good will among the different sections of the confederacy.
Could these pests of the country, with the leaders of the rebellion, all being traitors alike, be buried in one common grave, the people, both North and South, would rejoice at it.-Brookside(Ind.)Republican.
<c02>
That the blacks are the fundamental cause of the rebellion is a point that needs no discussion. Of that crime they are certainly not the guilty authors. Their masters and the Abolitionists of the North are. If any shipment be made to Africa, it should be of these two classes of firebrands-especially of the latter. They are real traitors to the Constitution. Had they minded their natural vocations, the country would now be in peace. Our ethnological chicaners should take this just view of the case. Let them advocate the shipment to Africa of the Abolitionists, and they will do a public good. As they are now proceeding, they are proclaiming their own foolishness-Boston. Pilot.
GARRISON'S LIBERATOR, last week, was tremendously severe on Mr. Lincoln and his Message, as we might expect from a paper that carries the motto-" The United States Constitution is a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell." It says the Message is weak and common-place to a pitiable degree-feeble, rambling, and ridiculous as a State paper. Of the President personally it says-" Everybody says Mr. Lincoln is an honest man; but it is equally certain that he is very weak in the joints, and wholly unqualified to lead or inspire." In regard to his colonization, it coolly suggests that President Lincoln may colonize himself if he chooses but it is an impertinent act, on his part, to propose the getting rid of those who are as good as himself.
This is as much as we could expect from that source in relation to Mr. Lincoln. They have assumed that Mr. Lincoln held to their views in relation to slavery, viz.-that a negro was "as good as himself." This is the abolition idea; but they have mistaken their man; they mistook him when they voted for him; and it is impossible that he should sympathize with them while in power.-Newbury port Herald.
MORE IMSCHIEF AFLOAT Michief is still afloat in Congress. Senator Hale, of New Hampshire as if there were not already sufficient food for excitement and exasperation, is making an effort to abolish the Supreme Court. Nobody but himself will vote for it, but the mere introduction of such a measure will be used with effect at the South, to show that the Constitution is thrown aside, and anarchy rules in our national councils. In the House, Mr. Lovejoy, of Illinois, proposed, and very nearly carried through, a resolution requesting the Secretary of War to revoke the order of Gen. Halleck, commander in Missouri, excluding negroes from his lines, and the Senate has actually decided, by an almost unanimous vote, to go into a general inquisition of military catastrophes and blunders of the war. Worse disasters than those of Bull Run and Ball's Bluff await the national cause, if there is not a check to these insane proceedings in Congress. It will not require more than three months of this stuff to demoralize and scatter the volunteer armies of the Union.-Springfield(Mass.) Repub
ATROCIOUS. The resolutions of Mr. Stevens, introduced into the House on the first day of the session, after resolving that the" President be requested to declare free, and direct our Generals and officers in command to offer freedom to all slaves who shall leave their masters," conclude as follows:
"And be it further Resolved, That the United States pledge the faith of the nation to make full and fair compensation to all loyal citizens, who are and shall remain active in supporting the Union, for all the loss they may sustain by virtue of this resolution."
We have no language with which to express our abhorrence of the injustice which is contemplated by these resolutions. They do not propose to emancipate the slaves of rebels alone, but all slaves, those of loyal men, and not only to do this, but to induce them to leave their loyal masters by offers of freedom. How will these resolutions, if passed, be received in Maryland, Kentucky, Eastern and Western Virginia, North Carolina, East Tennessee, and Missouri? Will men continue loyal to a Government which entices their property away from them, and refers them to the slow and doubtful generosity of Congress for compensation? Will they continue Unionists if these resolutions pass? We dare not hope it. To us it seems as if Mr. Stevens and his abolition confederates are determined to make it the interest of every man south of Mason and Dixon's line to oppose the Government. They say to him," When we pass these resolutions, we will strip you of your property, and let you look to Congress for your compensation; but if you take sides with Jeff. Davis, and help him to drive our troops back to the free States, he. will protect you in your property, and you will be able to keep it." Thus the passage of these resolutions will be death to Unionism in the border States. We pray to God they will not pass. If they do pass, and the President shall obey them, we shall lose all hope of the preservation of the integrity of the Union.-Chicago Times.
Mr. Thaddeus Stevens, who we infer, is not a very wise man, talks of "stripping the epaulettes from the shoulders of the commanding Generals"- expression generalized, we take it to avoid individual application. Certainly, he is not so wise as the Roman officer, who replied to his Emperor, that he did not care to argue with a person who commanded twenty legions. The fact is, Congress had better behave itself. Nothing could be more ridiculous, nothing more indecent than the conduct of some of its forth-putting members, in rushing headlong after one and another outrageous proposition, on the first days of the session, even before the Message was delivered. If they regard their constitutional duties, attend to whatever properly belongs to them, and then quietly adjourn, they may do much to promote the legitimate objects of the government, and to retain the necessary public respect for the several bodies of which they are members. But if they should attempt to carry out any of the silly and mischievous propositions referred to, nothing is more likely than that they will make Congress contemptible-that their resolutions and their acts on these points will be totally disregarded, and that the will be totally disregar that they will soon see the difference between those who have, and those who have not, the twenty legions at their command. Still, we apprehend nothing of the sort- for we have a President who means to stand by the Union; and by such a President the army and the people will faithfully stand.-Boston Courier.
Every army officer has a right to throw up his commission. And if Senators make officers' opinions against the impolicy and the folly of creating negro regiments of soldiers to march side by side with Americans, Irishmen, and Germans, the test as proposed, there is scarcely a General in the army who will stand it-not even Gen. Bauks, we suspect Bayonets, even, think! But, if the Senators make the test, from all we can hear, the President of the United States will overrule them, and recommission such officers as stand up for their color, their race, their breed-as the superior race of the negro.-New York Express.
<c03>
Selections.
FREMONT DEMONSTRATION.
The Germans of Cincinnati turned out in large numbers on Saturday night last to attend a meeting held at Turner Hall, for the purpose of expressing sympathy with Gen. Fremont, in the course lately pursued towards him by the Administration. The meeting was called to order by Dr. A. Bauer. Frederick Werner was appointed Secretary. Judge Stallo and the Rev. Mr. Eisenlohr addressed the assemblage in the German, and Rev. M. D. Conway in the English language. A series of resolutions in German, censuring the Administration for the supersedure of Gen. Fremont, were passed. Mr. Conway spoke as follow?:-
Judge Stallo has alluded to me. as a Virginian who can answer for the South. I certainly have lived, there long enough, and felt the heavy hand of slavery enough, to know that this Government is not strong enough to preserve the Union and African slavery also. And whilst this Administration is now bending itself to that impossible and undesirable, work, the people will be in this conflict like Issaehar of old, a strong ass crouching between two burdens; between an imbecile Administration on the one hand, and a gigantic rebellion on the other. Both, Issaehar cannot bear; and such an assembly inspires mo with the hope that he will not much longer crouch, but bravely bear on to the" goodly rest and pleasant land," with the burthen of liberty on his shoulders-no longer a strong ass for the Government to crush with its wretched pro-slavery pack, but a strong man with the blood which defied George III. throbbing in his heart.
Now that the standard of LIBERTY has been unfurled by Fremont over the contending parties-a higher standard than stars and stripes, or stars and bars-how wretches! and despicable appear the standards raised by the pigmy Generals who have gone out warm from the wing of the Administration!
What think you, my countrymen, of Sherman taking our young men from the classic shades of our colleges, and from their free homes, and offering them to the" proud and hospitable citizens of the Sovereign State of South Carolina" as the patrol of their negroes! What think you of Dix. down in Wises district, proclaiming that his army is under strict orders to guard slavery even to the treasonable extent of refusing to take into their lines-whether belonging to traitors "or any other man"-those black corn producers and earth-work builders! If a man sends a barrel of corn to Virginia, he is imprisoned: the man who sends there the hands which produce 10,000 barrels of corn is. Major General of the U. S. Army!
Can you imagine a lower depth than this? All depths are possible, with this Administration. The one who comes out and proclaims latest from that glorious Republican circle at the White House, always gets a little lower than the rest. So here came" Young Lochnivar" Halleck out of the West-the. mysterious Halleck. The. country argued itself unknown by knowing nothing of and never having heard a word from Halleck. In breathless suspense we listen for the first utterance of him sent out to replace the nation's darling hero. At last, Halleck breaks the mystical silence, Halleck pronounces. In fact, he" proclaims." His first word is a lie-his second, an order for his men to deliberately betray the country. If there is any man who does not know it to be a mean, malignant lie to say that fugitive slaves have been spies against us, he should be placed, soon as possible, in the Asylum for Idiots at South Boston. The meanness of the lie appears infernal by the side of the. salvation of Sturgis's brigade, in that very State, by a fugitive slave's information, and the blunder of McDowell upon batteries of whose existence he was ignorant-and ignorant simply because he refused fugitives an entrance within his lines. But his second word is treasonable, for it commands his soldiers to send out to the enemy alleged spies and foes of the country. Either Halleck knows he lies when he accuses the fugitives, or else he should be hung as a traitor for sending from his lines, unarrested, alleged and charged spies against the, United States. Suppose Wigfall and Prior should seek Halleck's lines in disguise, and he should say," I misdoubt ye arc spies; return to your homes, gentlemen," would he not be hung as an abettor of treason? He would certainly be hung; only our President dislikes to hang traitors, lest it might occasion them some personal inconvenience.
This, then, Americans! is the infamous, sneaking, crawling policy which replaces the electric watchword sounded by Fremont for this great nation. The idea our Government has of fidelity is a Chinese fidelity. A missionary tells us that his coat being patched on the elbow, torn under the arm, and with a big grease-spot on it, he desired another; but wishing it made after the same pattern, he took the old coat and the new cloth to the Chinese tailor. In a week the tailor brought him the new coat, but what was his horror to find that the pattern of the old one had been so faithfully copied that the new one had a patch ingeniously made on the elbow, and a tare under the arm, and a big grease-spot that must have taken an hour in making on the fine, new cloth! Such is the Government's idea of restoring this Union. The South having forced the nation to put on a new coat, this grand Cabinet cross their legs, take their goose, and aim to bring us the new coat with the patch, the tare and the grease-spot, because of which it was that we needed a new one, because of which we elected Lincoln instead of Breckinridge or Douglas!
Mr. Conway then proceeded to show that a military conquest over the South, preserving slavery, would be, a subjugation of ourselves as much as the South. From thenceforth the country must leave the peaceful progress of its destiny to sit and hold the rebellious States-turning into a military Government, doing nothing but watching the monster whose soul is slavery, and see that it doesn't poke its ugly head out again, and coil about our States again.
He concluded by assuring the Germans that many thousand native Americans were appreciating their devotion to liberty, and would join them when the hour came to root up, whatever be the obstacle, the root of bitterness in our land. The policy of the Administration will be swept away, or else the Administration itself, just so soon as the real truth is apprehended in all its full powers, that it is only the interest of a pitiful.350,000 of our people-this number of slaveholders-who, after keeping us in hot water for 85 years, now precipitate us in civil war; and that it is only because of the servility which fears to touch the impudent claims of that handful to scourge and own men and women, which makes civil war possible. A decree that this Government ignores the relation of slavery, ends the war. There is no army in the South but a home-guard from that moment.
One thing the war will teach, that slavery ends in military despotism; that liberty ends in equality to all, black or white. The moment which decides between the two has arrived to this nation.
<c04>
MORAL CHARACTER OF THE REBELS.
One of the most remarkable effects of this rebellion is seen in the loss of moral character among the rebels. Men who, in the private relations of life, are gentlemen who have a high sense of honor, who have maintained an unsullied character, by the rebellion seem to have been torn from their former moorings, clothed with a panoply of fiction, and sent, to sen, upon the uncertainties of civil war. Oaths of allegiance have been violated with impunity, property has been seized as the robber would take his spoils at midnight; sacred trusts put in officers of the United States have not only been abandoned, but have been used to destroy the power of the Government which conferred the trusts: the most unblushing falsehoods have been perpetrated to deceive the Southern mind and influence Southern sentiment, and this, too, not by the smaller satellites of rebellion alone, but by its boasted chivalric leaders; the hospital and green sash of; the surgeon have not been respected by the bullets of the enemy; pickets are shot down as by the hands of the assassin, in complete violation of the rules of civilized warfare: picket guards have met. exchanged courtesies, and pledged the faith of soldiers that the practice should be discontinued, and immediately upon parting, that pledge has been violated; Virginia has been dragooned into secession, and all the powers of State sovereignty seized and used for secession purposes before the act establishing secession has been completed; the soil of Kentucky has been invaded, and they have attempted to force the Government of the Confederate States upon the people against their consent, while pretending to act upon the fundamental principles of the right of self-government in doing this act of invasion and tyranny. With secession, all distinctions between right and wrong; between honor and dishonor, between public fidelity and private virtue, are confused and confounded. Those sentiments of honor between man and man, of fidelity to important trusts, have been abandoned, and the will to accomplish the destruction of the Government has seized the whole man, destroyed his moral faculties, and sent him headlong to his ruin, Secession can be nothing less than a monomania, an insanity, or else why could all those principles of civilized warfare, of honor among enemies, principles that the savages, will respect, be so utterly abandoned by masses and the leaders of the movement alike? The policy is worse than Machiavellian, it is savage. History furnishes no greater parallel of villainous duplicity, save in the persistent falsehoods of Philip the Second, of Spain, and the Duke of Parma, his minister to Elizabeth of England, who, while he was preparing his armada to invade England, protested, and protested again, that he had no intentions of hostility to England, but desired peace, It looks too much like a war of petty revenge against the prosperity of the North, like a determination to stab at all vulnerable points that prosperous friend whom she chooses to make an enemy, and whom she knows she cannot conquer. Secession by this abandonment of moral character cannot hope to succeed, can hope to gain nothing save the execration of mankind. An honorable enemy we must respect, although we deny the right of his cause. To raise this war into the dignity of a civilized civil war, the Confederates must recognize the dictates of their better reason, or their possible success will be purchased at the price of all honor, or their defeat embittered by the most abject humiliation and remorse.-Boston Post.

SERVILE REVOLT IN SOUTH CAROLINA.
We are permitted (says the Philadelphia Inquirer of Nov. 30th) to copy the following letter, written to a lady in this, city, from a relative in Charleston, South Carolina. The statements made therein may be relied upon as an accurate description of affairs in that city at the present time:-
CHARLESTON, S. C., Nov. 23, 1861.
Disguise the truth as we may, all thinking men here feel their position peculiarly unsafe; and those who are surrounded by female relatives have their anxiety increased a thousand fold. We do not fear for the clash of contending armies, though that is, sufficiently terrible to excite much apprehension; but even and the carnage of war. the veriest boor within the armies would respect women; though traitors try to teach us that the Northern war-cry is" Beauty and Booty," but we do dread lest at midnight the fearful sounds of servile insurrection shall salute our ears. You know the negroes are far superior in number to the whites, and now that so many are absent in the army, their majority is greatly increased. If they rise, we are in their power, Do you know what that means? Remember the history of all servile insurrections, and recall the horrors enacted by the race whom oppression has helped to brutalize. Of course, the masters would fight desperately; but how could the small number of male whites defend their helpless wives and daughters against a tenfold force of maddened slaves, whose strength and ferocity are well known?
No general insurrection has taken place, though several revolts have been attempted; two quite recently, and in these cause whole famities were murdered before the slaves were subdued. Then came retaliation of the most fearful character. At any time when servants assail or murder white persons, speedy and severe punishment is administered; but now they do not wait for the action of the law; Lynch law prevails. In these revolts, which occurred in the interior of the State, most of the servants who participated were either shot in the conflict or as soon as captured, and two of them were burned to death.
To say they were burned to death seems a simple sentence, devoid of any special horror; but the scene as described to me by a witness was too dreadful for mortal eyes. Imagine the poor wretches, red with the blood of their masters, cowering in the Lands of those from whom they need not look for pity; not even for time to repent of deeds which exclude them from hope hereafter. They are dogged and defiant towards their captors, until their doom is pronounced-a fate of which they have a special horror.
Dragged to the place of execution, within sight of their own houses, surrounded by their fellow-servants, who are compelled to witness the sight, they are bound to strong trees, with great heaps of pine knots piled close around their persons. Directly the torch is applied, and the inflammable pine bursts into a vivid flame. When the blaze reaches the bodies, and the sensitive flesh peels and crackles, their cries arc too fearful to be heard by human ears. Nor is the torment soon over. The flames scorch the upper part of the bodies, producing exquisite agony, but slowly burn into the vitals, until the wretched sufferers go to judgment, with all their crimes upon their heads.
I undertook to say, the apprehension of servile insurrection lost its power when, as time passed, all seemed peaceful; so we easily fell back into dreams of security until these events aroused us to watchfulness. This news is suppressed as far at possible, and kept entirely from the papers, for the negroes hear what is published if they do not read it, and such examples might produce disastrous consequences,"
<c05>
TRIBUTE OF MR. SUMNER TO THE MEMORY OF HON. E. D. BAKER.
In the U. S. Senate, on the 11th inst. Hon. Charles Sumner paid the following eloquent tribute to the memory of the late Senator Baker, of Oregon, who fell at the fatal battle of Ball's Bluff:-
MR. PRESIDENT-The Senator to whom to-day we say Farewell, was generous in funeral homage, to others. More than once he held great companies in rapt attention while he did honor to the dead. Over the coffin of Broderick he proclaimed the dying utterance of this early victim, and gave to it the fiery wings of his own eloquence." They have killed me because I was opposed to the extension of slavery and a corrupt Administration," said the dying man, and as the impassioned orator repeated these words, his own soul was knit in sympathy with the dead, and thus at once he endeared himself to the friends of freedom, even at a distance.
" Who would not sing for Lycidas? He knew
Himself to sing and build the lofty rhyme.''
There are two forms of eminent talent which are kindred in their effects-each producing an instant present impression-each holding crowds in suspense, and each kindling enthusiastic admiration: I mean that of the orator, and of the soldier. Each of these when successful wins immediate honor, and reads his praise in a nation's eyes. Baker was orator and soldier. To him belongs the rare renown of this double character. Perhaps he carried into war something of the confidence inspired by the conscious sway of great multitudes-as he surely brought into speech something of the ardor of war. Call him. it you please, the Prince Rupert of battle, he was also the Prince Rupert of debate. His success in life attests not only his own remarkable genius, but the benign hospitality of our institutions. Born on a foreign soil, he was to our country only a stepson; but were he now alive. I doubt not that he would gratefully declare that the country was never to him an ungentle stepmother. The child of a weaver, he was brought while yet in tender years to Philadelphia, where he soon lost his father by death. His earliest days were passed at the loom rather than at school; and yet from this beginning, he achieved the highest posts of trust and honor, being at the same time Senator and General. It was the boast of Pericles, in his Funeral Oration at the Ceramicus over the dead who had fallen in battle, that the Athenians were ready to communicate to all the advantages which they enjoyed-that they did not exclude the stranger from their walls-and that Athens was a city open to the Human Family. The same boast may be repeated by us, with better reason, as we commemorate our dead fallen in battle. From Philadelphia, the weaver's orphan was carried to the West, where he grew with the growth of that surprising region. He was one of its children, and his own manhood was closely associated with its powerful progress. The honors of the Bar and of Congress soon were his. But his impatient temper led him from these paths into the Mexican war, where he gallantly took the place of Shields, torn with wounds and almost dead at Cerro Gordo. But the great West, beginning to teem with population, did not satisfy his ambition, and he repaired to California. The child, whose infancy was rocked on the waves of the Atlantic-whose manhood was formed in the broad and open expanse of the prairies-now sought a home on the snores of the Pacific, saying in spirit-
"No pent up Utica contracts our powers; But the whole boundless continent is ours.'
There again his genius was promptly recognized. A new State, which had just taken a place in the Union, sent him as her Senator, and Oregon first became truly known to us on this floor by his eloquent lips.
In the Senate he at once took the place of orator. His voice was not full or sonorous, but it was sharp and clear. It was penetrating rather than commanding, and yet when touched by his ardent nature, it became sympathetic and even musical. His countenance. body and gesture, all shared the unconscious inspiration of his voice-and he went on, master of his audience, master also of himself. All his faculties were completely at his command. Ideas, illustrations, words, seemed to come unbidden, and to range themselves in harmonious forms, as in the walls of ancient Thebes each stone took its proper place of its own accord, moved only by the music of a lyre. His fame as a speaker was so conspicuous, even before he appeared among us, that it was sometimes supposed he might lack those solid powers, without which the oratorical faculty itself can exercise only a transient influence. But his speech on this floor in reply to a slaveholding conspirator-now an open rebel-showed that his matter was as good as his manner, and that, while he was a master of fence, he was also a master of ordnance. His controversy was graceful, sharp, and flashing, like a scimitars; but his argument was powerful and sweeping like a battery. You have not forgotten that speech. Perhaps the argument against the sophism of Secession was never better arranged and combined, or more, simply popularized for the general apprehension. A generation had passed since that traitorous absurdity, the fit cover of conspiracy, had been exposed. It had shrunk for a while into darkness-driven back by the massive logic of Daniel Webster, and the honest sense of Andrew Jackson.
"-the times have been That when the brains were out, the man would die, And there an end; but now they rise again."
As the pretension showed itself anew, our orator undertook again to expose it. How thoroughly he did this-now with historic and now with forensic skill-while his whole effort was elevated by a charming, ever-ready eloquence, which itself was aroused to new power by the interruptions which he encountered-all this la present to your minds. That speech passed at once into the permanent literature of the country, while it gave to its author an assured position in this body, Another speech showed him in a different character. It was his instant reply to the Kentucky Senator-not yet expelled from this body. The occasion was peculiar. A Senator, with treason in his heart if not on his lips, had just taken his seat. Our departed Senator, who had entered the chamber direct from his camp, rose at once to reply. He began simply and calmly; but as he proceeded, his fervid soul broke forth in words of surpassing power. As on the former occasion, he had presented the well-ripened fruits of study, so now he spoke with the spontaneous utterance of his own natural and exuberant eloquence, meeting the polished traitor at every point with weapons keener and brighter than his own. Not content with the brilliant opportunities of this chamber, he accepted a commission in the army, and vaulted from the Senate to the saddle, as he had already vaulted from Illinois to California. With a zeal that never tired, after recruiting men, drawn by the attraction of his name, in New: York, Philadelphia, and elsewhere, he held his brigade in camp near the Capitol, so that he passed easily from one to the other, and thus alternated between the duties of a Senator and a General. His letter career was short,
<c06>
though sinning. At a disastrous encounter near Ball's Bluff he fell, pierced by nine balls. That brain, which had been the seat and organ of such subtle power, swaying great assemblies, and giving to this child of obscurity place and command among his fellow-men, was now rudely shattered by lead, and that bosom which had throbbed so bravely was rent by numerous wounds. He died with his face to the foe, and he died so instantly that he passed without pain from the service of his country to the service of his God. It is sweet and becoming to die for one's country. Such a death, sudden, but not unprepared for. is the crown of the patriot soldier's life.
But the question is painfully asked, who was the author of this tragedy, now filling the Senate Chamber, as it has already filled the country, with mourning? There is a strong desire to hold some body responsible for a disaster where. so many perished so unprofitably. But we need not appoint committees to study testimony in order to know precisely who took this precious life. The great criminal is easily detected-The guns, the balls, and the men that fired them, are of little importance. It is the Power behind them all, saying-" The State-it is I"-which took this precious life; and this Power is Slavery. The nine balls which slew our departed brother came from Slavery. Every gaping wound of his lacerated bosom testifies against Slavery. Every drop of his generous blood cries out from the ground against Slavery. To hold others responsible is to hold the humble agent and to dismiss the giant principal. Nor shall we do great service if we merely critise some local blunder, while we leave untouched that fatal inactivity through which the weakness of the rebellion is changed into strength, and the strength of our armies is changed into weakness.
Let not our grief be a hollow pageant; let it not spend itself in funeral pomp. It must become a motive and an impulse to patriot action. But patriotism itself, that commanding charity, embracing so many other charities, is only a name, and nothing else, unless you resolve that slavery, the barbarous enemy of our country, the irreconcilable foe. of our Union, the violator of the Constitution, the disturber of our peace, the vampire of our national life, sucking its best blood, the assassin of our children, and the murderer of our dead Senator, shall be, overturned. The just Avenger is at hand, with weapon of celestial temper. Let it be drawn. Until this is done, the patriot, discerning clearly the secret of our weakness, can only say sorrowfully-
" Bleed, bleed, poor country!
Great tyranny, lay thou thy basis sure, For goodness dares not check thee!"
GERRIT SMITH ON THE PRESIDENT AND HIS MESSAGE.
The Message is marked with the characteristic sincerity and patriotism of the President. Nevertheless, its treatment of the question of slavery-of the great and all-controlling question in the war-is such as to confirm my apprehension that the country is lost. With all his desire to save it, he has never yet welcomed, if indeed he has ever yet conceived, the idea o' saving it at whatever cost.' The saving of the Construction, and of all the rights enjoyed under it, and especially those which the nation has ever conceded to slaveholders, is essential to his conception of a saved country. But could we come out of this war with nothing left to us but our territorial limits, and a handful of survivors still cherishing the principles of democracy, and still breathing the spirit of equal rights, we should, in my esteem, come out of it with a saved country. Meagre and naked as would be such a result in the eyes of our conservative President. I would, nevertheless, count it above all price, and would, if needful, sacrifice all else to secure it. If, as I so strongly fear, a lost country ill be our share in the fruits of this contest, it will be owing to nothing so much as the unrelaxed purpose of the President to save along with the country, and at whatever hazard to the country, things which are not among its essential and eternal parts, but only among its temporary and changeful arrangements. In other words, to this unrelaxed purpose to save all will be owing the loss of all.
Another thing in the President very deeply to be regretted is, that he has never seemed to be sensible of the great perils of his country. How else can we account for his indifference and his opposition to measures so manifestly indispensable to its salvation? Whilst millions of his countrymen are entirely confident that either slavery or the Union must go down in this war, he sees no difficulty in preserving both; and persistently cherishes his policy and shapes his plans to preserve both. I have never seen a phrenological chart of his head; but I have no doubt that his veneration is large and his destructiveness small. He would keep all things precisely as they are. He would have the fugitive slave sent back to the very spot he came from, and into exactly his former relations, He would not allow one line or letter of the Constitution to be disturbed by the necessities of war. If, in ordinary times, he might make the very best of Presidents, nevertheless now, when a mighty and relentless Rebellion is threatening the nation with overthrow, such a President will make the overthrow sure unless he be radically changed or sternly overruled. Who can read the Message, and see with what twattle and trash the President has filled the space which should have been, devoted to such great words on the great question in conducting the war as would have met the demands of the hour-who, I say, can do so without feeling that the President is not the man for the hour? Were he that man, he would not be expending words, last of all kind words, upon that utterly atheistic topic of "homes for white men." Were he that man, his talk now would not be of" colonization." It would not be of expelling our friends from the country, but rather of arming them that they might help us expel our foes. Black friends no more than-white friends can we spare just now from the country. In the right time and circumstances, colonization is a good thing; but it is not an adequate cure for the ills we are now suffering. How impertinent and arrogant is this everlasting inquiry on the part of the whites as to what they shall do with the blacks! There is room enough in our broad country for white men, and black men, and red men, if only they will recognise each other as God's children, and thus dwell together in mutual good-will. But if any one of these varieties of the human fondly revolts at this condition, that is the very one which should leave the country, and which is fit for no other country. He is a monster rather than a man, who denies that our black brethren have earned a home in this land which they have wet like the rain with their sweat, and teare, and blood. It is pre-eminently their land: they may leave it when they will. But the God of the oppressed will not suffer them to leave it till they will. He has already begun to punish American. Oppression very horribly. And let American Oppression beware lest. He make the punishment still more horrid. Quite enough blood will be shed without making it more by the policy of direct or

"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all
the inhabitants thereof"
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.....From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, bordered with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the taws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institution! swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."- J. Q. ADAMS.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
virtual expulsion. Under that policy, there will be "blood-even unto the horse-bridles."
I spoke a moment since in favor of arming the blacks. I do not forget the often expressed opinion that, inasmuch as there are whites enough to fight for us, we need not arm the blacks. But if for no other end than to advertise the blacks of the whole country that we are their friends, and that ours is the side for them to flock to, there should be black regiments. A few such moving down from Canada and the Northern States, at the beginning of the war, would have had the effect to bring it to a very speedy end. But, instead of such a judicious and indispensable advertisement by this or similar means. We have, by employing the Army in sending back fugitive slaves, told the blacks of the whole country that we are their enemies, and that ours is not the side for them to flock to. Was there ever such infatuation as that which has characterized the action of the Government respecting the blacks?
The President has laid his destroying hand on the best part of Secretary Cameron's Report, as he did on the Secretary's Order to Gen. Sherman, and on the best part of Gen. Fremont's Proclamation: and on my first and hasty reading of the recent Order of the Secretary of the Treasury, concerning the employment of negroes, I fancied that I saw the same dreaded hand in that also: for I could not believe that this accomplished Secretary, whose head is as clear as his heart is honest, would himself be in favor of recognizing slave holding rights in the Gulf States. Surely, no slavery in those States is any longer legalized by laws, which the nation is bound to recognize and enforce. Such laws, so far certainly as the nation could be held by them, were all abrogated some nine to twelve months ago. And to say that the nation is held by laws enacted or revived by Confederate States would be as absurd as to say that it is held by the rules of the pirates of the seas. But. on a second and more careful reading of the Order, I find no liberty to infer that the Secretary looks upon "persons held to service for life under the State laws" in the Gulf States as still slaves, or to be recognized by the nation as such.
The President was chosen to save the nation. But it turns out that, with all his merit, he is, nevertheless, the very one to kill it. What is worse, the people will probably let him kill it. For it is not easy to unsettled such deep confidence as they reposed in the man of their choice: and it is not easy to face the shame of confessing that a choice so confident and enthusiastic was nevertheless unfortunate.
I am not disposed to underrate the President. I admit that he is more intellectual than nine-tenths of the politicians, and more honest than ninety-nine hundreds of them. I admit, too, that he would have made a good President had he not been trained to worship the Constitution. And I also admit that Constitution-worship is not peculiar to him. It has long been our national folly; and hence it is that it is now working out our national ruin.
Slavery creates many and aggravates more of our evils. If it is not true that our Constitution-worship originated with slavery, it is nevertheless true that this vice, like so many others, is "set on fire of that hell." The Constitution, being the popularly acknowledged protector of slavery, the great work for slavery to do was to deepen and spread this worship of the Constitution. Perhaps on no mind has this bad work been done more successfully and fatally than on the ingenuous and receptive mind of the President. So that now, when he is in a position to save his country, and when, too, he has a heart to save it, his education, nevertheless, compels him to kill it. Taught to confound the Constitution with the country, and to regard slavery as the pre-eminent care of the Constitution, he necessarily believes that, in saving slavery, he is saving the country. That slavery is the deadly enemy of the country can have no place in a mind educated to look upon slavery as the pet protege of the Constitution, and the Constitution to be all one with the country.
What must be the President's answer to the question-why he could have his Marshals pursue the poor innocents? What but that the country (slavery ruling in the Constitution, and the Constitution being one with the country) made it necessary? What, too, but the same answer to the question- why he can similarly employ his Generals? And what also but the same answer to the question- why he suffers (for without his sufferance it would not be) the Washington city prison to be crowded with scores of these hapless ones? That accursed prison! Among the most pleasant remembrances of my brief Congressional lift was my success in getting out of it the black man. Noah Hanson. Warm were my thanks to Governor Aikin and Colonel Orr for the help they gave me!
I said that this Constitution-worship is not peculiar to the President Read yesterday's speech of Senator Trumbull, of Illinois, for proof that he is no less addicted to it, and for proof that the nation would have been no better off had he been the President. Fully do I agree with him that the provisions of the Constitution are ample in war as well as in peace, and that its infraction is at no time necessary. I am not an opponent of the Constitution. I have probably made a dozen speeches for it where the Senator has made one, and written a dozen pages for it where he has written one. But when he says. "While fighting this battle in behalf of Constitutional liberty, it behooves us especially to see to it that the Constitution receives no detriment at our hands": and when he also says, "We will have gained but little in suppressing the insurrection, if it be at the expense of the Constitution"-when he says this, he ascribes to the Constitution an importance which does not belong to it. I deny that our object in the war is to save, the Constitution from detriment, or even from destruction. I deny that our object is the uninteresting and little one of saving a Paper which not one American in one hundred has read the whole of, and which not one American in one thousand gives his mind and much less his heart to-and a better one than which, ten thousand men in the country are capable of writing. On the contrary, we are in a struggle to save the country, and to save it, too, at whatever hazards to the Constitution or to aught else. We are to save from conquest, and from the most hateful threatened dominion, that which interests the highest and the humblest-her fields and forests, her waters and mountains, her temples and schools, her loved homes of the living, and her scarcely less loved, and even more sacred, homes of the dead. All these we are to save from dishonorable transfer:-and the remainder of the great elements which go to make up a country-the people and the genius and principles of their (Government-we are to save from a barbarous and ruthless destruction. These are the things for which we are waging this war with stupendous and unmitigated crime. These are the sources from which we draw our inspiration: and the Senator is poorly employed in attempting to turn us away from them to the dry breasts of the Constitution. The Constitution has its value-its great value. In the present crisis, it is to be used as a means to save the country: and the country must not be involved in even the slightest danger for the sake of saving the Constitution. Our great underlying principles of Free Government will reproduce Constitutions as often as there shall be occasion for their reproduction. Yes, and if we are only true to those principles, every new Constitution will be an improvement upon its predecessor.
I would always consent to fling away the whole Constitution rather than retain if it necessarily operates to the loss of any of the possessions, or the damage of any of the rights or interests which are essentially comprised in the true definition of the word country I had rather lose ten thousand Constitutions than let the Cataract of Cataracts pass from out our national limits. Aye, I would rather loss them than lose little Minnehaha. None would consent to lose the "Father of Rivers" at any price; but I would not retain the Constitution in exchange for the least river that waters precious American soil. Not only that highest peak of the Rocky Mountains where the intrepid "Pathfinder" planted our national standard, but even the humblest hill which casts its shadow upon that soil, is far dearer to my patriotism than any Constitution. Yes, and I had rather the Constitution were all blotted out than to see it used, (if it permits such use.) to rob the least black baby of its least rights. Infinitely dearer to my patriotism, as well as to my humanity is that baby than any Paper. The Constitution is here to-day, and supplanted to-morrow-and, probably, by a better one; but the sacred rights of that baby are enshrined in the Great Heart of Heaven, and are unchangeable and eternal.
Oh, no! the Constitution is not the country. It is comparatively a petty thing. And if, in this hour of their country's deep danger, the people are to be rallied by no other or no stronger cry than to save the Constitution, then, beyond a doubt, both country and constitution will be lost It was not for constitution, but for a country, that our Revolution are Fathers fought They had a country before they had a Constitution; and they loved it as well
<c02>
before as they did after. It will not be said that it was the timid and dull" Articles of Confederation" which so wrought upon their spirit. But, perhaps it will be said that it was the "Declaration of Independence." I admit its power over them; and I would that it had such power over us. We would not have been in the straits we are now in, had that Paper been to us, as it was to them, the supreme Constitution-the Constitution of Constitutions. But were we to admit that the Revolutionary Fathers fought for a Constitution-the Declaration of Independence being their Constitution-yet there is no comparison between ours and theirs-ours which but furnishes machinery for the working of Government, and theirs in whose principles lies the very soul of all free and righteous political government.
Nothing can be more shriveling to our patriotism than to call it away from the love and inspirations of country to this exaggerated importance of a mere Paper, The Swiss will peril all to save the dear mountains and valleys and homes of Switzerland. But to no such pitch of enthusiasm can they be wrought by a call to keep themselves within the precise limits of a Paper in which, if they have one like ours, there is neither soul nor sentiment, and nothing but a collection of the driest political rules. "Fatherland" is dear to the German, not because of this or that set of such rules, but simply because it is "Fatherland." And that the inspiring thought of dear America, with or without her Constitution, is in the esteem of our statesmen insufficient to stir American blood, shows to what a miserable pack of statesmen we are reduced.
"Breathes there the man with soul so dead,
Who never to himself bath said
This is my own, my native land?"
These familiar lines were not written with a Paper before the eyes, but with a country in the soul, of the writer.
"In every clime the magnet of the soul,
Touched by remembrance, trembles to that pole."
Nor was it to a remembered Paper, but to a remembered land, that the writer of these sweet lines ascribes this power:
"-moriens reminiscitur Argos.
Nor was it to a mere Paper, but to his beloved country, that this dying man turned his last thoughts.
GERRIT SMITH.

THE LIBERATOR
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 20, 1861.
SEND IN THE PETITIONS!
Now that Congress is in session, and various propositions have already been submitted to it on the subject, let there be no unnecessary delay in forwarding emancipation petitions to that body. Send them directly to the proper Senators and Representatives from the various States and Districts. They will, of course, go free of postage. Already, large numbers, numerously signed, from various parts of the country, have been presented in both houses of Congress, and promptly referred to appropriate committees. The aggregate promises to be commanding. Send them in!
A petition for emancipation has been received at this office, headed by C. M. ALLEN, without the name of the town from which it came. Will any one give us the residence of the signers?
Gov. ANDREW AND THE TRAITORS IN BOSTON HARBOR Some days ago, the New York Evening Post noticed the tender and affectionate care which was taken of the traitors imprisoned at Fort Warren, which was brought to the attention of Gov. Andrew, and elicited the following reply:-
COMMON WEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS,
Executive Department, Boston, Dec. 11,'61}
Edward Russell, Esq., New York:
My DEAR SIR,-I thank you for your note of the 7th, enclosing a slip from the Evening Post condemning the numerous manifestations of misplaced sympathy by some citizens of Boston with rebel prisoners confined at Fort Warren. I fully appreciate your feelings in this matter, and share with the writer of the Post in his condemnation of that sympathy with traitors, which makes men, in comparison with whom Benedict Arnold was a saint, comfortable in their confinement, while our own brave defenders of liberty and Union and the rights of man are cut off from all such sympathy, by the rigorous despotism of the Southern Oligarchy-but I do not know of anything that I can do to prevent it. I very well remember Mason's insolent, overbearing demeanor in that memorable interview between himself and old John Brown, and can truly rejoice with you that, if he does not in all respects receive all the compensation for his baseness, through a long public career, in the few days which yet remain to him in this life, his power for mischief is forever abridged, and that all the luxuries which Boston sympathisers with treason and with traitors can bestow cannot defeat the purposes and the plans of infinite justice.
Very truly and faithfully yours,
JOHN A. ANDREW.
Governor Andrew has written a most earnest letter to Secretary Cameron, narrating the arrest of two alleged fugitive slaves by direction of Lieut. Col. Palfrey, of the Mass. 20th, by order of General Stone, and protesting against the employment of Massachusetts troops for that purpose, the more especially when there is no pretence of legal proceeding, Secretary Cameron promised that he would write to General Stone, directing him not to issue such orders in future. It is said that two slaves were sent back to the. rebels, (!) under a flag of truce. The rebels, suspecting that a trap lay concealed under the act, sent them back again. Gen. Stone returned them the second time, (!!) with the explanation that his intention was simply to give them up, and they were retained by the Confederates, to further the work of treason! Such gratuitous and repulsive villany, such essentially traitorous conduct, should bring upon this stony-hearted, military kidnapper a storm of popular indignation, and lead to his being immediately cashiered. True to its satanic nature, the Boston Courier hotly and abusively assails Gov. Andrew as an impertinent intermeddler, but says nothing, of course, in censure of Gen. Stone's high-handed wickedness. It delights in such acts- the more of them the better, and the greater its delight-they gratify its pro-slavery malignity and help to accomplish its secession designs; for it wears the mask of loyalty solely to give more effectual aid to Jefferson Davis and his rebellious crew.
The ingredients of the editorial columns of the Courier, daily, resemble those of which the "hell-broth" of Macbeth's witches was composed, as they gathered around the seething cauldron:-
"Fillet of a fenny snake.
In the cauldron boil and bake;
Eye of newt, and toe of frog,
Wool of bat, and tongue of dog,
Adder's fork, and blind-worm's string,
Lizard's leg, and owlet's wing,
Scale of dragon, tooth of wolf,
Witches' mummy, maw and gulf
Of the ravin'd salt-sea shark,
Root of hemlock, digg'd I' the dark,
For a charm of powerful trouble,
Like a hell-broth boil and bubble."
Such wormwood bitterness, such personal vituperation, such rattlesnake venom, such measureless conceit, such ludicrous pomposity, such oracular emptiness, such mobocratic stimulation, such brutal Negrophobia and pro-slavery scoundrelism, as it exhibits, admit of no parallel in modern journalism.
We are indebted to the Journal for the reports of the lectures of Hon. George S. Boutwell and Rev Dr. Cheever, as given in our present number. Both speakers must have been gratified by the numbers in attendance, and the all-abounding enthusiasm which their most radical sentiments elicited. Absence from the city prevented our hearing Dr. Cheever, but we are assured that no such lecture, in point of vigorous and concentrated expression, fidelity and power of rebuke, and thoroughness of dealing with slavery and the rebellion, has yet been delivered in this city. We hope it will be printed in full. In accordance with a proffered exchange by Rev. Mr. Manning, Dr. Cheever preached at the Old South Church, in this city, on Sunday forenoon; and Mr. Manning preached for Dr. Cheever in the Church of the Paritans, in New York.
<c03>
EMANCIPATION: ITS JUSTICE, EXPEDIENCY AND NECESSITY.
A Lecture delivered at the Tremont Temple, Boston, on Monday Evening, Dec, 16, 1861,
BY HON. GEORGE S. BOUTWELL.
The inaugural address before the Emancipation League was delivered on Monday evening last, at the Tremont Temple, by Hon. GEORGE S. BOUTWELL, whose theme was announced as" The Justice, Expediency and Necessity of Emancipation." A very large audience was in attendance, (the hall being crowded in every part,) who heard the speaker throughout with profound attention, broken, however, by frequent applause. On the platform, we noticed Rev. Dr. Cheever, Rev. J. M. Manning, Wendell Phillips, Esq., Hon. F. W. Bird, Hon. Eliphalet Trask, Hon. Z. K. Goodrich, and several gentlemen connected with the State Government.
At 71/2 o'clock, the meeting; was called to order by Rev. A. A. MINER, who made a brief statement in regard to the object of the League, viz: To further in the hearts of the people the measures which will promote the freedom of the slaves, and to encourage the Government to use whatever opportunity the progress of our armies shall afford to carry liberty with those armies, and suppress the rebellion by removing its cause. At the conclusion of his remarks, he introduced, as the Chairman of the meeting, Dr. SAMUEL G. HOWE.
Dr. Howe said he thought the orator, whom it was his principal duty to introduce, had a very difficult task to accomplish-to prove the justice of emancipation, which was about as hard to demonstrate as to show that two and two make four to an individual who disputed it. It seemed to him that our Government is continually blundering and stumbling over axiomatic truths such as this. The ownership of a slave is a pretence, a sham and a lie, (applause,) and yet the Government says that we must respect it. The policy of the Government, thus far, to respect the institution of slavery, has been too plainly shown W the treatment of fugitives," contrabands," (or whatever called,) found in the District of Columbia, who were shut up in the common jails of Washington and Alexandria, (as the speaker had witnessed,) and treated like the worst of felons -while doing Uncle Sam's work. Yet, though thus abused, these fugitives declared that they would on no account go back to bondage.
Dr. Howe then introduced the orator of the evening, who was received with hearty applause. After a few preliminary remarks, he entered upon the consideration of the important question announced as his subject, speaking as follows:-
In speaking of the justice, expediency and necessity of emancipation as the only speedy means of crushing the rebellion and restoring the Union, I impose on myself three limitations, and desire you to connect them with all that I may say:
1st. That a military necessity exists for doing what is proposed; and that I shall undertake to prove.
2dly. That this necessity does not require us to take any action in reference to the loyal States.
3dly. That I always and everywhere contemplate compensation to loyal men.
And I first inquire, what constitutes a military necessity? I assume that a military necessity does not depend upon the exigencies of the army in the field; but the great military necessity is to save the Government, and whatever is necessary for the salvation of the Government is clearly within the right and the duty of those who administer it, and control the military department thereof. (Applause.) I think our Constitution has clearly indicated what a military necessity is in that provision which declares that the right of habeas corpus shall not be suspended unless, in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may require it. And what do we see to-day? That all of us are here deprived, by the exigencies of the times, of the security which from the days of Magna Charta has been, with here and there an exception, the security of all Englishmen, and of all men who inherited the rights and the privileges of Englishmen. And why? Because it is believed by those entrusted with the administration of public affairs, that the public safety requires it. And we have given up the great security which we had, that whenever our liberty was taken from us, we had a right to an inquiry as to the reason therefore; and that right has departed, at the bidding of the Government, because, in the eye of the Constitution, the public safety requires it.
Now then, if we demonstrate that the public safety requires the emancipation of the slaves, here or there, or anywhere, then we have demonstrated that a military necessity exists. And, my friends, you are assembled with anxious countenances to consider how the country shall be saved; and you instinctively trace our peril backward to the institution of slavery, and are convinced without argument that had slavery not existed on this continent, there would not be a State, no, nor a county, nor a parish, nor a man in all this Republic to say. that this Union ought not longer to exist; therefore we charge home, with instinct and logic, the responsibility of the whole matter to the institution of slavery. And if by the emancipation of the slaves we can hasten by one day the return of the power of the Union and our lost prosperity, does not a military exigency exist? ("Yes!" "Yes!" "It does!")
And I hear a suggestion made in many quarters, which means, if I understand it, substantially this: that South Carolina and her ten associates in this rebellion are still entitled to the protection of the Constitution of the United States, and therefore we are bound to treat those States as we treat the States that are still loyal to the Union. If we yet labor under that delusion, then God save us! for not to the hands of man is intrusted the salvation of this republic-if we still indulge in the delusion that South Carolina and New York, that Florida and Pennsylvania, that Mississippi and Illinois, that Texas and Minnesota, are to be treated by the government of the country as enjoying equal rights and equal protection under the Constitution. (Applause.)
We have not thrust them out of the Union; they have gone out deliberately, freely, without compulsion; and in all that relates to the subjugation of the territory and of the people of the rebel States, we must treat them as enemies, as belligerents. Are we to ask whether we are in a state of war with these eleven States, when our frontier, from Kansas to the Chesapeake, is lined with their men, when we, boasting that we have 660,000 men in the field, have been outnumbered at every point If you indulge the delusion that we are not at war, and that these people are not to be treated as enemies, then the destruction of the country is near. We must treat them as enemies. When they came into the Union, they gave to the Union jurisdiction over their territory; that jurisdiction they now deny; let the armies of the Republic go forward, let the statesmanship of the country secure the right t	hat was guarantied to us, and which we have not abandoned, however the rebels may desire to put off the responsibility from themselves. (Applause.-)
I say, then, that whatever is necessary to be done for the reestablishment of the Government of the Union, over the rebellious States, that we have a Constitutional right to do; for the Constitution, if it secures anything, secures the integrity of the territory over which and to which the Constitution applies. The rebels have no right to complain. We secure Constitutional rights, so far as we can, to all the loyal States; disloyal States are enemies, and we must so treat them.
Suppose there are a few loyal men in South Carolina, in North Carolina, in Georgia, or Texas; are they to stand in the way of the salvation of this country? I trust not. When the war is over, when this territory is restored to the Union, the Government of the country is reestablished, then, if these people have suffered by anything that we have done, make them the compensation that we can. But we cannot stop now, when the Union is in peril, when the lurid flames
<c04>
of war light up the horizon on every quarter-can we stop now, to inquire whether, in South Carolina, or in Georgia, or in Tennessee, there may be men who would if they could be loyal to the Union. (Applause.)
Now we have, my friends, labored under two or three delusions. First, we did not believe, twelve months ago, when the nucleus of the" Confederacy" (as it is termed) separated from the old Union, that a great conspiracy existed. We could not believe that men entrusted with important duties-Senators and Representatives in Congress-officers of the army and the navy, who had been supported in luxury from the treasury of the Union--Judges of the Supreme Court-men high in authority throughout the fifteen slave States of the Union-had conspired criminally, traitorously, with perjury upon their lips and in their hearts, against a government, which, so far as we knew, had never pressed too harshly upon a single citizen of the Republic. We could not believe it. It was not strange that we did not believe it. But now, after a year's experience, we find that for thirty years this conspiracy had existed; that it covered the whole slave territory of the Union; that it had given birth to the annexation of Texas, to the compromise measures of 1850, to the repudiation of the Missouri compromise of 1854, to the dissolution of the Democratic party at Charleston in 1860; that it had entered systematically upon the scheme of destroying the best government which the world had ever seen! It was not strange that we did not believe it; but now, now we know that it existed, and we know, too, full well, that it had its origin in the institution of slavery. And ought not the judgment of this country to be visited upon that institution as a part of the retribution for this foulest of human crimes? (Applause.)
Another delusion, my friends, was, that we did not believe in the unanimity of the South upon this matter. We thought that this movement was instigated and carried on by a few hot-brained persons, whom we proposed to separate from the great body of the people and dispose of. But we have found, as the war has gone on, that it either included originally in the conspiracy all the chief men of the South, or that they have been drawn, unwillingly or willingly, into it, so that now I hold that there is no excuse for any man who believes that there is any lack of unanimity in. the eleven seceded States. We are not more unanimous in this hall, or in this State, or in the free States of the Union, in favor of maintaining the Union, than they are in favor of breaking down this Government and disgracing free institutions in the presence of the world and before posterity.
Let us no longer indulge in the delusion that there is a want of unanimity in the South.
And another delusion in which we have indulged, to this very hour, is, that they had not resources sufficient to carry on this war, and that very soon they would be exhausted. I shall have occasion to discuss that matter further, as I go on. But we have found, as a matter of experience, during the last twelve months, that they have exhibited no evidence of a want of resources. Have they not put men enough into the field? Haven't they, so far as we know, equipped them sufficiently for the service? Haven't I they had enough to eat, to drink, and to wear?
And, then, so far as the year's experience goes, we have been laboring under a delusion as to the power of the South.
Now, then, it may be well enough to explore briefly the causes of the rebellion, as developed in the institution of slavery itself. And the proposition I have to make is, that the institution of slavery is of such a character that hostility to this Government was inevitable, sure to come at some time or other.
A change of opinion has been going on in the slave States, which perhaps I may well illustrate by a short chapter from my own experience. In 1857, in the month of November, I was at Lexington, Kentucky, and on Sunday I attended church at what I understood to be the oldest Methodist Episcopal church. I listened to an able discourse. It was devoted to the maintenance of three propositions, which, as far as I could judge, were accepted by that congregation; they were, first, that Jesus Christ never said anything in favor of common equality; secondly, that he never said anything in favor of universal education; and thirdly, said the preacher, what we need is authority in the church.
Do you not see, that if those propositions be taken as indicating the public sentiment of the South, slavery has worked two radical changes in the people, both of which are antagonistic to free institutions, and upon which free institutions cannot long be maintained? One was the denial of the equality of man; the other was the denial of the right of individual opinion in matters of religion.
And next I have to say, that the Constitution of the Union having been established for the purpose-as declared in the preamble-of securing liberty to the men who framed it, and to their posterity, was inadequate to meet the wants of the slaveholders.
We have in the Constitution a provision giving to the government authority to put down insurrection. But do you not think that they foresaw that the time would come when the slave population might rise upon the plantations of the cotton districts, and in a single night the white inhabitants be swept away? And how powerless would then be the provision of the Constitution, even if the government were wielded by themselves! So we see, that since the revolt commenced, they have steadily marched toward the establishment of a military slaveholding oligarchy; because it is the necessity of the institution of slavery that it shall be maintained by a stronger government than that for which our Constitution provided. And, in the next place, I do not propose to discuss it; but, it was a necessity of slavery that it should acquire new territory, because it exhausts that on which it fastens. Now, then, these, as I believe, were the causes of the rebellion. There were pretexts for the rebellion, such as agitation in the North but they were mere pretexts. There were also inducements to the rebellion, one of which was a belief that the North would not act unitedly and energetically for the suppression of the rebellion. And I may say here, what I think will be sustained by some gentlemen whom I see around me: and, inasmuch as the injunction of secrecy upon the Peace Congress was removed on the last day of the session, I may say-not for the purpose of arraigning any man before this assembly, or before this country-that in that Congress a representative from a free State, a State that has with great alacrity furnished its quota of men to the army, did announce to slaveholders and non-slaveholders, that in case the North undertook to put down the South "by force"-as he called it-the North would furnish a regiment to fight with the South as often as it furnished one to fight against it. In justice to the people of the country we ought to say, in this connection, that the South have been entirely disappointed. The people, with great unanimity, have come to the support of the government, and not one regiment-probably not one man-has been found to join the forces of the South. (Applause.) Now, such inducements as that undoubtedly served to lead the people of the South forward in the rebellion they had undertaken. Another inducement to the rebellion was the bankruptcy of the South. From one to two hundred millions of dollars have been repudiated by the rebellion. It is well enough to remember that, as long ago as 1792, I think, Mr. Jefferson wrote a letter to Gen. Washington, urging him to accept a second term for the Presidency, and one of the five or six reasons which he gave for the request was the danger of secession; and a reason why he feared secession was, that the South was largely indebted to the North. And this indebtedness of the South to the North, wiped out for the last fifty years at the rate of two or three millions a year, and finally consummated by the repudiation of one or two hundred millions, has always been an obstacle to a firm union between the North and South, Another inducement by which the South has been combined as one man was the cry, promulgated for the first time in that section of the country not more than five or six years ago, "Negroes for the negroless!" Thus every poor
<c05>
white man at the South, who ignorantly believed it to be the height of human ambition to own a negro, was inspired with a hope that at some future day he might become a slaveholder, if the rebellion could be carried on successfully-the South separated from the North-and the African slave trade opened, This is one of the means by which the rebels have been able to combine the Southern strength to the extent they have. Another reason-I will not stop to discuss it-was wounded pride, mixed with poverty, always a source of discontent.
And, in passing; I may say that I believe the Southern States, the Gulf States, have deceived, to a great extent, the border slave States-Maryland, Kentucky, and Virginia; for, when the time should have come when they could secure the separation of the slave States from the free States, or the Southern States from the Northern States, they would incline to leave these border States with the North, as a bulwark against the spread of anti-slavery opinions southward, knowing that under the Constitution we should return fugitives to these border States, and the border States, by State legislation, would return fugitives from the seceded States.
Will the rebellion exhaust itself? Consider the extent of the territory that it includes. Consider the resources of that country in soil and climate. Consider the fact that, in consequence of the existence of slavery, they can put in the field, and equip-allowing the institution of slavery to remain-one-tenth, or even one-eighth of their entire white population. And though, with the blockade, we close up the ports, so that they are deprived of certain luxuries and necessities of life, they yet can command those great staples on which their armies will depend for subsistence. They have one great power which we have not yet attained-and which, I trust, is not in store for us- they repudiate their debts as fast as they are contracted," leaving the things that are behind, and pressing forward to those that are before." (Laughter and applause.) It was the estimate of Napoleon that no nation could keep more than one in forty of its population in the field. The State of Indiana has put one in twenty of its entire population into the army; other States one in twenty-five; one in thirty; one in thirty five; one in forty. If it be assumed that the free States can put into the field, and keep in the field, one in thirty of the entire population, our army will not consist of more than about 730,000 or 740,000 men, and, if you will allow the institution of slavery to remain, the three and a half millions of men and women in the revolted States continue upon the plantations- guarded by white women, aged men and children, all armed-if you allow the three and a half millions to remain upon the plantations and produce subsistence for the army, they can keep one-tenth, or one-eighth, of their entire white population in arms. If you strike from the resources of the South the supplies which are furnished by the three and a half millions of black people, do not you see that a portion of the men who are in the army of the South must go home to produce supplies? Therefore the effect of allowing the institution of slavery to remain is to give them an equal opportunity with us in every contest. But if we deprive them of the support they derive from their slaves, then a portion of their army must return to the plantations, and they would be reduced to 150,000 to 200,000 men, and the war would be at an end. (Cheers.)
We may very well inquire whether this rebellion- if it go on-is to exhaust us. I do not propose to pursue the financial inquiry, but it is sufficient to say that the Secretary of the Treasury estimates that the public debt on the 30th of June, 1863-a year from next June-will amount to $900,000,000. If it shall happen in consequence of the check that is given to the exportation of cotton-in consequence of a good supply of breadstuffs next year in Europe-that there shall be no demand for any of the products of this country, and there should be a demand for specie in consequence of excessive importations made inevitable because of an increase in your circulating medium, who does not see that bankruptcy is before us? And it is well to consider whether, if you have no regard for the black man, it is well for the merchants of Boston and New York, the men who have four million tons of shipping on the ocean-a million in the East Indies- to consider whether you are willing to involve yourselves in a common bankruptcy, rather than to strike, while you have the power, at the foundation on which this rebellion rests. (Prolonged applause.)
I say, then, it is a necessity that this war shall be speedily closed. We have tried blockading. It has been to a good degree effectual. But do you not see that it is powerless with reference to producing that which we expected from it-the quelling of the rebellion? Though our ships line the whole coast, from Galveston to the Chesapeake; though we keep out foreign supplies of every sort; though we cut off the export trade in cotton-still these slaves produce that on which the rebel <illegible>-armies in the field-depend. You may say we can, by one decisive battle, settle this matter. We have had 100,000-150,000-for aught I know, 200,000 men on both sides of the Potomac for the last sixty or ninety days. Possibly by battle we might settle this matter; but we run a great risk. We thought when in July our army went forth with banners and trumpets, they were marching to victory. Our soldiers fought well, victory seemed within their grasp, and yet defeat-temporary defeat to our arms-resulted. And who knows that, with new leaders and new men, we are to gain a decisive advantage? When there are other means to settle this matter, will we risk the existence of this republic-risk freedom, and its name and fame in all the nations, and throughout all time-on the capacity of Generals on the Potomac? I say no, if it can be avoided. Battles and wars are not the worst of evils, but they are to be avoided when and where we can. The life of the nation is involved in this contest, to say nothing of the men. All of us have sent our friends, brothers, kindred-those who are dearer to us than our own lives; and shall we peril them on the Potomac, in Kentucky, in Missouri, in South Carolina, at the mouth of the Mississippi-where my own friends, and neighbors, and townsmen are to-night-shall we risk their lives rather than strike at the institution of slavery, when we know that the rebellion rests upon slavery, and will go down when slavery ceases to support it? (Applause.) Have you yet other men whom you wish to sacrifice upon this altar 1 Ellsworth, Lyon, Baker, and others of equal virtue and equal patriotism, with names unknown, have gone down upon bloody fields, sacrificed at the shrine of slavery; and will you offer up more, and yet more, of the best blood of the country-the young men, the hope of the nation, the strength of the future, in order that slavery may longer last?
I say, then, it is a necessity that this war be speedily closed. By blockade it cannot be; by battle it may be, but we risk the result upon the uncertainty whether the great General of this continent be with them or with us. I come, then, to emancipation. Not first, although I shall not hesitate to say before I close that, as a matter of justice to the slave, there should be emancipation-but not first do I ask my countrymen to proclaim emancipation to the slaves in justice to them, but as a matter of necessity to ourselves; for, except by an accident, we are not to come out of this contest us one nation, except by emancipation. And first, emancipation in South Carolina. (Loud cheers.) Not confiscation of the property of rebels, that is inadequate longer to meet the emergency; it might have done in March, or April, or May, or possibly in July, but in December, or January of the coming year, confiscation of the property of the rebels is inadequate to meet the exigency in which-the country is placed. You must, if you do anything, proclaim at the head of the armies of the Republic, on the soil of South Carolina-freedom, (prolonged and enthusiastic cheering,)-freedom to all the slaves in South Carolina, and then enforce the proclamation as far and as fast as you have an opportunity (renewed cheering); and you will have opportunity more speedily then than you will to invade Sooth Carolina without emancipation of the slaves. Unsettle the foundations of society in South Carolina-do you bear the rumb-
<c06>
ling? Not we-not we are responsible for what happens in South Carolina between the slaves and their masters. Our business is to save the Union (cheers); to reestablish the authority of the Union over the rebels in South Carolina; and if between the masters and their slaves collisions arise, the responsibility is upon those masters who, forgetting their allegiance to this Government, lent themselves to this foul conspiracy, and have thus involved themselves in the ruins. (Applause.) As a warning lot South Carolina be the first of the State, of the Republic in which emancipation to the enslaved is proclaimed (cheers) as a warning and a penalty for her perfidy in this business, which began at the moment that her delegates penned their names to the Constitution when it was formed. Treachery was in their heart, then, and they have adhered to their disloyalty through evil report and through good report; but I trust the day is now near when, by the reconstruction of South Carolina society, we shall there have a State which in process of time shall be loyal to the Constitution and the Union.
Next Florida. Impotent in her treachery with less than 150,000 inhabitants; with property pose, not of equal value to that which might be found in a single ward in this city, purchased with the money of the people-she has undertaken to lend herself to this conspiracy. Emancipate the slaves that are there and invite the refugees from slavery in the South, for the moment, to assemble there, if they desire with out compulsion, and take possession of the soil. (Cheers.) If that is not sufficient let the penalty upon South Carolina he increased by dividing her soil among those whom she has heretofore held in bond age. (Renewed cheering)
The next in this work of emancipation I name Texas; because, if we read the history of the last twenty-four months aright, these people have gone out of the Union because they see they cannot extend slavery in the Union. It was not because a few Abolitionists in the North hated slavery; it was not be cause some of us went to Chicago in June, 1860, and nominated Abraham Lincoln for President, and then elected him; but it was because men of all parties and all persuasions and all ideas, in the North, had come to the conclusion that slavery should not be extended It was the doctrine of churches, the doctrine of homes and hearthstones, that slavery should not be extended and they went out of the Union. Which way, do they expect to extend slavery? Southward-through and over Texas, into Mexico, and into Central America, thus cutting us off from the Pacific, separating us from our possessions west of the Rocky Mountains, and rendering another division of the Union, by the line of the Rocky Mountains, inevitable. Now, then, let us teach them, by emancipation in Texas, that in the Union or out of the Union, slavery is not to be extended. Emancipate the slaves in Texas; invite men from the army, invite from the North, invite from Ireland, invite from Germany, the friends of freedom, of every name and of every nation bid them welcome in Texas, where we have 175,000,000 acres of unoccupied land-or shall have, when we confiscate it to the Government of the United States (applause)-and we shall have a barrier of freemen, a wall over which, or through which, or beneath which, it will be impossible for slavery. pass. (Cheers.)
I do not pursue the subject of emancipation further: These three Stares will be sufficient for warning and penalty, for refuge and for security against the extension of slavery; but I certainly would have it pretty distinctly understood, that by the next anniversary of the birth of the father of his Country, we should emancipate the slaves in all the disloyal and rebellious States, if they do not previously return to their allegiance. (Applause.)
"What will you do," says one," if you emancipate the slaves?" My friends, what will you do if you don't? (Laughter and cheers.) What are we doing now, when we have not emancipated the slaves? I want to tell you what Jefferson thought, more than sixty years ago, and I ask you if that which he feared is not in process of completion to-day? He says in letter to St. George Tucker, dated Aug. 28, 1707:-
"Perhaps the first chapter of this history which has begun in St. Domingo, and the next succeeding ones, which will recount how all the whites were driven from all the other islands, may prepare our minds for a peaceable accommodation between justice, policy and necessity, and furnish an answer to the difficult question, whither shall the colored emigrants go? And the sooner we put some plan under way, the greater hope there is that it may be permitted to proceed peaceably to its ultimate object. But if something is not done, and soon done, we shall be the murderers, of our own children."
Terribly prophetic words! Terrible in the possibility of their fulfillment!
What will you do with the negroes if you emancipate them? As between what we may or can do with them and the salvation of this country, it ought not to weigh a moment. They are hut four millions: and though in their weakness they plead, here are five-and-twenty millions of men who ask a country; all the coming generations of this continent rise now and demand sacrifices of us all, that we may secure and preserve a country for them. Mankind everywhere gaze with anxious eyes upon this contest, lest the last hope of liberty should go out in this our land; and if-I do not hesitate to say-if the salvation of the country demanded the sacrifice of four millions on this continent, black or white, slave or free, North or South, it would be a sacrifice well made for so great a cause. But, my friends, it demands no such sacrifice. These four millions of people are able to take care of themselves. (Applause.) Have you considered what it requires to take care of one's self? I do not mean, when I say that these four millions are able to take care of themselves, that they can build cities, that they can set afloat a vast commerce; I do not say that they can immediately become proficient in the arts and sciences- I do not know that they ever earn; but do you not see on the face of things, that the slaves to the South have to-day possession of those industries, are accustomed to the exercise of those physical and mental faculties on which society first and primarily depends? They are able to take care of themselves.
I should like, my friends, to spend a moment in stating some facts in regard to the British West Indies, because I believe that the public mind has been, to a great extent, deceived by the representations that have been made, through the agency of slavery, in reference to the results of emancipation in those islands. If you will pardon me a moment, I will read you a few statistics, which, in their results, show what has been accomplished by the black population of the West Indies, emancipated by the British Government five-and-twenty years ago. I venture to participate what I have to say, by expressing my belief that-with the exception of Greece, where thirty years ago there was hardly a house with a root on it-there are no people on the face of the earth who have made more progress than the emancipated slaves in some of the British West Indies. What have they done? Take, for example, Barbados. They have opened schools, and with a population of 140,000 they have more than 7000 children in the schools: and they have over 3000 landholders. In Antigua, with population of 35,000, they have more than 10,000 children in the day and Sunday schools; and 5000 landholders among those who were slaves five-and-twenty years before In Tobago there are 2500 landowners, with a population of 15,000. In St. Lucia, with 25,000 inhabitants, there are more than 2000 landowners. But in Jamaica which is the exception to the West India Islands, in the matter of prosperity since emancipation in a population of some 400,000, they have 50,000 freeholders.
So, then, if you test that people who came from slavery and barbarism seven-and-twenty years ago, by the two tests of primary civilization, cultivation of the soil and education of the children they have made great progress. But it is well worth while to remember that Barbados is one of the most populous portions of the globe. Of the 106,000 acres of land, 100,000 are under cultivation, and the price of the cultivated land is from four to five hundred dollars an acre-

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
DECEMBER 2O.
If we show that in one single instance emancipated  slaves have been able to take care of themselves and make progress, though there may be twenty instances of failure, still, the one instance of success demonstrates their capacity, and their failures are to be attributed to misfortune and the, influence of circumstances 
In the next place, (although I do not intend to go into the financial aspect of the question,) I will read the results of the cultivation of sugar, which is the Great article of export in those islands; and I know very well that the commercial community is interested in whatever relates to exports and imports. The dependencies of Guiana, Trinidad, Barbadoes and Antigua, previous to emancipation, produced 187,000,000 pounds of sugar, and in 1856-7, they produced, annually, 265,000,000-showing a gain of nearly 78,000,000 a year; and their imports went up from $8,840,000 to $814,600,000 a year. And the present Governor-General of Jamaica, Mr. Hincks, whom some of you may remember as the former Attorney-General of Canada, who was Who was here in 1851 at the railway celebration, as it was called, states from his own knowledge and observation, that on an estate in Barbadoes, ninety blacks performed the work formerly done by two hundred and thirty slaves; and that the produce of each laborer during slavery was 1043 pounds of sugar, and the produce since emancipation of each laborer is 3660 annually. He also states that the cost per hogs-head under slavery was 10 sterling, while in 1858, it was produced at a cost of 4 sterling. So we see, that whether we test the black population of the British West Indies, by the fact that they have established schools, by the fact that they have become landholders, or by the fact that they export of their main staple more than they did formally, they still have demonstrated. their capacity to take care of themselves. (Applause.)
But I say further, my friends, that it is not a matter for argument, but within the range of the commonest observation, that the time is approaching when the emancipation of the slaves in this country must take place. It is inevitable; and we have now, I think, only a choice of ways. Emancipation may take place by the efforts of the slaves themselves; it may take place by the Government of the United States; it may take place by the action of the slaveholders themselves, who led in this rebellion. But for us, it is first a matter of justice. I said I would not omit that consideration, and I will not, as a matter of justice to the slaves themselves, who certainly have been subjected to a sufficient apprenticeship under slavery, through two centuries, to prepare them for freedom-which these gentlemen have told you is the legitimate and natural result of apprenticeship to slavery-if they are ever to be prepared. I say, then justice to the slaves demands emancipation I will not make for myself, though  others may for themselves, the nice distinction which you remember Mr. Croswell made when he wrote a letter endorsing and explaining the speech of Col. Cochrane. He says, The difference between the Abolition and the union defenders is this-that-the Abolitionists are in favor of emancipation because it would be a benefit to the slaves.we are in favor of emancipation because it would be an injury to, or diminish the power of the rebel masters." I do not care about that nice distinction. It reminds me of what McCauley says of the Puritans-"That they were opposed to bear-baiting, not because they had any sympathy for the bear, but because they were religiously hostile to all kinds of amusements.(Laughter.) Whatever your opinion may be, if you are in favor of emancipation, I do not greatly care whether you favor it as a matter of justice to the slaves or to punish the masters. And we must agree, my friends, to the Declaration of Independence. The fundamental difference on which the North and South have divided for thirty years is on that part of the declaration of Independence which says, All men are created equal." They have denied it; we have undertaken to maintain it. We ought to consider (if you will allow me a moment by way of explanation) that the Declaration of Independence was prepared as a political document. It did not relate to those differences among men which we see, which We recognize, which are natural, which are divine, which are not to be complained of. But Jefferson meant, when he penned that provision, that no person was by birth under any political subserviency to any other person. (Cheers.) That is what he meant. Not that we are of equal height or weight, equal moral influence or intellectual capabilities; but that we were equal in this -that no one is born under any subserviency, politically, to his fellow-man. Let us maintain the doctrine now. These slaves are men; Jefferson did not hesitate to call them brethren." In a letter to M. de Munier, explaining the reason why neither Mr. Wythe nor himself had proposed to insert a clause for emancipation into the slave code of Virginia, he says:-
" There were not wanting in that assembly men of virtue enough to propose and talents to vindicate this clause.  But they saw that the moment of doing it with success was not yet arrived, and that an unsuccessful effort, as too often happens, would only rivet still closer the chains of bondage, and retard the moment of delivery to this oppressed description of man. But we must await with patience the workings of an overruling Providence, and hope that that is preparing the deliverance of these, our suffering brethren.  When the measure of their tears shall be full, when their groans shall have involved heaven itself in darkness, doubtless a God of justice will awaken to their distress, and by diffusing light and liberality among their oppressors, or, at length, by his exterminating thunder, manifest his attention to the things of this world, and that they are not left to the guidance of a blind fatality."
These slaves are men. The declaration concerning the equality of all men applies to them as to us; and now that, in the progress of events, the South have relieved us from responsibility in regard to eleven disloyal States, let us stand forth as a nation in our original strength and purity, maintaining the ideas to which our fathers gave utterance, but which, under the circumstances, they were not able always and everywhere to enforce. Let us declare, in the presence of these slaveholders and rebels, in the presence of Europe, that we may have ground on which to stand and defend ourselves in this contest, that we proclaim the equality of all men. (Loud applause.)
As to the expediency, still further: Have you ever considered-(I see one gentleman, Mr. Atkinson, upon the platform, who has considered the subject of the cotton culture of the South, and written a work upon it which is worthy of consideration by everybody)-but have you all considered that these men of the South have taken possession, by circumstances and by skill, of the best territory, in soil and climate, upon this continent? This territory has been given up to slavery, and the men of Massachusetts, of the North, have not the power to go there in the presence of slavery, and develop the natural resources of that extensive country. We have taken possession of the fertile lands this side the Rocky Mountains, and it is a necessity of our existence that freedom should go South. Therefore it is a necessity that slavery should disappear. Have you considered, merchants-have you considered, manufacturers, that the 700,000 negroes of the South, engaged in the cultivation of cotton, have a monopoly of the best cotton lands on the surface of the globe, and that their interest is to produce just as little as possible? What is your interest? Your interest is to have these lands developed so that they shall produce as much as possible. From 1845 to 1857, the supply of cotton in all the markets of the world diminished 900,000 bales, and the price went up from the producing price of five or six cents to ten, twelve, fourteen and sixteen cents a Pound in the markets of the world-the manufacturers working all the time upon short products of the raw material, and paying famine prices. We are told by statisticians that the whole population of the globe is ten or eleven hundred millions. The whole product of manufactured cotton goods has never exceeded seventy cents for each inhabitant of the globe. Produce cotton by free labor upon the productive land of the South, develop it in Egypt, in India, in South America, wherever on the broad zone of seventy de-
<c02>
crees cotton can be raised at five or six cents a pound, and pay the producer a good profit, and your manufactures in New England, in the free States, in England, in France, will double and treble the amount of goods now produced.
Is it not a matter of some consequence to manufacturers, to the people, to laborers everywhere, that we should take these fertile and productive cotton lands out of the control of these 700,000 slaves, make them free men, stimulate them by wages, invade those cotton lands, which can be worked by white labor, as one-eighth of the cotton lands of the country are now worked by white labor, and thus increase the product of cotton 25, 50, 75, and, in a few years, 100 per cent., and stimulate the industry and increase the comforts and conveniences of all mankind?
If you look at this matter merely in a commercial point of view, will you allow slavery to retain the best cotton lands, and remain in possession of these slaves?.
I heard a suggestion just now, from the other part of the hall, to the effect-if I understand it correctly-that if we emancipated the slaves, a great many of them would come this way. Have you ever thought, my friend, that if you do not emancipate the negroes, they will, in consequence of the disturbed condition of affairs, escape and invade the free States, and that you will have them here whether you will or not? But if you emancipate the slaves in the South-if you believe what Mr. Yancey said in Faneuil Hall last year-the negroes of the North will go South, for he said they enjoyed nothing so much as basking in the sun, with the temperature at 110. If the slaves be emancipated, what with their own natural ability and such aids and appliances as the Government and twenty millions of people in the North can furnish, I do not believe but that they will get employment, get pay, get subsistence. (Applause.)
Another consideration that ought to be taken into account by the commercial men of the North is, that if we emancipate the slaves and dedicate this country to freedom, this process of bankruptcy and repudiation will come to an end, instead of your being called every year, in ordinary years, to contribute one, two, or three millions to the support of the South. The time has come, after sixty, seventy or eighty years of experience, when it is a right which we may demand, that the people who occupy the best portion of the North American continent shall earn their own living and pay their own debts. (Loud applause.)
The other consideration, as a matter of necessity, to which I invite your attention, is this: Having been involved as we are by slavery and a rebellion and conspiracy based on slavery, we have a right to take security for the future, that there shall be no other conspiracy, that there shall be no other rebellion, that there shall be no other war reserved for future generations, growing out of this institution. Slavery, in its essential characteristics, is a despotism, and you will search long and be disappointed often when you seek for a slaveholder who is in heart desirous to support free, democratic, republican institutions. (Loud applause.) If you would take security for the future peace of the country, it must be by dedicating this territory to freedom. Nothing else will give this country security for the future, or freedom to the States that are now engaged in the rebellion.
Emancipation is inevitable, first, possibly, by the act of the slaves themselves. I ask whether you-I do not ask whether the people of Charleston, S. C., with their city in flames, with the power of the slave population in some way or other felt, in this their great calamity, I do not ask whether they prefer the emancipation that took place in Jamaica, or that which took place in St. Domingo, but I ask you if now, after the sacrifices you have made in the service of slavery, the expenses in which you are involved, the just and righteous hatred you have for these leaders in the rebellion -I ask you if, after all this experience, you ought not to choose an emancipation such as took place in Jamaica, rather than reserve this question of slavery until emancipation takes place as it did in St. Domingo? You cannot hesitate, whether you look to your own interest, to your own comfort, or whether you regard the interest, the comfort, the welfare, and the safety of the slaveholders themselves. And bear one thing in mind-that in Jamaica, thirty insurrections occurred in the century preceding emancipation, the last of which involved the destruction of eight millions of property, and was only put down at an expense of $600,000. Since emancipation, there has not been an insurrection of the blacks in that island: and it is a contradiction of all human experience to assume that when these people are emancipated, they will turn round and cut the throats of their masters; and if the United States shall lead in the emancipation, even at the head of the army, they can so control the emancipated population, that they shall not commit those excesses which have characterized conflicts between the oppressor and the oppressed in other countries and other ages.
But I made a suggestion, which I propose to consider for a moment, and that is, if we do not emancipate the slaves, or if they do not speedily take the matter into their own hands, the probability is, that they are to be emancipated by the rebels themselves. You think, possibly, that it is absurd to suggest that when they have involved the country in war, when they have staked everything on the institution of slavery, they should, under any circumstances, destroy it themselves. But have you considered there are ten thousand men in the South, perhaps, in civil positions and in the army, who, if the rebellion be put down, and the government of the Union be re-established over the revolted States, have only the choice between hanging and exile? Do you believe, when you consider the sacrifices they have already made, when you consider that oh the coast of Carolina they apply the torch to their own property, that in the extreme exigency to which they may be reduced, if we shall be successful in the prosecution of the war, they will not emancipate their slaves, and claim the recognition of France and England, and the alliance of foreign governments, which alliance we see will be but too readily accorded?
My friends, I have not been startled by the intelligence from England to-day, because I have seen for months that we were drifting steadily and certainly to a foreign war; and nothing, I believe, can avert that calamity within a few months, except emancipation of the negroes in the South, so that we can say to the people of England-to the people of France-If you make war against us, it is in the interest of slavery. (Loud cheers.) I do believe, although I was educated in that school which had but little faith in English politics, or in the political principles of Englishmen, that if we write emancipation on our banner, there is yet remaining in the heart of the English nation virtue enough to say to their ruling classes, whatever their desire may be, You shall not interfere to re-establish slavery where it has been struck down. (Applause.) I believe also that the French nation, which, in 1777 and 78, were in alliance with us, which regarded the extremity of Greece, which fought for an idea in Italy, and restored the unity of that ancient seat of power and of majesty in the affairs of the world,-I do believe that the millions of France would say to the Emperor, if he were otherwise disposed: This is a war in which we can take no part. By emancipation we shall be left to ourselves; but if we do not speedily strike a blow somewhere-in South Carolina, or Florida, or Texas-as indicative of our purpose, I see not any way to avert a foreign war, adding untold calamities to the difficulties and horrors in which we are at this moment involved.
Do you think that England is without inducements? History teaches something. She has her traditions of the Revolution and of the War of 1812; her governing classes are in sympathy with the governing classes of the South; her manufacturers desire the raw material; her merchants now urge the government on, and guide it too, in a policy which looks either to the restoration of the Union or to separation; and whatever may be the result, with equal sagacity. They see very plainly that here is a breach between the North and South that cannot be repaired in one generation; they know
<c03>
that when the war closes, they will have the sympathy of the South, if they show sympathy for her now. They expect a monopoly of the South, and if the slaveholders bear sway when peace comes, whether it comes by union or disunion, they will have a monopoly of the trade of the South. It is only by a reconstruction, to some extent, of Southern society, that the people of the North can participate fairly in the trade of the South.
Then there is a feeling, not only in England, but throughout Europe, that we are advancing too rapidly. Conscious as we have been, boasting as we have been, it is possible that, after all, we have not estimated the prosperity and greatness of the republic as it has been estimated abroad. Extending from the Great Lakes to the Gulf of Mexico and the Rio Grande-from the Atlantic to the Pacific-covering the continent, threatening Mexico and Central America with the process of annexation-they could not have looked otherwise than with anxiety and apprehension upon a nation of freemen which promised, in the course of the present century, to contain a population of 100,000,000.
Therefore, I say, that, in reference to the future, we are in the greatest peril, unless we place ourselves, and that speedily, in a position where we can defend ourselves as the supporters of freedom, and appeal to the yeomanry of England, to the peasantry of France, and ask them to keep the peace, while we restore to its fair proportions a government such as the world has never before seen, and start our country in a career of prosperity which shall know no limits in this generation, if we escape from the perils in which we are involved by slavery. (Loud applause.)
Our interest and our duty require us to avert the calamity of foreign war by any sacrifice save that of justice and honor.
One word my friends, and I leave this subject: In the exigency in which we are placed, we must support the Government itself. We may maintain our opinions, believing that in due time those opinions will possess influence; but the Government, that must-for it is the only means by which the rebellion is to be put down-from day to day, with the highest wisdom, and on principles of established justice, execute all the principles and provisions of the Constitution.
This contest is between slavery on the one side and the government on the other. Both cannot stand, Either slavery will go down and the government stand, or the government will be destroyed and slavery triumph over us all. For slavery it is that we have made our sacrifices; for slavery it is that we are involved in these troubles; for slavery it is that we incur these expenditures; for slavery it is that manufactures are paralyzed; for slavery it is that commerce is interrupted; for slavery it is that our foreign relations are disturbed; for slavery it is that foreign war threatens our borders. Are there still further sacrifices demanded for the institution of slavery? Remember the dead that have fallen in defence e country; remember the living that are periled on the field and in the camp; remember your friends that have gone out to fight the battles of the Republic, and say whether you can lie down upon your pillows and feel that you have done your duty to them, to your country, and to your God, unless you exert such influences as you have to bring to a speedy termination the cause of all our trials. (Loud and prolonged applause.)
SERMON OF REV. GEORGE B. CHEEVER.
The announcement that the Rev. Geo. B. Cheever, of New York, was to preach in Tremont Temple, on Sunday evening last, drew an immense crowd to that place. Long before the commencement of the service, every seat in that vast hall was occupied; and while hundreds were compelled to stand all the evening, as many more went away because they could not even get that position. After the usual devotional exercises, and the singing of America," in which the whole of the vast congregation joined, a sermon was preached by Rev. Dr. Cheever, from the text- And Pharaoh's servants said unto him, How long shall this man be a snare to us? Let the men go that they may serve the Lord their God. Knowest thou not yet that Egypt is destroyed?'
This, he said, was the remonstrance of the people of Egypt against an unrighteous government whose career had brought the country to the verge of destruction. If this chapter had been delivered especially for us, it could scarcely have been more appropriate. It was remarkable that the subjects of a monarchical government could thus speak to their rulers; and it does not appear that they were called traitors for so doing, or that they were in any fear of the Fort Lafayette of their time. They did not see any reason why Moses and Aaron should keep silence, and it is not right for our ministers of the Gospel to do so now; but they should demand immediate and entire emancipation. If the voice of justice and God is silenced in the world, then it should be spoken more loudly from the pulpit. We are told to stand still, and see the operation of God's will, and if it is His will that slavery should continue for a hundred years, we must submit. But this is not God's will. Silence against sin is always disobedience to Him. It was thus that the Egyptian magicians threw dust in the eyes of the people, and thus Pharaoh's obstinacy was supported by the co-operation of the clergy.
In Egypt there were two parties, as there are with us-the emancipationists and the anti-emancipationists -and the anti party prevailed, and the death of the first born ruined the country. Before this, there had been a kind of Harper's Ferry insurrection, and Moses would have been hanged, as John Brown was, if Pharaoh could have caught him. God will not be mocked by us any more than he was by Pharaoh. Let my people go, was his command then, and he says the same now to us, and the same results will follow our disobedience to His mandate. God does not tell us, Let the slaves of rebels go, while those that are loyal may keep their chattels." What right have loyal men to keep slaves more than rebels? Is the United States Government the great protector and upholder of slavery; and is the bribe for disobedience to be the privilege of buying and selling men? Shall we pay the price of patriotism with bodies and souls? (Applause.) The only true policy is to proclaim immediate emancipation in the rebel States, and the border States will voluntarily free themselves from slavery. (Applause.) Here are four millions of people lying directly before the track of our country's destiny. We cannot set the train in motion without deciding whether we will take them on board, or will attempt to ride over them-an attempt that will throw us from the track the moment we start. (Applause.)
He hoped that God would change the color of all who would now consent to maintain slavery on account of their prejudice against color, so that they might be negroes also. (Applause.) If we refuse to embrace the opportunity now presented, we commit a crime against God. We have fed the rebellion with our best blood for the sake of slavery. We have been more tender of the rebellion than of our own soldiers' lives. Why was not the victory at Hatteras followed up by the conquest of North Carolina, when the whole State was known to be ripe for the Union? If John Brown had commanded that expedition, he would not have come home to be serenaded by his friends as a hero. (Great applause.) Why are not Charleston and Savannah captured, and a proclamation issued commanding every rebel to lay down his arms, and confiscating all property according to the laws of war? It is because the government is resolved to maintain slavery; and because that would compel the government of South Carolina to free their slaves. Our army and navy are only an immense insurance company for the protection of slavery, and-magnificent employment!-our soldiers are set to pick cotton, and put it into ships. The only hope for us and for the South against a servile insurrection consists in emancipating the slaves, and bringing them under the safe discipline of the military power. He declared that our government is under the control of a few loyal slaveholders in Kentucky, who declare themselves Union men only that they may retain their slaves. He urged the necessity and duty of emancipation.
<c04>
THE TWENTY EIGHTH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.
The time for the ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY again draws nigh, and we look forward to it with pleasure, as the means of meeting familiar, friendly faces, and listening to earnest words of counsel and encouragement. Some say that other agencies are now in such active operation, that the old Abolitionists," as they are called, can well afford to rest upon their oars, while others carry forward their work to its completion. We cannot view the subject in this light. Our mission is the same now that it was thirty years ago. Through many and strange changes, we have slowly but steadily advanced toward its fulfilment but there are many indications that our work is not yet in a state to be safely left to other hands. We have been, and we must still be, a fire to warm the atmosphere of public opinion. More than a quarter of a century ago, the fire was kindled with generous zeal, and year after year it has been fed with untiring industry and patience. Not all the cold water that politicians, merchants, and ecclesiastical bodies could throw upon it has sufficed to extinguish the flame, or even to prevent it from spreading. The moral thermometer can never again fall to the old freezing point. In view of this, we thank God, and take courage. But who that observes passing events, and reflects upon their indications, can arrive at the conclusion that the fire is no longer needed?
It is true that blood and treasure are lavishly expended to put down a most wicked and sanguinary rebellion, the proclaimed purpose of which is to extend and perpetuate SLAVERY. But the government of the United States manifests, in every possible way, a vigilant carefulness to protect the claims of Slavery, and politicians are continually announcing that the war has nothing to do with the cause of the war. There are now very few slaveholders who condescend to profess allegiance to the government; yet, small as is the remnant of that powerful and unprincipled oligarchy, they still appear to govern the counsels of the nation. The honest expression of THE PEOPLE'S wishes is required to be suppressed, lest the utterance should prove offensive to this arrogant minority, so long accustomed to rule the majority. The people are full of generous enthusiasm for their country. If the polar star of a great idea were presented to them, they would follow it with eager courage through suffering and death. But it seems to be the aim of politicians to create a fog so dense that neither star nor sunlight shall glimmer through it to guide the millions, who are longing to be led in the right direction.
Is this a time to let the sacred fire smolder on the altar of freedom? On the contrary, there has never been a time when it was more necessary to watch it with vigilance, and feed it with untiring activity.
We, Abolitionists, still have unwavering faith that a straight line is always the shortest, in morals as well as in mathematics." Politicians are always in need of being convinced of this obvious truth; and they are peculiarly in need of it now. Let us, then, continue to work for the good old cause in every way that is consistent with our own conscientious convictions. Let us meet together, that our hearts may be cheered and our hands strengthened for whatsoever work the God of the oppressed may call upon us to do.
All those who have faith in the principles of freedom, all who believe that the effect of righteousness would be peace and security for our unhappy country, are cordially and earnestly invited to meet us at the usual time and place in Boston, in January next. [Particulars hereafter.]
Contributions, and expressions of sympathy, from friends at home or abroad, in person or by letter, will be most thankfully received; for we have great need of both at this most momentous and trying crisis.
L. Maria Child, Mary Willey,
Mary May, Ann Rebecca Bramhall,
Louisa Luring, Sarah P. Remond,
Henrietta Sargent, Mary E. Stearns,
Sarah Russell May, Sarah J. Nowell,
Helen Eliza Garrison, Elizabeth Von Arnim,
Anna Shaw Greene, Anne Langdon Alger,
Sarah Blake Shaw, Eliza Apthorp,
Caroline C. Thayer, Sarah Cowing,
Abby Kelley Foster, Sarah H. Southwick,
Lydia D. Parker, Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Augusta G. King, Sarah C. Atkinson,
Mattie Griffith, Abby Francis,
Mary Jackson, Mary Jane Parkman,
Evelina A. Smith, Georgina Otis,
Caroline M. Severance, Abby H. Stephenson,
Elizabeth Gay, Abby F. Manley,
Katherine Earle Farnum.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY. January, 1862 Boston: Ticknor & Fields.
This number (we quote from the Boston Journal) opens with the beginning of a series of articles on Methods of Study in Natural History," by Professor Agassiz. It is an admirable introduction, and will allure many who have hitherto deemed the subject dry Jefferson and Slavery," by Prof. White, sufficiently indicates the subject of a very readable article. Mrs. Stowe's story and the Story of To-Day are continued. Mr. George S. Hillard contributes an article on James Fennimore Cooper," which is decidedly the best portrait of the great novelist as a writer and a man that we have ever met with. Love and Skates is the first part of one of the dashing stories left by Major Winthrop. Mr. Hawthorne has a delightful Pilgrimage to Old Boston," which every lover of our Boston will appreciate. Dr. Windship begins the Autobiographical Sketches of a Strength-Seeker," full of interesting matter on this topic. His account of his fainting fit" at his first attempt at lecturing is decidedly rich. Mr. Dorsheimer's Fremont's Hundred Days in Missouri" will have a general interest at this time-the writer having been on Gen. Fremont's staff. Birdofredum Sawin has revived! This announcement, to all the lovers of the Bigelow Papers-and who are not the lovers?-is sufficient; unless we may add that this contribution shows the same old fire, shrewdness and fun. Mr. Emerson closes the body of the number with a wise and genial discourse on Old Age." It will thus be seen that the Atlantic opens the new year in a style most auspicious to the great and increasing public of readers whom it has won and held.
RELIEF OF FUGITIVES IN CANADA. An Association has been formed in the town of St. Catherine's, Niagara District, Canada West, to relieve such fugitive slaves as may be suffering from sickness or destitution. It is called-" The Fugitive Aid Society of St. Catherine's." The officers are the following:-
Charles H. Hall, President; Benjamin Fletcher, Vice President; Christopher Anthony, Secretary; H. W. Wilkins, Assistant Secretary; William Hutchinson, Treasurer.
Committee: Harriet Tubman, Mary Hutchinson, John Jones, Wm. H. Stewart.
This Association may be relied on as worthy of confidence by those who wish to help the fugitives in Canada, many of whom are undoubtedly in need of such aid. Contributions, either in clothing or money, may be sent to ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, Boston, or to Rev. WILLIAM BURNS, St. Catherine's, Canada West.
The meetings already held in Essex County, in relation to the War and Slavery, by Mr. PILLSBURY and Mr. REMOND, have been very encouraging, we learn, in attendance and spirit; and those which yet remain to be held by them and others, should secure the presence of the lovers of impartial liberty and of their country, beyond ordinary times. [See notices in another column.]
That department of pro-slavery blackguardism, malignity and ruffianism, the Refuge of Oppression," is particularly note-worthy at the present time. For loathsome proof, see our first page.
<c05>
WARLIKE INTELLIGENCE FROM ENGLAND.
ACTION OF THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT.
LONDON, Dec. 1. The Observer, the ministerial journal, insists upon a demand for an apology from the Federal Government, and also upon a restitution to the protection of the British flag of Mason and Slidell, who were violently and illegally torn from that sacred asylum.
The Observer adds that there is no reason why they should not be restored to the quarter-deck of a British Admiral at New York, or Washington itself, in the face of some ten or twelve British men-of-war, whose presence in the Potomac would render the blustering Cabinet at Washington as helpless as the Trent was before the guns and cutlasses of the San Jacinto. It is no fault of ours if it should come even to this.
Nearly all the London weekly papers treat the question of the San Jacinto in the same energetic spirit as the daily papers. The agitation increases.
At a privy council held at Windsor, on Saturday, the Observer states, a special messenger was appointed to leave by the Europe. He carries a demand from the British Government to Lord Lyons, insisting upon an apology and a restoration to the protection of the British flag of the Southern Commissioners.
Large reinforcements will be immediately sent to Canada. A ship is loaded with guns and ammunition of all kinds for the same destination.
The London Post adds: It has been decided by the law officers of the Crown that the action of Captain Wilkes was unjustifiable; that he had no right to arrest peaceful passengers sailing under the British flag, and the deed he has committed amounts to a flagrant violation of the code of nations, and is a direct insult to this country. Under the circumstances we need hardly point out that the government will lose no time in seeking for prompt and complete reparation, which it is its duty to require in this case. It will assuredly receive the unanimous approbation of public opinion. We are unwilling to place the worst construction on the outrage committed by Captain Wilkes, or to look on it as an intentional affront on the part of the Government of the United States.
We hope the American Government will at once disavow the act of their officer, make suitable apologies, and restore the persons of the gentlemen arrested, and, in fact, make every compensation in their power. Wild as the words written and spoken by Seward, and reckless as American policy not unfrequently is, we can hardly suppose that the Northern States are seriously disposed to accept war with England. We have in the American waters, including the Mexican expedition and ships already there, a force amounting to not far short of 1000 guns, which we could largely increase with the greatest ease and rapidity. In one month we could sweep all the San Jacintoes from the seas, blockade the Northern ports, and turn to a speedy issue the tide of war now raging. This is so obvious, that we find it almost impossible to suppose that the Cabinet of Washington can commit an act so madly suicidal as to reject our earnest and positive demands."
The Times expresses the belief that the Cabinet has taken a view of the matter which will be satisfactory alike to the patriotism and reason of the country. It says that the principle on which the Government rests its demand is, that a British ship must, until her violation of neutral rights is fully proved, be held to be British ground, as much as if she were an actual piece of British soil, and the right of protection to all persons on board is as valid as on British territory. Now no such violation has been proved or sought to be proved against the Trent, consequently the seizure of the four persons dragged from her decks was entirely illegal.
The Shipping Gazette believes there is a possibility, but a remote one, that the Federal Government may disavow the acts of Captain Wilkes, and even go the length of releasing the Southern Commissioners; but if the demand is not complied with, a declaration of war on the part of England is inevitable. If the Federal Government is resolved, at all hazards, to force a quarrel upon England, they have certainly a good opportunity, but they must be actuated by something little short of madness to avail themselves of it.
The export of saltpetre and warlike stores is formally prohibited. It was stated that one ship with a large cargo of saltpetre for America had been stopped, and that the remanding of the warlike stores already shipped had been required.
The naval volunteers were offering to come forward to protect the honor of the British flag.
At a banquet at Rochdale, Mr. Bright made an elaborate speech on American affairs. He declined to give a decided opinion on the Trent affair, but believed, if illegal, America will make fitting reparation. He strongly condemned the warlike feeling exhibited, and scouted the idea that the American Cabinet was resolved to pick a quarrel with England. He made an eloquent peroration in favor of the North. A letter was read from Mr. Cobden, of a pacific tone, urging a suspension of judgment. A letter from Gen. Scott favored the maintenance of friendly relations with England.
American affairs attract much attention. The export of arms, ammunition and lead is prohibited.
The English journals generally were very hostile in their remarks, and continue to treat the matter as an insult which cannot be tolerated. Lord Lyons's instructions, on which the Cabinet were unanimous, are explicit and determined.
Letters from France state that the news of the American difficulty caused an immense sensation in Paris, and at first the general impression was that ample reparation must be made to prevent a collision. Communications have taken place between the English and French Governments, and a good understanding on the subject was believed to exist, as already it does on the question of the policy to be carried out with reference to the American question generally.
The Paris Patrie has an editorial foreshadowing the disposition of the French Government to recognize the Southern Confederacy, if England sets the example.
The French journals universally look at the Trent affair in the interest of England.
The Paris Patrie maintains that the American Government had no right to arrest the Southern Commissioners while on a British mail steamer, and asserts that the British Government immediately prepared to send reinforcements to Canada. The same journal also gives a report that Admiral Milne, commander of the British West India squadron, on hearing of the San Jacinto affair, forthwith detailed three war vessels to escort the steamers between Havana and St. Thomas, for the protection of Southerners travelling that route.
The Paris Pays and Constitutional censure the action of the commander of the San Jacinto.
BALTIMORE, Dec. 16.-The effect of the foreign news here has been to call forth warm Union sympathy, while the rebel sympathizers are rejoicing. Nearly all the Irish have been secessionists, but they are now strong Union men.
PHILADELPHIA, Dec. 16.-Stocks declined under the foreign news, especially the fancies.
DETROIT, Dec. 16.-The foreign news created a deep feeling. Our Government will be sustained by the people at every sacrifice.
CLEVELAND, Ohio, Dec. 16.-The sentiment here is that our Government must sustain its dignity and rights, regardless of British bluster.
CINCINNATI, Dec. 16.-A firm tone is taken by the people here in support of the Administration. If it is decided that Capt. Wilkes did right, concessions to England or any other power it is hoped will not be entertained for a moment.
PITTSBURG, Pa., Dec. 16.-The English news was received here with indignation. The protection of the honor of the country is the only sentiment here.
HARTFORD, Conn., Dec. 16.-The European news caused great excitement in this city for a time, but the unanimous feeling was that England's demand for Mason and Slidell could not be listened to for a moment. The sober second thought is that our Government should be firm but conciliatory, and if the alternative is to give up the commissioners or fight, then fight.
ST. LOUIS, Dec. 16.-The secessionists here openly avow their joy at the prospect of a war with England, while the Unionists seem generally to hope that the Administration will formally adhere to their already proclaimed position, and not deliver up the rebel Ambassadors.
NEW YORK, Dec. 17. The Herald's Washington despatch says the Cabinet has been in special session several hours to-day, during which our difficulty with England was discussed with great calmness. Whatever the demands from England may be, our government is resolved that Mason and Slidell shall never be given up.
GEN. CASS ON MASON AND SLIDELL. An article has just appeared in the Detroit Free Press, understood to have been written by Gen. <illegible> which not only justifies the arrest of Mason and Slidell, but shows that it was in strict accordance with the position of the Government upon the right of search question, as maintained in the correspondence with the British Government in 1858.
GREAT FIRE IN CHARLESTON, S. C. A fire broke out in Charleston, S. C., on Wednesday evening of last week, which raged with intense fury for several hours, making a clean sweep through the city, and destroying from five to seven million dollars' worth of property. The number of buildings burnt is stated to have been <illegible> among which were five churches, three hotels, two newspaper offices, nine bank buildings, and <illegible> fifty mercantile houses. The fire originated at the factory of a Mr. Russell, who thinks it <illegible> caused by an incendiary, or by the negligence of negroes employed there.
<c06>
CINCINNATI, Dec. 14.-A special despatch from Cheat Mountain to the Commercial says:
Yesterday, one of the hardest and best fought battles of the war was fought at Alleghany Camp, Pocahontas county, Va., between Gen. R. H. Mulroy, commanding the Union troops, and Gen. Johnson, of Georgia, commanding the rebels. The fight lasted from daylight until 3 o'clock, P. M.
The Union loss is about 30, and the rebel loss over 200, including a Major and many other officers, and 30 prisoners. Gen. Johnson was shot in the mouth, but not fatally. The 12th Georgia regiment suffered the most. Gen. Mulroy's force numbered 750 men from the 9th and 13th Indiana, and the 25th and 32d Virginia.
Gen. Johnson's force numbered over 2000 men. The 9th Indiana regiment fought bravely to the last. After driving the enemy into their barracks no less than five times, our forces retired in good order. The rebels set fire to their camp and retreated to Staunton. Gen. Mulroy has driven the last rebel army out of Western Virginia.
The Wheeling (Va.) Intelligencer of the 6th inst., gives the following account of a desperate fight in Wirt county:-
"We learn by a letter received last evening from Parkersburg, that a desperate fight took place a day or two since in Wirt county, between Capt. Simpson's company, Eleventh Virginia Regiment, and a much larger number of Moccasin Rangers.
Capt. Simpson's men were in a house getting something to eat, and the house was surrounded by the Moccasins, who demanded a surrender. Capt. Simpson declined, and a fight ensued. Some eight or ten of the Moccasins were killed, and they were driven back into the woods. Among the number killed of the Moccasins is the notorious Pat Connolly, who has boasted of having in his possession thirty-one scalps of Union men. The fight lasted about one hour."
The war in Missouri is becoming sanguinary. Information has been received that Col. Jennisons force, stationed near Fort Independence, within a few days have burned a hundred houses of secessionists, who had not come in according to his proclamation to take the oath of allegiance. One of the rebels, named Fitzpatrick, was captured and shot. He was accused of killing a Federal officer, and of shooting a Methodist minister who was standing guard over him. He died game, shouting for Jeff. Davis and the South," as he fell pierced with the bullets of the soldiers.
One of the rebel prisoners named Coleman died at Washington on Thursday. He was shot in the head, the ball entering his left eye. He was the ringleader in the acts of cold-blooded atrocities committed upon the scouts taken some six weeks ago, belonging to Banks's division. One of his feats was placing a head on a pole, and carrying it down to Drainesville.
A Federal surgeon captured at Bull Run, who recently returned on parole, reports that the rebels who took him bound him to a tree, and then deliberately shot him in the leg to prevent his escape.
The Louisville Journal says that Southwestern Kentucky is in danger, as the rebels are increasing in numbers in the vicinity of Camp Hoskins, at Somerset, near the Cumberland river. There are 6000 to 8000 rebels there, and it is not improbable that Col. Hoskins will have to retire before them. The rebels are committing all kinds of depredations in Wayne and Clinton counties, which they have in undisputed possession. They have wantonly butchered many sick Union men in their beds, and stolen and destroyed much property belonging to loyal citizens. Many of the Unionists in that region are deserting their homes and making their way to the Bluegrass region for safety.
A despatch from Chattanooga, East Tennessee, to the Memphis Appeal, states that on the 26th ult. A scouting party of 500 rebels returned from an expedition in which they captured fourteen horses and took 100 Union men prisoners, some of whom were found concealed in the caves of the mountains.
The number of lives lost on the ill-fated Keystone State, in the recent gale on Lake Huron, was thirty-three, all told.
NO TRADE WITH SOUTH CAROLINA. The government has decided that, for the present, there can be no trade with South Carolina through the port of Beaufort.
COL. BARERS SUCCESSOR. A letter from Salem, Oregon, Nov. 5, says that Benjamin Stark, who has been appointed to the vacancy in the United States Senate caused by the death of Col. Baker, has been an extreme secessionist!
NO SLAVE-CATCHING AT ANNAPOLIS. Col. Lee, of the 27th Massachusetts regiment, has taken the first opportunity offered to decline to go into the slave-catching business, by which some of the national officers have dirtied their fingers to no purpose. A young negro, who had just suffered a cruel beating, sought refuge in his camp at Annapolis the other day, and was received. His master afterwards came with several men, and demanded him. Col. Lee declined to assist in the recapture of the negro. The master then began to threaten and bluster in the plantation style, when Col. Lee coolly informed him that if he thought he could take the negro, he had better try; whereupon the master and his posse left the field, and the negro maintained his sovereignty. Good for the Colonel of the Twenty-seventh!-Springfield Republican.
The classical Charles (Sumner) has surely gone nigger-mad. He can't even visit the grave of a friend without lugging a nigger along with him.-Providence Post.
The chaste and beautiful eulogy which Mr. Sumner pronounced over the grave of his friend, the late gallant soldier and Senator, Baker, is given on the first page of the Spy this morning. The readers of it will not be at a loss how to characterize the assaults which are made upon him, of which the above from the Post is an example.-Worcester Spy, Dec. 16th.
AARON M. POWELL, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at
Milton, N. Y., Friday, Dec.20.
Poughkeepsie, Sunday, 22.
G. B. STEBBINS, of Rochester, N. Y., will speak in East Princeton, Sunday, Dec. 22, on The Church and Ministry of the Future," and The Crisis-Its Cause and cure."
ESSEX COUNTY NORTH.-There will be an Anti-Slavery meeting in Georgetown, on Sunday, 29th inst., to be continued through the day and evening, at the usual hours. In the present position of our national affairs, no argument can be required to induce a large attendance of the genuine lovers of liberty, not only of Georgetown, but all the contiguous towns. Some of the oldest and ablest advocates of the Anti-Slavery cause will be in attendance, whose names will be announced in next Liberator.
STONEHAM.-CHARLES L. REMOND and PARKER PILLSBURY will address meetings in Stoneham, on Sunday afternoon and evening next, (22d inst.) at the usual hours.
Subject: The War-Its Mysteries and Meanings.
MEETING IN HAVERHILL-PARKER PILLSBURY will lecture in Music Hall, at Haverhill, on Wednesday evening, 25th inst., at 7 o'clock.
Subject: The War-Its Mysteries and their Meanings.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., will address the citizens of MILFORD, (Mass.) in the Town Hall, on FRIDAY evening next Dec. 27th, at half-past 7 o'clock, on Slavery and the War, in their relation to the success of the Government, and the triumph of the cause of freedom.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
Reference.- Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer,  M. D. office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
DIED-In Cambridgeport, Nov. 28, Mrs. MARY BUCK, aged 82.
PRIVATE TUITION.
IT having been deemed advisable to suspend, temporarily, the Hopedale Home School at the expiration of the present term, announcement is hereby made, that Mrs. A. B. HAYWOOD, one of the Principals, will be pleased to receive a few Young Ladies into her family for Instruction in the English, Branches, French, Drawing and Painting, and Music. The term will commence on WEDNESDAY, Jan. 1, 1862, and continue FIFTEEN  WEEKS.
For particulars, please address
ABBIE B. HAYWOOD.
Hopedale, Milford, Mass., Dec. 10, 1861.
Diseases of Women and Children.
WM. SYMINGTON BROWN, M. D., and
MRS. MARGARET B. BROWN, <illegible>
HAVE opened an office at 274 Washington Street, Boston, and will devote special attention to the treatment of the above diseases.
Office Hours, from 10, A. M., to 4, P m. <illegible> Oct 4, 1861.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
MAIZE AND TOBACCO.
The Indian Corn looked over the fence,
And what do you think he spied?
A field of Tobacco, just ready to bloom, 
And stretching in lordly pride.
To the broad-leaved neighbor at once he called,
In accents loud and clear,
I thought you belonged to a summer clime;
Pray, what are you doing here?"
So, then, with a haughty air, replied
That plant of power and pelf,
You are pleased to ask of my business, sir- 
What do you do yourself?"
I feed the muscles and blood and bone
That make our farmers strong,
And furnish bread for the little ones
That round their table throng."
"I move in a somewhat loftier sphere,"
The foreign guest rejoined,
"As the chosen friend and companion dear
Of men of wealth and mind.
"I'm the chief delight of the gay young spark;
O'er the wise my sway I hold;
I lurk in the book-worm student's cell- 
In the dowager's box of gold.
"Thousands of hands at my bidding work;
Millions of corn I raise."
He ceased to speak, and in angry mood 
Responded the tasseled Maize:
"You're in secret league with dyspeptic ills-
A merciless traitor band:
With clouds of smoke you pollute the air,
With floods of slime the land.
"You tax the needy laborer sore;
You quicken the drunkard's thirst;
You exhaust the soil-and I wish you'd go
To the place whence you came at first."

THE YOUNG ARTIST.
She sat, her wavy tresses folded back,
Where one might say the sun's last golden tint
Slept in the evening shadow, soft and brown.
Oh, where has wealth so rich an ornament
As those all unadorned and graceful locks
That on her brow ingenuously part,-
Those hues and shades, whose changeful beauty mocks
The chosen tints and skilful touch of art!
The while she drew, her features changed, and wrought 
Till, all enkindled with the living thought,
Her eyelids dripped with light, as if it were
Dissolving diamonds shed their lustre there.
And as she worked, and sweetly talked the while,
Still played about her mouth the summer smile;
So his warm light some furtive sunbeam throws
Deep in the damask of the ripe June rose.
But the best charm is still unsaid-unsung;
The dawning thought that o'er her beauty flung
Pure, morning gleamings of eternal truth, 
Hallowing to God His lovely gift of youth.
I watched her, and the while she drew my face,
My spirit's pencil vividly would trace
Upon the unseen tablet of my mind
The mellow tinting and the shade refined.
And what a study!-as the spirit came
To the fair body's surface, all on flame
With inspiration, not yet quite unsealed,
But in her future to be all revealed;
Whose artist hand already has foretold
The touch of Midas, which turned all to gold,
Was poverty to what that hand may do,
If the young artist keeps her spirit true
To high-souled truth and virtue, that look down
With pure contempt upon the great world's frown;
Then will she know what triumphs art may win
When the great Source of beauty dwells within-
When the ideal grows real in lucent brightness,
And heaven clothes every thought in clear, transparent
whiteness. S. L. L.

MUSIC AT A DEATH-BED.
BY MISS M. REMICK.
"Sing to me, Alice!" The golden light
Over the hills was fading in night;
Days and weeks had the sufferer lain
Restless and wan on her couch of pain;
Past her low window the bluebird flew,
Soft through the valleys the west wind blew,
And the purple crocus meekly shed
Its bloom o'er her little garden bed.
Ah! but a little year agone,
She trod the hills in the April morn!
The wood-flowers shone in her eager hand,
Her locks were stirred in the breezes bland;
She heard the song of the swaying pines,
The brook that to-day in its fulness winds;
And the glossy evergreens how bright
A wreath they wove but a year to-night!
"Sing to me, Alice!" A happy strain-
How they who have parted meet again!
They wait me there on the other shore,
The silent friends who have passed before.
I catch a gleam, through the parting veil,
Of faces which Death no more shall pale.
"Sing to me, Alice!" A triumph strain-
How all who have parted meet again!
Gently before me the green sward spreads,
Crimson and gold the sunset sheds
Over the river so smiling and still,
Over the heights of the pine-crowned hill,
Over the homes where busy feet
Husband and father are swift to greet,
All down the street, and the village way,
The golden lines of the sunset lay.
"Sing to me, Alice! How sweet the strain
Rose on her ears in the lull of pain,
Raising her heart from her broken youth,
From its beautiful dreams of love and truth,
To the blessed rest of the spirit clime,
Where come not the cankering cares of time-
Where sorrow, nor parting, nor tears are known,
And the fruit is reaped that in grief was sown.

"AT THE LAST."
"Man goeth forth unto his work, and to his labor, until the evening."-Ps. 104: 23.
The stream is calmest when it nears the tide,
And flowers are sweetest at the eventide,
And birds most musical at the close of day, 
And saints divinest when they pass away.
Morning is lovely, but a holier charm 
Lies folded in the evening's robe of balm;
And weary man must ever love her best,
For morning calls to toil, but night brings rest.
She comes from Heaven, and on her wings doth bear
A holy fragrance, like the breath of prayer;
Footsteps of angels follow in her trace,
To shut the weary eyes of Day in peace.
All things are hushed before her as she throws
O'er earth and sky her mantle of repose;
There is a calm, a beauty, and a power,
That morning knows not, in the evening hour.
"Until the evening" we must weep and toil,
Plough life's stern furrows, dig the weedy soil;
Tread with sad feet our rough and thorny way,
And bear the heat and burden of the day.
Oh! when our sun is setting may we glide,
Like summer evening, down the golden tide;
And leave behind us, as we pass away,
Sweet starry twilight round our sleeping clay!

LOST LOVE.
The sun that sinks in the crimson West,
And the stars in the heavens that burn,
And the smiles of the long-lost flowers of Spring,
Again shall to earth return:
But there's a light that from earth departs,
And a flower wept o'er in vain;
And a star of the life that sets in the heart,
Which never will rise again.
<co2>
The Liberator.
SUMNER AND FREMONT.
There is an old piece of advice, frequently used to check the free, open-hearted utterances and disclosures of innocent childhood, that "the truth is not to be spoken at all times"; and it is too often the case that such counsel is given by those who are the unwilling victims of exposure in acts or things which are not exactly right or proper. So in regard to the present civil war or rebellion, we find editors and politicians, who, though professing to be as pugnacious as possible to put down rebellion, disavow any agreement with those who would strike boldly at the very foundation or root of it, and at once make an end of the trouble for all time; who cannot deny that slavery is the primeval and sole cause of the rebellion, yet who would ignore the truth to fight the mere rebel, but disdain to follow those who would combat both the rebel and that which makes a rebel, under the plea that if the Federal Government confiscates or sets free the slaves, the border slave States will be offended and go over to the Southern Confederacy-when, who can doubt, that of those who sympathize with secession in these very States, nine-tenths at least are directly interested in slavery? The larger towns and cities, where there are but few slaves, remain loyal; but in the country, the slave masters are for secession almost to a man; and it is under the hypocritical cover of "neutrality" that they have worked against 
the Government, and assisted their more open and decided Southern neighbors to perfect their traitorous plans-to steal all the national property within Slavedom, (the Norfolk Navy Yard and Harper's Ferry certainly being not the least of our losses,) by hoodwinking and wheedling our government not to take efficient and timely measures of prevention, until now it has upon its shoulders the more arduous, the more expensive, the more bloody task to <illegible> a wide-spread revolution; and the "peaceful neutrals" are fast revealing themselves to have been but wolves in sheep's clothing-for, as the Federal army, from its fearful and hesitating restricted policy is at last marching into and occupying these "neutral" States, those who were Union men before will be Union men now; those who were secessionists before will be secessionists now. There certainly was a decided yea or nay in their hearts, and they will now act it out: as for our better understanding and comprehension of the status, and the consequent prevention of our early laggardism and detriment in securing important if not vital points, they should have been compelled to unfold themselves at the very start, instead of degrading ourselves by sending commissioners to meet theirs (many of whose breasts were already swelling with treason) in "Peace Conventions," to listen to plans of compromise, when we had violated no law nor infringed upon any of their rights to compromise about; to listen to infernal propositions to mutilate the Constitution by making it a clearly defined and expressed pro-slavery document; and finally, under a mere superficial plea, actually to change the free into slave States.
If, then, from the most reliable accounts, from persons who have been driven from the South, we learn that, as a whole, the people are most earnestly united in their cause, is it not most reasonable to conclude that the slave-owners, above all others, are foremost in helping it on? Of the 400,000, would not at least 380,000, or nineteen-twentieths, be thoroughgoing secessionists, willing to use or sacrifice every thing rather than to fail? This, then, is a slaveholder's rebellion, and nothing else; a war waged entirely on their part to demolish free, republican institutions, which are entirely inconsistent with the slavery system, which is despotism itself, and therefore cannot peaceably exist in the same country under one government with freedom. If, unprovoked on our part, they wage a war to destroy freedom, we, in being forced to accept the challenge for our own salvation, in duty to ourselves, for the good of all coming generations, by the terms of the conflict, and as in fairness and in honor we have a right to do, ought to do no less than utterly and totally to demolish slavery. They who have "sown the wind must reap the whirlwind." They should be allowed to take the consequences of their own acts. We should destroy it, if we would not be destroyed by it.
Mr. Lincoln, when a private citizen, in his first speech in the Senatorial contest with Douglas, after quoting the Scriptural proverb, "A house divided against itself cannot stand," said-" I believe that this Government cannot endure permanently half slave and half free. I do not expect the Union to be dissolved-I do not expect the house to fall-but I do expect that it will cease to be divided. It will become all one thing, or all the other." This prophetic utterance of an honest conviction now seems about to be realized, as the two opposite forces of Monarchy (superinduced by slavery) and Freedom are now in hostile array for the mastery. By the laws of war and the usages of nations, so plainly construed and illustrated, without dispute, by John Quincy Adams in the U. S. House of Representatives, in 1842, "not only the President of the United States, but the commander of the army, has power to order the universal emancipation of the slaves." Mr. Lincoln, now the President, has the power in his hands of choosing the alternative of his once freely spoken prediction, and of converting into a truism the Declaration of Independence, now so practically false and inconsistent, by proclaiming freedom to all men, wherever in this land the star spangled banner shall hereafter wave. By such an open proclamation, executed by the advancing Federal armies, justice can be administered on every hand, -the slave receive his rightful birthright, of which for no crime he has been most unchristianly deprived,-the rebellious slave-master have his property confiscated, but a mere merited and retaliatory desert -the loyal slave-master (if there be any such) have his human property paid for; and, finally, the true rebel, Slavery, the only clog to our country's harmony from the very beginning to its present rupture-the only libeller of her fair fame and blot upon her escutcheon-be utterly and totally annihilated. We are told that Garibaldi, the hero of Italy, takes a deep interest in the struggle between the "Union and Slavery," and that his many generals gathered around him, and offered to accompany him to America, where they supposed a great field was to be opened for their loved chief in the "abolition of slavery, and the salvation of the destinies of the great American Republic"; that their hearts were in the contest; and they felt that there, as well as in Italy, they would be fighting " the universal battle of civilization and humanity." If it had not been for the pressure of his friends at the last moment, and especially the urgent letter of the King, he would have gone to take command in any position the President would have placed him. His whole soul is in the cause of the Union. Thus he considers liberty to all identical with Union.
Newspapers that favored Fremont's proclamation in Missouri, at the time of its issue, now that it has been revoked by the President, condemn the policy of Senator Sumner-which, in fact, amounts to the same thing-as advocating the extension of Fremont's proclamation into all the slave States, which policy would confiscate and set free the slaves of all rebels or secessionists, and pay for and set free the slaves of all Unionists.. He (Sumner) is wrongfully called an "opposer" of the Administration, because he is not only in favor of crushing the rebellion, but would crush to death the undeniable true source of the rebellion, so that when it is once crushed, no germ may be left behind to take root and revive a rebellion hereafter. He would not only root out the weeds, but also destroy the seeds from which grow weeds. He would clean the carpet and clear the kitchen of the real pest to our national health and unity.. Mr. Sumner is not "opposing" the Administration. While supporting it as far as it goes, he would the more strenuously go further in urging the use of the military power in giving to all rebels their true and just deserts by confiscating, not only slaves used in rebellious acts- 
<c03>
which is a very hard thing to discriminate and prove-but all the slaves of all rebels, which is much more easily done; thus giving to the guiltless bondman at least an equal consideration with dumb vessels and merchandize.
George Washington once wrote-" Slavery is an evil, morally and socially, and every legal means should be used to get rid of the burden. If an opportunity should come to stay or abolish it, it should be improved by every thing we can do. I cannot, I will not justify it. Let us transmit our abhorrence of slavery." Can any one doubt that Washington, after seeing the Slave Power threatening to destroy the Government which he and his brother patriots had founded at such cost and suffering, and pledged their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor to support, would embrace such a legitimate occasion to abolish slavery, the source of this rebellion?
Henry Laurens, second President of the Continental Congress, in devising means for manumitting his slaves, wrote a letter to his son, Col. John Laurens, dated Charleston, S. C., August 14, 1776, in which, after expressing his abhorrence of slavery, he says he "hopes the day is approaching, when from principles of gratitude as well as justice, every man will strive to be foremost in showing his readiness to comply with the Golden Rule. I am not one of those who arrogate the peculiar care of Providence in each fortunate event, nor one of those who dare trust in Providence for defence and security of their own liberty, while they enslave and wish to continue in slavery thousands who are as well entitled to freedom as themselves. I will do as much as I can in my time, and leave the rest to a better hand," &c.
The Boston Journal, in opposing and protesting against the policy of Hon. Charles Sumner for advocating the carrying out of the Fremont proclamation, as regards the emancipation of slaves in all the slave States, seems now to be one of the papers which take for their motto- "The truth must not be spoken at all times." In the Journal of September 7th was the following paragraph:-
"There is scarcely a paper which is honestly and earnestly in favor of a vigorous prosecution of the war, that does not approve of the proclamation of General Fremont. The Baltimore Patriot, located where the full effects of a policy so vigorous can be understood, thus speaks of it:- Those among our contemporaries, who, friendly to the cause of the Union, yet question the course of Major-General Fremont, ought to reflect upon the consequences, now upon us all, of indecisive, or, if they please to call them, moderate and conciliatory measures The situation of affairs in Missouri calls aloud for the most vigorous procedure. And it is most fortunate for the Union cause, that its destiny there is confided to bold and energetic hands. These are no times for half measures. A daring operator is not necessarily less skillful or less cautious. The hour demands resolution and promptitude, as well as courage. We have had enough of attempts to soothe, to conciliate and compromise with traitors bearing arms in their hands; and we know what we have suffered there-from. They must be put down. We rejoice at and heartily approve of Gen. Fremont's action. A course similar in its spirit of decisive coping with treason, open or covert, but modified by the peculiar circumstances of each locality, might be adopted elsewhere with the greatest advantage."
The Journal then quotes John Quincy Adams's construction of the President's military power respecting universal emancipation, and says-"Gen. Fremont might have gone that far consistently with the laws of war and the usages of nations." It also remarks-
"In connection with the sword, General Fremont's proclamation will prove admirably promotive of that able officer's peculiar campaign in Missouri"-"In this instance, Gen. Fremont appears to have made no startling announcement"-"The recent act of Congress forfeits the slave which has been in any manner employed against the Government. Gen. Fremont merely applies the inference, that where a slave-owner has been active in the field in the cause of treason, his slaves have also been employed for the benefit of the same cause-an inference that would probably hold true, in ninety-nine casts out of a hundred. If martial law has no more rigorous features than this, there will be few to complain, except the rebels, who have made it necessary, and who can avoid its penalties by returning to their duty. We trust this proclamation will tend to that result."
If the Journal will apply such views in relation to Missouri, why will they not be equally or more applicable to the eleven seceded States which are thoroughly rebellious? If the inference can be drawn, that ninety-nine slaves out of a hundred of rebels are employed in their cause, in Missouri, can we not as aptly infer that as great a proportion, if not the full hundred, are employed by the rebels in the seceded States in their unholy work? Mr. Breckinridge, in a speech which the Journal quotes, says in relation to the confiscation bills passed by Congress-
"This law, if carried into effect, was a sweeping confiscation of all the property in the eleven Confederate States, as every species of property is used, either directly or indirectly, in aid of the defensive war of the South, and would therefore free every slave, and forfeit every species of property."
If such would be the tendency of a faithful execution of the Confiscation Act, why does the Journal oppose Charles Sumner for proposing a more unequivocal, less complex, more certain way of accomplishing the same end?
Again, the letter of instructions of Secretary Cameron to Gen. Butler, in relation to the fugitives coming within the lines of the Federal army, seems to have met the approval of the Journal. In its issue of August 13th, it says- "We are at a loss to see how it could have been substantially different." As these instructions permit Butler to receive all fugitives, though very cleverly not preventing their voluntary (!) return to their masters, yet rather facetiously admitting it, after all, to be rather dangerous, as they might give information; and so much discretion must be used about this-(and now that Gen. Wool has ordered the men to be paid $8 per month and the women $4 per month, there seems to be little danger on that score.) As fugitives from loyal masters are to be retained and employed, subject to future equitable provisions, and those of disloyal masters (employed as instruments of warfare) of course forfeited according to law-it seems to be the very initiation of the system suggested by Charles Sumner in his Worcester speech, inasmuch as the Journal of September 2d thinks "that where a slave-owner has been active in the field in the cause of treason, his slaves have also been employed for the benefit of the same cause in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred."
Now compare the policy suggested by Sumner with those of Fremont and Cameron and Butler, which three, it seems, the Journal has virtually approved.
Is not Gen. Wool, the successor of Butler, treating such quondam slaves as have already come within his lines as freemen, by paying them wages, and is it not strange and inconsistent for the Journal to repudiate Charles Sumner, who is for regarding "all men within the lines of the army as freemen," and not protest against Cameron or Wool, who are carrying this same policy into practice? Again, bearing in mind the inference of the Journal, "that the slaves of active rebels are employed for the benefit of the same cause, in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred," (and of course such an inference must be stronger as to seceded than to disaffected States,) the Journal of Sept. 19th replies to the objection of the Louisville paper-" the turning loose of confiscated negroes "-
"The term 'confiscated' is utterly inapplicable. To confiscate, say the dictionaries, is to transfer private property to the Government, by way of penalty for an offence. Nothing of the kind is to be done in this case-for who imagines that the Government of the United States is going to turn itself into an enormous slave factor, by assuming the ownership of all the negroes who may be employed to aid the rebellion? The act [of Congress] simply provides that the owner in question 'shall forfeit his claim to such [slave] labor'-and there it stops. Who may claim the labor, then? Has any one such a claim, except the negro himself? Now, Fremont steps in, and says, in the most common-sense manner, that the negro in that case becomes a free man. We maintain, therefore, that if the question were an open one for discussion, or were of great practical importance at this time, Fremont's solution would be preferable in directness and efficacy to that of the Congressional act"
These are almost the very sentiments of Charles Summer.
GENERAL OBSERVER.
<c04>
CASE OF REV. HENRY FOWLER.
About three years ago, Rev. Henry Fowler was settled as pastor over one of the Presbyterian churches in Auburn, N.-.Y. He was a Professor in the Rochester University, had spent most of his life in literary pursuits, was a man of much native genius and fine culture, gifted with fluent speech, and holding the pen of a ready writer, and had already attained considerable success and reputation in the various literary labors which he had undertaken. With a heart glowing with gratitude to God, and love and good-will to men, he desired to devote his life to doing good, and resolved to become a minister. He went through with the theological course at the University where he was a Professor, and was settled in his first pastorate at Auburn.
His fine talents, easy and graceful address, attractive social qualities, and benevolent and Christian life, made him greatly beloved: already he had begun to realize his aspirations, and to work wonders in his church and congregation, when it was discovered that he was of anti-slavery tendencies! A man with such a heart and brain could not, of course, be otherwise; but dire was the dismay among the leading men of his church and congregation when so black a stain was discovered. The first public indication of the difficulties which were impending was caused by "John Brown's invasion, which "invasion" entered more provinces than Virginia, and plainly extended to the 2d Presbyterian Church of Auburn. On the morning of the Sabbath before John Brown's execution, a lady said to Mr. Fowler-" I hope you will not fail today, in your pulpit, to pray for John Brown and the country." Accordingly, before the first prayer, he spoke of this request, and proceeded to pray, in mild and quiet language, for the country and for John Brown: a prayer in which every Christian patriot could have joined, and to which it seemed as if every heart, less savage than a Virginian's, must respond. A wealthy and influential man of the congregation rose, and with noisy steps left the church. The leading elder of the session visited Mr. Fowler next morning to remonstrate with him, and when questioned as to his objections, owned that he was so shocked at the mention of John Brown, that he heard not a word of the prayer; though he afterward publicly repeated it, falsely, several times. From that day, it was decided by that elder, and probably a few others, that Mr. Fowler should leave, or cease all allusion to the oppressed, and all prayer for freedom. He was strictly forbidden to say a word on the subject. He earnestly desired the peace and good-will of his people; he hoped cautiously and with prudence to educate them up to his standard; he considered their infirmities, and endeavored to suit his public services to their capacities. The presence of this elder, sitting directly before his pulpit, often restrained him from speaking for freedom, or praying for the oppressed, when his heart prompted him to better utterances; but his conscience could not suffer him to be always silent; occasionally he did speak a few earnest words, greatly to the displeasure and disgust of his slavery-loving deacons and elders. His sermon of last Thanksgiving gave special offence to the aforesaid elder, who returned home from the church threatening that Mr. Fowler should leave, and that speedily. He had previously visited him in his study, and told him that he must stop his abolition preaching and praying-it would not be endured; that he never would have been settled as the pastor of that church, if his sentiments had been known, and that he must either cease allusion to them, or prepare to leave.
The difficulty in getting rid of him was the same which the Jews had, in the case of Christ: "The common people heard him gladly"; and "they feared the multitude." The session therefore had, by this leading elder, commenced a double series of attacks to accomplish their object: to the people, they criticised and ridiculed his sermons and prayers, searched out and magnified his faults, and everywhere and in all ways worked to undermine him. They appointed a committee to wait upon him, with a series of accusations and charges, designed to grieve and distress him, and (to use the language of one of their number) to "let him have a chance to slip off easily." These charges, seventeen in number, were all either false or trivial. The most painful one of all, that "the congregation were very generally dissatisfied with his preaching," was a decided falsehood. Still, Mr. Fowler possessed his soul in patience, and went on serenely, hoping for better things. After the fall of Sumter, he preached, as most clergymen did, a sermon on the state of the country, charging slavery with being the cause of its disasters. This roused the leading elder to great wrath; he declared publicly that he would neither hear him nor support him more; he, and the deacons and elders who followed his lead, had always in their prayers humbly acknowledged that the national sins, which brought the judgment of rebellion and war upon the country, were profanity and Sabbath-breaking! He had forbidden Mr. Fowler to acknowledge that slavery had any thing to do with it, and now his wrath was unbounded.
Things became so serious, that Mr. Fowler called a public meeting, and made a statement of the whole matter to the congregation, who voted to sustain him; but the session, like a troubled sea, could not rest, and at last, without consultation with Mr. F., called a meeting of the male members of the congregation, at an unusual and inconvenient hour, and by the vote of a small majority, called upon the Presbytery to dismiss him. When the Presbytery came together, it appeared that that most reverend body had, two thirds of them, prejudged the case. They fought and struggled to keep out the truth with an earnestness worthy of a better cause. Mr. Fowler presented to them, in his statement, a protest signed by nearly three hundred members of his congregation against the forty-one who had called the Presbytery to dismiss him. The reverend gentlemen said it would not be according to their "book" to notice this protest; they therefore proceeded to vote him out, according to the request of the elder aforesaid.
A friend at Auburn writes as follows:-
"I wish you could have been present to see the unworthy subterfuges that these devout men resorted to, to choke down the truth, and the singular inconsistency of those who professed to be friendly to Mr. Fowler, which resulted in a vote of dismissal nearly unanimous.
"Call you this backing your friends'? They 'thought it best for both parties and for the cause of Christ that they should separate.' One of the Professors in the Theological Seminary here, while voting with the crowd, characterized the proceedings as they deserved. He said that Mr. Fowler was " kicked out like a dog'; adding,' I do not envy Mr. Fowler's successor in that pulpit. I hope I shall not despise him, but I am afraid I shall.'
"This 'tempest in a tea-pot' might not seem worthy of notice, except as an illustration of the anti-slavery of the Presbyterian Church. The elder alluded to claimed to be anti-slavery, but not an Abolitionist. Can you tell the difference?
"The matter has resulted in the withdrawal of many members of the church and congregation, and the formation of a new congregation, numbering nearly two hundred, under the temporary lead of Prof. Hopkins, of the Theological Seminary, who consented to serve gratuitously until the 1st of December, at which time, Mr. Fowler's dismissal takes effect."
NEUTRALITY. Scene-The headquarters of General Paine at I'aducah. Enter elderly Kentuckian in quest of his fugitive chattel.
Gen. Paine-Well, sir, are you and your family loyal?
Kentuckian-I have one son in the rebel army. There are two at home.
Gen. P.-Well, are you and your boys at home aiding the government?
K.-No, sir; we remain strictly neutral.
Gen. P.-Then you must excuse me if I remain strictly natural between you and your nigger. I cannot allow you within my lines.
Exit Kentuck in disgust, deeming this a Paine-ful application of strict neutrality.-Chicago Tribune.
<c05>
THE CONTRABANDS AT PORT ROYAL.
[Correspondence of the N. Y. Tribune.]
PORT ROYAL, Nov. 28, 1861. 
The contraband question is not less interesting in its features than important in its relation to the Expedition and the whole war. Facts are so numerous that the difficulty is, to select from the mass of materials those which are most important. I can only repeat, to-day, a few of the statements, which come to me from the best authority, observing in the first place that there are probably not more than three hundred in camp at present. Mr. B. K. Lee, Jr., who came out as Supercargo of the Ocean Queen, has charge, as Superintendent, of about one hundred and twenty. About one hundred are at Bay Point, where the 79th New York is stationed, and the rest are in the employ of officers, or cannot be definitely accounted for. Those who come inside the lines are not allowed to leave, for any purpose, without a pass, and there is a watchful jealousy toward them, the ground of which it is difficult to understand. Their feeling of hostility to their late masters and gratitude to us is unmistakable and universal, and their readiness to work is shown in every way. The policy of Gen. Sherman, or whoever is responsible for his remarkable proclamation, I cannot pretend to fathom, nor am I able to see why their services should not relieve the overworked soldiers from some of the heaviest tasks imposed upon them. The coming of "the Yankees" has been watched for with anxious solicitude at this as at all other points, and the troops are hailed as deliverers wherever they go. Few negroes are so dull as to be imposed upon by the fictions of their masters that they are to be sold to Cuba, or would be worked day and night harder than ever, or other such inventions. The instances in which any attachment to their masters is shown are extremely few. Where dislike to leave the plantations exists, it arises from the local attachment, often strong in the negro, his love for his cabin, and desire to remain on the spot which has been his home, if he can remain free; and, in addition to this, more frequent and strong is his devotion to his family. Domestic ties are necessary to his happiness, and he breaks them unwillingly. The slaves come slowly into camp for several reasons. The invitation held out is of the coldest-the accommodations, when in, are wretchedly insufficient- they cannot bring their families in any number-they cannot return for them if they are left behind-their condition on the deserted plantations is one of ease and comfort, and every obstacle to access to the camp is thrown in their way. That they have been shot in numbers by overseers and masters is beyond all question. The fact is attested by every sort of evidence from great numbers of persons who have no chance of concerted agreement in their accounts, and it tallies with the announced determination of the slave-owners, than they would destroy the negroes rather than suffer them to be freed. I do not know whether any effort is made to discredit the accounts already sent North, on the ground of incredible barbarity, or otherwise, but no one here affects to doubt the facts.
I have conversed with many of the negroes in camp and out of it. Their accounts are substantially alike, differing in detail. Officers of rank, with the full means of information, and after careful inquiry, assure me that the accounts first given, which have come back here, fall far short of the truth. It is not the exceptional cruelty of some more than usually brutal master to which this is to be charged. The horrible fact stands out with appalling clearness and certainty that the murder of the slaves who cannot be compelled to follow their masters is a deliberate policy and relentless purpose. On the roads which lead to the islands, for thirty to fifty miles in all directions, guards are stationed to intercept the negroes and prevent their escape. If caught, they are sent inland, and there flogged, tortured, and imprisoned in irons. If they cannot be caught, they are shot without hesitation or mercy. At Beaufort a regular watch is maintained. When the gun-boats go up the river, as they do every two or three days, the whites keep out of the way. If the coast is clear, they return in the day time as well as night. The negroes remaining in the place are captured, if possible, and taken to the mainland. If pursuit is unavailing, they, like the others attempting escape, are shot. I saw at Beaufort yesterday, a negro who told me he had, the day before, been ordered to follow his overseer, and when he refused, four barrels of a revolving rifle were fired at him: not a shot took effect, and he escaped. I questioned and cross-examined this man with the greatest care, and I have no doubt whatever of the truth of his statement. It is a single instance, and I give it, because in this case at least I was able to satisfy myself of its correctness, and I may add. it was confirmed by two others of his comrades. His name is William, his master's name, as near as I could make it out, Chism, and the overseer's, Guest.
There is a more horrible story yet. A slave named Priscilla, formerly owned by Mr. Graham, of Grahamville, now a servant of Capt. Charles E. Fuller, one of the Brigade Quartermasters, relates that before she left the plantation, the slaves were ordered into a barn to shell corn: that when all were in, the doors were locked, the barn was fired, and men, women, and children were burned alive. Capt. Fuller assures me that he has no doubt of the fact. When, after such a horror as that, I add that two slaves captured at Beaufort a few days ago are known to have been taken to the mainland and hanged, I seem to record only a commonplace barbarity, the truth of which needs no affirmation. It is not merely men who are trying to escape that are murdered. The families of those who have escaped are treated with the utmost cruelty, and some of them have actually been massacred. The knowledge of the fact has created so much excitement among the negroes in camp that it was found necessary to double the guards, to prevent their leaving, in order to bring away or endeavor to hide their wives and children-a precaution the humanity of which requires no comment. The negroes themselves did undoubtedly believe that their families were in danger. The transmission of news is an act they understand to perfection, nor could there be any difficulty in receiving it in this case. I suppose the possibility of their conveying intelligence of our forces to the masters who were shooting their wives was considered strong enough to create a military necessity for their detention.
One other fact of a different nature, and I turn from this frightful picture of the amenities of the social institution, whose rights and immunities are so carefully acknowledged and protected. I am indebted "for the account to Gen. Viele. There is a slave girl in camp who left her master under the following circumstances: She had been compelled to share her master's bed, and the tearful reluctance with which the story was gradually drawn from her showed how bitterly she felt the disgrace to which she had been compelled to submit. Her master's wife discovered the fact, removed her from the house, and inflicted upon the innocent victim of her husband's brutality the severest punishment-repeated floggings. She escaped at the first opportunity, and came to the camp. Is this tragedy horrible enough? The girl was the personal attendant of her master's daughter, 18 years old.
The intelligence and capacity of many of the negroes are far beyond what could be expected. I have one or two instances from the same source. An old negro-driver came into camp whose memory went back to nullification times, and whose recollection was unusually clear and exact. "Yes, massa," he said, "I remember Gen. Jackson, and how things went on then. The people about here were just as strong then against the Union as they are now, but when the frigates came, the people all went over again on their side, and I think, Massa, if Massa Lincoln had sent all these ships here last Spring, they'd ha' made all the people change just so again." I cannot pretend to give his words or dialect, but the substance is correct. The old man's statesmanlike estimate of South Carolina stability of character would have been most serviceable at Washington.
There is no wish on the part of the negroes to go North. They dread the cold, dislike to leave their homes-the attachment, as I have already explained, being local, not personal-and look intelligently forward to emancipation on the soil. A large number of them, who gathered about one of the officers, was much frightened on being asked whether they did not wish to be sent North, and an old man answered, " No, Massa, no; we don't want to go North. You make this free State, and pay us for our work, and let us all stay here." An answer which may help to dispel the dismal anticipation really entertained by some persons not otherwise unintelligent, that the North is to be overrun by liberated slaves. They have and can have neither the wish nor the means to forsake the soil on which they are born or bred.
It is a rather singular circumstance that the 
<c06>
opening of this harbor should be signalized by an effort at kidnapping and slave-trading. A ferryboat, built at New York for Havana, named Nulstra Senora de Regla, left about the same time with the fleet, was exposed to the gale and rain into Charleston. It is said an effort to seize her by the Rebels to turn her into a gunboat was only defeated by the energetic efforts of the Spanish Consul, and that afterward $50,000 was offered and refused for her. After the victory she came into harbor, and has been here ever since, for what purpose no one seemed to know. Only a few days since, one of her boats was discovered on shore endeavoring to kidnap some of the negroes remaining on one of the plantations, and a subsequent examination of the steamer herself disclosed the fact that she had already on board a considerable number, stowed away in the hold, and destined for Cuba and a market. Her captain was arrested and put in irons, and the steamer now lies under the guns of a sloop of war. So one more effort at the Christianization of the blacks has been put a stop to.
PORT ROYAL, Dec. 3.
Many of the negroes in camp arrived at this point, and more are constantly coming. There is among them all the undoubting conviction that this is a war for their deliverance. No statement concerning them that I hear is so nearly is so universal as this, and Colonel Hawley assures me that in numerous conversations he has not found an exception. "We've been a waitin' and a prayin' for you, Massa, day and night, and we praise the Lord that you are come, and hab' your views"-that is, have been successful.
There is at the Point an old negro named Launace, by far the most interesting contraband of whom any account has yet been given me, but I have been able to gather only enough to excite rather than to gratify curiosity. He is more than 75 years old, came or was brought from St. Domingo, where he was free, and where, for six years, he served in what are called the revolutionary wars. He 
knew Toussaint, Christophe, and Petion, and has many interesting stories of those men still fresh in his memory. When asked if he remembered Denmark Vesey, the name for a moment seemed to puzzle him, but instantly his face brightened, and he answered. "O, yes., Massa, you mean Wesey. I knew him in Charleston, knew him very well:" and he went on to speak of the number of negroes who were murdered in consequence of the plot.
The evidences of in human treatment of the slaves by their masters and overseers are painfully abundant. I select one story, in which the names have the air of being adapted to the character of the man and the facts; but it comes from a source that leaves no chance for question or cavil. A number of negroes crossed over from Savage Island, whose master was Mr. Joseph Cruel. They were examined by Dr. Bacon, and certain deep scars, evidently of burns, on their backs, were discovered. Being questioned as to the origin of these, they said that as a means of punishment, their master was in the habit of dropping melted sealing wax in a blaze on the bodies of his victims. Their description of him was too pungent in some respects to be quoted. "He was the meanest man God ever pitched into this world. He gin we no salt to our hominy, gin we no shoes, gin we no coat," &c.
The negro, relish for all sorts of fun, their keen appreciation of the ludicrous side of every incident, and their love for music, and rude natural talent for it, are all more or less familiar. Their genius in improvisation was comically illustrated in the case of Capt. Cuthbert, (a rebel officer, who came over in a boat, last week, with a number of his slaves, from St. Helana Island, and was taken on St. Phillips by a party of the 79th New York Highlanders, who are encamped at Bay Point. The delight of the negroes at their unexpected liberation was only equaled by their sense of the misfortune which had overtaken the captain, and finally found expression in the following lyrical refrain:-
"De Northmen dey's got massa now,
De Northmen dey's got massa now,
De Northmen dey's got massa now,
Glory Hallelujah!"
Deeming the exuberant rapture of the disenthralled chattels an infringement of the courtesies of was, the officer in command finally checked the flow of this victorious paean, but ever and anon their irrepressible delight broke forth in fragmentary vocalization. Indeed, it was only too plain that they, like so many others of their unreflecting brethren in bonds, were wholly insensible to the misfortunes which their change of condition had brought upon them-the loss of a master to care and provide for them-and himself-out of the proceeds of their labor, and the severing of the domestic relation between him and them, especially ordained as the means of their salvation.
Prayer-meetings are held by the contrabands in camp almost every night. The building in which they gather is often surrounded by a crowd of soldiers, listening to the quaint fervor of the devotions with silent and interested attention. From these soldiers you will hear no word of ridicule-nothing like mockery or contempt for the unlettered simplicity which fears not to ask ignorantly while it asks trustfully and truly. The men whose daily lives leave no hour unstained with oaths, and with the coarse brutality of speech which is worse than profanity, pass with clean lips and silently-wondering if not reverent thoughts from the religious assemblies of the negro, whom they have been taught to regard as cursed of God, despised of men, and destitute of social and political rights. Accepting the pro-slavery dogmas of commercial pulpits, and adopting the atheistic politics of an unprincipled party, what room was left them for religious faith or belief in humanity? Yet they cannot, resist the feeling which this prayerful earnestness inspires, nor repel the conviction it brings that they have been taught a lie.
Does any friend of Southside theology reply that only by means of slavery have these negroes been instructed in religious truth? Let him listen to that old man who is thanking God out of the depths of his soul that at last they can meet. together for worship without fear or Restraint-thanking God and us that he is permitted now to pray aloud! I beg the most hasty or unreflecting reader to consider for one moment all that such an expression of gratitude implies. That a slave was forbidden to read the Bible or anything else-at least to be taught to read-I had heard; but I confess it was with a wholly new emotion that I learned that the Southern answer to an and able prayer was the overseer's lash. Mr. Lee, whose humane benevolence makes him the best possible man for his difficult place, will tell you how of ten at first he has been timidly approached by some newly arrived negro, with the hesitating petition, "Please, Massa, may I pray?" With their childlike piety, also, mingles the broadest charity. Prayers follow prayers for wives and children left behind, and for the soldiers who have come to fight for their freedom, are followed by prayers for the rebel masters from whom they have fled. In conversation, nothing like an affectionate remembrance of their masters can be discovered not, on the other hand, is their spirit often vindictive. Only the religious element of character inspires such a petition, and the negro possesses both religious and affectional elements very largely developed.

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."

MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
where. she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.

MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
Dec. 20

JOHN S. ROCK,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
No. 6 TREMONT STREET, 
BOSTON.

