THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT- 
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent. 
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, <illegible>, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
XXXIV. NO. 45. BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1864.
<c01>
Selections.
GERRIT SMITH TO THE RANK AND FILE OF THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY.
PETERBORO, OCTOBER 20th, 1864. 
To the Masses of the Democratic Party:
I have faith that you will hear me-1st, because I am an old man, and past being suspected of seeking personal political advantage; 2d, because being no partisan, and having never belonged to the Democratic, Whig nor Republican Party, I am not liable to the charge of seeking party objects.
You, like all multitudes of men, love justice and love your country. Nevertheless, this does not assure me that, in the approaching election, you will be faithful to either; for trained as you are to implicit confidence in the leaders of your party, there is but too much reason to fear that you will follow them even now, when to follow them is to be their instruments in outraging righteousness, and ruining your country.
In the breasts of politicians where ambition, the greed of gain, and the lust of place and power have usually so much play, justice and patriotism are apt to become weak. But in the breasts of your political leaders, these virtues seem to have become absolutely extinct. Step by step they have gone on, courting and conceding to the Slave Power, until at last they are so debauched as to be no longer capable of withholding anything from its claims. When the South, at the instigation of that Power, broke out in this rebellion against a nation which had done her no harm, save the harm of weakly and wickedly indulging her and succumbing to her, these leaders were as yet able to make, or at least to seem to make, some resistance. But now they have got so far along in the way of evil as distinctly to take the side of the rebellion; as openly and shamelessly to join the rebels, and employ every art to induce you also to join them.
For proof that your leaders have gone over to the enemy, I refer not to the obvious fact that they are at work with him to defame, embarrass and destroy our Government; to the obvious fact that the spirit of the Democratic Press in Philadelphia, New York, Boston and elsewhere is one with the spirit of the Southern Press; to the obvious fact that your leaders rejoice with the South in her successes, and sorrow with her in her defeats; to the obvious fact that, whilst the South shoots and starves our soldiers, your leaders, in denouncing the Drafts, and in various other ways, hinder the replenishing of our wasted armies; and by impeaching the credit and cheapening the bonds of the Government, enfeeble its prosecution of the war; nor to the obvious fact that they are equally intent with the South on upholding slavery, which is the one cause of the rebellion. Nor have I reference to the obvious fact that the South identifies the cause of the Democratic Party with her own cause, and that whilst she looks to our coming election as fraught with triumph or ruin to her rebellion, she also regards her own fortune as decisive of the fate of that Party. Says the Charleston Courier, “Our success in battle insures the success of McClellan. Our failure will inevitably lead to his defeat.”
But there is evidence far more conclusive than any or all of this which I have cited, that the leaders of your Party have identified themselves with the Rebellion. God grant that they may not succeed is identifying you also with it! Go with me to the Chicago Convention. Look at the platform, which it built, or rather which it adopted-for it was probably mainly built on the British side of the Niagara, if not indeed in Richmond, It says nothing against the South. It abounds in complaints of the North. It is at peace with the South, and at war with the North. It pronounces the war on our part a failure-and this, too, when the South is reduced to far less than half the territory she began the rebellion with, and our final success seems so near at hand. It calls for the stopping of the war. But a poorer time is it to stop than "to swap horses when crossing the stream." More is the danger that they will be swept down stream. To stop the war now is to forego the object of the war-the deliverance of the nation from threatened death. To stop it now is to lose all the blood and treasure it has cost. To stop it now is to make vain and to leave unrecompensed the bereavements and desolations which tens of thousands of our families have suffered from it. And for what end could the war be stopped now, but to abandon it, and to leave the rebellion to triumph? Is it said that opportunity will thus be afforded for the calm and wise consideration of the questions between the North and South? But there are no questions between them; and there can be none until the South has laid down her arms. Until then, she has no right to be beard, and we have no right to hear her. Until then, neither party has the right to propose, conditions of peace. The South took up arms without cause. She must lay them down without conditions. Until then, any negotiations with her-even such quasi negotiations as our excellent President has, in the weakness of his goodness, countenanced-would be at the expense of <illegible> justice, and compromising the dignity and sacredness of nationality. Gen. McClellan thinks 'we should exhaust all the resources of statesmanship to secure peace." But, until peace, there is nothing for statesmanship to act on. Until then, it must be generalship instead of statesmanship-fighting instead of negotiation. Afterward many questions will arise in the province of statesmanship, and I trust that our Government will be disposed to treat them all justly, and, where need be, generously also.
It will be held by some, that there is one question between the North and the South, even whilst they are at war with each other. It is that of exchanging prisoners. But I do not see that even here there is room for a question. By the laws of war, neither party to the war can be required to consent to an exchange of prisoners. Each may retain all its prisoners to the end of the war. If the South does, for any reasons, value her black prisoners too highly to consent to exchange them for her <illegible> men in our hands, so be it, and we have no right to complain. If she consents to however <illegible> an exchange of prisoners, black or white, we are to thank her, and for humanity's sake to rejoice. The wrong treatment of prisoners is another subject and one with which this should not be complicated, nor on which it should in the slightest degree be made to depend. If the South shall abuse any of her prisoners-if, for instance, she shall starve or <illegible> or, what is worse, sink them in slavery-it is for us, and us only, to decide what shall be the return or retaliation for the outrage. All this, however has nothing to do with the exchange of prisoners.
But to return from this digression. We were speaking of the Chicago Platform. One of the things which the Convention did, after adopting it, was to put George H. Pendleton upon it. <illegible> fitted to it is he. Vallandiham himself could not be more so. From the first, Pendleton
<c02>
has been openly on the side of the rebels. On the floor of Congress in January, 1861, when several States had already seceded, he denied our right to compel the return of a seceding State. In harmony with this denial, his subsequent votes have been against condemning the rebellion, and against providing means for carrying on the war to suppress it. This is the rebel, whom your leaders would have you try to make Vice President! Can you try it without becoming rebels yourselves? He is the exponent of the Chicago Platform. In the light of his speeches and votes, whatever is obscure or doubtful in that Platform becomes clear and certain. Can you consent to commit the Democratic Party to a Platform so entirely in the interest of the Rebellion?
You perhaps wonder that I have omitted to mention the nomination of McClellan. But I was describing and illustrating the Chicago Platform: and his nomination has nothing to do with that Peace Platform. His name was chosen, not to represent the Platform, but as the bait for catching the votes of War Democrats. It was a trick-as mere a trick as the Baltimore Convention would have been guilty of, had it baited for Peace votes by putting a non-resistant Quaker on its thorough War Platform. I grant that the nomination of McClellan was a very cunning trick. For whilst, on the one hand, his having had a part in the war would commend him to the votes of War Democrats, that part, on the other hand, was so equivocal, so tender and advantageous to the enemy, as not to deter Peace Democrats from voting for him.
And, now, what are the arguments which the leaders of the Democratic party, its orators and presses, employ to bring you to abandon the cause of your country, and to identify yourselves with the rebels? Only two which they greatly rely on, or which it is worth while for me to notice. The first is, the perversion of the war from the putting down of the rebellion to the putting down of slavery. The second is, the cost of carrying on the war-the cost in money and the cost in. life.
1st. I do not deny that one-idea Abolitionists desired the perversion. But I do deny that their desire was gratified. From first to last, the Government has withstood all the clamor and all the influence for the perversion.
The leading doctrine of that admirable letter of August 22d, 1862, from President Lincoln to Horace Greeley, in which he shows his clear understanding of the limitations upon his military power, is, that he would emancipate slaves no farther than he saw it to be a necessity for saving his country. Surely, this doctrine does not justify the charge of perverting the war.
The President's Proclamation of September 22d, 1862, sets out with the declaration, "that hereafter, as heretofore, the war will be prosecuted for the object of practically restoring the Constitutional relation," &c. No perversion of the war in this declaration. But this Proclamation contains a threat of Emancipation! Yes; but then that is to be fulfilled only in case the rebels refuse to lay down their arms. Does such a threat pervert the war? So far from it, it is in the very line of the original and legitimate war. His Proclamation of January 1st, 1863, does, so far as it can, fulfil this threat. Did the fulfillment pervert the war? Oh ne! It weakened the foe, and strengthened ourselves. It gave us new means for carrying on the war against him; and, like all our previous means for carrying it on, they have been faithfully used to that one end.
But your leaders tell you that the war has been perverted by bringing black men into the army. I doubt not that many of these black men are inspired with the hope that the putting down of the rebellion will be putting down slavery. All the fiercer, therefore, will they fight to put down the rebellion. Hence no perversion of the war need be feared at their hands; and so far from encouraging the cry of perversion, we should be thankful that scores of thousands of these brave and stalwart black men are found willing to help us release our country from the bloody grasp of rebels. Thankful should we be to these defenders of our homes, that they save us from the necessity of defending them ourselves. A hundred thousand black soldiers save fifty thousand Unionists and fifty thousand Democrats from being soldiers. I do not deny that it is a great trial to the Southern chivalry, with whom your leaders so tenderly sympathize, to have to fight with negroes. I do not deny that it must be very humiliating and exasperating to Southern gentlemen to find themselves confronted on the battle-field by their former slaves. But, before taking up arms to destroy the best form of government the world ever saw, and to dismember a nation that had never done them the least harm, they should have foreseen that, sooner than consent to perish under their parricidal blows, we would summon to our aid red and black as well as white men. Much and basely as we had, in the past, studied to please the slaveholders, they should, have foreseen that when the alternative before us was to save their pride or save our country, we could not long hesitate which to choose.
2d. The other argument of your leaders why you should abandon the war and join the rebels is, as I have said, the cost of carrying on the war. I admit the cost is great. Still, is it not better for us to go through with the war, and to reach final victory as we can do in a few months; and as a united North, uncursed with disloyal demagogues and disloyal Generals, could have done more than two years ago? In that case, we should have but our own debt to pay; and no small share of that we should be enabled to pay from confiscation of the estates of the wealthy men involved in the rebellion. The possessions of the poor we would be too pitiful and generous to molest. But in the event of the success of the Democratic Party at the coming election, and of the consequent immediate stopping of the war, or in other words, of the abandonment of the war, or in still other words, of the success of the rebellion, the doctrines of State Sovereignty and State Secession would be triumphant. Then the whole Democratic Party would declare with George H. Pendleton, that our Government has no right to coerce seceded States; and then it would also declare that we are equitably bound to pay those States all the expense we have put them to in resisting our unconstitutional coercion. Thus, by giving up the war we should, instead of staying the in crease of our debt, double it; and instead of our getting remuneration from the South, she would get remuneration from the North.
As to life,-we would, it is true, stay the loss of it by stopping the war. But the war stopped now, or at any time before the rebellion is subdued, would speedily break out afresh, and lead to a sacrifice of life many fold greater than would be necessary to prosecute it to a decisive result from our present vantage-ground.
I am, however, willing to argue this point on this low ground only. I hold that we must, at whatever cost, carry on the war to final victory or final defeat. It is a case where we have no option, and no right to stop to count the cost. We must persevere until we have subdued the rebellion, or been subdued by it. If need be, we must persevere until
<c03>
men and money and credit shall all fail us. Infinitely honorable would it be for our nation to exhaust herself, and perish, in her struggle to crush this most infernal of all rebellions. But infamous to the last degree and forever would she be, were she to consent to prolong her life by a compromise with the guiltiest of rebels, and by recognizing their nationality along side of her own. Our nation can afford to die an honorable death, but she cannot afford to live a dishonorable life.
Your leaders say that we cannot pay our present debt. The mineral wealth of the country is sufficient to pay it in thirty years. Our gold and silver mines will yield the present year more than a hundred millions of dollars. By the time we shall have reached the fourth or fifth year of peace, they will yield double this sum. Scarcely less will be the yield of our iron, copper, lead, tin, quicksilver, salt and coal.
Your leaders seek to alarm you by telling you that rich England groans under a debt scarcely twice as large as our own. How idle to compare England's productiveness with our own!-little England with this nation, which stretches from sea to sea-little England, that, half a century hence, will not have one-third of the population we shall then have. Of course, I am not taking into the account her Colonies. These gratify her pride and ambition; but they do little toward helping her pay debts. Is her trade with them lucrative? So would it be were they not her Colonies.
And to make our prospect the more gloomy and despairing, your leaders dwell on our Town and County Bounty-money burdens. But, so far from regarding as burdens the bounties we give those who arm themselves for our defence, we should rejoice in their wealth-distributing and wealth-equalizing office. They take from those who have, to give to those who have not, and to those, too, whose patriotic and perilous services cannot be overpaid. What right-minded person does not rejoice when seeing those bounty moneys procure home for families who never before had homes?-and when seeing these families lifted up for the first time to a comfortable grade of living? Your leaders speak of the aggregate of those bounty moneys as so much that the nation has parted with and lost. But it is still in the nation, to help pay her debts with; and, what is more, it is in hands where it does far greater good than it did before. In this connection, let me add that a very considerable share of the great debt which the Government owes is for profits which have been realized in the contracts made with it, and in the purchase of its bonds. These profits, like the bounty moneys, are still in the nation, and, like them, will help the nation pay its debt. Moreover, it is these profits which have, during the war, so stimulated the industry of the nation, and given such unprecedented prosperity to all its branches.
But what, you will inquire, can be the motive of the Democratic leaders, in bringing their Party to the side of the rebellion? I answer, that it is the same with that which prompted the rebellion-in other words, that the motive is to save slavery. The authors of the rebellion-of the greatest crime of all the nations and all the ages-saw that the progressive civilization of Christendom boded destruction to slavery. They saw that it was cast out of Europe; that it was nearly extinct in her Colonies; that it was tottering in Brazil; and becoming more hateful in our Northern States. Hence, they resolved to insulate themselves and their slavery. In order to keep fast, forever fast, the chains upon a race as innocent as hapless, they undertook to build up around both slaves and masters the walls of a new nationality: walls so high that the outside and growing Anti-Slavery sentiment could not leap over-walls so impervious that it could not pass through. Herein, and herein alone, is the explanation of the rebellion.
Now, as the slaveholders have their life-the life of their ease and luxury and ambition and tyranny-the life of all their habits-in slavery, so also the Democratic party had, from its long-continued alliance with slaveholders, and long-continued dependence upon them, come to have its life in slavery. Hence the leaders of that party, though, at the first, quite generally opposed to the rebellion, came to sympathize with it as soon as they saw that its downfall involved the downfall of slavery. For they well knew that when slavery should die, the Democratic party would also die. Blessed be God that slavery is to die! Blessed be God that it is to die, if it be only that the most demoralizing and devilish of all the political parties, which ever cursed mankind, is to die with it! The approaching election will cast into a common grave, and that grave too deep to allow of a resurrection, Slavery, Rebellion, and the Democratic party! Doubtless there will still be a Democratic party. But it will not be the devil which this one is-for it will be dissevered from slavery.
I frequently see, in the Democratic newspapers, extracts from the speeches and writings of such men as Daniel S. Dickinson, Benjamin F. Butler, and Lyman Tremain. These extracts are to prove that they were once as pro-slavery as are the remaining leaders of the Democratic party. But this is as unreasonable and shameless as for remaining drunkards to reproach reformed drunkards with their former history and habits. For one, I honor and love such men as Dickinson, and Butler, and Tremain, and should be glad to see them advanced to higher and higher places of trust and power. For, notwithstanding they were, in common with the other leaders of their party, victims of the most abominable political education, they had conscience enough left to stand aghast at the culminating wickedness of their Party, and to quit their Part;-or, if you prefer involving them in personal as well as Party guilt, conscience enough left to stand aghast at their own wickedness, and to repent of it and forsake it. Alas, this pride of consistency! this pride in never changing! How vulgar and vicious and vile it is! When will it be seen, that the duty of all of us-of even the best of us-is to be ever and ever changing, be it only toward the right! When will it be seen, that man is amongst his best and sublimest employments when writing with his own finger condemnation upon his own erring and guilty past! Dickinson, and Butler, and Tremain had the courage to change. They stepped upward, and saved themselves, and became saviors of their country. To remain where they were would have been to remain destroyers of themselves and their country.
I stated the arguments with which your leaders ply you, and by force of which they hope to bring you to the side of the rebels. The first one appeals to those prejudices against the black man, which they have so industriously, and, alas! so successfully cultivated in you. He is denied all right to learning, and honors, and child, and wife, and himself, and his earnings. And yet his despised black skin covers a heart as warm to all these relations and interests, as does your own proud white one. Tell your leaders, I beseech you-your tempters and seducers-that their appeal to your hatred of the negro will be vain. Tell them that he has suffered long enough; that you have hated and wronged him long enough; and that you are more
<c04>
disposed to repent of your part in crushing him, than to persist in it. Tell them, in a word, that you have come to believe more in your obligation to honor God, and all the varieties of the human family, than in your obligation to serve ambitious and greedy demagogues.
The other argument, which, I said, your leaders employ to bring you to join the rebels, is the cost of carrying on the war. Their hope of success at this point is in your selfishness and lack of patriotism. They flatter themselves that you had rather lose the country than have your property taxed to save it; and that, rather than let your sons go, or go yourselves, into the hardships and perils of war, you would let the rebellion and slavery sweep over, and blast the whole land. Disappoint them here also, I entreat you. Tell them that, of all the claims which earth can make upon your property, that which your imperilled country makes upon it is paramount. Tell them that to be poor, and yet have a country, is to be rich-whilst to be rich, and yet to be stripped of country, is to be poor. Tell them, too, that you have laid your sons and yourselves upon the altar of your country, and that you count death in her service not as dreadful, but as blessed.
How elevating and ennobling is this war to all who have a heart to go forth to its unselfish, patriotic and sublime duties! But how sinking and shrivelling is it to all those who shrink from these duties, and prefer to cower in their cowardice, and to shut themselves in the shell of their selfishness!
GERRIT SMITH.
A NOBLE FRENCH TESTIMONY.
The distinguished French writer, EDOUARD LAB OULAFE, concludes a recent admirable letter on American affairs as follows:—
Abandoned by Europe, hemmed in and conquered gradually by the North, the South is condemned to exhaustion; it must yield, and this moment cannot be far off. Let the North persist in the policy followed by Mr. Lincoln; let it, pliant on all else, maintain at any price his two conditions-the re-establishment of the Union, the abolition of Slavery, and the South will be forced to bow to necessity. Whatever may be the courage of an army or a people, there comes a moment when hopeless resistance is nothing less than sanguinary madness. The Southern generals and soldiers have fought with an obstinacy and bravery to which their adversaries are the first to render justice. But they have been deceived; their cause is bad, and cannot succeed. Lee and Beauregard have done enough for the honor of the flag; it will soon be time for them to think of the claims of humanity and the country.
But there is for the South a last chance of safety, it is that offered by Gen. McClellan and its party; it is a compromise at the expense of the wretched negro.
This compromise is disguised under a fine phrase; for its advocates dare not acknowledge that they draw back. It is called guaranteeing the Constitutional rights of each State in the future. An admirable euphemism for those who are satisfied with words! In plain language, this means that the North shall renounce meddling with servitude, and that slavery shall be maintained in the South as long as it may please the South to maintain it. It is to the privileged that Gen. McClellan intrusts the care of abolishing the privilege; we may be sure that the South will not abuse the permission. The South has made war to maintain the supremacy of the slave policy, the slave is delivered up to it in order to make peace. The North submits. Through love of peace, it accepts the complicity in this infamy that it has rejected for four years past. This is, in all its crudity, what the Democratic party calls a compromise.
Perhaps there are a number of men in the North who, weary of war, and caring very little for the miseries of Slavery, would willingly resign themselves to this arrangement. But I do not fear to assert that they would be grossly deceived; this arrangement is impracticable. Nothing is easier, and often more just, than to compromise concerning interests; but it is impossible to compromise between right and injustice, between servitude and liberty. To sacrifice four millions of human beings to a political interest, even to the security of the moment, is a crime, and, like all crimes, a mistake and a danger. 
Suppose Gen. McClellan to be chosen President, what will he do? He will propose an armistice to the South; commissioners will be appointed, a Convention, perhaps, to regulate the desired compromise. But the conditions that will be proposed by the North are known in advance. Slavery will be abandoned to the South as concerning it alone; all that will be asked of the rebels will be that they will please to return to the Union.
What will this compromise be to the North? the loss of four years of war, of billions of dollars, the useless sacrifice of blood shed on scores of battle-fields. The South will have madly rent asunder the Constitution, ruined thousands of fortunes, desolated thousands of families; after which it will return to the Union, more invulnerable, prouder, and more insolent than ever. For the blacks there will be no more hope; for the poor whites eternal dependence, perpetual degradation; for the rich planters the intoxication of power and success.
And is it imagined that on these conditions the Union will be re-established; that between a democracy humiliated, after so many and such generous sacrifices, and a triumphant aristocracy, a friendship will spring up that will soon heal all the wounds of the war? No, this is a wild dream; no one will believe in it that is not blinded by a vain ambition. The day on which the North shall subscribe to these conditions, it will sign its social and political abdication. At the bottom of this new compact may be written, Finis America. The America of Washington will have disappeared from the world, and forever!
Peace concluded, what will be the attitude of the North toward the South? That of powerlessness and resignation; for, in fine, it must not be satisfied with words. If it yields to the South, it is because it cannot reduce it; it is because, despite fine speeches, at the bottom it acknowledges itself vanquished. 
If any illusion in this respect prevails in the North, the first European journal will suffice to dissipate it. For thirty years past, Europe has treated American democracy disdainfully, because this democracy has compounded with slavery. To repel this unjust and interested disdain, the North has excused itself on the plea that, through love of peace, through respect for the Constitution, it resigned itself to a situation which it had not made. The excuse was legitimate; it was accepted by men of good faith. But on the day when slavery shall be triumphantly re-established, with the consent of the North, when the chains of the negro shall be riveted by the same hands that are breaking them at this moment, the North will not escape this terrible accusation of complicity. And then, what joy will there be among the enemies of American liberty! What grief and shame for all their friends! The Great Republic will be dishonored.
<c05>
Will the American Democracy suffer itself to be again seduced by a party that for thirty years has always misled it? Is it so much in need of and thirsting for peace that it is ready to sacrifice to it the interest, the honor, the future of the country? Among this people, which for four years has done such great deeds, will the Democrats succeed in gaining a majority that will break with a glorious past, and accept the shame of a compromise? Will it disavow the noble soldiers who, amid their sufferings, ask only to continue the war? And is it about to dismiss Grant, Mead, Sherman and Farragut, to offer to the admiration of America the patriotism of men resigned in advance to the supremacy of the South, or to separation? If America has come to this, how much has it degenerated? In its history it would find different examples and different memories. From 1776 to 1781, what miseries did not the Revolutionists suffer-soldiers without bread and without shoes, a worthless paper currency, towns burned, fields laid waste, yet, notwithstanding, except a handful of Tories whom shame followed even into the grave, who ever proposed to treat with the enemy? The armies of 1864 are neither less brave nor less patriotic than the armies of the Revolution. Success is almost certain, victory assured, and the North is finally on the verge of a glorious peace. And is it at this moment that the American people will listen to men who propose to it to abdicate?
No, I will never believe that a generous nation, which has already more than once astonished Europe by its energy and perseverance, will miserably yield to discouragement, when with a last effort it can crush the rebellion. The hope of the enemies of the great Republic will be disappointed. Rejuvenated by victory, strengthened by trial, America will expel slavery from the world, and will give an example still greater than that of the War of Independence. Twice it will have secured the triumph of liberty-political liberty in 1776, civil liberty in 1864. Neither Greece nor Rome have left memories so great.
Old friends of the United States, be not astonished at the warmth of my words. The world is jointly responsible, and the cause of America is that of liberty. So long as there is on the other side of the Atlantic a community of thirty million men, living happily and peacefully under the Government it has chosen, with the. laws that it makes itself, liberty will radiate on Europe as from a shining beacon; America, rid of slavery, will be the country of every ardent soul, of every generous heart. But if liberty is eclipsed in the New World, darkness will ensue in Europe; and we shall see the work of Washington, Franklin and Hamilton spit upon and trodden under foot by a school that believes only in strength and success.
This is why we await with impatience the Presidential election, praying God that the name that shall be drawn from the urn may be that of the honest and upright Abraham Lincoln, for this name will be a presage of victory, the triumph of justice and right. To vote for McClellan is to vote for the humiliation of the North, the perpetual maintenance of slavery, and the disruption of the great Republic. To vote for Lincoln is to vote for Union and for Liberty. EDOUARD LABOULAYE.
WHO ARE THE TRAITORS.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
I propose the following short catechism for Democrats and peace-at-any-price men, who are the supporters of the McClellan platform, to ponder and reflect upon between now and the November election:
Question. Slavery being the root of the rebellion, who have been its aiders and abettors from the hour of the Missouri Compromise of 1820, up to the present time?
Answer. The Political Democrats of the free States at all times acting on the side of the Slave Power.
Ques. Who were the authors of the Seminole war?
Ans. The slaveholders, aided by the Political Democrats of the free States.
Ques. Who stole Texas from Mexico?
Ans. The slaveholders, aided by the Political Democrats, of the free States.
Ques. Who were the authors of the Mexican war?
Ans. The slaveholders, aided by the Political Democrats of the free States.
Ques. Who started and encouraged filibustering expeditions under Walker for the sole purpose of extending slavery?
Ans. The slaveholders, aided by the Political Democrats of the free States.
Ques. Who attempted to steal Cuba?
Ans. The slaveholders, aided by the Political Democrats of the free States.
Ques. Who originated and carried through the Fugitive Slave Law?
Ans. The slaveholders, aided by the Political Democrats of the free States.
Ques. Who repudiated the Missouri Compromise?
Ans. The slaveholders, aided by the Political Democrats of the free States, every man of them in Congress voting in favor of it.
Ques. Who originated and carried through the Nebraska Bill?
Ans. The slaveholders, aided by the Political Democrats of the free States, they giving the bill in Congress their undivided support.
Ques. Who tried to establish Squatter Sovereignty?
Ans. The slaveholders, aided by the Political Democrats of the free States.
Ques. Who attempted to foist slavery upon Kansas, and murdered thousands of her citizens for opposing it?
Ans. The Slave Power, aided by the Political Democrats of the free States, and Franklin Pierce as President giving all his official position to that end.
Ques. Who defied the writ of habeas corpus in Kansas?
Ans. The Slave Power, aided by the Political Democrats of the free States; and now they condemn President Lincoln for suspending it in time of civil war, and then only to apply to a traitor to the Constitution and Laws of a free people.
Ques. What laws did the slave power enact under Leaven worth Constitution which were approved by President Pierce, and political Democrats of the Free States?
Ans. All persons holding anti-slavery opinions were disfranchised; and no less than forty-eight laws were passed making it a death penalty for any one to facilitate the escape of a slave, or instruct him in the principles of freedom, or to teach him to read the Bible, or engage in any other mode, as they termed it, of attacking slave property.
Ques. Who were the authors of the Dred Scott decision?
Ans. The slaveholders, aided by the Political Democrats of the free States, and James Buchanan, Pres- 
<c06>
ident, thereby bringing the Supreme Court of the United States into disgrace before the civilized world.
Ques. What was the motive of the Dred Scott decision?
Ans. To convert the whole Union, the free States no less than the Territories, into one great domain for slavery, and to legalize the slave trade.
Ques. What Democrat first denounced the declaration of Thomas Jefferson, “that all men are born free and equal"?
Ans. John C. Calhoun, and no political Democrat of the free States ever denounced the traitor for uttering it.
Ques. What was the result of this series of successful aggressions by the Slave Power during more than forty years, aided by the Political Democrats of the free States?
Ans. It was on these last demands that the true Jeffersonian Democrats of the free States broke off from their Southern allies, and joined the Republican party; and thus the victory over the Slave Power was gained in the last Presidential election, as it will be in the present.
Ques. Why is the Slave Power, aided by the Political Democrats of the free States, in rebellion against the Government of the United States?
Ans. It is that they may destroy our Democratic form of government, ordained by the fathers in order to form a more perfect union, to establish justice, insure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and to secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity.
Ques. Who are the authors of these four years of bloody civil war?
Ans. The Slave Power, aided by President Buchanan and the Political Democrats of the free States. Every man knows that had Buchanan been as prompt to put down this last rebellion, as President Jackson was the former, the history of the present could never have been written!
Ques. What form of Government do the Slave Power and the Political Democrats of the free States now seek to establish?
Ans. An oligarchy, the chief corner-stone of which shall be slavery for white laborers, as well as black men and women.
A JEFFERSONIAN DEMOCRAT.
FAILURES OF THE WAR.
Hon. Gerrit Smith recently delivered a racy speech at Utica, in the course of which he said-
Had the Southern rebels dictated the Chicago Platform, it could not have been more to their own liking. It is at peace with the South, and at war with the North. It calls the war on our part a failure. Our war a failure? Was the taking of Fort Donelson, of Port Hudson, of Vicksburg, of New Orleans, of Mobile, of Atlanta failures? Is the reducing of the original rebel territory one-half a failure? If these are failures, oh give us more failures! (Applause.) And we will have more such failures. Soon we will have the failure of the taking of Richmond, of Charleston, of Wilmington, (laughter,) and when we've got all these failures, we will not need any victories. (Laughter and applause.) To stop the war now, as the Chicago Convention proposes, would be to lose ail the blood and heroism expended in it; to make vain and leave entirely unrecompensed the sorrow and devastation brought into thousands of families. And for what reason should it be stopped? For no other purpose than that the rebels may triumph. 
Mr. Smith characterized the nomination of George H. Pendleton as precisely suited to the Chicago platform; he had been a consistent secessionist from the beginning. You will perhaps wonder, he said, at my omitting the nomination of McClellan. But no one believes that he was put in nomination to suit the platform. All know that this was a mere trick to catch the vote of the " War Democrats." I never allow myself to talk as hostilely against McClellan as some. Some call him a coward; I do not. I say it is not fair to call him a coward until his courage has been tried; he has never been under fire. (Laughter.) Some say he is on the side of the Southern rebels. I never say it. I believe he meant to be entirely impartial as between the North and the South while in command of the, army. (Laughter.) You laugh, and I think the gunboat was rising in your thoughts. I do not deny that he ran to the gunboat; but this was not necessarily cowardice. It might have been discretion, and discretion, you know, is the better part of valor. (Laughter.) And then, how do yon know but his superior discernment perceived that his country might need him hereafter, and that the old couplet did not rise in his mind-
“He who fights, and runs away,
May live to fight another day."
(Laughter.)
Well, what must we do? We must vote the rebels down, and continue to vote them down until they shall love the Washington Government which they now hate, and hate the Jeff. Davis government which they now love. But I think you may feel sure that you will never have to vote down this Democratic party after the next election. (Applause.) The rebellion, the Democratic party and slavery, after that election, will go into one common grave; and the grave will be too deep to admit of resurrection.
Some would have preferred another candidate than Mr. Lincoln, but now we must all vote for him with all our hearts. (Applause.) We must vote for him to keep out McClellan; vote for him because any loyal man is preferable to a disloyal man. It is no hardship for me to vote for Mr. Lincoln. I believe that no man, except Washington, in the long line of Presidents, is so much entitled to our love and gratitude as Abraham Lincoln. (Applause.)
ELOQUENT EXTRACT.
The following extract is from an eloquent and stirring speech by Hon. Alexander 
H. Bullock at the State Republican Convention at Worcester:-If the National Loyal Convention at Baltimore had been postponed to July, to August, or to September, it would have been all the same; there would not have been the difference of a vote, for Abraham Lincoln was in the hearts of his people. [Applause.]
I do not stand here, in behalf of your delegation, to discuss the question whether there may be or may not have been undoubted errors in his administration. I only know that if there had not been, he would be more than mortal. [Applause.] However, I do know that President Lincoln ascended to the responsibilities of his momentous trust at a juncture of public affairs which has no parallel in history. He began, with mildness and kindness toward those who engaged a in a rebellion against this government, culminating, at last, in a war, the bloodiest and foulest upon the records of time.
Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a <illegible> power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J.Q. ADAMS.
178 THE LIBERATOR. NOVEMBER 4.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
But I am not in the mood to take a calm survey of the history of that administration.  That, my friends, will be the task of history in years to come, when her muse shall become the calm mistress of the record; but we may now here, as at Baltimore, pause and rest our minds amid the  turmoil of conflict and destruction, even amid the reverberation that comes to us from all quarters of the field, and form a general” satisfactory judgment in regard to the character, and quality, and policy of the President of the United States; and I believe you will endorse the judgment to which I referred, that as a whole, and as a summary of the whole, Abraham Lincoln, according to the judgment of a can did, intelligent and loyal man in the United States, has pursued only the object and purpose of the salvation of this government. 
I do not pause here, fellow-citizens, to discuss minor questions which have existed within the last twenty-four months, as to whether he was too rapid or too slow. It is enough for me to know, sir, that Abraham Lincoln has always acted up to the exigency of the time, and according to the necessity of the country as it appeared to an impartial eye. 
A statesman, says Mr. Burke, never loses sight of principles, is governed by circumstances; and judging contrary to the exigency, he may ruin his country forever. Therefore I say, sir, adopting this as my basis and predication, I say I pause not here, sir, to settle the difference between those who would have held him back, and those who would have pushed him forward to a more rapid policy. 
But, I do say, sir, in regard to the President of the United States, that it is sufficient for me that, when he has taken a stride forward, the Lord has irradiated and illuminated the path before him.  It is sufficient for me and for you that while he could see the whole field, you and I could see, only a small part of it; it is enough for me and for you, sir, that he has struck the great epoch bell of the age, at just exactly such times as the people of this country, in every case, were most ready to receive the sound and echo it in their hearts. [Applause.] It is sufficient for me, sir, and for you, fellow citizens, that whether according to your assumption or mine the proclamation of freedom came early or late, when it came at all found the people of the North as it never could have found them before ready to stand by it, and die for it. It is sufficient for me, sir, and for you, my friends, that the policy enunciated in the two proclamations, while we have fresh issues at home, is a power abroad at this moment, in the presence of which there is not a crowned head in Europe that dare appeal to its subjects on the tribunal of moral sentiment against the cause of union on this continent. 
And so in his prosecution of this war, I see him ascending to his office without the education or the instincts of a soldier; I see him trying every expedient after every preceding experiment had failed, as every wise man would do; I behold him, sir, adopting one policy after another had proved abortive; I behold him taking one command after another, until at last, under the favor of Almighty God he has found two which are the right ones. [Enthusiastic applause.] I behold him proclaim at length that your flag and mine and his should float over every inch of the territory of this republic; and I say in accordance with the spirit and with the declaration of the Baltimore convention, that in Abraham Lincoln I behold the wisest, the ablest, the most expedient, and the most efficient man among all the millions of his countrymen that could have been selected for  this perilous crisis; and so for these reasons, among others which time will not permit me to detail. I believe, as I have before stated, that this same Abraham Lincoln has a deep place in the hearts of the people of this country.- (Great applause.)
SENTIMENTS OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN ON SLAVERY. 
From Speech at Springfield, III., June 17,1858.
We are now far into the fifth year since a policy was initiated with the avowed object and confident promise of putting an end to slavery agitation. Under the operation of that policy, that agitation has not only not ceased, but has constantly augmented. In my opinion, it will not cease until a crisis shall have been reached and passed. " A house divided against itself cannot stand." I believe this Government cannot endure permanently half slave and half free. I do not expect the Union to be dissolved I do not expect the house to fall but I do expect it will cease to be divided.  It will become all one thing or all the other. Either the opponents of slavery will arrest the further spread of it, and place it where the public mind shall rest in the belief that it is in the course of ultimate extinction, or its advocates will push it forward till it shall become alike lawful in all the States, old as well as new, North as well as South.
DRED SCOTT CASE THE KNELL OF FREEDOM. 
From the same.    
Such a decision is all that slavery now lacks of being alike lawful in all the States. Welcome or unwelcome, such decision is probably coming, and will soon be upon us, unless the power of the present political dynasty shall be met and overthrown. We shall lie down pleasantly dreaming that the people of Missouri are on the verge of making their State free, and we shall awake to the reality, instead, that the Supreme Court has made Illinois a slave State. To meet and overthrow the power of that dynasty is the work now before all those who would prevent that consummation. That is what we have to do. How can we best do it?
From Speech at Chicago, July 10, 1858.
I am tolerably well acquainted with the history of the country, and I know that it has endured, eighty-two years, half slave and half free. I believe it has endured, because during all that time, until the introduction of the Nebraska bill, the public mind did rest all that time in the belief that slavery was in the course of ultimate extinction. That was what gave us the rest that we had through that period of eighty-two years; at least, so I believe. I have always hated slavery, I think, as much as any abolitionist.
The American people look upon slavery as a vast moral evil; they can prove it such by the writings of those who gave us the blessings of liberty which we enjoy; and that they so looked upon it, and not as an evil merely confining itself to the States where it it is situated. 
I protest, now and for ever, against that counterfeit logic which presumes that because I do not want a negro woman for a slave, I do necessarily want her for a wife. My understanding is, that I need not have her for either; but, as God made us separate, we can leave one another alone, and do one another much good thereby. There are white, men enough to marry all the white women, and enough black men to marry all the black women: and, in God's name, let them be so married. 
Turn in whatever way you will whether it come from the mouth of a king as an excuse for enslaving the people of his country, or from the mouth of men of one race as a reason for enslaving the men of another race it is all the same old serpent; and I hold if that course of argumentation that is made, for the purpose of convincing the public mind that we should not care about this, should be granted, it does not stop with the negro. I should like to know if taking this old Declaration of Independence, which declares that all men are equal upon principle, and making exception to it, where will it stop? If one man says it does not mean a negro, why may not another say it does not mean some other man? If that Declaration is not the truth, let us get the statute-book in which we find it, and tear it out. Who is so bold as to do it? 
Let us discard all this quibbling about this man and the other man this race and that race and the other race being inferior, and therefore they must be placed in an inferior position. Cherishing our standard that we have left us, let us discard all these things, and unite as one people throughout this land, until we shall once more stand up declaring that all men are created equal.
In the debate between Lincoln and Douglas, held at Ottawa, in August, 1858, Mr. Lincoln said:
This declared indifference to, but, as I must think, covert real zeal for the spread of slavery, I cannot but hate. I hate it because of the monstrous injustice of slavery itself. I hate it because it deprives our republican example of its just influence on the world, enables the enemies of free institutions, with plausibility, to taunt us as hypocrites, causes the real friends of freedom to doubt our sincerity, and especially because it forces so many really good men among ourselves into an open war with the very fundamental principles of civil liberty, criticism the Declaration of Independence, and insisting that there is no right principle of action but self-interest.
<c02>
From Speech at Springfield, July 17, 1858. 
Certainly, the negro is not our equal in color perhaps not in many other respects; still, in the right to put into his mouth the bread that his own hands have earned, he is the equal of every other man, white or black. In pointing out that more has been given you, you cannot be justified in taking away the little which has been given him.
From Speech at Jonesboro, III., Sept. 15, 1858. 
All the trouble and convulsions, have proceeded from efforts to spread slavery over more territory. It was thus at the date of the Missouri Compromise. It was so again with the annexation of Texas; so with the territory acquired by the Mexican war; and it is so now. Whenever there has been an effort to spread it, there have been agitation and resistance. Now, I appeal to this audience, (very few of whom are my political friends,) as national men, whether we have reason to expect that the agitation in regard to this subject will cease while the causes that tend to reproduce agitation are actually at work. Will not the same cause that produced agitation in 1820, when the Missouri Compromise was formed that which produced the agitation upon the annexation of Texas, and at other times work out the same results always? Do you think that the nature of man will be changed that the same, causes that produced agitation at one time will not have the same effect at another? 
From Speech at Quincy, III., Oct. 13, 1858.
I will say now, that there is a sentiment in the country contrary to me a sentiment which holds that slavery is not wrong, and therefore it goes for the policy that does not propose dealing with it as a wrong. That policy is the Democratic policy, and that sentiment is the Democratic sentiment. 
THE TEXT OF THE CONSTITUTION.
In all three of these places, being the only allusions to slavery in the instrument, covert language is used. Language is used, not suggesting that slavery existed, or that the black race were among us. And I understand the contemporaneous history of those times to be that covert language was used with a purpose, and that purpose was, that in our Constitution, which, it was hoped, and is still hoped, will endure for ever when it should be read by intelligent and patriotic men, after the institution of slavery had passed from among us, there should be nothing on the face of the great charter of liberty suggesting  that such a thing as negro slavery had ever existed among us. This is part of the evidence that the fathers of the Government expected and intended the institution of slavery to come to an end. They expected and intended that it should be in the course of ultimate extinction. And when I say that I desire to see the further spread of it arrested. I only say I desire to see that done which the fathers have first done. 
From Letter to Boston Committee, April 6, 1859.
The Democracy of to-day hold the liberty of one man to be absolutely nothing, when in conflict with another man's right of property. Republicans, on the contrary, are both for the man and the dollar, but in case of conflict, the man before the dollar. 
This is a world of compensations; and he who would be no slave must consent to have no slave. Those who deny freedom to others, deserve it not for themselves, and, under a just God, cannot long retain it. 
From Letter to German citizens, May 17, 1859. 
It is well-known that I deplore the oppressed condition of the blacks; and it would, therefore, be very inconsistent for me to look with approval upon any measures that  infringe upon the inalienable rights of white men, whether or not they are born in another land, or speak a different language from my own. 
From Speech at Columbus, Ohio, Sept. 1859.
Then, I say, if this principle is established, that there is no wrong in slavery, and whoever wants it has a right to have it, is a matter of dollars and cents a sort of question as to how they shall deal with brutes; that between us and the negro here there is no sort of question, but that at the South the question is between the negro and the crocodile. That is all. It is a mere matter of policy; there is a perfect right, according to interest, to do just as you please; when this is done, when this doctrine prevails, the miners and sappers will have formed public opinion for the slave-trade. They will be ready for Jeff Davis and Stephens, and other leaders of that company, to sound the bugle for the revival of the slave-trade, for the second Dred Scott decision, for the flood of slavery to be poured over the free States, while we shall be here tied down and helpless and run over like sheep. 
From Speech at Cincinnati, Sept. 1859. 
I say, there is room enough for us all to be free, and it not only does not wrong the white man that the negro should be free, but it positively wrongs the mass of white men that the negro should be enslaved; that the mass of white men are really injured by the effects of slave labor in the vicinity of the fields of their own labor. 
From Message to Congress of December 1, 1862. 
The dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present. The occasion is piled high with difficulty, and we must rise with the occasion. As our case is new, so we must think a new, and act a new. We must disenthrall ourselves, and then we shall save our country. 
Fellow-citizens, we cannot escape history. We of this Congress, and this Administration, will be remembered in spite of ourselves. No personal significance, or insignificance, can spare one or another of us. The fiery trial through which we pass will light us down in honor or dishonor to the latest generation. We say we are for the Union. The world will not forget that we say this. We know how to save the Union, The world knows we do know how to save it. We even we here hold the power, and bear the responsibility. In giving freedom to the slave, we assure freedom to the free honorable alike in what we give, and what we preserve. We shall nobly save, or meanly lose, the last best hope of earth. Other means may succeed; this cannot fail. The way is plain, peaceful, generous, just a way which, if followed, the world will for ever applaud, and God must for ever bless. 
From Message to Congress, Dec. 8, 1863. 
But if it be proper to require as a test of admission to the political body an oath of allegiance to the United States, and to the Union under it, why not also to the laws and proclamations in regard to slavery? 
Those laws and proclamations were put forth for the purpose of aiding in the suppression of the rebellion. To give them the fullest effect, there had to be a pledge for their maintenance. In my judgment they have aided, and will further aid, the cause for which they were intended. 
To now abandon them would be not only to relinquish a lever of power, but would also be a cruel and astounding breach of faith.  
I may add, at this point, while I remain in my present position, I shall not attempt to retract or modify the Emancipation Proclamation, nor shall I return to slavery any person  who is free by the terms of that Proclamation, or by any of the acts of Congress.
From a Letter to Henry W. Holman, dated Oct. 10, 1864, with reference to the new Constitution of Maryland, abolishing Slavery in that State. 
A Convention in Maryland has formed a new Constitution for the State. 
A public meeting is called for this evening at Baltimore, to aid in securing its ratification from the people, and you ask a word from me for the occasion.  I presume the only feature about which there is serious controversy, is that which provides for the extinction of slavery. 
It need not be a secret, and I presume it is not a secret, that I wish success to this provision. I desire it on every consideration. I wish all men free. I wish the material prosperity of the already free, which I feel sure the extinction of slavery would bring. I wish to see in process of disappearance that only thing which could bring this nation to civil war. 
From Letter to A. G. Hodges, April 4, 1864. 
I attempt no compliment to my sagacity. I claim not to have controlled events, but confess plainly that events have controlled me.  Now, at the end of three years' struggle, the nation's condition is not what either party or any man devised or expected. God alone can claim it. Whither it is tending seems plain. If God now wills the removal of a great wrong, and wills, also, that we of the North, as well as you of the South, shall pay fairly for our complicity in that wrong, impartial history will find therein new cause to revere the justice and goodness of God. 
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1864.
LETTER FROM PROFESSOR NEWMAN.
We can truly say that it gives us special gratification to lay befere our readers, on the eve of a national election, the magnitude and importance of which are such as to rivet the earnest attention of the civilized world, the following kind and magnanimous letter from Professor Newman, of London:-
LONDON, October 14,1864. 
To WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR-I have this morning received the Liberator of Sept. 30th. It contains many grave misapprehensions of my posture of mind towards Mr. Lincoln; but I think it now quite unwise to pursue the argument.
When a President becomes a candidate, his career and conduct must be criticised, as freely as if he were not President, by those who hope for an abler and more suitable leader of the nation; yet, abstractedly, such criticism is very undesirable. Towards the Chief Magistrate, as towards our Queen, it is better, where admissible, to maintain decorous silence concerning personal errors. From the day that Mr. Lincoln is the best candidate in the list, it would be unpatriotic in an American citizen, and blamable in me, to shout aloud for the impossible, instead of making the best of the possible.
I have always held it as a fixed certainty, that the lovers of freedom among you  would  never allow themselves at the last to be divided, and thereby give advantage to the party of slavery. For this very reason I deprecated your course when I began to understand it. But I am sure that you have had the purest intentions, and I ask your pardon if I spoke too abruptly. As regards the better side of Mr. Lincoln's character and action, it is possible that I esteem it as highly as you do. But the crisis in which he is placed may implicate you in dire calamity, through any tenderness towards slave owners or their laws, which is to be  indulged at the expense of the colored race. If I were an American voter, I should unhesitatingly give vote and interest and voice and pen now to Mr. Lincoln, against any candidate who would accept other terms from rebels than unconditional submission initiated by themselves, as it were on their knees. But I would, at the same time, implore all who love the Union, and wish the war to he succeeded by truce, sound peace, in which every State shall be loyal, to continue vigilant and suspicious of the administration, until it preaches the political equality of human races as a doctrine; and shows its sincerity by treating all citizens as citizens, whatever their color.
I am not a doctrinaire Democrat for America any more than for England. It is not for me to play the politician, and dictate what forms of government are best; but, as a moralist, I say strongly, and, if necessary, sternly, that you must not abandon your colored citizens to local oppression, nor allow color to be in any sense of political import, unless you desire a renewal of God's terrible chastisements. I trust that we may count that you and all Abolitionists will unite your forces to insist that the administration and its war-office shall become active supporters of equal justice to all races. You have yet yourself, I trust, a great part to play; for there is a great battle to fight; and it will now be fought against potent influences in the cabinet.
I have sincerely rejoiced in  the recent Federal successes; though with less of exultation, because I have never doubted your success; yet the capture of Atlanta was success in a form which I had not dared to anticipate, and it is to me an omen that the end does indeed draw nigh: for which I shall feel no measure of delight and thankfulness, if you crown your victories by justice. You will,  I am sure, not be displeased that I regard the future of the human race now to depend more on the United States than on England: so have our aristocracy chosen to have it, when they might have led the world:- therefore it is that I assume all brotherly freedom, as though I were one of your citizens. Nor will you rejoice more than I at any further great and good acts of President Lincoln, such as, I trust, he will perform by your aid and urgency.
I have the honor to be,
Dear Sir, sincerely yours,
F. W. NEWMAN.
We fully reciprocate the kind spirit manifested in this letter, and assure Professor Newman that we have taken no personal offence at any of his criticisms, however sharp.  He has been betrayed into injustice towards  President Lincoln through an anti-slavery zeal which was " not according to knowledge," either as it relates to the spirit of the President, or to the complicated situation of affairs among us. But his practical good sense is seen in his frank acknowledgment.” If I were an American voter, should unhesitatingly give vote and interest and voice and pen now to Mr. Lincoln." Such, we believe, is the feeling of the great body of anti-slavery voters here, with a few solitary exceptions; and such is the purpose of the overwhelming mass of loyal men, who, on Tuesday next, will show alike their love of country, and their appreciation of liberty for all, by bestowing their suffrages upon ABRAHAM LINCOLN not as " a choice of evils," nor as " a political necessity," but as a matter of preference and high appreciation of a meritorious public servant.
THEN AND NOW.
The change in feeling on the subject of slavery between 1834, when GEORGE THOMPSON came to these shores, and 1864, is indeed wonderful. By joint invitation of the legislative branches of Vermont, he has recently delivered a most eloquent and acceptable address in the Representatives' Hall at Moutpelier. By special invitation he attended a crowded meeting, on Saturday evening last, in Williams Hall in this city, of Ward Eleven Union Club, with reference to the reelection of President Lincoln.
On being presented to the audience, Mr. Thompson was received with repeated cheers and prolonged applause. He said this was the first political meeting he had attended in this country in the character of a speaker. As he sat there, he seemed to hear a voice crying," What dost thou here, Elijah?” What should he say to prove his claim to a seat on that platform? He was an ardent champion of human rights and universal liberty; he had ever advocated those principles of government on which bur nationality was based, and he was an admirer of our political institutions. It was not for him, he said, to dictate what the American people should do in this crisis.  He would only say what he would do if he were an American; and that would be, with his voice and vote and purse, by every means at hand, and with the utmost of his ability, to labor to promote the re-election to the Presidential chair of Abraham Lincoln. Mr. Thompson then proceeded to a comprehensive review of Mr. Lincoln's administration, concluding with an eloquent appeal in behalf of a vigorous prosecution of the war, and sat down amidst a perfect tempest of cheers and applause, which was continued for some minutes.
MAJOR GEN. BANKS. Gen. Banks is now in Boston, receiving the congratulations of his friends. On Saturday evening last, he very ably addressed an immense meeting of citizens in Faneuil Hall, where his reception was very flattering; and on Monday evening he gave a lucid and most interesting address, in Tremont Temple, before the Boston Young Men's Christian Association, on the condition of the negro population as connected with the restoration of government in rebel States. This, as a matter of justice,we shall publish entire in our next number.
<c04>
PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES.
The fourth lecture of the present course was given at the Music Hall, on Tuesday evening last, by Goldwin Smith, Professor of Modern History in Oxford University, England.  The spacious Hall was early filled by the numbers who wished to hear him, but, inspite of the most earnest attention on their part, his voice was inaudible to a large proportion of them. Among the distinguished gentlemen on the platform were General Burnside, George Thompson, the lecturer's countryman and co laborer in the advocacy of the American cause in England, Hon. Edward Everett, whose son was educated at Oxford University, and Governor Andrew. A warm welcome was given by the audience to these gentlemen on their entrance. The subject of  the lecture was "The Relations of England to this country." 
Professor Smith commenced by speaking of the warm interest he had long felt in the welfare of the United States, to which land he was alien by birth only, not at heart. The feeling of England towards this country had not been truly represented by an important portion of the British press. On the other hand, in the disputes which from time to time occurred between the two countries, some American statesmen had manifested the spirit which slavery engenders; and the wounds thus given had been inflamed by the unfriendly criticism of English writers. The friendly reception given the Prince of Wales in his late visit to this country, however, had been warmly appreciated in Great Britain, and had seemed the pledge and seal of a good understanding between the two nations.
The lecturer spoke in earnest deprecation of any manifestation or feeling of hostility between the two countries. English liberty, he reminded us, is the source from which our liberties have flowed, and the progress which each nation has made has often served, and may yet serve, the other. 
As to the conduct of England toward us in this war, it was a matter greatly complicated by the difference of classes and interests. Though severed by the Atlantic, there are many ties of affectionate remembrance between us, and to each nation, in fact, the other is dearer than all the world beside. And yet, in England, the heirs of the Cavaliers are likely to sympathize with your opponents, while the heirs of the Puritans warmly sympathize with you.
You are fighting for democracy against aristocracy. The members of the British privileged class bear you no personal hatred; they treat American travellers courteously, however known as open opponents of their political system. But it is not to be expected that they should forget their class interests. In fact, all the aristocracies of modern Europe must look with a Jealous eye upon your prosperity and progress. The example of a great Commonwealth flourishing without the existence of a privileged class tends to break the spell of aristocratic institutions.
These feelings belong to a special and limited part of the nation. But there are friends of the good cause among both English peers and English capitalists. Of the good will of the lower classes, the words and acts of the Lancashire operatives give a just idea. Would you increase these friends, and diminish these enemies? Press forward to success in your great experiment; attain and diffuse liberty; even the silent influence of your example must have a weighty effect.
Professor Smith proceeded to speak of Liverpool, the strong-hold of the commercial aristocracy of England, where opposition to our cause has taken a more direct and practical form than elsewhere. There, undoubtedly, were persons regardless of the honor and interest of both countries, and ready to plunge them into a desolating war, if thereby their own gains might be advanced.
The lecturer then adverted to the English Church, and to the natural fact that her Bishops side with the aristocracy in their opposition to this country. They seem to think that religion needs the help of such a system as theirs. For his part, he could not assent to the theory that Christianity must fall without State support. Many Americans must have wondered that the son of Wilberforce is not with their nation. But he bears little resemblance to his father, and prefers the genteel side, and the aristocratic side. On the other band, the free churches of England, strongly sympathizing on religious grounds with the voluntary churches here, join them also in fervent desires for the success of the cause of freedom.
Professor Smith himself at first believed, he said, that the task which we had undertaken was hopeless. He did not know, for there was no example to teach it, the strength of an united people. Many Englishmen still hold this ground, bearing no ill will to us, but thinking the war hopeless.
After remarking He need not be your enemy who somewhat timidly counsels you against civil war the lecturer asked  Would even you have gone into this war if you had known beforehand all the fearful circumstances which would attend it? Immediate cries of yes! yes! arose from the audience in response to this question.
Prof. Smith proceeded to speak of the favorable feelings of the great lower class in England towards this country; of the important aid that Cobden and Bright have given us; of the influence of the popular writers, and of the fact (in his judgment) that the majority of those most likely to live in the future are on our side; of the vicious position of Carlyle, combining a portentous defence of the robber policy of Frederic the Great, with a portentous defence of the slave power; and of the encouragement justly resulting from  the fact that every Englishman who takes the Southern side has to preface his statement with a declaration of his opposition to slavery.
He also reminded his audience that they should remember, to form  a fair judgment of the position of England, that we did not at first set before her the true relation borne by this contest to slavery; that we ourselves have not been of one mind or one voice in this matter, and that advocates of slavery in England have but echoed those in Northern America; and that some of our journals have prevented the sympathy of the English people by calumnies and vituperations against them.
In reference to the blockade runners sent from British colonies, the lecturer said I heartily wish that the curse of ill-gotten gain may rest on every piece of gold they make. He closed his discourse by a fervent expression of the wish that his country and ours might remain united and friendly.
Upon the conclusion of the lecture, loud calls were made for Gen. Burnside, who rose and bowed his acknowledgments amid hearty applause, but excused himself from making a speech.  Mr. Everett was called out in a similar manner, but spoke only a few words of compliment for Professor Smith's lecture, which he praised highly. Gov. Andrew was also called for, but declined on account of his health.
The next lecture will be given Nov. 15th, by Rev. David A. Wasson.-C.K.W.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY for November is received. Contents:-1. Leaves from an Officer's Journal I. by T. W. Higginson. 2. Riches. The Vengeance of Dominic de Gourgues, by Francis Parkman.  3. Lina.  4. Charles Lamb's Uncollected  Writings IV. by J. E. Babson. 5. To William Cullen Bryant, by H. T. Tuckerman. 6. House and Home Papers X. by Harriet Beecher Stowe. 7. The New School of Biography, by Gail Hamilton. 8. The Last Rally, by J. T. Trowbridge. 9. Finances of the Revolution, by Geo. W. Green. 10. Through Tickets to San Francisco A Prophecy, by Titus Hugh Ludlow. 11. Sea Hours with a Dyspeptic, by Joseph Dana Howard. 12. The Twentieth Presidential Election. 13. Reviews and Literary Notices. 14. Recent American Publications.
Single Subscriptions, $4 per year. Ticknor & Fields, 135 Washington Street, Boston.
The communication of D.L.C., we regret to say, was received too late for insertion this week. So was the letter of H. C. W.
<c05>
IRELAND TO AMERICA
Address of Workingmen of the Capital of the Fatherland, to their Kindred of their own Order in the Loyal States of the Republic.
Drawn up by the Rev. THADDEUS O'MALLEY, proposed by him in public meeting, and adopted by acclamation.
FRIENDS AND BROTHERS: You never have been called upon never can be called upon to perform so solemn an act, one so pregnant with serious issues, as the vote you are about to give on the forthcoming Presidential election.
Withdrawn as we are from the disturbing influences of the fierce warfare in which you are plunged placed, too, beyond the reach of the distorting bias of party passion, we feel that we are in a position to offer you calm and wholesome council as to the course you should follow on this trying occasion; and we are persuaded 
that you will listen to our friendly caution in the same brotherly spirit in which it is spoken.
When the ship is struggling with the fiercest violence of the storm, is that the time to change the pilot at the helm? The Republic is now in the very agony of that fierce and foul Rebellion which threatens the very national existence is this the time to uproot the whole National Administration, to derange the whole march of public affairs, to disturb, perhaps to thwart the far-reaching plans of your triumphant champions your Grant, your Sherman, your Meade, your Sheridan, your glorious old Farragut? With new men in the Government, you will be sure to have new measures, and this is not the time to try them.  Surely it will be wiser and setting aside for the while all party predilections, it will be more purely patriotic to uphold the Executive now at the helm. They have boldly accepted the war forced upon the country by the arrogant Southern aristocrats, with whom you, as thoroughly honest democrats, can possibly have no sympathy. They have carried on the war, upon the whole, successfully, in spite of all mistakes and short comings, for which, in the extraordinary difficulties  of the position, every candid mind must make large allowances. Let them, then, in God's name, finish triumphantly that wicked war which, with such a stubborn persistency, they have so manfully fought out, and let them dictate the terms of the peace which is to follow. We greatly fear that, if left to their rivals, it might turn out a mere hollow truce, brimful of the seeds of future wars a shameful peace, which will dishonor the graves of your glorious dead, the victims of this war, the voice of whose indignant spirits will forever ring in the depths of the national conscience “What! will you, indeed, endure that we shall have died in vain?”
There can be no disguising the broad, palpable fact, that Slavery is at the root of this foul Rebellion. Upon that point, then, it behooves you to fix a stern regard. Now, the unanimous voice of the whole Christian world denounces as utterly execrable that Slavery, as exercised in the Southern States. But yet it has many sympathizers in the great cities of the North the chief centres of trade and commerce. You have there a strong moneyed interest sharing the profits of Slavery, and heedless of its iniquity the fetchers and carriers, the obsequious servants-the white slaves, in short, of the cotton lords of the South, These men are cleverly exploiting you for their own uses. Seeing you so zealous in their cause unpleasantly reminds us of the pungent truth, which we deem it not inopportune in this connection to put before you- “Faction is the madness of the many for the benefit of the few." Their ends and aims are not your ends and aims, whilst you lend yourselves the blind instruments in attaining them. Besides its profits, they love Slavery  for itself from that hatred of freedom. They would make you, too, slaves, if they could.  To call them Democrats is a bitter mockery come out from amongst them! They have degraded you too much already. They have unscrupulously fomented, for an obvious, wicked purpose, that ungenerous jealousy which you have too often evinced toward the men of your own order the free workers of the colored race your fair rivals in  the open labor market a mean jealousy, which, we have blushed to observe, has sometimes driven you into unmanly and cruel excesses. They have taught you to look with disfavor upon the emancipation of the negro, under the false impression that it would glut the labor markets of the North by wholesale immigrations of the freed slaves of the South; whereas it appears clear to us the very contrary is most likely to happen namely, that in the event of a general emancipation, even the free negroes in the Northern cities will prefer to mitigate to the sunny South, which is so much more congenial to them, and where there will be abundance of room for them all, twice or thrice told. And when their recent cotton despots now happily dethroned (a consummation which many of themselves will be loudest in blessing)-will be glad to retain them as free workers for fair wages.
Nor is it for the sake of the poor negro that we would exhort you to snap asunder, on this occasion, whatever party ties may bind you to any pro slavery convention. We would invite you to bestow some sympathy also upon the free white man of your own order in the Southern States, those men whom their insolent lords contumeliously designate as " the mean whites." According to the most trustworthy accounts, their condition is truly pitiable. When labor is in bondage, labor is in dishonor. That noble phrase, "the dignity of labor," the holy maxim, " to labor is to pray," have no application there.  To labor in shackles is to curse at every step it takes and every stroke it strikes to curse the bitter curse," not loud but deep." And where nearly the whole body of the work of a State is done by hands ay, mere hands indeed, without hearts or brains in them to whom the notion of wages is absolutely unknown, of course labor is not only in dishonor, but is profitless too. Free labor and slave labor, it is plain, cannot prosper on the same soil. And accordingly, there is no such thing in the Slave States, as we are fully assured and can readily believe, as a respectable and thriving body of working classes of whites, either in the shops or in the fields. Furthermore, we have noticed that, in the very first session of some of the Southern States' Legislatures, after the outbreak of the rebellion, and notably in that of Virginia the land of the chivalrous slave breeders a tendency clearly betrayed itself to DISFRANCHISE those poor "mean white." And even still further and we pray you to take sharp notice of the significant fact the advanced guard of the pro slavery advocates who, boldly following up their principles with a stern logic, like Mr. Howell Cobb, unblushingly maintain that the proper and natural relationship between capital and labor is, THAT CAPITAL SHALL BE LORD AND LABOR SLAVE white labor and black labor alike be slave! And yet you have seen how bravely, how heroically, these poor "mean whites" have fought the battles of their insolent masters, they, too, being dupes, dupes of monstrous delusions, drugged by the leprous distilments of crafty lies, which no voice at their press dares to expose. 
Avoiding, then, all extremes, whether of "Black Republicans" or "Red Republicans," regard with entire distrust the really anti Republican, hypocritical peace party, "crying out peace when there is no peace," nor ever can be peace. The instant Abolitionists we would regard, not indeed with distrust, but yet with reserve. Slavery is a large and delicate question, and must be dealt with cautiously. The march of wisdom is always slow.  But among the chiefs of the great party of the moderate Republicans you have sagacious statesmen who, in effacing this foul blot from its folds, will take heed not to wipe out one star from your glorious star-spangled banner.
 Rally, then, as one man round the standard of that great party for this once, if no more, on this vital issue in this critical hour, and thus preclude all danger of that dissension in the national councils which you must have observed is now the last and only hope of the parricidal rebellion. Stand together, brothers all! you have now to enhance the glory your countrymen
<c06>
have won by their noble military virtues in the camp and battle-field, winning victories for the Republic, by exercising on this occasion the more homely but most valuable civic virtue which is deaf to the voice of party when the country calls.
Accept our warmest greetings of brotherly friend ship. Long live the Republic!
RICHARD D. WEBB, Chairman.
ISAAC S. VARIAN, Secretary.
Mechanics' Institute, Dublin, Oct. 3,1864.
THE PRESIDENTIAL CONTEST IN AMERICA.
At a meeting of the Executive of the Union and Emancipation Society of Manchester, held on the 4th of October, 1864, the following resolutions were moved by Mr. T.H. Barker, seconded by Mr. J.C. Edwards, and unanimously passed:-
1st. That this Executive, in view of the vast issues and great principles involved in the coming contest for the election of a President of the United States, feel bound to express to their brethren in America their deep sympathy with them in their heroic endurances, while passing through the fiery furnace of a terrible war a war maintain constitutional government and to ensure to all people, of whatever color or clime, who dwell within the boundaries of the republic, the right to life, to liberity, and to the pursuit of happiness.
2d. That this Executive, having watched with intense anxiety the conduct and proceedings of those who are identified with the cause of freedom, as well or the white free people of the Free States as for the black, entertain a profound conviction that the cause of liberty, justice and good government will be most certainly secured and most speedily attained by the re-election of Mr. Lincoln, who, by his many acts and declarations, under circumstances of unparalleled difficulty, has shown himself worthy of the confidence of every loyal American, and of the esteem of every lover of human freedom.
3d. That this Executive feel that they are entitled to record a distinct and special expression of their sentiments, seeing that the agents in this country of the slaveholding rebel Confederacy are obtaining adhesions to a so called "Appeal for Peace in America," in which it is falsely represented that the people of Great Britain and Ireland look upon the cause of the North as "hopeless;" the real object of the appeal being to instigate the American people to acts of disloyalty towards their country, and reason towards their constitution, and thereby do dishonor to themselves and to humanity.
4th. That this Executive, having carefully scrutinized the expressed opinions of the people of this kingdom, feel fully convinced that the intelligent, honest-minded, and liberty-loving of all classes of society, but especially the industrial, most heartily desire and long for the permanent establishment of the republic on those bases which alone can insure real prosperity and true greatness, viz., free government, a free press, free schools, and free labor.
5th. That in the name and on behalf of the thousands whom they officially represent, and of the millions who are sympathetically allied with them in spirit and aim, the Executive take this opportunity of urging, earnestly and hopefully, upon the President, his Cabinet, the Congress, and the American people, in this the time of their national crisis, to declare in unmistakable terms, in the spirit of patriotism and of true Christian manhood, that the Union shall be preserved intact; that the wicked rebellion shall be crushed; that by force of the national will, constitutionally expressed, slavery, the guilty and loathsome cause of rebellion, shall be utterly destroyed, and for ever outlawed; and that the ever- blessed era of peace shall inaugurate the reign of justice and equal rights under the law, and of perfect freedom to every human being within the great republic.
Signed on behalf of the Executive,
 JOHN H. ESTCOURT, Chairman,
SAML. WATTS, Jun., Treasurer.
JOHN C. EDWARDS,
EDWD. OWES GREENING, Hon. Secs.
Manchester, 51, Piccadilly, Oct.4, 1864.
A TESTIMONY FROM SCOTLAND.
GLASGOW, 80 Union Street, October 15, 1864.
 WM. LLOYD GARRISON., Esq., Boston.
DEAR SIR In accordance with instructions received, I have pleasure in placing the accompanying address at your disposal. In common with other large centres of population in this country, the citizens of Glasgow have taken a deep interest in American matters since the commencement of the present war; and the Union and Emancipation Society was formed for the purpose of watching the progress of that conflict, and taking what action might be deemed expedient, in view of the heavy issues involved in the strife.
The accompanying expression of sympathy was agreed to at a recent meeting of our Association, with a view principally to its finding an utterance in the hearing of those to whom it is addressed, through the press of your country. From the diversity of interests in a great trading community like this, as might have been expected, we found an equal diversity of opinion relative to the origin, progress, and probable consequences of the present struggle. Our activities as an Association were speedily called for in various directions. From time to time we observed with regret the misrepresentations of certain sections of our local press, which we have endeavored to neutralize and correct by correspondence, public meetings, and the circulation of pamphlets, &c., embodying sound views on the question. We have also had occasion, and that successfully, to memorialize Her Majesty's Government on the outfit of war-steamers for the Confederate service, and in various other ways have exerted ourselves in furtherance of the great objects which the existence and designation of our Association imply.
I am, dear sir,
Yours respectfully,
JAMES SINCLAIR, Secretary.
TO THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
From the Executive of the Glasgow Union and Emancipation Society.
AMERICAS CITIZENS:-
The protracted and sanguinary Struggle in which you are engaged has excited our profoundest sympathy. We regard that struggle as a contest between constitutional government and human freedom, on the one hand; anarchy, and the extension and perpetuation of slavery, on the other. We have watched with intense satisfaction, the patriotic efforts of your present administration to maintain the Union, and by the adoption of a restrictive and suppressive policy to foster the growth of sound Anti-Slavery sentiments throughout your continent.
You are now approaching the crisis of this terrible contest the result of which depends not more on the valor of your arms as soldiers, than on the wisdom of your votes as citizens. The gravest issues are involved in the fidelity with which you are about to exercise your electoral rights. The fate of millions is in your hands. Already you have evinced to the world your hatred of the black spot of slavery, which defaces your escutcheon. The programme of your present Administration guarantees its extinction. Rally round that Administration, by giving your undivided support to those who, while acting loyally within the limits which your constitution prescribes, have shown themselves to be at heart the consistent friends of freedom.
Under their guidance, you have taken your stand on the basis of liberty and social progress, against brute force and lawlessness; you have successfully resisted a selfish and retrograde conspiracy to revive the Dark Ages on western soil. You have been led from defeat to victory, through self-sacrifice and suffering, the predestined expiators of national guilt, to the threshold of a nobler national life. In their service your black countrymen have fought, laying down their lives on the altar of the freedom of their race,


<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1> 
and vindicating their brotherhood on the fields where you and they have bled together. Hold fast by those who have well established a claim to your confidence—the only pilots who can carry the ship of your state safely through the storm.
Compromise should have no place in a death-grapple of right and wrong. It is the word of the fainthearted, whose policy has ever been fatal to patriotism; the cold breath of interest, damping the ardor of nations aroused to a comprehension of their cause. But such a compromise as that which your Democratic party advocates would re-enslave thousands of your most valiant warriors, and lay the spoils of conquest at the feet of your conquered  adversaries. Were such to be the upshot of your manly protest, of your four years' weary war, of your lavish offering of life and treasure, the voice of all free peoples and the blood of myriads slaughtered in vain would cry, out against your stupendous folly. For to what end have this blood and treasure been poured forth like water, if not for an end worth all the cost, the crushing of a traitorous slave oligarchy, desperately bent on the overthrow of free institutions? The game of this treason is nearly played out; and your enemy <illegible> and hemmed in on every side, only struggles to conceal his weakness in order to impose on your credulity.
Are you in earnest to maintain the Union in its integrity, and to hand down to your children an <illegible> inheritance? Support the Administration which has pledged itself to that result. Are you resolved to suppress this rebellion? Re-elect the President, whose chosen chiefs are leading your chosen armies within the walls of the Confederate cities, and whose principles and policy can alone save the nation.
An Armistice! For what? That the slaveholders may cajole you into a truce, and from a truce to a treaty, and from a treaty to a recognition of their triumph, and a confession of your defeat. Are you prepared for this? The platform which proposes a "cessation of hostilities, with a view to an ultimate convention," is at this moment the worst enemy that you have to dread. It bids you hold your hand when the plough is fairly among the furrows; it bids you do what the rebels hope, and abstain from doing what they fear. Let them first beg for an armistice, and become your suitors for a cessation. Then we shall look to you to tell them that their overtures can only be entertained on terms of unconditional surrender, that the time for half measures has gone by and its memory is blotted out in the red floods which flow directly from their doors.
The present revolt is subversive of your great Republic. While " slavery is the sum of all villanies," 
to make a compromise with either would be an attempt to be stronger than God, and wiser than the Providence by which He rules the world. Citizens, the die is cast; continue in armor, faithful to the awful trust committed to your care, assured that, to nations as to men, the path of duty is the way to glory. 
The crisis is come. Be steadfast, unanimous, faithful. Re-elect your President as a wise ruler, and an honest patriot; one who has sworn," come what will to keep faith with friend and foe," that under his auspices a new and loftier era of American civilization may be inaugurated. Be strong in this the hour of <illegible>; quit you like men, and may God defend the right! 
In name and by authority of the Executive,
JAMES SMITH, Chairman.
Offices of the Glasgow Union and Emancipation Society, Forsyth's "Cobden" Hotel, Glasgow.
October 11th,1864.
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Convinced, as I am, that the motives of this friend of humanity are misconstrued by many, and retaining, as I do, an undiminished faith in his political sagacity, as well as unswerving fidelity to the cause of the slave, I cannot but feel aggrieved that any who have hitherto, in our long years of struggle with the hydra-headed monster, co-operated with him, should find cause not only for dissent from his present position relative to the Executive of our nation, but should also inflict the most severe censure upon his sentiments.
While it is clear to my mind, that to the faithful opposition to the pro-slavery element in our people, and the consequent dissemination of light upon the great national curse by the Abolitionists, the Republican party owes its existence, it is also clear to me that the timely warnings and criticisms upon the early stages of the war, by the Editors of our Anti-Slavery press, have materially assisted in the formation of that public opinion which has brought the Executive to its present strong position as an antagonism to slavery; so it seems to me that the severe criticisms of our friend Phillips on the past course of President Lincoln will have the same tendency to raise still higher the public sentiment, and thereby lift up the President, whose expressed desire is to act for the people, to loftier principles than those suggested by a war policy alone.
While many have expressed verbally, and by liberal donations, their sympathy with the present, to me, questionable partiality of the Editor of the Liberator. for the President, it seems only fair that some one should be heard in the case, though he may hold to a different opinion. I am aware that I open myself to the keen scrutiny of our illustrious pioneer, but I think he will not refuse to give me a fair hearing. I may here add, too, that I am not an unqualified admirer of Gen. Fremont, neither am I of any military hero of ancient or modern times—that I have always, with anti-slavery instinct, distrusted McClellan, and that I expect to give my vote at the impending election for Abraham Lincoln, from the same motive, I trust, that thousands of others will be governed by—an apparently political necessity for the safety of our country. However, as the persistent refusal of the Abolitionists in times past to compromise their principles with any political party has unquestionably been productive of the best results, I am by no means sure but that their adherence even now to their old policy, and thereby sustaining Mr. Phillips, would not is the end be the wisest course to pursue. Mr. P. is undoubtedly right in theory according to the established custom of all true reformers; and I still hold to the opinion that with the growth of the public mind upon the great subject of human rights and real civilization, this noble philanthropist will be duly esteemed as one who possessed unwavering courage in the times of his country's sternest trial, as a true patriot and friend of mankind.
Although I have been pained from the first at the severe and discourteous treatment of our friend in the columns of the Liberator, I shall not go back to bring proofs of the same; but I cannot pass without notice what I deem additionally unkind in the last editorial, and travelling out of the record, but an unjust accusation in charging Mr. Phillips with "joining in an <illegible> against the President," and, of course, with the enemies of the Government. Now it seems that the Editor's usual sagacity should have shown him, that Mr.Phillips has not stepped out of his course, but that this "outcry" has arisen long since he commenced his strictures upon the measures of the President; and furthermore, that the motives of the one are for the destruction of republican liberty, while those of our friend are for its rescue from danger, and its firm establishment in our land. I have before publicly stated, what I now again declare, that the day may not be far distant when our people, torn and distracted by partisan leaders, will gladly seek Wendell Phillips for the Palinurus of the ship of State.
New Bedford, Oct. 30, 1864.
Our esteemed correspondent speaks of the severe and discourteous treatment of Mr. Phillips in the columns of the Liberator." We do not know to what or to whom he refers, but feel called upon to deny the charge. Just criticism is one thing; but to exhibit Mr. Lincoln in the worst possible light, in order to prejudice his election, is quite another thing.
<c02>
MR. THOMPSON AT MONTPELIER.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:-I know that you will be pleased to learn with what delight GEORGE THOMPSON was welcomed to the Capital of Vermont, during his recent visit to our State. The Legislature, by joint resolution, invited him to deliver an address in the House of Representatives at such time as should be convenient to him; which invitation was cheerfully accepted for Thursday evening, the 20th ult. The large and beautiful Hall and gallery were filled to their utmost capacity, and the vast audience, during Mr. Thompson's speech of two hours' length, was filled with intensest interest and most enthusiastic admiration. We fancied the scene almost equal to the one presented at the National Capital when Mr. Thompson spoke there last winter-the Hall not quite so large, and a few less people may be, but Mr. Thompson could scarcely have given more satisfaction there than here. Everybody was delighted; and if I were to repeat the words of praise I have heard uttered, my sheet would soon be full. Much surprise was expressed at the completeness of his knowledge of American affairs. This was Mr. Thompson's first visit to Vermont; may it not be his last. We take pleasure in believing that, had he come among us in other days, he would not hare found our subserviency to the slave power so base that we should have gathered in mobs to have given him greeting. It may be well that we were not put to the test. Now we have only words of warmest welcome, and heartiest thanks for the noble service he has done our country, both in his native land and here.
Braintree, (Vt.) Oct. 23, 1864.A. H.
PROCLAMATION FOR A NATIONAL 
THANKSGIVING.
By the President of the United States of America, 
A PROCLAMATION.
It has pleased Almighty God to prolong our national life another year, defending us with His guardian care against unfriendly designs from abroad, and vouchsafing to us in His mercy many and signal victories over the enemy who is of our own household. It has also pleased our Heavenly Father to favor as well our citizens in their homes as our soldiers in their camps and our sailors on the rivers and seas with unusual health. He has largely augmented our free population by emancipation and by immigration, while he has opened to us new sources of wealth, and has crowned the labor of our working men in every department of industry with abundant reward. Moreover, he has been pleased to animate and inspire our minds and hearts with fortitude, courage and resolution sufficient for the great trial of civil war, into which we have been brought by our adherence, as a nation, to the cause of freedom and humanity, and to afford to us reasonable hopes of an ultimate and happy deliverance from all our dangers and afflictions. 
Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do hereby appoint and set apart the last Thursday in November next, as a day which I desire to be observed by all my fellow-citizens, wherever they may then be, as a day of thanksgiving and prayer to Almighty God, the beneficent Creator and Ruler of the universe; and I do further recommend to my fellow-citizens aforesaid, that on that occasion they do reverently humble themselves in the dust, and from thence offer up penitent and fervent prayers and supplications to the Great Disposer of events for the return of the inestimable blessings of peace, union, and harmony throughout the land, which it has pleased him to assign as a dwelling-place for ourselves and our posterity throughout all generations. 
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to he affixed.
Done at the City of Washington, this 20th day of October, in the year of our Lord 1864, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-ninth.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
By the President, 
WM. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.
TRIBUTE TO PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
The address delivered by Hon. William Whiting at Music Hall, on Monday evening last, on the pending crisis, elicited the warmest applause from a large and highly respectable audience for its masterly ability. In the course of it, Mr. Whiting paid the following tribute to President Lincoln:
Perhaps you will expect me to say a word upon the personal qualifications of our candidate for the Presidency. It has been my good fortune to see much of the President. He is one of the most industrious, hard-working men in Washington. His manners and style of dress, and of living, are simple and unostentatious. He puts on no airs. He is a kind, tenderhearted and generous man. He opens his house to the public. He hears the complaints of the humble. He is the friend of the people.
He is not puffed up by the distinction of office, and assumes no superiority on account of his station. He has a great love of wit and humor, and does tell stories. Perhaps this peculiar quality of humor may have saved him from being broken down by the weight of his cares and immense responsibilities.
Having observed his conduct under trying circumstances, he has seemed to me to be one of the most conscientious public men I have ever known. His honesty, as you all know, is incorruptible and unflinching.
His ability, his intellectual powers, have, I think, not been sufficiently appreciated. He takes broad, comprehensive views of every subject he examines. He looks at all its bearings. He is cautious in getting at the facts. He dreads mistakes which might mislead him, or do injustice to the absent.
His reasoning powers seem to me to be of a high order. His discourse and his writings are plain but powerful. They are loaded with common sense.
To many he seems too slow and too cautious. He may be so. But we must remember that what is too slow for New England may be too fast for the Western States; and the States must go together, or they cannot go at all.
He has been called vacillating. But no President has ever trod his onward path with firmer steps. He has never looked backward. Nor has he ever broken his word, nor taken back what he has said. While he holds a question under consideration, he listens to all opinions, in or out of his Cabinet. When he has fully made up his mind, he is immovable.
I do not hesitate to say that Gen. Jackson had no more firmness than President Lincoln; but the former was guided to his conclusions (too often) by will and temper—the latter is guided only by conscientious conviction of duty.
It has been said that the President is overborne by the influence of the members of his Cabinet, and is thus swayed one way and the other. The instance most relied on is that of Mr. Blair. Yet it is a fact, that on most of the great questions of public policy relating to slavery, the President has gone directly against the views of Mr. Blair, and finally requested him to resign his seat in the Cabinet. Beyond all question, Mr. Lincoln is now and always has been the controlling mind in the Government. They are greatly mistaken, who suppose that firmness of purpose, decision of character, and gentleness of manners are not combined in him. He wins constantly upon the respect of all who know him well, and, whatever faults he may have, whatever errors of judgment he may have committed under the unparalleled difficulties of the Government, in a new and untried situation, yet those who know him best believe that he is the man for the hour, and that he has been raised up by the Providence of God to save this people. (Protracted applause.)
ADDRESS OF THE SOCIAL SCIENCE TO MR. LINCOLN. On the first instant the following address, bearing the signatures of one hundred and sixty members of " The International Association for the Advancement of Social Science," lately in session at Amsterdam, was presented to the Unites States Consul at Amsterdam, for transmission to Mr. Lincoln:
To Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States:
We have followed with profound interest, from its origin, the struggle between the energetic citizens of the North, and the slaveholders of the South. While regretting the bloodshed and the evils resulting from war, we congratulate you upon the constant firmness with which you, and the great nation which elected you, have defended justice and humanity. Convinced that the United States nation will issue from this trial stronger than ever, and with a future definitely separated from every servile institution, we await the speedy triumph of the holy cause of liberty. We are sure that these destinies of the great republic will never be compromised by you.
Of McClellan's retreat from Malvern Hill, this is what the late Gen. Kearney said:
" I, Phil. Kearney, an old soldier, enter my solemn protest against this order for retreat. We ought, instead of retreating, to follow up the enemy and take Richmond. And in full view of the responsibility of such a declaration, I say to yon all, such an order can only be prompted by cowardice or treason."
Said it on the battle-field, at the moment; said it when he felt in his soul that his life had been risked, and thousands of lives had been sacrificed for nothing, because of that fatal order of retreat. Remember it, Americans!-Tribune.
<C03>
DEATH OF COL. LOWELL.
Col. Lowell was the only surviving son of Mr. C.R. Lowell of Boston, and grandson of the late Rev. Dr. Lowell of Cambridge. His brother, James Russell Lowell, a Lieutenant in the brave 20th Massachusetts regiment, was wounded in the battle of Malvern Hill, was left upon the field, fell into the hands of the rebels, and died in four days. Another grandson of Dr. Lowell and first cousin of these young men, William Lowell Putnam, then an only surviving son, was killed, a Lieutenant in the 20th Massachusetts, at Ball's Bluff. Col. Lowell married about a year since a daughter of Francis George Shaw of Staten Island, and sister of Col. Robert G. Shaw, the only son of his parents, who fell at the head of his regiment, the Massachusetts 54th, in the assault upon Fort Wagner. Theodore Parkman, the only son of the Rev. John Parkman, whose wife and the mother of Col. Shaw are sisters, fell at the battle of Newbern, N. C. In these four families connected by blood and marriage, and long and intimate friendship, five sons have been killed in battle, or died within a short period, of their wounds, four of whom were only sons at the time of their deaths, and the last is the second and only remaining son, meeting death on the field. They were all of the best blood of Massachusetts; young men of the highest culture, possessing the first order of intellect; graceful and charming in person and presence; untouched by any youthful or worldly vice; entering upon life with the noblest and purest aims; sons whom mothers might be proud to have borne, and to whom fathers could transmit their names to be handed down to another generation without a tarnish and with new honor. They were born to fortune and to the highest social station. They were bred to luxury and ease. Their " lines were cast in pleasant places." Life to them was full of promise and hope, prosperity and high repute. An unselfish sense of duty took them to the field, to endure its hardships and its privations, and to lay down upon the altar of their country, if need be, all their youthful hopes, all their opportunities, all that the most careful education had fitted them for in peaceful paths, all the promise that birth and fortune and station gave them, all the expectations which loving parents and troops of friends had built upon their lives. And the thirsty, rebel soil of the South has drunk up the young blood of every one of them!—N. Y. Tribune.
WHOLESALE FORGERY OF VOTES FOR 
McCLELLAN.
A terrible fraud upon the soldiers has just been discovered and confessed. Telegrams from Baltimore, Washington, and Albany, elsewhere published, give the main facts of the most audacious outrage we remember in the history of political corruption. By the confession of a Mr. Ferry, State agent of New York, and by other proof equally strong, it is established that he, in conjunction with another State agent, Edward Donahue, and instigated by prominent Democratic politicians, has, for the past two weeks, been actively engaged in forging the names of many thousands of New York soldiers to blank forms for votes, in order to cast their votes for McClellan and Pendleton in the Presidential election. Ferry, who seems to have been the tool rather than the leader of this infamous conspiracy, confesses that these forged votes had been sent to New York in dry goods boxes! The State was evidently to be carried for McClellan by a fraud upon the soldiers, unparalleled in audacity and wickedness. Nothing can be meaner than the attempt to swindle the brave soldiers of the Union out of their sacred rights as citizens. Not content with opposing the legislative acts giving the soldiers the power to vote when away from their homes in the National service, we find these miserable men guilty of a yet greater crime. What! is McClellan already so unpopular in the army, because of his association with a cowardly platform and a treacherous convention, that forgery is needed to gain him votes! All the false accusations against the Administration fade into insignificance before this fearful reality.-Philadelphia Press.
OUR ELECTION ABROAD. Important Letter from Robert J. Walker. Hon. R. J. Walker has written an able letter from London on the subject of the approaching Presidential election, in the course of which he says:
" It is the boast of the Confederate leaders in Europe, since the adoption of the platform at Chicago, that upon the election of their candidates, without waiting four months for the inauguration in March next, Napoleon will AT ONCE recognize the Confederate government. Indeed, I do not doubt from the circumstantial evidence (although I do not know the fact) that there is already a secret understanding between Jeff. Davis and Napoleon the Third to recognize the independence of the South, upon the election of the Chicago candidates. Why wait four months until the 4th of March next, when the American people, by indorsing the Chicago platform, shall have declared for peace, with the additional announcement in that platform, that the war for the suppression of the rebellion has failed?
There will be no recognition of the independence of the South by France or England, or any other Power, if Abraham Lincoln should be re elected in November next. The American people will then have loudly proclaimed, through the ballot-box, that they can and will subdue the rebellion by force of arms, and that they will continue to negotiate from the mouths of our cannon until the Southern armies shall have been dispersed and vanquished. Upon the news of the reelection of Mr. Lincoln reaching Europe, the Confederate stock, now waiting the success of the Chicago candidates, will all, like Lucifer, to rise no more. American securities, including those of the federal and loyal State governments, of railroads, and other companies with real capital, will all be immensely appreciated. The difference in favor of our country, including the rise in greenbacks, would be equivalent in a few months to hundreds of millions of dollars. Nor is it only our stocks that will rise at home and abroad, but the national character will be immensely exalted."
BALTIMORE, Oct. 28. The Court of Appeals today dismissed the application for an injunction in the case of the new Constitution. The Governor's proclamation, declaring the new Constitution adopted, is expected to be issued to-morrow.
Oct. 29. Gov. Bradford has proclaimed the new Free State Constitution of Maryland. The friends of the measure are making a display of bunting. 
It appears from the proclamation that the total vote, including the soldiers' vote, for the Constitution, is 39,174; against it, 29,799; blank ballots not counted, 61, persons offering them refusing to take the oath required under said Constitution.
THE NEW MARYLAND CONSTITUTION. It is said that Gov. Bradford, of Maryland, considers that there is no doubt that the free constitution of that State has been adopted, and the Baltimore Councils, acting on this assumption, on Thursday night, proceeded to divide that city into Senatorial districts, as directed by this new instrument.
EMANCIPATION IN MARYLAND. This glorious event is to he appropriately celebrated in our city on Monday next, on a scale commensurate with its importance. Efforts are being made to have the day ushered in by chimes and the opening of all churches for thanksgiving for this signal victory of right over wrong. Maryland has just unconditionally liberated over 100,000 Christian slaves, and practically obeyed the inspired injunction "to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, to let the oppressed go free, and to break every yoke." This grand fact, the most significant event of the age, and typical of the regeneration of the entire South, ought to be commemorated, reverentially, with prayers, thanksgivings, and rejoicings. We hope the clergymen of all denominations will open their churches on Monday for such purpose, and announce the fact to their several congregations on Sunday.
We learn the gentlemen moving in this matter have obtained the consent of the Committee for Recruiting Colored Troops to illuminate its building, No. 1210 Chestnut street; and that they have made most extensive and liberal arrangements to make a magnificent display on Monday night by means of transparencies, executed by the Philadelphia Sketch Club in the highest style of art. The whole expense of this celebration is provided for by subscriptions outside the Committee. The whole front of the building, 1210 Chestnut street, will be covered with designs emblematic of emancipation and progress, pointed by judicious selections from the writings of Washington, Jefferson, Henry, and Jackson, and adorned with well-executed portraits of Abraham Lincoln, Grant, Sherman, Sheridan, Farragut, and other military and naval heroes, the whole to be framed and draped with flags and evergreens. Surmounting all will be in gas jets, "God save the Republic." Music and colored fires will lend their attractions to the symbolical designs. A salute of 200 guns will be fired by companies of U. S. Colored Troops from Camp William Penn, under the command of Col. Lewis Wagner, during the day. It bids fair to be a most worthy commemoration of the greatest moral victory of the age. We earnestly hope the clergy may open the churches, and give expression to the religious sentiment of the people on this glorious triumph of Liberty, Justice, and Progress in Maryland.-Philadelphia paper.
One of the very best campaign documents is one prepared by Hon. William Whiting, entitled "Opinions on'Slavery, and ' Reconstruction of the Union,' as expressed by President Lincoln, with brief Notes." The notes are by Mr. Whiting, and are worthy of his pen; and the extracts from the President's writings and speeches through twenty-seven years are excellently made and arranged. This campaign document should be extensively circulated.
<C04>
Gen. Hooker has allowed no doubt of his sentiments upon the great political question of the day. So with Rosecrans, Meagher, Owen, Dix, Wool, Burn-side, and the whole roll of heroes. At Springfield, Illinois, last Thursday, General Hooker said, with a vigor worthy of his strong arm and brave heart:
" I think that all the battles we will have to fight are already. fought. (Tremendous cheers.) The election early next month will pass off quietly, and it will pass off successfully. (Renewed cheers.) The victory at the ballot-box will be in vindication of this Union and of our authority. It will be in support of your armies in the field, and it will be in support of the honor of the nation. (Applause.) That vindication will be far beyond what the most sanguine who are here anticipate. It will be more than a Waterloo defeat to those who are arrayed against our country. (Long continued applause.) It will be almost a deathblow; it will be a staggering blow to the rebels that we have been fighting in the war in which your brothers and your sons have been engaged for the last three years and a half; it will be a withering blow to them, and it will be worse to the Copperheads. (Tremendous cheers.) I would not for the world say anything to excite hopes that may not be realized; but I will say this, that it is the opinion of those who have a much better opportunity of knowing than I have, that in the next election we will achieve the greatest victory that has been won from the beginning of this rebellion to the present time. It will be a two edged sword, cutting both ways, North and South. (Cheers.) I state this confidently, believing from those who have much better opportunities of knowing than I have, that every single State in this Union will cast its vote for Abraham Lincoln." (Loud applause and cries of " That's so."
The great-hearted, earnest Jo. Hooker said in a speech at Chicago last Saturday:
" I feel proud that I have been permitted to take a part in putting down the Rebellion. I prayed to God that He would give me valor and strength to act my part. [Cries, ’You have done it.| I have done what I could do. I have never failed to attack the conspirators, irrespective of orders or advantages. [Cries of' That's so."] I will continue to do so wherever found, or with whatever odds, and if I can't meet them in the field, I will do it at home. I expect to see the Union restored, and will take any responsibility to do it. I am earnest in the work. This people will take care of what was left them by their fathers. They have not degenerated. The war is no failure. I do not think you need assistance here; but if you wish backers, you know where to find them. It makes but little difference where they assign me to duty. The elections last week struck terror to the enemy. The election in November will be a Waterloo to Copperheads and Rebels. They relied on the Peace party in the North. I felt astonished to see so many sympathizing with the Rebels, while travelling through the West. The stories of the Revolution were respectable compared to the Copperheads of the North. The latter occupy much the worst position. I was a Democrat, and if they will interpret the Constitution as framed by its fathers, I am a Democrat still. But until they do this, I am for the Union-through all time. In whatever place they put me, I will be a team horse. If you have any riots here, let me know; you will not want for a backer."
BENEDICT ARNOLD ENDORSED. The Democrats held a meeting in the streets of Terre Haute, last Thursday evening. Mr. Mack and Col. Cooperly addressed the company present, about one-half of whom were Democrats. At the close of Cooperly's remarks, many voices called for Washburne, the Republican candidate for Congress. Washburne mounted the box, holding in his hand a copy of a speech of Dan. Voorhees, inside of which he had pinned a certain letter of Benedict Arnold.
He said: " Democrats, I hold in my hand a speech of Daniel Voorhees: will you hear me?" To this were answers of " Yes, yes." Washburne read: " Who among you dare speak or write what he thinks against the tyranny which has robbed you of your property, imprisoned your sons, drags you to the field of battle, and is daily deluging your country with blood?"
" Democrats, do you endorse that?" asked Washburne. " Yes, yes; read it all," shouted the Democrats. "But," replied, the speaker, " that is not the speech of Voorhees, but of Benedict Arnold, the traitor! Do you endorse it now?" "Yes," "no," "yes," "no," roared the Democrats, and Babel seemed likely to come again. The Democrats were angry.Chicago Tribune.
REBEL GOVERNORS IN COUNCIL. The Richmond papers of the 24th contain the proceedings of the rebel Governors of Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Alabama and Mississippi. They adopted resolutions that there is no cause for discouragement, that it is imperative to increase the armies, recommending the Legislatures to repeal the laws prohibiting the sending of troops outside State limits, urging the Confederate authorities to conscript every man in the Departments whose places can be supplied by disabled soldiers, senior reserves or negroes, recommending legislative enactments for the arrest of deserters, recommending the removal of the negroes from the frontiers exposed to the Union armies, recommending the Confederate authorities to appropriate such part of the negroes to the public service as may be required, and that the Confederate Congress remove all restrictions on the commerce of the individual States.
The Tribune's correspondent with Gen. Butler's army, speaking of the proceedings of the rebel Governors, says:- " Their action was based upon the fact now known, that the rebel armies at Petersburg and Richmond do not exceed 35,000 men."
"EVERETT'S SPEECH. Hon. Edward Everett delivered a most able speech on national affairs, in Faneuil Hall, Wednesday afternoon, 14th ult. He completely refuted the idea that the present " Administration has accomplished nothing," declared his belief that the Proclamation of Emancipation was justifiable and perfectly constitutional, showed that the copperhead attacks upon President Lincoln are akin to the tory attacks upon Washington, and demonstrated that the safety of the country demands the re-election of Mr. Lincoln. The utterance of Mr. Everett will be heard in the most remote parts of the country, and will do much to induce his old associates to give in their adhesion to the Republican party.
 VOTE FOR MCCLELLAN! " On Tuesday, the day of the elections in Indiana, Ohio and Pennsylvania, the rebels hung out a huge placard at a point in their outer works before Richmond, inscribed, " Vote for McClellan," and fired a blank charge to call attention to it. It got attention speedily—good Union attention. A concentrated discharge of shotted guns knocked placard, breastwork, McClellan canvassers and all into flinders. The Chicago platform and its candidates will go up in just that way on the blessed 8th proximo. Speed the day!-N. Y. Tribune.
A HINT FOR MCCLELLAN. In one of the letters of Sir Walter Scott is the following passage:
" If a man of honor is unhappy enough to entertain opinions inconsistent with the service in which he finds himself, it is his duty to at once resign his commission; in acting otherwise, he disgraces himself forever. 
Hon. Thomas D. Eliot, of New Bedford, in accepting a re-nomination for Congress from the First Massachusetts district, says:
What it may be my duty to do, I cannot say—excepting only, that when "reconstruction" or "Union" may be sought by or in behalf of those who demolished the temple of the Union as it was, I cannot by word or vote consent that human bondage shall be again sanctioned by law where now the slave has been made free by the edict of the President, or by the necessities of war.
BRITISH GUINEAS AGAINST US. At the great Union meeting in New Haven on Wednesday, the Rev. Dr. Patton, just returned from Europe, made a speech, in the course of which he said that he had hurried home to vote for Mr. Lincoln; and that his haste had been stimulated by having observed how deeply interested the aristocracy of England are in our election, and how anxious they are that McClellan should succeed. He spoke of noblemen who freely admitted they were sending gold to this country to influence the election in favor of McClellan, believing that his election would be followed by peace and separation.
The Copperhead press are rejoicing over Millard Filmore's endorsement of Gen. McClellan. A late copy of the Richmond Whig re-publishes Filmore's Albany speech in 1861, in which he justified revolution in the South, in case a President were elected displeasing to the Southern people. The Richmond paper has the audacity to claim that the Albany speech of the ex President is a full justification of the attitude of the South in the impending crisis.
Gen. Butler, in a recent general order to the army of the James, said:
" The colored soldiers, by coolness, steadiness and determined courage and dash, have silenced every cavil of doubters of their soldierly capacity, and drawn tokens of admiration from their enemies, and brought their late masters even to the consideration of the question, whether they will not employ as soldiers the hitherto despised race. Be it so. This war is ended when a musket is in the hands of every able bodied negro who wishes to use one."
<c05>
GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ. A correspondent of the Boston Traveller, under date of Concord, N. H., October 26, says:-
" The Hon. George Thompson, the distinguished and eloquent advocate of Freedom, has accepted an invitation from several of our citizens to speak at the Eagle Hall on Wednesday evening, 2d of November. Mr. Thompson was mobbed in this city in 1835, when attempting to address the citizens on the subject of Slavery, and such was the violence of the assailants that he was obliged to seek safety by retreat through the rear of the building, and secreting himself. He can now speak here unmolested, except to hear, perhaps, a few serpent hisses. The gentlemen say in their letter of invitation, ' The incidents connected with your last public visit to Concord were such as to render it highly fitting that you should publicly congratulate the citizens of Concord upon the assured triumph of Freedom over Slavery throughout the American continent."
MCCLKLLAN DESCRIBED BY ONE WHO KNOWS HIM. Governor Brough of Ohio, who has had an experience of many years as the leading railroad manager at the West, and in that capacity saw McClellan often, and knew him thoroughly, spoke as follows of his character in a late speech at Columbus:-
" Gen. McClellan doubtless possesses personal courage, but in a place of responsibility he is one of the most timid and vacillating men I ever knew. He once belonged to the fraternity of railroad men; but there never was a time when we would have given him charge of the Little Miami, Cleveland and Columbus, or any other first-class road:-because he hadn't the ability to manage it. Now think of setting up such a man to negotiate with Jeff. Davis after his party shall have compelled an armistice! They would keep a man at the head of the Government, who, but for one failing, might have settled this war more than a year ago. But, alas! he had the weakness to listen to the whispers of rascals about him, who said to him, ' Manage this war to suit us, and we will make you President of the United States."
Last night, the Opera House was crowded with the people of New Orleans, to hear one of her most gifted and patriotic citizens upon the question of the day-the Presidential election. Mr. Durant does not consider Mr. Lincoln the best man that could be chosen for President, but believes that, between Gen. McClellan and Mr. Lincoln, the latter is the best, and that every lover of liberty should cast his vote for the truest friend of freedom. He urged the people to sustain and save the country. He said the ablest and firmest friends of freedom opposed Mr. Lincoln until the adoption of the Chicago platform, but since have all united in sustaining the cause of which Mr. Lincoln is the head.-New Orleans Tribune.
An English Democrat's definition of the Rebellion:
" I CALL IT AN ARISTOCRATIC REBELLION AGAINST DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT."—Richard Cobden.
A Planter's definition of the Rebellion:
" WE HAVE BEEN ALL ALONG FIGHTING TO GET RID OF THE RULE OF THE MAJORITY."—Jefferson Davis.
The copperheads are saving the pen Vallandigham wrote the Chicago platform with for McClellan to use in signing a treaty of peace with the rebel government.
Senator McDongal of California lately addressed a McClellan meeting in Cincinnati, and being drunk, as usual, said if Lincoln was re-elected, he would take his family on his back, and swim across the Pacific.
" Two years of war," said Henry Ward Beecher on Sunday night, " and we have conquered half the rebel territory, hold the keys of the whole, and have nearly destroyed the military strength of the rebellion in the field. All this in two years of war." " Four years you mean," said a bystander. " No," responded 
Mr. Beecher. " I said two years of war. In the first two, Gen. McClellan was in command!"
Daniel S. Dickinson says that " It looks now as though the ' contingent remainder ' of the Chicago convention, after the 8th of November, would be taxed, under the internal revenue law, as ' beaten copper.'"
How THE SOLDIERS VOTE. An informal count of the Massachusetts 36th regiment was recently taken, when it appeared that 220 men were for Lincoln, and 10 talked for McClellan, though it was doubtful whether they would vote for him if they had an opportunity.
In one of the divisions of the army corps at the recent election, the Ohio and Pennsylvania soldiers voted 661 Republican, 156 Democratic.
GEN. BUTLER, or " the Brute " as he is termed by the rebels, was at one time so unfortunate as to be unrecognized by the Richmond junto. He is, however, gradually working himself into their good graces, and the rebels are inclined to believe, at times, that Butler is worthy of being recognized. For instance, upon learning that the rebels had put 150 negro soldiers captured from us at work in their trenches, Butler promptly retaliated by putting 150 rebel prisoners, of the " first families," at work in the Dutch Gap canal. The result is, the rebels have " recognized " the " Brute," and withdrawn our prisoners from their trenches. Retaliation will soon bring the rebels to their senses.
A new charge is preferred against Gen. Butler by the Richmond journals. It is, that he " recognizes slaves as men." It is difficult to see how he can survive such an attack. It puts him clean out of the democracy.
President Lincoln has made a written reply to the Tennessee protestants. He says he has nothing to do with regulating elections; that neither the Chief Executive nor the War Department intend to interfere in any manner beyond keeping the peace; that he has given no orders upon which Gov. Johnson could have acted, nor has he any other than hearsay and current report about the matter. So far as he understands it, he looks upon the movement as one of the people themselves.
REBEL ATROCITIES. Paroled prisoners, who were captured during Gen. Burbridge's late raid into West Virginia, tell horrible tales of rebel atrocities. Of 23 wounded colored soldiers who fell into their hands, all but one were murdered, and he was fired at and left for dead.
Lieut. Smith, of the 15th Kentucky Cavalry, was also murdered in the hospital by Champ Ferguson, a notorious Kentucky guerilla, who knew him.
A Richmond journal of the 24th mentions the arrival of 1429 prisoners, who were captured by Gen. Early on the 19th of October.
Richmond papers of Saturday contain accounts of the fight in the Valley on the 16th. They admit a complete rout, and say the loss of their guns was caused by the streets of Strasburg becoming blocked up by panic stricken troops. Early was in command at the time.
The 16th Connecticut Regiment, captured last spring, then numbered 300 men, of whom 70 have already died in rebel prisons. Three other regiments, captured at the same time, have lost about one third of their number. 
The vote of Indiana for Governor is as follows: Morton, Union, 142,606; McDonald, Opposition, 121,356. Democratic majority in 1862, 9543. Union majority so far in 1864, 21,250; gain from 1862,30,693.
We have more successes to mention. Price has come to deep grief. Last Tuesday, he was several times assailed and beaten between Mound City and Fort Scott, and lost 1500 men as prisoners, the number of his killed and wounded not being stated. Among the prisoners was the famous Gen. Marmaduke, who has been so active in the rebel service. Gen. Cabell was also taken; and many officers of lower grades fell into our hands. On Wednesday the attacks on the enemy were renewed, and Price had to run off to the southwest, after burning 200 wagons. His loss in men is not mentioned. On Tuesday he lost 10 or 12 guns. The opinion is expressed that his army has lost all military efficiency, and that it is breaking up.
KNOXVILLE, Tenn., Oct. 29. Gen. Gillett had a fight yesterday with Gen. Vaughan's command at Morristown, completely routing him and capturing 1607 prisoners, including one colonel, one major, six captains and lieutenants; also five twelve pounders and one mountain howitzer. The prisoners and artillery captured arrived here this forenoon.
Beauregard has issued a most imploring appeal to the people of his military department, calling upon them for assistance of all kinds. He needs men, he needs money, he needs provisions, he needs arms.
A regiment of soldiers passed through Covington, Ky., a few days ago, the members of which were worth $1,500,000. when our currency was at a par value with gold. It was the 117th United States (colored) regiment.
CINCINNATI,. Oct. 29. J. J. Bingham, editor of the Indianapolis Sentinel, testified before the Military Commission at Indianapolis, yesterday, in the case of Dodd, confirming the testimony of others in regard to the treasonable purposes of the Sons of Liberty.
H. H. Dodd, the escaped Indiana conspirator, has been heard from. He is in Canada.
St. Albans, in Vermont, has been invaded by a number of rebel refugees, from Canada, who robbed three banks of $150,000, stole a number of horses, and property of other kinds, killed one man, and wounded several who resisted their depredations. Fifteen of the villains have been arrested in Canada, and a large portion of the stolen money recovered.
<c06>
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-LutherClark, M.D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will deliver a lecture on the Pending Struggle, in the Congregational Church at South Abington, on Monday evening next, Nov. 7th.
A NEW MONTHELY MAGAZINE.
THE FRIEND OF PROGRESS.
NO. 1, for November, contains Rev. O. B. Frothing ham's Discourse before the Alumni at Cambridge, entitled, " THE NEW RELIGION OF NATURE," with a variety of other contributions.
$2 per year. Single numbers, 20 cents. To be had of the Newsdealers.
C M. PLUMB & CO, Publishers,
Oct. 28. 274 Canal St., New York.
SENATOR WILSON'S BOOK,
SH0WING what the present Administration has accomed for freedom. Being a
History of the Anti-Slavery Measures of the 37th 
and 38th Congresses.
CONTENTS.
Slaves used for Insurrectionary purposes made Free.
Fugitive Slaves not to be returned by Persons in the Army.
The Abolition of Slavery in the District of Columbia.
President's Proposition to Aid States in the Abolishment of Slavery.
Prohibition of Slavery in the Territories.
Certain Slaves to be made Free.
Hayti and Liberia.
Education of Colored Youth in the District of Columbia. 
The African Slave-Trade.
Additional Act to Abolish Slavery in the District of Columbia.
Colored Soldiers. 
Aid to the States to Emancipate their Slaves.
Amendment of the Constitution.
Confinement of Colored Persons in the Washington Jail. 
Negro Testimony.
The Coastwise Slave-Trade. 
Color no Disqualification for Carrying the Mails.
No Exclusion from the Cars on Account of Color.
12 MO.—EXTRA CLOTH-$2.
ALSO NOW READY:
THE YOUNG CRUSOE: OR, ADVENTURES OF A SHIPWRECKED BOY. By Dr. Harley. 12mo., with six full page and a profusion of smaller illustrations, in ANDREW'S best style. $1.50. Boys will find this one of the most entertaining and attractive books produced for their delight this year.
JUST PUBLISHED:
PHILOSOPHY AS ABSOLUTE SCIENCE.
BY E. L. & A. L.Frothingham. 1 vol. 8vo. elegant. $3.50.
WALKER, WISE & CO.,
PUBLISHERS,
245 Washington Street, BOSTON.
Oct. 21. 2w
FARM FOR SALE.
WILL BE SOLD AT PUBLIC AUCTION, on THURSDAY, the 10th day of November next, unless previously disposed of at private sale, the valuable Farm belonging to the undersigned, situated in WEST GLOUCESTER. Said farm contains
SEVEN ACRES OF WOODLAND,
very thrifty hard wood, suitable for ship timber, anchor stocks, or cord wood; also, TWO OR MORE ACRES OF CLEARED LAND, with
A TWO-STORY HOUSE, TWO-STORY SHOE-SHOP,
and a good-sized Stable thereon;-A FINE ORCHARD, containing the choicest apple, pear, peach and cherry trees; also, grapes, currants and other small fruit. Said farm is known as the HOVEY FARM, and is bordered by four town and county roads, called Essex, Lincoln, Sumner and Haskell streets. A small creek runs through the farm, where salt water ebbs and flows. A stage coach, driven by the accommodating driver, WM. H. STORY, to and from Gloucester Harbor, daily, passes by the premises. It is within speaking distance of the Haskell Saw-Mill, where the timber can be sawed in any shape desired, by the skillful sawyer, JONATHAN RIGGS; and is within three minutes' walk of the BIG ROCK on Mrs. RIGGS'S farm, and the Rooky Mountain, (so called,) from which can be seen Essex River, Ipswich Bay, and the island where RUFUS CHOATE was born. It is in a neighborhood of kind, industrious and hospitable farmers, who mind their own business, and let other people's alone.
For terms, apply to the subscriber, who may be found at the farm. 
ANSEL H. HARLOW.
Gloucester, Oct. 20.
E. M. BANNISTER,
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
ROOM 85, STUDIO BUILDING, 
TREMONT STREET, BOSTON.
FOR SALE ON DIX PLACE,
A VERY pleasant and convenient House, having a large yard stocked with grapes, trees and foliage. The rear opens immediately upon Burroughs place, which secures abundant light, sunshine and pure air. The house is quiet, being removed some 200 feet from Washington street To a person wanting a retired yet central and healthful residence, this estate offers a rare chance. Apply to R. E. APTHORP, 21 City Exchange, Devonshire street, lower floor. 
Oct.7.
"FREE LOVE,"
OR a Philosophical Demonstration of the non-exclusive nature of Connubial Love. To which is added, a Review of and Reply to the exclusive phase in the writings of the Fowlers, Adin Ballou, H. C. Wright, and A. J. Davis, on the Love and Marriage question. Price, (post-paid,) 50 cents, or to the poor, in paper. 35 cents. Sold by the Author—AUSTIN KENT, East Stockholm, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. Sept. 30.
Young Ladies’ Boarding-School.
DIO LEWIS, A. M., M. D., will open a Boarding School at Lexington, Mass., on the first day of October, 1864.
ISAAC N. CARLETON, A. M., for several years teacher of Latin, Greek and Mathematics in Phillips's Academy, Andover, Mass, will be the Resident Principal, and will devote himself wholly to the work of instruction. Mrs. CARLETON, a tried and successful teacher, will instruct in French.
MR. THEODORE D. WELD, for many years Principal of the Eagleswood School in New Jersey, will have charge of an important department.
In all the approved features of the best schools nothing will be wanting, while it is Dr. Lewis's special aim to illustrate the possibilities in the department of physical training. 
Parents having daughters of delicate constitutions to educate are invited to send to Dr.DIO LEWIS, <illegible>, for a Circular.
Lexington, Sept. 8.
A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW, 
OTTAWA, La Salle Co., Illinois.
Special attention given to securing and collecting claims for Eastern Merchants. 
References:
WEDELL. PHILLIPS, Esq., Boston. 
A. L. PAINE, Esq., Suffolk Bank, do.
FARWELL, FIELD & Co., Chicago, Illinois.
STEVENS & BARNUM, Washington, D. C.
sept 8 tf 
ALL interested in Phonographic Shorthand should send for the PHONOGRAPHIC VISITOR, No. 4, seven cents. Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 now ready, 22 cents.
Address ANDREW J. GRAHAM,
491 Broadway, New York.
June 24.Dec 1.
The Friend of Progress.
A NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE, loyal and responsible to all true educational, philanthropic and religious movements. The Publishers invite the co-operation of all who love their fellow-men. $2 per year. Single numbers 20 cents. No. 1 now ready.
C. M. PLUMB & CO., Publishers,
Oct. 21. 274 Canal street, New York.
Proclamation of Freedom.
FINE Photographs, 18 by 13 inches, of Paine's Penand-Ink Drawing of the Emancipation Proclamation handsomely illustrated. The original was donated to the Brooklyn Sanitary Fair, and by a subscription $500 presented to the President of the United States A single copy sent by mail on receipt of $3.00. A liberal discount allowed to dealers or canvassers. It is a beautiful and artistic work.
Canvassers wanted for every section of the country.
Copy-right secured. Apply to
ROWLAND JOHNSON.
54 Beaver st., New York, 119 Market st., Phila.August 19.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
WHO VOTES FOR McCLELLAN?
Not the brave man, true and loyal,
Not the man who loves the right;
But the recreant and the traitor,-
They who hate fair Freedom's light.
Who the banner of McClellan
Bears along the crowded street?
He who still is basely bowing
At his Southern masters' feet.
When you hear the friends of Lincoln 
Called an "Abolition pack,"
Then be sure the valiant speaker
Casts his vote for "Little Mac."
Who thinks slavery patriarchal,
Heaven-appointed, and ordained
For the negro's special blessing;
Count him as McClellan's friend.
Don't "Fernandy" for the "chieftain"
Stand with all his host arrayed;
While beleaguered, starving Richmond
Looks to him alone for aid?
And the base Ohio traitor,
With his lawless, ruffian crew,
All stand ready to support him,
And Jeff. Davis' work to do.
Lafayette and old Fort Warren
Both imprison many a voice
That would gladly hail his triumph,
And in his success rejoice.
Sure no man who loves his country
Will unite with such a band;
And with rebels and vile traitors
In fraternal union stand.
October, 1864. CARRIE.

For the Liberator.
THE OLD RED ROCK.
The old red rock tempts the salt sea wave,
A shapeless mass at the first;
All about it the white foam gently plays,
Or the storm-tost billows burst.
The shapeless rock is a steadfast thing,
And the tide to its motion is true;
A sacred law binds the first to its bed,
That the second its work may do.
So <illegible> of the beauty, the mist and the pain,
Is worn a fair outline at last,
And our eyes may rest where the glad curves sweep
No limit of God-overpast.
The rock never yields, the wave never lulls;
Both ceaselessly strive through the day;
And out of the conflict the soft lines are born,
Strength smiting a charm from the spray.
So believe me, beloved, all souls shall grow fair,
Who patiently welcome their pain,
If, jagged and flinty, they patiently bear
God's billows again and again.
BURY ME IN A FREE LAND.
BY MRS. FRANCES ELLEN HARPER.
Make me a grave where'er you will,
In a lowly plain or a lofty hill;
Make it among earth's humblest graves,
But not in a land where men are slaves.
I could not rest, if around my grave
I heard the steps of a trembling slave;
His shadow above my silent tomb
Would make it a place of fearful gloom.
I could not sleep, if I heard the tread
Of a coffee-gang to the shambles led,
And the mother's shriek of wild despair
Rise, like a curse, on the trembling air.
I could not rest, if I saw the lash
Drinking her blood at each fearful gash;
And I saw her babes torn from her breast,
Like trembling doves from their parent nest.
I'd shudder and start, if I heard the bay
Of a bloodhound seizing his human prey;
And I heard the captive plead in vain,
As they bound, afresh, his galling chain.
If I saw young girls from their mother's arms
Bartered and sold for their youthful charms,
My eye would flash with a mournful flame,
My death-pale cheek grow red with shame.
I would sleep, dear friends, where bloated Might
Can rob no man of his dearest right;
My rest shall be calm in any grave
Where none can call his brother a slave.
I ask no monument, proud and high,
To arrest the gaze of the passers by;
All that my yearning spirit craves
Is-Bury me not in a land of slaves!
WAITING.
BY JOHN BURROUGHS.
Serene, I fold my hands and wait,
Nor care for wind, or tide, or sea;
I rave no more 'gainst time or fate,
For, lo! my own shall come to me.
I stay my haste, I make delays,
For what avails this eager pace?
I stand amid th' eternal ways,
And what is mine shall know my face.
Asleep, awake, by night or day,
The friends I seek are seeking me;
No wind can drive my bark astray,
Nor change the tide of destiny.
What matter if I stand alone?
I wait with joy the coming years;
My heart shall reap where it has sown,
And garner up its fruit of tears.
The waters know their own, and draw
The brook that springs in yonder heights;
So flows the good with equal law
Unto the soul of pure delights.
Yon floweret, nodding in the wind,
Is ready plighted to the bee;
And, maiden, why that look unkind?
For, lo! thy lover seeketh thee.
The stars come nightly to the sky,
The tidal wave unto the sea;
Nor time, nor space, nor deep, nor height,
Can keep my own away from me.
-Knickerbocker.
GIVE ME THE HAND.
BY GOODWIN BARMBY.
Give me the hand that is kind, warm and ready;
Give me the clasp that is calm, true and steady;
Give me the hand that will never deceive me;
Give me its grasp, that I aye may believe thee.
Soft is the palm of the delicate woman;
Hard is the hand of the rough, sturdy yeoman;
Soft palm or hard hand, it matters not-never!
Give me the grasp that is friendly forever.
Give me the hand that is true as a brother;
Give me the hand that has harmed not another;
Give me the hand that has never forsworn it;
Give me its grasp that I may adore it.
Lovely the palm of the fair blue-veined maiden;
Horny the hand of the workman o'erladen;
Lovely or ugly, it matters not-never!
Give me the grasp that is friendly forever.
Give me the grasp that is honest and hearty,
Free as the breeze, and unshackled by party;
Let friendship give me the grasps that become her;
Close as the twine of the vines of the summer.
Give me the hand that is true as a brother;
Give me the hand that has wronged not another;
Soft palm or hard hand, it matters not-never!
Give me the grasp that is friendly forever.
<c02>
The Liberator.
LETTER FROM THOMAS H. BARKER, ESQ.
MANCHESTER, (Eng.) Oct. 4,1864.
DEAR MR. GARRISON-I have written you once since I got your last brief note of August 30th, which contained some fearful forebodings in regard to the Presidential struggle on which you bad then fairly entered. But since that time, events have been marching on, both in the military and the political spheres. The seizure of the forts at Mobile, the capture of Atlanta, and the splendid victory in the She-nandoah Valley, taken together with Grant's firm grip of the Weldon railroad, have so changed the situation and prospects of the struggle, that the famous Peace Platform at Chicago, and its equally famous War or Peace General, must by this time have become somewhat small by degrees, and beautifully less. By the 8th November, I expect that they will be nowhere. 
These recent events, the splendid Northern VICTORIES, are producing a remarkable impression on the public mind here, especially the editorial mind. Even the London Times has had to knock under, again. Its leading article yesterday says:
"The capture of Atlanta made Mr. Lincoln's reelection possible. The victory gained by Gen. Sheriday has, we may assume, rendered it almost certain." 
In another column of the same paper, "Our Own Correspondent," writing from the Clifton House, Niagara Falls, Sept. 19, says: 
"Gen. McClellan's prospects do not brighten. His repudiation of the platform on which he was nominated has rejoiced his foes, discouraged his friends, and alienated the honester, though perhaps the smaller, section of the Democratic party, and reconciled many of the sincerest opponents of the war to accept the reelection of Mr. Lincoln as preferable to a triumph achieved on an issue not presented to the candidate. The peace party loudly proclaims the shiftiness of his principles, while the Republican party deny that he has any principles at all, and assert that he would have accepted the platform as readily as he rejected it, if Gen. Sherman had been defeated at Atlanta." 
He goes on to say, that 
"All the support that he (McClellan) loses, Mr. Lincoln receives, and to so great an extent that the chances of the latter were never so brilliant as now, or the hopes of his supporters so high that he will not only be able to win, but to win fairly." 
This kind of writing in the London Times is so exactly and completely the reverse of what we have been treated with, of late, that it is as amusing as exhilarating. 
The Philadelphia correspondent of the Standard, under date of Sept. 16th, also shows very clearly how the political breeze is blowing in that State:-
"People here," says he, "have a great dread of New York politicians," alluding to Ben. Wood and fraternity, "and, if they can help it, will not follow any leadership which comes from that direction. The Republicans have a far better organization than the Democracy, and as they have all the money, power and offices, it will be a miracle if they are beaten." 
The Index has a long letter from its New York correspondent, under date Sept. 13th, who says: "The odds are decidedly with Lincoln "; and referring to the result of the Vermont and Maine State elections, he says: "To my mind they point unerringly to the triumph of Lincoln." I just give you these three as samples of what is now being said in almost all our papers-the very opposite of what was asserted by the same papers only a few days ago. Even our Manchester Courier (Tory as it is) writes in the same strain. The Examiner and Times has come up steadily and fully to the Union and Emancipation mark of late. It sees no essential difference between McClellan's position and Lincoln's, except that the former will war for Union and Slavery, and the latter for Union and Emancipation; and the editor, of course, must give the preference to Union and Emancipation. Any consolidation of the Union that would conserve slavery would be a horrible finish of a terrible struggle. Nothing can compensate for the war, or justify it, short of the annihilation of slavery, root and branch; and President Lincoln is clearly and irrevocably committed to this work, NOW, whatever he may have intended at the first, or in the previous stages of the conflict. This is the view that is being taken by many journals that previously could not see men-except as trees walking. 
I see by the Liberator, last to hand, that you have got an early copy of that notable document-" The Appeal for Peace "-from the People of Great Britain and Ireland, &c. Your leading article hits off the points exactly-as to its origin, scope and purpose. I happen to know very much about the incubation and hatching process of that remarkable APPEAL. The Index seems to be taking a deep interest in its progress and success. Its Manchester correspondent (our illustrious friend T. B. K.) week by week has some grandiloquent paragraphs respecting this great effort for "PEACE"-filling nearly two columns of their valuable space. T. B. K. has had the principal manipulation of the thunderbolt. He has actually been allowed to put it before the Roman Catholics at one of their chapels in the Ancoats district-after the other performances of Divine (?) service-one Sunday evening. It received the signature of many women and children, and no doubt a good few men of the genuine Celtic stripe, who always do what the Priest says must be done. He must be a very ignorant and stupid Catholic who would not put his name, or allow it to be put, to a piece of paper that was going to be sent over the waters with the olive branch, and was certain to be the means of PEACE in America, and PLENTY here and in old Ireland! This precious document has been hawked about among the mill hands of certain Copperhead manufacturers; and the poor people, who cannot read or write, have been told that, by signing that paper, they would not only stop the cruel war in America, but that plenty of cheap cotton would soon come to England, wages would rise, &c. &c. Of course, their names were given to so good an object; and, I dare say, by means like these, a long list will have been secured. But will they represent the BRITISH PEOPLE? The cute Americans will soon discount such a bogus national address. Indeed, it is, in my estimation, a national insult-first, to our people, who are misrepresented, and secondly, to the brave, loyal and patriotic freemen of the North. I hope you will so see through the hypocrisy that you will treat it as it deserves-laugh it to scorn. 
Another Reverend champion has come forth to do battle for the rebel slave-mongers! Rev. Mr. Verity and Rev. Joseph Barker have gone stark out of existence. With all their power of tongue, and face, and conscience, they have been frowned down, and have quitted the public platform ignominiously so far as the American question is concerned. James Spence also is now dumb and invisible. We hear nothing of any of. these three Southern declaimers. They have almost dropped out of our memory as extinguished sky-rockets. But within the past fortnight, we have bad a flourish and flare-up at Oldham and Ashton, and, according to the Index, Stockport and other Boroughs of the district before Parliament meets. This champion is also a Reverend-styled by the Index "an Abolitionist clergyman," lecturing "on Southern Independence." This clergyman is the Rev. John Page Hopps, a Unitarian minister of Duckinfield, lately of Sheffield. You will know of him as aiding Mr. Roebuck at his famous Town's meeting in Paradise Square, where a show of hands was obtained by palaver and clap-trap in favor of recognition of Southern rights, &c. 
"Our Own Correspondent" of the Index, writing from Manchester, September 28, says: 
"For an Abolitionist to champion the Confederacy is a phenomenon that has long since lost its quality of rarity. It has ceased to be a contradiction in terms, and has grown to be a sign of the times."
You will gather from this that Abolitionism is growing here, even among the friends of the South. They are all good Abolitionists, in their own way! 
<c03>
Mr. Hopps's audience was a large one, attended by "magistrates, clergy, leading local gentry, manufacturers, tradesmen and cotton operatives," says the Index. Dr. S. D. Lees, Mayor of the Manor, not Mayor of the Borough, was in the chair. Entrance by ticket only-sold to the general public, and no doubt generously given to certain friends of the good cause. The announcement stated that no one would be allowed to make any remarks upon the lecture, as discussion was not the object of the meeting. Any one not approving was at liberty to take the Town Hall, and deliver a counter lecture. Of course, the lecture was a great success! Everybody was pleased, and " looked like the image of attention," says the correspondent of the dear Index. Mr. Hopps quoted largely from his friend, Mr. T. B. Kershaw, secretary of the Southern Independent Association, to prove the right to Secede, &c., and finished up in the magniloquent style of the People of England's pathetic Appeal for Peace that you are soon to receive. The meeting was well reported in the local paper, but I failed to get a spare copy to send you.
On the Monday following, by arrangements we were able to complete, Dr. Massie delivered a counter lecture, in the same Hall, to an immense audience, admitted free, Hugh Mason, Esq., in the chair. I need not tell you the result, as I have posted you the Ashton Reporter, which contains a very fair report of the proceedings. I may just observe that Hopps was present, and had the effrontery to ask to be allowed to make some remarks to the meeting-after having himself shut out all discussion at his own lecture! Of course, Mr. Mason, the Chairman, kept the Rev. Southerner to his own rule. This meeting, the friends say, was the best they have ever had for the fine enthusiasm it brought out; and the general impression is, that John Page Hopps will not want to lecture again at Ashton in favor of the South. Should he come out at Stockport, he will no doubt be follow ed up by a Northern champion, with the same result. 
One of the most telling points of Mr. Hopps's lecture was a quotation from Prof. Newman's letter to Mr. Garrison, stigmatizing President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation. That made a deep impression on the audience, and Dr. Massie, it seems, did not feel able to meet that point at all. It is hard to parry the home thrust of one of our prominent and most esteemed friends. I hope Mr. Newman now sees that it was a mistake-a blunder, to publish that letter in England, at least. It could not do much harm, perhaps, in America, where the facts are so well known.
But I must now conclude, hoping soon to hear from you, and rejoicing in the prospects of success for the noble cause of Union and Emancipation. 
Believe me, ever very truly your friend, 
THOS. H. BARKER. 
P. S. Our friend M. D. Conway has been twitted by the American correspondent of the Star, who quietly remarks that- 
"Perhaps Mr. Moncure D. Conway and his friends will now acknowledge the justice of the comments I made some time ago upon the folly of the Radical Democratic movement." 
In reply to this, M. D. C. writes that- 
"It is the opinion of men of all parties in America, that it was owing to the Radical Democratic movement that Mr. Lincoln, in his manifesto to the Canadian negotiators, declared the abandonment of slavery one of the conditions of the reconstruction of the Union-a step in advance of anything he had said or done before; and as emancipation seems to me of much more importance than the Union, I cannot admit the folly of the movement which drew him up to the only ground upon which he could conciliate the radicals." 
This is rather rich and characteristic. M. D. C. does not seem to have read, or must have misread, many of Mr. Lincoln's utterances. The Baltimore Convention satisfied most reasonable people that Mr. Lincoln was going in fora radical Anti-Slavery policy. 
Lord Brougham, at the Social Science Congress, last week, had another peevish fling at the North; but he at the same time stigmatized " the detestable institution," as " partly the object of the South in fighting for their independence." The Index does not seem to relish this. T. H. B. 
HENRY C. WRIGHT AND THE NATIONAL CONVENTION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MR. EDITOR:-Will you grant me space in your paper to reply to two letters from H. C. WRIGHT, which appeared in your issue of August 26, purporting to give the true position of Spiritualism, politically, from its action in convention in the city of Chicago, on certain political resolutions there offered, and considered, and passed, in which venom towards those who opposed the introduction and passage of those resolutions is more prominent to my mind than fairness, candor or truth?
The National Convention of Spiritualists assemsembled, not for political, but for spiritual purposes, and was perverted from its sole aim to that of endorsing a political creed, by adopting the platform of a political party, and pledging the members thereof, and the voters in particular, to support the party candidate at the coming election. All this Mr. Wright intimates was done, not because he or any other one wished to make political capital out of it, but because "it was intimated to him before leaving Boston, that Spiritualism was to define its position in that convention, in reference to slavery and the rebellion." Also, that "the position was to be so shaped by a few individuals as to be subservient to the ends and aims of the slave-mongering Democrats who were to meet in Chicago, in national convention, on the 26th of the same month."From these " intimations," he becomes very deeply anxious about the whole matter, and concludes it best to forestall the action of the convention, prepare its business before hand, and "pack" the whole thing. Resolutions are therefore prepared, considered and passed, by a self-constituted committee in Chicago, prior to the meeting of the convention-for what? To head off Copperheads who were concocting traitorous schemes!
Who were these Copperheads? Let him name one, if he can. Who made those "intimations" of such scheme? Who should so "intimate" but the very party politicians who pay him for doing their dirty work, unless he is content to work cheaper than most men? Who but those to whom he then ingloriously yielded himself a "cat's-paw," to drag down Spiritualism from its high enthronement as a harmonial and peace-teaching philosophy, to truckle to ambitious men in the incarnadine waves of war and the filthy "cesspools" of party politics? Mr. Editor, this real or pretended "intimation" is but an excuse for the course taken. No such scheme was thought of. 
I attended all the meetings of the minority, and was thought, till a spirit through a medium told otherwise, to be a Democrat. I never voted a democratic ticket in my life. Here, then, let me say, that no such plan was talked of or alluded to, and no expression made, either in public or private, from which the inference could be tortured that any Democrat wished to have this convention, by its action or debates, favor either directly or indirectly the democratic convention or cause. So far as public speeches are concerned, your correspondent knows this to be true. The truth of the matter is-Spiritualism has become popular, and wields a mighty influence; and this influence was desirable for political purposes. 
Mr. Wright, with a few others, mounts the "auctioneer's block," and knocks it off to the highest, and, thank God! the only bidder-the Republican party. 
We protest against the whole scheme, not as Democrats, or political men and women at all, but simply as Spiritualists who had seen in the history of the past, like spiritual inspiration, lose its power and its purity by an unholy alliance with the temporal power and human schemes, and did not wish to see the experiment repeated. 
Our protest was kicked back in our faces, and pronounced perverse in spirit, insulting in language, and false in statement. 
Now, what are the sentiments and statements of 
<c04>
that protest? Simply a statement of facts relative to the call for the convention and its objects, the introduction of those political resolutions by a system of shrewd and unprincipled wire-working, by party minions in the practise of political chicanery and fraud, the turning of the convention into a political arena for the exhibition of political stump speakers, and thereby completely perverting the great objects and aims thereof to the mere furtherance of political ends. All this language of the protest is true upon the very face of it Does not Mr. Wright acknowledge that those resolutions did not originate in that convention, and were not its spontaneous effusion? that they were gotten up outside of and prior to the meeting of that body by a "preliminary meeting," (self-constituted, of course,) in the city of Chicago (?) that they passed through the hands of the special committee on the state of the nation, of which he was chairman; and, lastly, by the committee on resolutions presented to the convention? Now, from all these admitted facts, what is the conclusion? Obviously that Mr. Wright, with his co-laborers in this iniquitous scheme, knew full well that the national convention of Spiritualists, assembled "for the furtherance of the cause of true Spiritualism in this country and throughout the world," would never, untrammelled by forced issues and foregone conclusions, become political in its character and deliberations; and, hence, must needs be forestalled in its action. Who doubts that that political scheme was concocted and those political resolutions drawn up in the city of Boston, before the delegation left for Chicago? I do not, and I have the best of reasons for thinking as I do, but will not give them here. One thing is true, as all who were present at the convention will admit; and that is, had that body been left free to deliberate and express itself, no such resolutions would have originated therein to disgrace its proceedings, blacken its history, and wound and cripple the reformatory tendencies of true Spiritualism. This was true to the most casual observer at that convention, whether Spiritualist or not; and is the belief and feeling of the hundreds of Spiritualists I have conversed with since; and all, without an exception, couple that belief with their unqualified disapprobation of the whole scheme, as one of political machination and fraud, perpetrated by men doubtless in the pay of politicians, or warriors, or both. 
So much for the history of those resolutions as charged in the protest. Now, how were they carried through? Mr. Wright says they were discussed the whole of Thursday, Aug. 11th. 
This is simply and unqualifiedly false, and every person in that convention at the time knows it, and none better than Mr. Wright himself. 
When those resolutions were taken up for discussion, Benjamin Todd, of Illinois, moved to amend by striking out all after the second resolution, which motion was discussed till late in the evening, when a vote was taken by yeas and nays, and the motion lost and immediately upon this result being declared, the "previous question" was called, which cut off all debate, and the resolutions were passed without even the form of a discussion. There is not a member the Convention but knows the above statement to be true. 
Will Mr. Wright deny it? Here is the unfairness charged in the protest; and is it not plain to all observing minds? There was the operation of the "gag rule" on a so-called free platform of modern reformers. " O, shame! where is thy blush?"
Mr. W. charges again-by implication-that the protest was gotten up in the office of the Chicago Times. 
Query-Was it another "intimation "?
He does not believe it. It is but a fling for effect,- to prejudice the minds of Spiritualists, and others against the minority. 
That protest was issued into being at the house of Warwick Martin, in the city of Waukegan, by War wick Martin, A. G. W. Carter, and myself, who were duly appointed for that purpose by a meeting of the members aggrieved at the political action of the Convention which had agreed to receive our protest, (for we told them we should protest,) and was never in the Times office till it went there for publication So, it comes to pass, that Mr. Wright, not content with delivering over to the lusts of an enemy the hopes and influences of the reformation, in this it first national embodiment, in its fortification of Spiritual purity, but now, with raking hand and gleaming blade, dipped in the foul virus of his own political animosity, turns around to ruthlessly torture the little garrison that nobly defended it to the last. Nobly done! Generous reformer! " A kiss for a blow!"
The protest is said to be uncourteous in language This objection lies in its severe truthfulness; for it is to be confessed that it is, and was designed to be severely truthful by those who framed it. In this we thought we succeeded; and yet it is a humiliating fact, that that terrible article which so called down the righteous indignation of political Spiritualists upon us, gives doubtless the best, and truest, and most perfect idea of the character, manner and spirit that prevailed in the discussion of Mr. Todd's proposed amendment, of anything that has appeared in print or ever will. But even that gives an idea far short of the reality, as language ever must. To be fully appreciated it should have been witnessed.
Two thousand people of both sexes, surging and heaving with political fanaticism and rage, pouring out political billingsgate by turns as fortunate ones gained the "stand," crying, War! war! traitors! slavemongers! tories! villains!-and on the final vote shouting, dancing, swinging handkerchiefs, throwing hats, clapping hands, stamping, hooting, bellowing groaning, closing with the "doxology" in honor o the murdered murderer, "Old John Brown," and you have before you but a faint idea of the Babel condition of the first national convention of Spiritualists on that memorable night of August 11, 1864, when the sacred cause of true Spiritualism was betrayed by its pretended friends, and political and moral corruption battened upon its blood.
Thus have I given a brief but fair account of the resolutions in question, the action of the convention thereon, our protest against them, and corrected some of the most glaring of Mr. Wright's misrepresentations in reference thereto, and ask you in justice to truth to republish those letters of H. C. Wright, along with this reply and our protest, and let the public judge where and with whom the error lies, that we as Spiritualists are divided.
In closing, let me say to H. C. Wright and his abettors in their nefarious scheme to prostitute Spiritualism to their unholy and ambitious purposes, we all believe (and all that spoke in the Convention so expressed themselves) in universal freedom.
We love our country, which is the whole United States and defy the feeble thunders he launches at us, and little heed the very select array of opprobrious epithets with which he is pleased to honor us.
Little care we for his verdict. Our tribunal is the community of Spiritualists, the " Spirit world," and the God within us. J. G. FISH.
Ganges, (Mich.) Oct. 20,1864.
PROTEST.
Whereas, By a recent call of a committee of ladies and gentlemen, published in the columns of the Banner of Light, at Boston, Mass., the Spiritualists of the United States and provinces of Canada were request ed to assemble in a national convention, to be held in the city of Chicago, 111., beginning on Tuesday, the 9th day of August, 1864, for the purpose expressed in the call of association, organization, and concentration of action upon the parts of the Spiritualists, to further the great cause of Spiritualism to this country and throughout the world; and,
Whereas, In obedience to said call, a great many persons, male and female, have assembled together in national convention, from the different States and Territories of the Union, to aid the cause of true Spiritualism throughout this country and the world; and,
Whereas, During the session of said convention, delegates have been added to take part in the deliberations and action of said convention, representing Canada, England and Scotland, to aid and assist the great cause of Spiritualism in this country and throughout the world; and,
Whereas, Since the assembling of said convention,
<c05>
there has been a manifest design concocted and pursued by a few one idea individuals in the city of Boston, as we are informed, to impose upon the convention of Spiritualists a scheme of politics and political machinations altogether foreign to the great objects of said convention, and entirely contrary to and subversive of the aims and ends of true Spiritualism; and,
Whereas, This convention by adopting the political preamble and resolutions of said committee, ladies and gentlemen of Boston, indicative of said scheme and machinations, have sold out and prostituted the genuine cause of Spiritualism; and have tyrannically imposed upon and absolutely oppressed the minority members of this convention who never entertained the faintest or most remote idea of politics, or anything savoring of them, being introduced into the deliberations of this convention, by refusing to cast these, fire brand resolutions out of this spiritual convention at the most earnest and hopeful request of said minority, and by cutting off all discussion on the said political preamble and resolutions by the operation of the call for the previous question or gag rule; and have utterly refused to listen to any compromise or conciliation which could be manfully offered by the minority in reference thereto; and, 
Whereas, During the debate, (for debate it was and not discussion,) this convention was turned into a political arena, for the exhibition of political gladiators, or, more properly speaking, political stump speakers, who spoke for war, carnage, and bloodshed, and their presumed political leader, Abraham Lincoln, and not for "peace on earth and good will to men," the one true sentiment to be cherished by all Spiritualists; and, 
Whereas, We know, had the different delegates from the various States and Territories of the Union, and Canada, Scotland, and England, when at their homes, known that this convention was called for any political purpose, or to aid, abet, and assist any political cause, or any political aspirant, that they would never have left their homes to come to the city of Chicago to attend this convention; and, 
Whereas, The final vote upon said political preamble and resolutions was taken at a late and unusual hour of the night of Thursday, August 11, when a great many of the enrolled delegates of the convention were absent; 
Therefore, In the name of the divine spirit of peace and unity, which even embraces all diversity of sentiment and attainment of all the children of a common bounty, and the humanitarian object of all true spiritual communion, that must ultimately live to the enthronement of peace on judgment's high seat, we do solemnly enter our earnest PROTEST against all such assumptions over the free thought and benevolent action of those who cannot approve the passional and frenzied devotion to the war that now lays waste the fairest portions of a common country. And we further protest against the committal of Spiritualists to the approval of the policy of the administrative function of this government, now hopelessly opposed to all conciliation or negotiation which might lead to the prevention of a further and objectless slaughter of our people. And we can but say in this, our most solemn and earnest PROTEST, in view of the conversion of this so-called spiritual convention into a political arena of partisan strife, alas! alas! that the beating of drums, and the sound of martial music, leading hosts forward to slaughter, should cause the LAST BAND to forsake the altar of the living God. We therefore make this most solemn, sincere, and earnest protest, and ask, in justice to the minority members of this convention, this protest to be copied and entered upon the journals of this national convention of Spiritualists. 
MR. HILLARD'S MAGICIANS. 
The McClellan party in Boston improvised a meeting Saturday night, to give Mr. Richard Vaux of Philadelphia an opportunity to reply to Edward Everett, and perhaps to other witnesss whose evidence had damaged their cause during the week The Daily Advertiser says in reference to the meeting, Vaux et proelerea nihil, which, besides being a little unkind, was not literally true. Mr. George S Hillard, who was selected to pronounce the prologus to the swelling act of Mr. Vaux's imperial theme made the following irrelevant confession:
"Now, for my part, I am willing to live under the old constitution. I detest these modern magicians who would hack to pieces that venerable instrument, and put it into their pestle, and with drugs, and incantations, and magic devices, expect to bring a younger, fresher, and more beautiful form out of the cauldron." 
It would unquestionably require an expert magician, or an acquaintance with the black art that would be highly immoral, to perform such a feat as Mr. Hillard describes. One would naturally suspect there was something wrong, if he saw anybody putting the fragments of "that venerable instrument' into a pestle, and attempting to bring them in some other shape out of a cauldron. There is something in the act itself calculated to disturb one's notions of the fitness and propriety of things.
But we find less fault with the expression than with the vicious meaning hidden behind the glitter of these rhetorical pyrotechnics. Mr. Hillard is contrasting the policies of the two political parties. He takes his light from Chicago, and finds his ideal of political felicity in the Chicago platform. If he was awakened to the glories of the "grand historic party" late, he at least espouses its cause with enthusiasm becoming his new birth. Himself to some extent a man of letters, knowing that his party was in the habit of nominating men for Presidents who needed to have biographies written of them, he wrote one in advance. He became Gen. McClellan's historian, guide, philosopher, friend, and gentleman-usher. He takes the candidate as he stands, with all incumbrances party and platform, and exclaims to all the world, Ecce homo! "Behold the coming man!" It is on such ground that he talks of regard for the old constitution, and arraigns the government as if it had conspired to substitute something else for " that venerable instrument."
He knows better. He knows that but for the treason of the party whose cause he has espoused, we should still have been a united if not a happy people under the old constitution; and that their cry against the party in power is an afterthought, a pretence, a feint, like the "stop thief" of the culprit who thinks to escape detection by joining in the about of his pursuers. The lie is self-evident. The mighty magic of evil communications has swept Mr. Hillard into the current, and he is as mad as the rest. 
It is not four years since the last change of administration was effected. The political sentiment which then triumphed had under one form of political organization or another been defeated again and again. But it invariably acquiesced in the popular decision, and patiently bided its time. And its time came, as it will come to every right sentiment and just cause, whatever hinders. But the new administration was not even allowed a trial. The election was scarcely over before the leaders of the "grand historic party" mutinied, and attempted to scuttle the ship.
Down fell one safeguard after another; every stay and anchor snapped in that wild storm of secession. Still the wretched old man whom the democratic party had placed at the helm looked on with indifference, and saw the wreck go on. The old constitution was broken utterly. The old Union was but the shadow of a name when Mr. Lincoln came into power. What had Mr. Hillard's party done to save either? One part, and that the stronger, was in open rebellion, and the other part was clamoring for new constitutional guarantees for slavery which would ensure the perpetual subserviency of the free states. The old constitution was waste paper in the eyes of the " grand historic party," north and south. Not a man of them wanted it, not a man of them spoke a timely or a brave word in its behalf. 
Is it any better now? Four years of war have made some changes, political and otherwise: but none here. They have no thought save for a reunion with the. party in the revolted states, whom the rebellion represents. By its submission to the constitution and the outraged laws? Not a bit of it. It is the United States that, according to the Chicago plan, must lay down its arms, stop this unholy war, and invite a convention of the states. To readopt the old constitution? Nobody dreams of that. The rebels can have that already; there has not been an hour since the first gun was fired when they could not have returned to its protection, with such reservations as their measureless crime would have demanded; but for a new distribution of powers between the Union and the states, a new apportionment of prerogatives, new enlargements of the "rights of the south," and new guarantees to slavery on which its polity rests. 
No! Mr. Hillard, your party does not mean the old constitution shall be restored. It has not, (since you are fond of figures of speech,) it has not sailed under that flag for many a day. The ship on which you have taken passage is a pirate, and the black flag is to-day flying at her mast-head.-Worcester Spy.
On Friday, 881 paroled prisoners reached Annapolis from Richmond. Twelve died on the way. Two hundred of them were in a most wretched state.
<c06>
MISS ELLA WINCHESTER.
We notice that the Legislature has given the use of Representatives' Hall for Shakespearean reading by Miss Ella Winchester, some evening this week. Miss Winchester is a native of Springfield, this State, and we are glad to find our Legislature disposed to thus encourage Vermont genius and talent. She comes most excellently commended by those capable of judging of real merit. We copy below a notice of Miss Winchester's readings from the pen of N. P. Willis:-Professor Hows, the well-known elocutionist, last week gave two "readings," at Springfield, Massachusetts, for the purpose of introducing his pupil, Miss WINCHESTER, to her friends in that city. The entertainments; both in a professional and pecuniary point, were entirely successful. This is the more gratifying to the Professor, as this is the first time he has introduced any of his pupils before the public. The following remarks, penned by Doctor J. G. HOLLAND, ("Timothy Titcomb,") in the Springfield Republican, will give an idea of the young lady's talents as a reader. We quote: "Miss WINCHESTER'S 'Shakspearean readings' were her best-very much her best. In these she exhibited the real direction of her genius, for genius she undoubtedly has. We propose no further criticism of her reading than this, that she carried too much her massive tragic style into her readings of light verse. It is almost the universal fault of public female readers, that they carry their grand airs into the rendering of the simplest poetry, and it is Miss WINCHESTER'S. She will mend here, for it is in her. She has made a very pleasant impression upon our Springfield people, and engaged their interest. With her handsome person, fine gifts and excellent culture, she will not fail to make her way in the difficult path she has chosen, and become a favorite with the public.
Miss W.has also given a reading at Rutland, and the Herald says she "sustained herself finely, and justified all that has been said of her prepossessing appearance, excellent culture and rare gifts." We hope our people and the strangers in town will testify, by a large audience at her entertainment here, their readiness to acknowledge, and their ability to appreciate real merit in a daughter of Vermont.-Green Mountain Freeman.
JEFF. DAVIS AT MACON.
Jeff Davis, in his Macon speech, professes to be more hopeful now. He has been to the army, and returned imbued with the confidence that they are better prepared than ever to cope with the Northern foe. He is eloquent for liberty. Hear the wolf uttering the plaint of injured innocence from the same mouth that is dripping with his victim's blood:
"Ours is not a revolution. We were a free and independent people in States that had the right to make a better government when they saw fit."
"The blood of the slain," he continues, "cries out against a peace with the murderers such as they propose."
"The women of the land driven from their homes; the children lacking food; old age hobbling from the scenes of its youth; the fugitives forced to give way to the Yankee oppressor, and now hiding in your railroads, all proclaim a sea of blood that freemen cannot afford to bridge. There is but one thing to which we can accede-separate State independence. Some there are who speak of reconstruction with slavery maintained; but are there any who would measure rights by property? God forbid! Would you see that boy, with a peach bloom on his cheek, grow up a serf-never to tread the path of honor, unless he light the torch at the funeral pyre of his country? Would you see the fair daughters of the land given over to the brutality of the Yankees?"
All this would be very pathetic but for its bald hypocrisy. As it is, it will not move a single sympathy of generous souls throughout the wide, wide world. Men hate cant. They cannot hear a slaveholder prate about liberty, without feeling an intolerable disgust. Good enough for you! is the spontaneous verdict of human nature; you want to make black men serfs, then be serfs yourselves! You want to give over the boy with a dusky skin, even though he may be your own offspring, to serfdom and bondage. Why, then, should we prity you if your other boy, with the "peach-blossom" on his cheek, is stripped of some of the lordly pretensions of his ancestors? You can very easily see how horrid a thing it would be for your "fair daughters to be given over to the brutality of the Yankees," but you can see nothing wrong in giving over other daughters just as innocent and oftentimes just as fair to the brutalities of the owner and the overseer! No, Mr. Jefferson Davis, your eloquence in behalf of freedom is a waste of words; the world despises your hypocrisy, and never, while the records of human history endure, will your slaveholding rebellion be less a stench in the nostrils of mankind than it is today.-American Baptist.
"HOT MUTTON-PIE" DEMOCRACY.
George Sennott, of Boston, illustrated a speech at Roxbury, Mass, a day or two since, by this little parable:
"One freezing February morning a negro hawked mutton pies in a basket round Faneuil Hall Square, roaring out, 'Hot mutton pies! Hot mutton pies!' A teamster bought and tried to bite one, but found it frozen as solid as the curbstone.  'What do you call them hot for? you black and blue swindler', yelled the teamster to the shivering pie man 'Wy-wy- white man guv' 'em to me hot dismornin'-dey was hot wen I got 'em dis mornin'!''Well, you fool, it didn't take ten minutes to freeze them in that old basket. Why call them hot ?now?' 'Wy-god bless you, dat's de name ob 'em-de name obn 'em! If I didn't holler de right naem, nobody wouldn't tetch 'em! You want me to holler froze pies, I suppose? !No, Sa! You can,t fool me dat way!'
Thus it is with the Decocratic party. They received from Jefferson and Jackson, as a free gift, their principles. Those gifts they meanly put up for sale, and hawk round in the deadly market of slavery to freeze up in their shabby old party basket. They roar out 'Democratic principles! Democratic principles!' for sale being understood. And when you pay the prince of your vote for them, you find slavery benumbing your fingers, paralyzing your tongue, contractng your heart, and turning your stomach. Ask the swindlers why they call such stuff democracy, and they tell yo blandly that Mr.Jefferson gave them the original article-that they have kept it ever since-that it is just as good as new, only not quite so warm perhaps-and that you really mukstn't quarrel with the pie man, for what he calls it is its name. If you want it more Democratic, you must take it home to your own State, and warm, it; but in the meantime do not interrupt the sales."
COPPERHEAD PLATFORM.
Resolved, That the war is a very good war, and most unrighteous war, and while it should be stopped at once, must be caried on with great vigor.
Resolved, That the rebels have been fairly provoked by the vile Abolitionists and should be tenderly treated by a Major General who will be all for peace, and at the same time for a vigorous porsecution of the War.
Resolved, That while we disapprove of the course which the rebels have conscientiously adopted, we regard as distinguished patriots all gentelman known as Vallandighamites.
Resolved, That the country is in a most unpleasant condition, and that it is the duty of President-Major-General to make matters pleasant. 
Resolved, That we are for this thing, that thing, and the other thing, and this thing.
Resolved. That we are for the good old tilme, the beautiful old times, the high old times-any time but such times as these times.
Resolved, That we are for McClellan, who will be a Man of Wax, and for Pendleton, who will be a Man of Dough.
Resolved, That we are for peace and no taxes, peace and no war, peace and universal prosperity, peace first, peace last, peace at any price, and peace all first, peace last, peace at anay price, and peace all the time; and for a vigorous prosecution of the war-and especially for peace.
MISS H.M,.PARKHURSTS
BOARDING AND DAY SCHOOL
FOR YOUNG LADIES,
NEWBURG, N.Y.
The Fall Term will commence on Wednesday, Sept.21. Aug.26-2w.
